[{"Title":"No kidding - I loved it!","Date":"11 July 2000","Score":"23 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  The Kid - At 39 years old Russel Duritz has a life that most men would envy - he has a great job, is respected (and feared), has a beautiful house and makes buckets of money.  But everything comes at a cost, in this case no social life, no conscience and a fear of spending the rest of his life alone.   He just needs someone to show him the way.As I watched the movie, I kept wondering why Disney didn't pass this film on to Miramax - not because it's particularly daring or edgy, but because it is clearly a movie for adults.  This is exacerbated by the marketing campaign which is clearly targeting children - it is lumped in with trailers for Rugrats the Movie, and Pokemon 2000 (aren't they passe yet?).   But I quibble.I was impressed by the sensitive treatment of the subject matter - rather than the typical male midlife crisis that involves some pathetic sap buying a Porsche convertible and acting like a moron, Willis' character undertakes some serious introspection and takes stock of his life.  His guide on this journey of self-discovery is himself at age 8 (they never explain how Rusty arrives and frankly, I didn't care).   Young Rusty's innocence and unbridled optimism give him a distinct advantage in divining the truth - he sums up Russell's job as an image consultant thusly, You teach people how to lie and pretend to be something they aren't.    In order for a good script to succeed, however, you need actors to bring it to life.  Not a problem here.Although Willis has thrice ignored W.C. Fields' warnings about starring with children or animals he has lucked out once again, meshing as well comedically with Breslin as he did dramatically with Osment. Willis manages to balance Russell's cutthroat powerbroker traits with vulnerability and confusion, without becoming ridiculous.  Breslin meanwhile gives a dead on portrayal of a kid from everyone's childhood - the one that always stuck out for some reason and got picked on.   We also get two bonus performances Lily Tomlin is great as Russell's levelheaded assistant and Jean Smart is perfect as an insightful charming anchorwoman (I loved her in Guinevere).The Kid is charming, heavy, and real.  And it will appeal to adults of all ages.  "},{"Title":"The Kid In Us All...","Date":"9 July 2000","Score":"20 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  When the first trailer for this film was viewed by myself, I was curious as to what angle the storyline would take.  After all the plot of having one's childhood self return to the present leaves open many options.  Bruce Willis however does a superb job in the role he was given.  I was surprised to see just how well he could act in this part.  This is also a good career move as many others have said but after seeing it I now agree.  This film is mainly about remembering the kid you used to be, and coming to the realization that you aren't the adult you planned to be.  This is a wonderful story and a gripping tale that makes us all think.  Usually we scorn at What if... movies.  For example, Waterworld attempted to answer the question What if the world were to be covered with water and...?  But truthfully, nobody cared.  This movie however effects everyone in the theatre.  True, young children may not fully grasp the idea of growing up and having all your dreams fizzle away, but it leaves a great impact on the adults and parents of those children.  This movie is definitely worth seeing.  Although, it will be better the second time around because you won't be thinking so much (about how the kid got there, and why and all that stuff)  Just relax and have fun.  And take something with you when you leave that cinema.  Take that piece of your childhood you've forgotten and enjoy it. "},{"Title":"I liked it more than I expected to","Date":"5 February 2001","Score":"17 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I saw this on a plane. You know, you are strapped to a chair and forced to watch whatever garbage they put up there.And I have to say I actually had fun. Some scenes are sugary and over the top but the kid's performance is above average for children actors. Casting was perfect. One thing though the music is inappropriate, heavy-handed and sometimes ruins the scenes. It is like asking Richard Wagner to write for an intimate comedy. Very weird.But I strongly recommended the movie to my mom. It is that kind of movie. "},{"Title":"Bruce Willis in a good feel good movie.","Date":"7 December 2001","Score":"20 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  The Kid is a really good family movie about a stuffy image consultant, Russ Duritz, who has lots of money, a good job, nice house, etc. The only problem is he doesn't have much of a social life as nobody seems to like him as he isn't always very nice. One day though things are about to change when an eight year old version of himself magically appears. This gives Russ a second chance to make things right. Bruce Willis plays the lead role here and he gives a really good performance. The Kid is a nice, heart-warming movie for everyone. "},{"Title":"So..what's keeping them from making more like this?","Date":"18 August 2000","Score":"16 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  From a perspective that it is possible to make movies that are not offensive to people with strong moral values, this one is definitely worthwhile.  This is the second Bruce Willis film in a row that manages to tell its story with no nudity, off-color humor, profanity, or gratuitous violence. (I refer of course to The Sixth Sense.) Both movies are engaging on more than one level. This one is appropriate for children as well, although as others have pointed out, it isn't a flick FOR kids. I was bothered that the time travel device that drives this plot is never explained, except that we know Russell himself initiates it as a 70 year old.  Also, why does his dying mother have to come to school to get him when he wins the fight; why, if as his older self says, he has to fight that kid again and again for the next few years does his mother not have to come and get him every time, and why he doesn't learn to kick butt in the process. I also found the score rather annoying and not always appropriate to the action on stage. Good use of the red plane as metaphor, however.  "},{"Title":"This could have been much worse","Date":"27 May 2005","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" When this movie was shown on television, it wasn't announced as Disney's The Kid, but just as The Kid, a movie with Bruce Willis, and that's probably a good thing. I'm pretty sure I would never have taped it if I knew this was a Disney movie, fearing that all the syrupy nonsense would be too much for me to handle. Still, I don't know what made me decide to give this movie a try when I saw the title in the beginning of the movie, but in the end I was glad that I watched it, because it certainly wasn't as bad as I feared it would be.Bruce Willis is Russ Duritz, a wealthy L.A. image consultant who's about to turn forty. He's a cynical workaholic who has estranged from his father, who has no memories of his childhood and who doesn't have a girlfriend, a family or even a dog. One night he surprises an intruder, who turns out to be an almost 8 years old kid. But there is something strange about him. The chubby kid is named Rusty and has a lot of similarities with Russ. Soon they find out that Russ and Rusty are actually the same person. Together they make a journey into Russ's past to find the key moment that has defined who Russ is. How this is possible, what it all has to mean and how it will affect both their futures will only be clear at the end of the movie.In a way this is a very typical and predictable Disney movie with it's rather innocent and naive look on life, but I guess it can be enjoyable for adults as well. It is all very recognizable and it is a nice fairy tale about losing touch with your inner child. It certainly isn't the best movie ever, but it is some decent and heart-warming family entertainment that offers some nice acting and a good story. I would say watch it with an open mind and you'll see it isn't as bad as you feared. I give it a 6/10. "},{"Title":"The Kid The Man The Girl,oh and don't forget Chester !","Date":"12 February 2007","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Now for sure, this is one of the lightest-hearted stories that Bruce Willis has been in to date and yet,-- it is still touching. I really like Bruce's style and persona, I haven't loved everything he has ever been in, but he brings it to the 'Big-time' for me in most all his film endeavors.The story begins..... He is power, confidence and style with a capitol 'S' . He drives a Porshe he lives well, in a palatial estate with a grand view of the fair city. That's Russell Duritz. He is an image consultant to those who are on the top or rising to it. His acclaim, he is Russell Duritz, he knows what it takes to make it. It just seems that as life is going along swiftly and foundation-ally set, there is a problem, an intruder at his home, the alarm has been activated! Russell can't seem to figure out (for the moment) what is happening to him. It's different and yet it is somehow familiar. A small boy, who looks exactly like....-- him. As their lives run smack dab into each other, there seems to be a reason that is screaming out to him, You have unfinished business to take care of, now!Amy the supporting young lady of the story is probably the best balance that he has seen and has in his life. She works with him, puts up with his 'ego' and yet, she is smitten with Russell. Very much so. With Rusty his past 'self' now in the picture and talking a mile a minute, singing too late at night, everything that was foundational is becoming like jelly! Willis is fun, egocentric and at times out of his head in this lovable Disney modern times classic 'The Kid' and to add his little heavy-duty side kick Spencer Breslin is a perfect addition to this sparkling story of childhood to adult and back to childhood adventure. Chi McBride is an inspirational supporting character, as he is the heavy-weight champ, teaching 'little' Rusty how to box to defend himself against the bullies on the playground. All in all this is a real winner of a movie with even Lillie Tomlin as the secretary and aide to Russell. I originally saw this back in 2000' and then again years later, with equal enjoyment. This is a shiny family comedy that has a super ending that will warm the hearts of any Disney fan Recommended highly (*****) "},{"Title":"profound,amazing","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I have been always wondering Can one truly explain the meaning of life in less than two hours? And here I got the answer after watching this movie for 3 times. This is certainly one of the greatest films I've ever seen. Disney tries to make the film in an interesting and lovely way so it can appeal to both the kids and the adults. But what lies behind the film by far beyond the comprehension of a normal kid. Here, let's first look at how other comments put it `The movie starts by completely neglecting even an attempt at explaining how 8-year-old Rusty shows up on 40-year-old Rusty's doorstep But this is not true. Actually the film made a hard work demonstrated how Russ (Willis) --a successful image consultant and a rich jerk was haunted by the hallucination of a flying plane which was actually the same kind of a model given to him by his father as a present. Here Audey Wells present all the viewers a question as a shrimp in the later plot suggested it you're having hallucination for a reason and you need to figure out what that reason is.But at that time, the film is not in a hurry to explain the reason. Later on Ross's hallucination got stronger and he even imagined a boy intruded into his house. Even more the hallucinated boy lead him to an old drome. From there Ross's dream or more accurately the psychiatric journey of exploring himself began. That exploration filled most of the film till the 8-year-old Rusty disappeared on the same drome (notice only at that time Russ's clothes changed back to the sleeping pajama). The main part of the film (that's what I called the exploration) centered on the questions that had puzzled Russ these days What's wrong with him? Why he always said somebody call the Ouaaaaaaaaambulance? Why he had a twitch? What happened from being little Rusty and becoming Russ? What will be supposed to do with the relation with Amy? And finally what he will be doing in the later time of his life? The film did an excellent job in explain all these questions. Evenmore it raised another question Is Russ really a loser? Here Jean Smart said something very inspiring I mean how many of us grow up to be astronauts or prima ballerina? We just all do the best we can. This film presented the normal theme of midyear crisis in a swift and clever way without lacking of provoking thought.The main character especially Bruce Willis and Jean Smart worked very well to helped achieve visual effect as well as the profound theme.Russ got the answer and know what to do next, what about us?  "},{"Title":"not just a kid movie","Date":"30 July 2000","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  While my kids enjoyed the movie (and announced afterward that they want to buy it later) I think I got more out of it that they did.  The scene in the airport shop at the beginning is real life (I did not use the cutting comment aloud, but I thought it).  It is a feel good mid-life movie, a bit sappy and some scenes work less well than others (why does the kid stay with Bruce Willis after he knows his Mom is dying?), but all in all and good time.  It also gave our family something to talk about - did my kids think my life was boring?  What do they expect at 40? How can you not like a movie that gets a good conversation going with your kids? "},{"Title":"For all the cynics out there.","Date":"27 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  The Kid is a movie that will touch the hearts of two groups of people - children and grown-up cynics. In the leading role is Bruce Willis, who in my opinion must be one of the most versatile actors around. He plays the part of the cynical jerk Russ very well ).For most of the movie you cannot help but to hate him as he constantly ridicules the weaknesses of the people around him, and love him as you somehow know that there's a tiny seed of kindness waiting to grow. Emily Mortimer is extremely lovable as Amy, who works for Russ. Her acting is good, and I have to admit that I had to succumb to her cuteness- and I doubt anyone could help but to cheer her on through the whole story, she's so good as Russ's employee, who would like to like him, but gets shoved off every time she tries to be nice.The story is fun and imaginative. Russ's eight-year-old self travels to the future to meet him as a thirty-nine year old. The young Russ doesn't think much of Russ's achievements (chickless, dogless...) while Russ doesn't want to remember that he was once an overweight, whiny loser.Don't write it off as just another family movie thinking that you'll be able to predict the  whole storyline. You won't. Sure, the guy gets the girl, and young Russ and old Russ grow to like each other and help each other out.But as you watch the final ten minutes of the movie, as things start to get wrapped up, you will suddenly sit erect, brain churning, and when you figure it all out, you lie back, try to keep back the wide grin that is forcing itself on your face, give up, and say Holy smokes! "}{"Title":"This film is not for kids, but rather for the kid in us.","Date":"1 August 2000","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  It is so nice to see Bruce Willis come down off his action throne and let us see that he really is a talented actor.  He shines in this film as the near-40-year-old image consultant who has totally lost touch with his inner child--until he meets him face to face.  This is one of those rare films that doesn't talk down to its audience and truly offers something for the WHOLE family.  It is about caring for each other, keeping some of the child inside you, and realizing that you don't grow up exactly the way you thought you would.  Willis seems to be building an impressive track record for working with kids (just witness The Sixth Sense with Haley Joel Osment), and he has great chemistry with Spencer Breslin here.  There is some nice photography and music, and the ending is wonderful and uplifting.  A great film to see with EVERY member of your family. "},{"Title":"A surprisingly good movie; better than Armageddon","Date":"26 July 2000","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  At first glance, I thought The Kid was a cheesy, patheticchildren's movie because of its PG rating. But, when I viewed, Ihad to eat my words. The Kid is one enjoyable movie! BruceWillis stars in probably his first Disney movie as Russ Duritz,a workaholic executive who is given a visit by his past, in theform of a chubby 8-year old, played with giddy intensity bySpencer Breslin. Soon enough, Russ is picking up the pieces ofhis dead-end life with the help of his time-traveling littlecounterpart. With good-natured performances, especially by Willis, who seemsfresh and awake, not grim and foulmouthed, like his previousmaterial. Breslin is also a hoot as the young Rusty. For onething I'll tell you, The Kid outruns Armageddon by a millionpoints, at least that's why lies in my o "},{"Title":"Enjoyably cute and sentimental","Date":"15 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" A cantankerous image consultant's life takes a drastic turn for the better when an 8 year old version of himself arrives at his doorstep. Believing he's having delusions, he tries to get rid of him, but there is something enticingly mysterious about him. I wouldn't call this an outstanding film. I don't think it will be anything that will stick with you when the movie is over, but it is certainly an entertaining movie that will warm the coldest of hearts. I wouldn't call it overly original either. It is your typical Start off as a jerk, turns into a good person sort of plot, but it works, and that is all that counts. What really keeps this movie going is the likability factor and the solid performances. Bruce Willis has said that he's getting tired of action movies. It definitely shows with his inspired performance. I've always been a huge Bruce Willis fan, but you can definitely tell sometimes that he is on autopilot with some action movies he does. As much as I love John McClaine, as well as some of his other action characters, he's an excellent actor. He is fully capable of pulling off other roles with other genres. He's a lot of fun in this movie. It was enjoyable to watch him evolve from cranky to a new person as the movie goes along. His Wambulance line made me laughs. Spencer Breslin can be annoying at times, but he shines for the most part. His chemistry with Willis was very good. Emily Mortimer provides good support as a love interest, as does Lily Tomlin. You have to have some suspension of disbelief in the finale. It also may be a little bit violent for kids, but it shouldn't be an issue. It is very well done and sends a good messageFinal Thoughts It is a fun film that all ages can enjoy. If you have a child, put aside some time for you and your kid, and enjoy. Bruce Willis is terrific in it7/10 "},{"Title":"A sometimes funny sometimes touching encounter, which makes you ponder about your own past, present and future","Date":"20 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Imagine you have the opportunity to see yourself again as a kid. Now think what would happen if you had the chance to speak with your younger self, or even change him/you. Would you try to influence or try to change your younger self's beliefs in light of your future experience? Or perhaps the encounter would change your older self's perception of life and reality? Walt Disney's The Kid tries to engage this complex thought by putting older self Bruce Willis in a collision course with younger self Spenser Breslin (from The Santa Clause 2 and The Cat in the Hat fame). The result is a sometimes funny sometimes touching encounter, which makes you ponder about your own past, present and future &#150; and truly believe it is never too late to change your course. "},{"Title":"my rant","Date":"10 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" hello, looking for a movie for the family to watch on a Friday night? Can't find what your looking for? I thought this was an extremely enjoyable movie. Good for the whole family. I found that it had a remarkably rare combination of it being appealing to both adults and children alike. It was brilliant, to say the least. Bruce Willis's acting was top-notch, there was a lot of humor in it and overall, a great movie. In my opinion, it's a must-see movie. And I don't think that about a lot of movies, believe me when I say it takes a lot for a movie to get me to think that. It's clear that there was much work done by Bruce Willis and cast to get this movie done. Excellent story, good acting, and again, overall a thoroughly enjoyable movie. "},{"Title":"Very good movie considering Bruce Willis history in movies","Date":"3 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie.  Yes there was disrespect throughout the movie, but Bruce Willis learned, from The Kid, that there is more value in repecting others, and his life of disrespect needs to change.  This movie was a refreshing change from the trash that Hollywood is trying to shove down our throats.  There are some very good lessons to be learned in this movie.  I really believe this was one of Disneys best, even though a couple of things could have been left out.  I was impressed with the lack of swearing and lack of sexual inuendos.  It isn't perfect, but much better than most everything else out there. "},{"Title":"Quite different","Date":"30 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I waited long to watch this movie. Also because I like Bruce Willis. The plot was quite different from what I had expected but still quite good. Its a good mix of emotions, humor and drama.Left me thinking over and again ) "},{"Title":"At last, a great film that doesn't have to be edited for profanity!","Date":"5 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  At last, a great film that doesn't have to be edited for profanity or sex! It's a fun film that the whole family can enjoy. Willis is great, as always. Rusty was delightful.  Just enough action to keep interest going. "},{"Title":"You will forget the kid is acting.","Date":"12 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I couldnt believe how well this kid did on screen, you will completely forget that they are actors and loose yourself in the movie. It is like watching home movies with a twist. I recomend this to everyone. Highly. "},{"Title":"Excellent family entertainment","Date":"13 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  The film did not strain the intelligence of the audience and appealed to both adults and children alike. Bruce Willis is excellent as the embittered 39 year old and his scenes with his 8 year old self played by Spencer Breslin are hilarious (note that when you watch this film look at their noses and see how similar they are). Not a new idea by any stretch of the imagination (Quantum Leap, It's a Wonderful Life all lend something to the film) but the feelgood factor and some great acting make this worth going to see. Bruce Willis has now fulfilled his contract with Disney (3 films) and they were all with children (Mercury Rising, The Sixth Sense and The Kid) and I have to say that he has an affinity to children that shines through. Let's hope he continues to make films like this one as well as the shoot 'em ups. "}{"Title":"Another Bruce Willis sleeper hit!","Date":"10 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I was all around impressed with this movie, not only by the cast, but also by the story. Bruce Willis gives another great performance that shows how versatile he is. You think his charachter is a total jerk at first, but at the end you really symathise with him. Spencer Breslin also was amazingly convincing as a young Bruce Willis, and really deserves credit for letting everybody say the things they say about him on screen. I must also say Emily Mortimer was the perfect casting job as the female lead, because not only is she a great actress, but she's so loveable you can't help but wonder what Russ (Willis) doesn't see in her.As for the story itself, it was a breath of fresh air as far as family movies are concerned. The plot stuck with everything you were expecting it to, (I got a bit worried when they referred to a baseball commissiner twice early on that it may become intergral to the plot later. That would have been bad). The story wasn't too childish for adults like say Thomas and the Magic Railroad, and not to harsh for kids like Small Soldiers. Thankfully alot of the more out there plot points are left to the imagination, like why it all happens, but if they tried to explain it, it would have been distracting anyway.  This movie is a must see for Bruce Willis fans, or anybody looking for a good family flick/romantic comedy. "},{"Title":"Completely positive regarding this movie","Date":"7 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Willis once again makes a star performance of a man in crisis, something he seems to do very well, at least if box office sales are an indicator!Willis relates well to the young Breslin, making me wonder just how much of a kid Willis really is, considering his more dramatic/action roles like Die Hard and The Last Boy Scout.I'd have to agree that this movie is definitely geared toward the adult crowds, although kids may have fun with it as well.Without a doubt, if you've reached a certain level of success in your life, or just plain 'ol middle-aged like most of us, you should go see this movie. You'll realize the old adage that It ain't over 'til it's over ISN'T just a cliche. "},{"Title":"Flies Straight To Your Heart","Date":"21 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Much better than I expected.  We took our 15 and 11 year old daughters and our (almost) 8 year old son and they all loved it.  Bruce Willis was smooth and believable as both a near hopeless jerk and as a changing man.  This movie understands young children, both their fragility and their neuroses, and their ability to still cope.  It is simply a sweet, optimistic movie that isn't afraid to say, yeah, childhood isn't all misty-happy times but we can't use past pain as an excuse to run away from loving others now. Great date movie as well as for families. "},{"Title":"This is the first **** of Movie Year 00","Date":"16 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Once again Bruce Willis is excellent in a role with a young kid. The Kid is reminiscent of movies like Groundhog Day and Vice Versa where looking back gives the adult in the story a chance to move forward.Just a really good movie. If this movie isn't on best 10 list for 2000, then there're a lot of really good movies to look forward to during the next 5 months.  "},{"Title":"Cameo?","Date":"15 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  My friend and I saw The Kid last weekend (loved it - Bruce is so versatile), and we're convinced that the software designing hippie was Matthew Perry in an uncredited cameo... Are we way off? We think the eyes gave it away... "},{"Title":"a great movie that will make you laugh and cry","Date":"15 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Bruce Willis has a magic on screen with children that I have yet to see equaled. What he began to show us in Mercury Rising and then in The Sixth Sense is even more fully developed here. As an allegory for self-understanding and healing, this movie is a must-see for any adult interested in inner work. Taken literally, it is a great movie that will make you laugh and cry. Kids will love it, adults will love it, a movie that crosses generations. It took me back to my own childhood in a way that was poignant and welcomed. "},{"Title":"Hailing Disney Classic Live Action","Date":"10 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  'The Kid' marks Disney's return to doing thoughtful, creative, morally anchored live action films.  In the same vein as 'Parent Trap'(Both) and 'Freaky Friday'(Jodi Foster version), 'Kid' tries and succeeds in entertaining and teaching both parents and kids.  Hopefully Disney will drop '102 Dalmations', 'Flubber' and other similar films and return to films with a heart and soul. "},{"Title":"Great movie and I'm under 30","Date":"8 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I thought this movie was great! Bruce Willis was great as the sarcastic image consultant-turned-sensitive when he meets up with his 8-year-old self. It really makes you think. I just saw this movie with a large group of women aged 30 and under, and we all absolutely loved it. The message certainly was not missed! "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Enjoyable","Date":"8 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I walked into this movie, thinking it'd be the standard Disneyfamily fare, but boy, was I wrong. Disney's The Kid (I guessthe Disney makes it more family friendly) is more of a dramathan a comedy (which it was advertised as), and deals with Russ,a near 40 year old man who has no heart whatsoever and is justplain mean, sorta like a Grinch. He's an image consultant, butone night, he meets his past, in the form of an 8 year old kid.At first, Russ can not believe it and rejects his inner child,but soon enough Russ gets along with him and must face his pastto change his future. The performances are excellent, especially by Willis, who does aremarkable job here. New comer Spencer Breslin is also quitegood. Marc Shaiman did the score, and it's quite a good score,it's light and breezy and fits perfeclty with the movie. There are some elements the movie does not need at all, and somethings they use just for pure comedy and to set other things infuture scenes up. But either way, this is an entertaining moviewith a great message. If you had the slight interest in seeingit, though it does look like for a younger age group, it's quitean enjoyable  "},{"Title":"I was expecting superficial junk, but it was actually pretty good.","Date":"3 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Turns out it's not really a kids' movie - it's the story of a guy's mid-life crisis - but my kids (9 & 4) didn't seem bored. There were a couple of scenes where I expected the worst kind of saccharine cliches, but they actually turned out okay.Willis is above average, Lily Tomlin is basically perfect, and even the kid (Spencer Breslin) doesn't make you cringe.As far as the writer (Audrey Wells), it was about as good as her 'The Truth About Cats & Dogs' and better than 'George of the Jungle'. It will appeal to people who liked director Turteltaub's other big films (Phenomenon, While You Were Sleeping, Cool Runnings). "}{"Title":"Surprisingly good ADULT self discovery film.","Date":"30 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Anyone who saw (and loved) The Story of Us will love The Kid it should have been titled The Story of Me. I think Disney has made a big mistake marketing it as a kids movie. The TV trailer implied as much and my 10 year old was, as she put it... fooled.  Despite the marketing screwup and similarities to Big (Kid in a grownups body) I thoroughly enjoyed watching Bruce Willis Get a Clue.  It was good to see that David Addison from Moonlighting is alive and well and Willis can bring him out at will.  The films supporting cast worked well together and in case no one noticed there were no evil, terrorist bad guys to be found.  Just the self-inflicted ones we can all relate to and secretly have hiding in us. That is the beauty of this character. We all know him, we look at him in the mirror every day. "},{"Title":"Beautiful movie which moves me every time i see it...","Date":"17 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" As a guy who is 39, turning on 40 this year, I am happy i never really grew up. This film moves me every time i see it, brings about melancholy to the time i was still 8, carefree, no worries, mum and dad still alive..Seeing some of my colleagues even younger than me at the school i teach history at, who act and sometimes even look 50 up, i fight and fight and fight to keep my kid inside, and never lose touch with it. That also is a benefit for my pupils, as well as myself.This film is a must see for everyone, it is skilfully made, honest, caring, and Bruce Willis shows he is more than an action film actor.Highly recommended for everyone who just wants to float away on memories past, as well as people who are willing to see the message contained within.ASHIKAGA. "},{"Title":"Bruce Willis' Gift","Date":"13 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Truly a wonderful movie. Bruce Willis gives his always-outstanding comedic-romantic acting power to this message-movie and the movie brings hope to the losers many of us know we are. A gift to everyone of middle age whose spent time seems both full and yet empty there is more around the next bend and it can be great, enriching, and romantic. Leave the recent past and return to the lessons of the distant past, and then take off on a favorite flight to your better future. If we could re-live our youthful experiences, if we could really remember the events that shaped us, wouldn't we find a special kind of freedom? See the movie, open the gift. "},{"Title":"entertainment","Date":"18 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I really enjoyed this film, i thought it was a lighthearted, warming tale, which entertained.I thought yet again disney have made a good family film.I thought the young Russ (Spencer Breslin) was a great actor who was both a likeable and believable eight year old - Bruce Willis also performed well in his role as a harsh image consultant. I also thought the english actress playing Amy was also very good. I only saw it yesterday, i hadn't heard about it before i saw it in this weeks tv guide.Overall an entertaining disney film - enjoyed7.5 / 10 "},{"Title":"Bruce Willis' The Kid","Date":"16 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Admittedly, Spenser Breslin as the Kid in this movie is flat-out hilarious. However, what could have gotten annoying after about 20 minutes was not so,largely in part to Bruce Willis' smirking adult version of the Kid. Even this heartless Personal Image Consultant character Willis portrays can't keep hisguard up around Breslin. I wouldn't be surprised if they asked Bruce to stayserious as long as possible before he couldn't help it and cracked at smile at what the Kid says.These two complement each other like none other. Willis' work with younger actors in The Sixth Sense and Unbreakable was excellent, but that was drama. This, let me tell you, is comedic gold. The Kid runs around Willis' home calling out the name of dog he assumes the older version of himself has. When he finds out he doesn't have a dog, he calls 'himself' a loser. Not only that, he screams it in his face, in one of the most drop-dead funny lines I've ever heard delivered, whether the actor be young or old. "},{"Title":"***** out of 5","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  One in awhile a movie comes along out of nowhere that touches you like you've never been touched before, this is one of those movies. Simply delightful, warm hearted and often very amusing family film that teaches us that it is never to late to change, we just need to look for that inner child living somewhere deep down insdie all of us and to make the best out of life while you still can cause you may never get a second chance. Bruce Willis is perfectly cast as a middle aged jerk. But one night he gets a visit from a young boy who is himself when he was 8 (first timer Spence Breslin). Willis has again prooved himself as a great actor and Breslin is nothing less than adorable in his role that he handles very maturely. The movie features a wonderful script that will entertain kids and adults alike and will have tears of joy streaming down your face, guarenteed. The ending is a wonderful suprise that will probably have audiences watching again to pick up on all the clues they missed the first time around. The outcome is magical to say the least.   "},{"Title":"This movie is awesome!","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  This was Disney wasn't it? So wasn't it supposed to be lame? ...I was not expecting much from this film, but it's turned out to be one of my fav's! It is clever,  funny, insightful, charming. The relationship Bruce Willis and the kid is adorable. And unlike most family type comedies, the acting is excellent - by all parties! I highly recommend this film for a fun, laid back evening. Especially to be watched with someone close, maybe with you've grown old with...? "},{"Title":"Great film!","Date":"22 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  The Kid is a great movie showing the evolving of one man as he gets in touch with his past, accepts it and moves on. It shows that it is never too late to start over, to live life, to let other people into your life. I really enjoyed seeing Bruce Willis do a funny,serious part instead of a tough guy as he is in many movies. I also enjoyed the little clues like the airplane flying overhead, the dog barking in the tunnel, etc. This movie is made by Disney and was previewed as for kids, but to my mind, it is for grownups. It reminds us all to not be afraid to enjoy life and accept it.  "},{"Title":"Not just for kids","Date":"14 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  `The Kid' is a sappy but easy to like film that pretends to be a comedy for kids when it really deals with an adult topic that is beyond the comprehension of its target audience.  Russ Duritz (Bruce Willis) is days from his 40th birthday.  His life is hardly full of mirthful joy.  He is a dour, unhappy, impatient grouch who is brilliant at his work and alienates everyone he meets.  Suddenly an eight-year-old boy appears, who he realizes is himself as a child, a part of his life that he has effectively blocked from memory.  The interaction between him and his former self brings about an understanding of the forces that are affecting his life today and fosters a transformation to a happier Russ.The story touches on heavy, soul-searching ideas in a very lighthearted way, which makes Audrey Wells' (`The Truth About Cats and Dogs', `George of the Jungle') script innovative and fresh.  Its deeper implications are certainly far over the head of Disney age kids, but hit home with their parents.  However, there is enough childlike silliness to keep the kids entertained while their parents ponder the true meaning of the film.After his previous project, the heavy handed `Instinct', Director John Turteltaub shows amazing adaptive ability in being able to switch to a lighthearted comedy with equal effectiveness.  His direction of the actors is terrific, and he is able to create scenes that are appealing to children, but not so juvenile that it puts off the adults.  In addition, his 50's period schoolyard scenes are very accurate as to costumes, props and feel of the period.Bruce Willis shows his versatility, giving a terrific comedic performance, unafraid to scream and stomp around like a kid to achieve the proper effect.  Once again, he displays extraordinary chemistry with a child actor, making it seem more as if they are playing together than acting.  Spencer Breslin is cherubic and believable as the kid in his first feature film.  Lily Tomlin adds her wry comedy to the mix and is perfect as Russ's overwrought assistant.  Jean Smart also deserves special mention, giving a sensitive performance as the stranger on the plane who becomes Russ's confidant.This film has a lot to recommend it.  It is entertaining and funny and it has a deeper message ensconced within the childish mischief.  I rated it an 8/10.  It is an enjoyable film that isn't just for kids.  "},{"Title":"Warm, charming, and uplifting! It was moving, touching, and entertaining...","Date":"8 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  This is NOT a kids' movie, and wasn't intended as such, I don't think. Nevertheless, the matinee I attended was packed with tiny children with their parents. Maybe the parents brought them along under the mistaken idea it was a Walt Disney kidfest? Or maybe they were seeking free babysitting.Anyway--this is a warm, charming, uplifting movie. I generally keep my personal life out of my www life, but I will say that I have have an advanced degree in psych, and this flick accurately depicts the most powerful transformational model I know of. All other movies I have seen that toy with the area fall a bit short, or spin off into theatrics so much that the truth is diluted. This one went for it-- beyond what you see in the previews. I wasn't shocked, because it isn't that kind of movie--but I was moved, and touched, and I felt better for it all.Yeah to Bruce Willis, and yeah to all the other people associated with this movie whose names I do not know. I gave this Disney job a well deserved 10 out of 10. Go see it with your girlfriend, boyfriend, best buddy, brother or sister-- you'll both be happier for it! "}{"Title":"A FANTASTIC film for the whole family","Date":"7 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  A family film thats puts you on the seat for excitement.  This movie is full of laughs and beauty.  I loved it so much.  As a 17 year old male, I laughed and cryed with every other 500 people who were watching this sold out movie. Bruce Willis was hilarious and should get best actor, at least a definite nominanie.  4 stars or 10/10 "},{"Title":"Just kidding.","Date":"7 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"       THE KID is a decent film that does explain the mid-life crisis of a man who is about to turn 40, and meets his younger self when he was eight.  The only problem is that this film is put out by Disney Pictures.  Why is that a problem?  Well, most of the children won't understand on what is going on, they'll be amused by the kid.  But this is more of a movie for adults, the same way THE HAPPIEST MILLIONARE and THE BLACK HOLE were for adults.      Bruce Willis is Russell Morley Duritz, a well paid image consultant, who advices famous and wealthy faces to have a better image.  From the state governor to a shabby computer programmer, Russell gives out advices to almost everyone.  Which makes him cynical, cruel, and at times rude.  Which is why most people consider him a jerk.  His co-worker, and flirt, Amy (Emily Mortimer) at times enjoys being with him, and at other times, wants to stay away from him.  It isn't until that Russell gets a reality check and he meets Rusty (Spencer Breslin) who is actually Russell at age eight.  Everyone thinks that Russell is suffering a mental breakdown, his girlfriend, his personal assistant Janet (Lily Tomlin), and his psychartist. But Rusty is actually there to help Russell on what is wrong with him.      THE KID is a fairly enjoyable film.  There are some very funny scenes between Bruce Willis, Lily Tomlin, and young newcomer Spencer Breslin.  If anyone can work well with kids, it's Willis.  With MERCURY RISING, and THE SIXTH SENSE, Willis is pretty much a big kid himself (i.e. John McClain from the DIE HARD films).  Willis also doesn't chew up the scenes when he's with any child, he let's the child take most of the credit, which I find very generous.      The film is enjoyable, but I really wouldn't consider it a child's film.  It's hard to say on what is a good kids film this summer.  While THE KID is to complicated for children, while DINOSAUR and TITAN A.E. are a little too violent.  That leaves CHICKEN RUN, the perfect children's movie of the summer. But we're talking about THE KID here.      This film reminded me of a family version of FREQUENCY, and BACK TO THE FUTURE.  It is another one of the what if you could change the past type of films.  I'm just wondering if that is the reason on why it is the number one plot formula in Hollywood right now, with all of these stars getting divorced or arrested.  But it's fun, don't take any child under seven to it, they'll be squirming left and right.  But seven and up, will enjoy it, even the parents.  ***1/2 (out of five)  "},{"Title":"A Kid's Movie For People in Their 40s","Date":"23 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  The surprise is not how good this film turns out to be.  With Willis coming off of Sixth Sense and Jean Smart and writer Audrey Wells following up on the underappreciated Guinevere, I suspected there just might be something going on here.  The surprise is how what is being pushed as a Disney kid's film is actually a funny, moving and rather mature fable about losing touch with the child you were and the adult you wanted to be.  The kids in the audience were restless.  The parents were laughing...and a few even sniffling.  Not a great film, but a darn good one, with a message that will probably go over the heads of anyone under 30. "},{"Title":"Nice comedy...","Date":"24 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" A nice comedy!!! A big round of applause to this great movie... Disney rocks so much for creating this movie... THis movie has great actings, Good storyline, Good structure of stories... Good scripts and anything in the movie set was good....The most famous and well known actor Bruce wills(Some of you might know him some might not) did a great job on playing Ross and this shows what reality will be like when you faced any problems... This also a great fantasy movie and not to mention, Great characters and some bad characters like the kid's dad and a gang of bullies...This is what i call the work of genius... And the top no.1 family's movie....Rating10/10 "},{"Title":"Funny family movie","Date":"9 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Another movie about How the Cynic Came out of the Dark - sort of a moral but with a twist thrown in. Almost-40 Russ Duritz (Bruce Willis) is a rich, powerful, successful image consultant, but has no friends (closest he's got are his secretary Janet & asst Amy) no family relationship, & literally doesn't have a life beyond work - he goes out of his way to criticize & complain even when not being paid. 4 days before his birthday, he begins hallucinating a red biplane whose pilot seems determined to run him over. Then he starts seeing a somehow familiar boy. When he finally gets a good look & talks to him, he realizes this is himself 32 years ago, whom he blocked out of his memory completely! Almost-8 Rusty is just as happy to meet Russ - he considers his future self a loser The good news is, while you're currently a pathetic dweeb, eventually you get to be me - an athletic, powerful chick magnet. Who doesn't have a dog or a chick. Russ tries to be rid of his old self by returning him home, but discovers it occupied by another family. Now he tries to figure out how to improve Rusty's life - that's clearly why he showed up - until he makes a major mistake that ruins his nearly-love relationship with Amy. With help from a client-turned-friend, Russ figures out he's the 1 who was supposed to learn from Rusty! Now they try to find the spot in his forgotten past where they can reshape destiny. This is a pretty funny family movie. Every1 will enjoy this. "},{"Title":"Feel Good Family Comedy From Disney","Date":"14 August 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"   As a word of explanation, Disney's The Kid has absolutely nothing in common with the Charlie Chaplin 1921 classic of the same name. What we do have is a pleasant enough, though unbelievable, feel good family comedy as only the folks at Disney can provide. Bruce Willis, in a change of pace, plays a self-centered stuffed shirt of an Image Consultant. He degrades, not only his clients, but those close to him as well. You know that he is going to have to change before the final credits. Into his life comes a chapter from his past in the form of Willis' character as a nerdy 8 year old played with cutesy pie conviction by Spencer Breslin (Disney always finds these kids somewhere). This forces Willis to come to grips with his past and well..you know the rest. Appearing as Willis' love interest is Emily Mortimer and Lily Tomlin as his Executive Assistant. Both have little enough to do as most of the movie involves the inter-action between the Willis and Breslin characters. The Kid, though not the greatest of Disney movies is one nonetheless that you can sit down and watch with your family and come away from with a warm feeling. "},{"Title":"Starts Off Cute, Then Gets Ugly","Date":"1 April 2007","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Like a lot of movies involving little kids, this starts off real cute and likable...and then, after about a half hour or so, becomes the reverse.That's certainly the case here in this time-travel story (which I usually love) where an adult meets a kid who his really him at the age of eight! Great premise and a great lead actor in Bruce Willis, but.....The kid Rusty is a smart-aleck and whiny brat and Willis Rusty grown up now as Russell gets abrasive with his constant yelling. That is entertainment? No, thanks.Young Breslin has gone on to become a very good child actor, being involved in a number of films including The Cat In The Hat opposite a more famous child actor Dakota Fanning. Overall, a disappointing film, especially with all the good press this movie got when it was released. "},{"Title":"almost works","Date":"11 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Russ Duritz (Bruce Willis) is a successful 40 year old L.A. image consultant. Janet (Lily Tomlin) is his secretary. His assistant Amy (Emily Mortimer) is concerned about his latest job. While stuck in a traffic jam, he is almost hit by a fly biplane but then the plane is gone. He finds a red toy plane and a boy (Spencer Breslin) in his apartment. He chases the kid and he disappears. The boy reappears at his apartment claiming to be Rusty. It dawns on Russ that Rusty is his younger self.The idea is OK and the execution is fine. It's a little hard to feel for Russ. It may be easier to feel for him if he is suffering as an adult. His adult character is too hard and cold. I don't think Bruce Willis projects the right persona at the start. He could suffer panic attacks and Rusty helps him overcome them. This is a simple story and it mostly almost works. "},{"Title":"Entertaining but Not As Good As Chaplin's.","Date":"13 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" The Kid (2000) Dir Jon Turteltaub / Cast Bruce Willis, Spencer Breslin, Emily Mortimer, Lily Tomlin, Chi McBride Here is a family comedy that is suppose to reach the kid in all of us but it fumbles its premise in its feeble sense of logic. Bruce Willis plays an image consultant who encounters an eight year old boy who is actually himself. This doesn't make any sense nor is an explanation given but he is shown how he has changed for the worst since childhood. The conclusion is handled rather half heatedly but director Jon Turteltaub gives the film its impact. He previously directed the charming romantic comedy While You Were Sleeping as well as the intriguing Phenomenon. Willis plays off the humour with a boyish quality becoming the strongest element of the film. His dealings with clients are somewhat cruel but he will learn where it all went wrong in its shady conclusion. Emily Mortimer as a co-worker is basically a romantic prop there to inform Willis that he is being a jerk but eventually fall for him. Lily Tomlin is a fine comic given a rather limited role as his secretary. Spencer Breslin plays the younger Willis in what can only be described as complete nonsense. Nobody will accuse this film of making any sense but at least it makes up for it in heavy measures of charm and wishful thinking. Complex lessons involve facing fears of past mistakes. Score 7 / 10 "},{"Title":"The movie for everyone. No, REALLY! I'm not kidding!!!","Date":"4 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" The Kid is a lot more enjoyable than the cover makes it out to be. This isn't your average inspirational Disney classic. The Kid charms its way through all audiences from the comedy lovers to the critics. I must however to two downsides. There might be times were the conversations sometimes runs flat and the rules of the phenomenon may some draw confusion. However, it is barely noticeable next to the impressive balance clean humor and good storytelling. It has a way to suck everyone into the dynamics of the plot. The Kid has something for everyone to enjoy. Overall, it is a guaranteed memorable movie! So if you are looking for a feel good movie or just something to watch with the folks, the you've got the perfect movie! "}{"Title":"Heart warming, poignant and charming","Date":"25 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I personally thought this was a lovely movie and very underrated. It is not a perfect movie, some scenes are a little over-the-top or go a little overboard with the sugar, and while there are many beautiful and memorable parts to it the music does have moments where it gets rather heavy-handed. On the other hand, the whole film is beautifully photographed and the scenery is gorgeous. The antics are funny, adorable and poignant, the script is often sweet and touching and the ending is suitably uplifting. I had no problem with the acting, Bruce Willis gives a very nice performance, and his chemistry with Breslin shows a man whose work with children comes naturally to him. I was charmed also by Emily Mortimer, but my favourite was Spencer Breslin who is wonderful. Overall, a lovely movie. 8/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Not as good as The Sixth Sense but Better Than Mercury Rising","Date":"18 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Hopefully, Disney's The Kid qualifies as the final entry in the Bruce Willis co-starring with a child actor movie trilogy. Disney's The Kid lands somewhere between Mercury Rising and The Sixth Sense. Obviously superior to the mediocre Mercury Rising, this routine but upscale time travel comedy falls far short of The Sixth Sense. Instead of Bruce bailing out his immature cohort, the juvenile pulls Bruce's chestnuts out of the fire. Comparatively, Kid and Sense both concerned supernatural phenomenon, but Kid lacks the suspense of Sense. Scenarist Audrey (Shall We Dance) Wells has contrived a tolerably entertaining but predictably sentimental yarn where a well-heeled bachelor businessman, about to turn forty, unexpectedly finds himself confronted by himself when he was age eight! Sound like a comic whirl on the Dennis Quaid & Jim Caviezel father-son thriller Frequency? Not only does Bruce-at-forty meet himself-at-eight, but he also later gets a glimpse of himself-at-sixty! Clearly, any movie where the hero collides with himself from the past as well as the future simultaneously has at least a modicum of potential. Sadly, however, The Kid suffers from an anemic, half-baked script that offers few revelations and fewer delights. Worse, The Kid degenerates into demographic Mickey Mouse ideology. In this world, according to Disney, a loser is any guy who neither has a wife nor a dog by age forty.Instinct director Jon Turteltaub uses the opening reels to establish the cold, abrasive, egotistical character of Russell Duritz (Bruce Willis), a fashion conscious Los Angeles 'image consultant' with all the compassion of a shark and the knack for keeping politicians and corporate fat cats from committing public relations suicide. When it comes to behaving a curmudgeon, Russell rivals the obnoxious Jack Nicholson character in James L. Brooks' As Good As It Gets. Russell cannot stand to hear anybody cry, and he considers his time so valuable that he rations it out to his clients.Russell's administrative Girl Friday, the tireless but under-appreciated Janet (Lily Tomlin) relays all his messages and runs his errands. Ostensibly, Janet serves as his umbilical cord with reality. The surprise is that anybody in their right mind would put up with his antagonistic personality. Loyally, Janet sticks with Russell through thick and thin. At one point, she finds herself compelled to lie for him, so that Russell can evade his estranged father, Sam Duritz (Daniel von Bargen of The General's Daughter), who only wants to invite him home for a long-overdue family supper. Once Turteltaub and Wells have delineated Russell's unpleasant character, they bring on eight-year old Rusty (Spencer Breslin) who turns Russell's life into chaos.Initially, Rusty materializes mysteriously at Russell's palatial house as an unwelcome anonymous munchkin with a late-model toy airplane, skirting Russell's sophisticated home security alarm system. Earlier, a red biplane buzzed Russell during rush hour traffic, and Rusty's red baseball jacket associates him with the aircraft. Eventually, the red model airplane toy comes to epitomize innocence lost, rather like the sled 'Rosebud' in Orson Welles' 'Citizen Kane. When Rusty shows up the next time, Russell jumps into his Porsche and pursues the chubby cherub on a bike across L.A. into an airport. Following junior jumbo into an old-fashioned trailer diner, Russell discovers later that the diner was a figment of his imagination! Finally, Russell corners Rusty rather anti-climatically when the latter changes the TV channel at the former's mansion. Presumably, Rusty wanted to be caught, because earlier he propelled his obese butt into and out of a couple of cliffhanger situations with Russell at his heels. Alone together in Russell's house, they compare scars (one reminded me of the Nike check symbol) as well as personal idiosyncrasies and eventually they conclude that they are one in the same. What began as an episodic, down-to-earth character comedy rapidly takes a turn for the Twilight Zone that recalls another Turteltaub movie Phenomenon. Audrey Wells' amusing but sophomoric wish-fulfillment fantasy poses a number of questions that everybody has pondered. She appropriates eight-year Rusty as the mouthpiece to expose Russell's mid-life crisis. After he accepts who they are, Rusty takes a dim view of his adult accolades I'm forty. I'm not married. I don't fly jets and I don't have a dog? I grow up to be a loser! More than last year's split-personality masterpiece Fight Club, Kid conjures up schizophrenia of the worst sort. Whereas Fight Club's hero divested himself of the spoils of materialism, The Kid reforms its rude, arrogant bachelor hero so that he will wed, raise a family, and pass along the baton of life in the relay race of civilization. After all, the anal retentive Russell had committed the worst sin by refusing to renounce his selfishness and give something back to society.Clearly, the Disney propaganda machine is very apparent in Wells' homage to It's A Wonderful Life. Of course, there is a happy ending with several hard lessons before the triumph. Rusty takes older Russell on a trip back to the past and the pivotal event in high school that warped his life. Evidently, some school yard bullies beat the overweight Rusty up and threatened to ignite a bunch of firecracker tied to the next of a three-legged dog called Tripod (Victimizing a dog is the last straw in schmaltz!) If Rusty can vanquish the bullies, he can live the life that the sought in his dreams. Basically, Russell gets the chance to learn the same lesson at age eight that he learns at age forty so he can give his life a make-over.The first casualty in both Wells' saccharine script and Turteltaub's heavy-handed helming is subtlety. Admirably, Willis makes every effort to offset this offensive sugar-coating with his Scrooge-like performance. Ultimately, this hearken-to-your-inner-child, feel-good, yuppie pabulum falters because the comedy lacks hilarity and the messages about conforming to the ideals of consumer society are facile. "},{"Title":"Better Than I Thought","Date":"5 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I really wonder about Bruce Willis. He's such a tough guy, but he seems to have a soft underbelly. Because of these two qualities, he is nicely cast in this film. It's a movie about second chances. It's a movie about reconciliation. It's about facing the things we were always afraid of. Willis's character is successful in a financial way. He doesn't seem very happy, however. For whatever reason, he is suddenly thrown together with his younger self, an obnoxious but charming kid who is able to see his own weaknesses, and blames his adult self. It sounds terribly complex but we get the hang of it pretty quickly. There are a series of pivotal moments in life when things could go different ways and that's what the focus is. If we were given another opportunity, what would we do? Everyone must think this at some point. The byplay between Willis and his young companion goes from confrontational and whiny to precious and kind. It works pretty well. It was much better than I thought it would be. One downer was the obvious commercialism and product placement. It is rampant in this movie. "},{"Title":"Bruce couldn't really fit in the film","Date":"30 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Although this is a cute movie, Bruce just seemed out of place in his role. I remember in Angels in the Outfeild they had some great and amazing actors in there. They seemed a little out of place as well. I don't think Oscar nominated or critically acclaimed actors can get into a kid's movie. But I would recommend this for a family film. I rented this movie because I enjoy Bruce Willis. I think he has his films where he can have a great performance. The Kid is original. I will give it that. The only way I'd watch the film again is if it was a rainy afternoon. It's nothing special. Like I said, it's more of a family film. And there are some cute moments. So, I will give it the credit it deserves.7/10  "},{"Title":"good family fun.","Date":"31 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I saw this movie last night for the first time and I loved it. I was always seeing it at blockbuster, but never rented it because I thought it would be hokie and dumb. Bruce Willis in a movie about a guy who gets visited by his kid self, come on! Boy was I wrong. This movie surprised me in more ways than one. First I would like to say it was really funny and heart-warming. Bruce Willis can deliver comedic lines very well. He has proven he is a dynamic and versatile actor in the last few years.  He can do drama like Unbreakable, suspense like the Sixth Sense, and comedy. The kid who plays him at 8 years old is also very good and likeable. Lily Tomlin is great as Bruce Willis' personal assistant. She injects a lot of humor to the story and interacts very well with Willis' character. The movie is not just for kids as you quickly find out in the first 15 minutes. It is a story for anybody of any age. The message that you can be what you want in life is very profound throughout the film. It illustrates to the audience how your life can turn out differently depending on the choices you make along the way. I also liked how the movie told us how life is a journey that can go in many directions. A person just has to make things happen and go for what makes them happy.The bond and relationship that forms between present day Willis and his kid self is very sweet and endearing. Willis learns to forgive and accept who he was as a kid in order to better understand who he is as an adult. He learns and grows throughout the film and reaches a point of happiness and satisfaction that leads him to realize his life is not so bad.I recommend this film to anyone who wants to see a feel-good comedy that entertains and makes you think of life's possibilities. "},{"Title":"Not the Best Kid's Movie, But Not A Horrible Movie.","Date":"31 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"      This movie wasn't that great, but wasn't terrible. Bruce Willis is great again, but the movie didn't fit together like my cup of tea. Yes, the movie did have some laughs, and the rest of the cast was also good. This isn't the best kid's movie ever, but is entertaining. I give The Kid an 8 out of 10.  ) "},{"Title":"It was...okay","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  At first I didn't want to go see the movie, but o friend of mine was going and I told him to watch out for a Matthew Perry cameo cuz I had herd he was in it and I wanted to know who or what he played, my friend came back and told me he wasn't in the movie and was sure of it, I told him he was wrong, being and overly obsessive Matt Perry fan I knew I had to go see it to prove my friend wrong. And of course Matt Perry was in it, it's pretty hard for some people to see because of the hair and beard but his gorgeous eyes give it all away. I found the movie pretty funny, it was overall okay and I give it a 7 out of ten "},{"Title":"It grew on me!","Date":"22 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  When I first started watching the film, I was a little bored and the young character of The Kid irritated me immensely.  But as I settled in with the film, the storyline, the acting and the characters grew on me, so by the end of the film, I felt quite warm and gooey...........I think it's worth hanging in there for the full effect.  "},{"Title":"It's fun. It's fantasy.","Date":"11 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  The Kid is Disney and Bruce Willis at their best. Someone call the wha-a-mbulance, has to be one of the best lines in film. And the kid actor, Spencer Breslin, is terrific.Don't bother picking apart the plot. It's a fantasy, folks! It's fun and it's funny. If you wonder how much skill and patience it takes to act in scene or direct one with a precocious child actor, watch the DVD commentary. If you don't come away from it with a deep appreciation for the serious professionalism of Bruce Willis and director Turtletuab, then you weren't paying attention!Lilly Tomlin takes my breath away when she comes in to interrupt her boss and his dad. A classic comedic moment.Let me see if I can think of a moment in the film that isn't wonderful...Nope. Drawing a blank.  "},{"Title":"A cute family comedy!","Date":"9 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I really thought this was a cute family comedy. Spencer Breslin is just adorable and he is actually a pretty good child actor. You can't come across child actors being as good as him to often. Plus, he was pretty hilarious to say the least. And he does kind of look like a chubby kid version of Bruce Willis, who was also good, funny and adorable in this movie. It was pretty touching towards the end when we finally find out why little Rusty came to the future to meet and help the adult Russ and all. This film is one where it's not really a kid movie or really an adult movie, it's sort of in between, and that's why Disney is calling it Disney's The Kid instead of just The Kid. So they can have some sort of target audience and get kids to go see it since it has the word Disney in the title. I find it pretty silly saying Disney's The Kid myself. But anyway, it was a pretty good, funny movie and I recommend you see it.My Verdict - 8/10 "}{"Title":"great movie for the young at heart","Date":"31 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Well another suprise for me, Bruce Willis finally learned to ACT since the 6th Sense, and this time, he's damn funny too! Especially the interaction with his younger self, really funny. Funny thing is, This movie isnt for kids, but it ISNT for adults either! No, its for the YOUNG AT HEARTS! Grown up folks who still remember the kid they once were, who still want to achieve the same goals they had as a kid. Like me. "},{"Title":"very good performance from the kid in the kid","Date":"29 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  i thought that the movie was quite enjoyable. als i thought that the boy who played the kid was especially good. i think he has a bright future ahead of him. on another matter does anyone think that jean smart looks uncannily like stockard channing? "},{"Title":"Simply one of the funniest films","Date":"2 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I knew I was taking a chance going to see The Kid because Bruce Willis is an actor, who has had good movies and bad movies. I wasn't sure what to expect from Willis because I haven't seen him in a comedic role before this one.I was pleasantly surprised to find out that he could do comedy. Willis combines his many talents to bring this role to life. The best thing I like about this movie is the fact that Willis is not trying to be funny or trying too hard to make the movie a success; the comedy just seems to flow out of him as did the way the story was told.The Kid is one of best comedies I have seen all year. It had a talented cast that included Spencer Breslin, Lily Tomlin and Emily Mortimer. With talent such as this, it is inconceivable to me that The Kid was not more commercially successful in the theaters. After all, Spencer Breslin stole the show with his scene stealing comedic talents.The Kid is also a movie that searches to find the kid in each of us and locate the amazing power it brings when it is found. This is an inspirational film that will is a spirit lifter.Each scene was carefully orchestrated by the director with only one thing in mind laughs. It truly is spectacular to see an actor such as Bruce Willis, who has a wide range of talents in his repetoire, become a great comedic actor.I was very impressed with the direction of this film because it is not often a movie is made as much heart as I have ever seen. The Kid is a truly remarkable film that will leave everyone breathless. The Kid is just a fun film to watch.  "},{"Title":"Great film which says everything about Disney","Date":"25 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Thoroughly entertaining movie with hugely enjoyable performances from all parties.  Laughs a plenty and I left the cinema feeling I had spent a great 2 hours of my life enraptured by the life of somebody you could not help but like.  I give this film a huge 9 out of 10 as it restored my faith in the cinema industry after some recent disastrous film choices (i.e. Wonder Boys, Charlies Angels and Pitch Black.Well done everybody involved in The Kid because The Kid done good !!!!.  "},{"Title":"A Pleasant Family Movie","Date":"18 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Well, Disney does it again! Here is another pleasant family movie, but with some adulthood flavor this time. Bruce Willis is surprisingly good here, Spencer Breslin is charming, but Emily Mortimer needs to brush up her acting a little bit. The dialogs are mostly funny, combined with some touching moments. See this movie, and you will find out why the moon looks orangish when it just rises... "},{"Title":"I loved the movie but...","Date":"8 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Great movie - great feeling leaving the theatre with my two kids when my daughter said , I liked it but I'm confused.  Yeah, me, too.  The ending in its attempt to explain muddied things and created unnecessary confusion, leaving both my daughter and I with our good feelings slightly annoyed...otherwise, I would give it a 10.  Breslin and Willis are a joy. "},{"Title":"Bruce is a wonder cast here with the aid of Spencer.","Date":"31 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  THE KID just looks like PHENOMENON that you can see something more in the movie.Remember in PHENOMENON, George (John T.) suddenly own a talent that he would learn things in no time but he felt getting isolated because he failed to reach what he expect.  A life without love worths nothing.This time, Jon tells us that we got a kid inside us.  Maybe we had something that we just want it be away from us and so try to escape it.   Like Russ, when he was young, his classmates looked down upon him.  He lost his dignity.   So he understood that and now felt relaxed.  Let bygones be bygones.  We must overcome the constraint and that can make us grow stronger.  Life is short but we should live it brightly.  That's a very impressive message brought by this film.Maybe it is too difficult for a kid to read, as most of the users here expressed.   Sometimes I think Disney would like to increase the range of audience.  Yes, their target goes to children but this one needs parents to guide them at the movies.   This kind of movie is good because adults may also find it interesting, without saying it just for fun (like  DINOSAUR this summer).Bruce is not the last action hero, he looks fantastic in family dramas (NORTH and THE SIXTH SENSE) or best-selling black comedy THE WHOLE NINE YARDS, but not as John in DIE HARD series.  Agree?Frankly, it is a wonderful film during this summer. I strongly recommend you to see it with all my heart.Grade  B-  "},{"Title":"I've seen it more than once and enjoyed it every time","Date":"25 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I identified with Russ/Rusty from the start.  I was the chubby, geeky kid everyone picked on.  Now, well over 40 years later, I'm terminally cranky, still haven't published, have a dead-end job working with people I loathe, and let's not even mention marriage.  Finally, add an emotional disaster area of a family with a father who didn't need an excuse to back-hand you into the wall and your siblings ganged up against you because you didn't get beaten as often.  (Families are supposed to be wonderful, but too often they're hell.)Okay, so there are a few differences.  I'm female, nearly 8 years older than the adult character, close to the bottom end of the economic scale, and at least I have pets.  Russ forgot his childhood, I remember too much of mine.Enough of the history.  I've enjoyed this movie, but more to the point, I've APPRECIATED this movie.  Even though I've been dealing with my childhood/family/personal issues for years, it helps to see them addressed from another angle.  My sibs should see it, but frankly, their attitude is the same as the people who've said they were bored or hated it.  I hope my nieces and nephews will be lucky and see it someday on their own--then maybe they'll understand why their Dad or Mom never talk about Grandpa.Final comment or two, never question magic, just accept it.  I could explain most of the other plot complications, but I won't second-guess the writer.  Use your imagination, but first open your eyes, ears and whatnot open to the experience.Oh yeah, Lily Tomlin rules! "},{"Title":"Warning spoiler, well sort of........","Date":"24 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Good movie.  My 8 year old thought it was okay, my 6 year old liked it even more, I enjoyed it.  However, is it just me or did anyone else think this was a remake of A Christmas Carol?  If you've seen the movie, think about it.  You had Mr. Scrooge, the Ghost of christmas past, present and future. Scrooge turns into a nice and generous guy at the end. "},{"Title":"Really...","Date":"24 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" .......really great! So weird for Bruce Willis..... but great nonetheless. I used to dislike him because all he did was swear in those mindless action movies. But here I realized he isn't that bad....he CAN act and he CAN be funny. As a matter of fact he reminded me a little of an overgrown Michael J. Fox. But what really made me love this movie is the fact that as soon as I discover that this revered Hollywood bigshot is really okay.... here comes along an eight year old kid and basically throws him off the screen. I LOVE IT! As an actress, I'd like to work with both Willis and Spencer Breslin in the future...send me a screenplay! As a writer, I'll probably write my own! "}{"Title":"What a delightfully Disney movie.","Date":"4 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Let me say up front that I am an aviation nut. Any movie that opens with a bright red Stearman biplane flying across the skies of L.A. has got me hooked from the get-go.This film is what makes Disney, Disney. Take one kid, one very confused adult, a little magic, a little mystery and mix them all together with a genuine wonder for what it is to be alive and you have The Kid.For those of us who are only young at heart it tackles the age old questions of How the heck did we get here? and is this all that there is to our lives? It does this, thankfully, without inspiring brooding or self pity.For the truly young, who won't be as quick to dismiss running into their older self someday as an impossibility, (Thank you very much, Mr Einstein!) there is the magic of the situation itself, the obligatory number of chase scenes and the wonder of it all.The cast is competent, even if no one member shines. This is not Oscar material here. And its not meant to be.  I believe that this is one of the movies strengths. You are not going to see the stars (or at least I wasn't) you are going to see the story.With that said, my only real criticism of the film concerns its cast. Bruce Willis as Russ Duritz is... stiff. I could never really connect with his portrayal of the character. All through the movie I kept thinking to myself, This is a Michael Keaton role. In movies from Mr Mom to Batman Mr Keaton has shown a talent for displaying the range of emotions and conflicting motivations needed to bring Russ Duritz to life. I got the feeling that Bruce Willis was just a little uncomfortable at not having a 9mm hand gun duct-taped to his back!Overall, Disney's The Kid is worth the price of admission. With ticket prices these days, that is about as good a recommendation as you can get! "},{"Title":"They are good comments.","Date":"29 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  The movie was excellent and it had a great plot.  Bruce Willis and the kid were so good together.  Even though the kid was sort of ugly.  I know he was supposed to be a Dork.  Anyway, they both are very good actors.  I think this might be good for a sequel.  Something like we see Willis w/ that girl that he obviously was going to marry and then they can go into something else.  I don't know.  Anyway, I thought it was a very well done movie. "},{"Title":"Bruce Willis can always be counted on to entertain.","Date":"17 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie was just flat entertaining. I love that in a movie. It was funny, and the performances were very lively. The plot and dialog were totally Disney, but that isn't a bad thing. I love these types of Fantasy Disney Flicks.  Bruce Willis is so good. I have never seen him in a movie I did like at least a little bit.Director Jon Turteltaub does an excellent job as well.  This is a movie which could have gone very wrong, but was kept on task my good directing.I gave it a 7 of 10. A very good score, for a very entertaining movie. "},{"Title":"I looooved this movie!!!!","Date":"15 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Bruce Willis was perfect. The young actor is adorable and this movie actually makes you think about how our childhood forms our futures. I'm not going to go into detail. I just want to give my impression. The theatre I went to was packed with kids who thoroughly enjoyed it as did their parents. It's a movie that makes you feel warm all over. My other kids went to see Scary Movie and came out disgusted. I'm glad I picked this film instead.  "},{"Title":"Uplifting","Date":"14 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  To all of you 40 year old's going through a mid-life crisis, The Kid is the movie for you.  The Kid is about a man who has completely lost touch with his inner child.  He has a chance to regain it when his 8 year-old self visits him in the present.  Bruce Willis is great working with kids, and he seems to be having fun in this movie.  The 8-year old is funny, and completely different from his 40 year-old self.  The best scenes, however, are the ones when they show similarities between the two.  My only problem was that the movie seemed to drag at the end.  Overall, The Kid is an uplifting story which kids will like, but adults will get the most out of. "},{"Title":"Cute","Date":"14 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  The Kid was an all around fun-film.  Nothing fantastic, heavy, or meaningful, but it was entertaining and funny.  Spencer Breslin is wonderful as youngster Rusty, and Bruce Willis shows some great comedic talent.  By the way, watch for a small cameo by Matthew Perry...IMDB didn't catch this, and I barely did.  He's the loooong haired software producer.  Anyway, I would recommend this movie to everyone, it's a nice, light comedy. "},{"Title":"Disney's got another hit..","Date":"13 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  The Kid, is a very original Disney Movie. I think that Bruce Willis is great in this, so is Spencer Breslin(He reminds me of Chunk from Goonies) and the rest of the cast.  I guess what I liked about this movie is the concept. It was very original and it worked. I hope this movie does good at the box office because I think people would really enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Not what it appears to be...","Date":"11 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  The company...Disney.  The title... The Kid.  This conjures up images of your child dragging you to the movie abyss for 2 hours.  The truth is, you child will probably be bored, and you'll be in for a surprise.Much of what is happening in this movie will go right over childrens heads, but will entertain you.Willis comes out at the onset, as a character that you're wondering if you need to like to get through this movie.  His ability to play a character with an edge, serves him well in this film.Lily Tomlin, was great as a assistant with an attitude, and well matched against Willis's rough character.This is a movie that shouldn't be passed up.  It probably won't be a blockbuster, but don't let the rental get by you.  And by the way, plan on renting something else for the kids, it's just not what they will expect it to be.I'd give it a 7. "},{"Title":"Recapturing childhood dreams","Date":"10 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Walt Disney's The Kid, with Bruce WillisBruce Willis plays Russell, a cheerless workaholic image consultant who is about to turn 40. He lives in a  million dollar designer home in what I suppose are the Hollywood Hills, he drives a Porsche roadster, he has no time for his Dad, his faithful secretary Janet (Lily Tomlin) runs interference for him at the office, and his winsome 30-ish assistant Amy (Emily Mortimer)  is in love with him but too often he's a jerk to her. Suddenly, one night, as if in a bad dream, appears as an intruder in his high security pad, himself as a pudgy little boy. Rusty, who is a few days shy of his eighth birthday, is appalled that Russell doesn't have a girlfriend or wife, doesn't have a dog, doesn't own a truck, isn't a pilot and has a nervous twitch. Almost eight year old Rusty is there to knock some insight into Russell about re-connecting with his childhood dreams, his inner child and his capacity for love.I laughed a little, and a few tears made their way down my cheeks. The movie tugged at my heartstrings, especially where Russell realizes that he has to change. I didn't keep looking at my watch.  I didn't mind the little kids making noise in the theatre. No arms were sliced off, as in Gladiator, and no heads were knocked off by cannonballs, as in The Patriot. In contrast to Me, Myself and Irene, there were no quips about whether the girlfriend swallows, no jokes about dildos and no mainstreaming of crude ghettospeak.Don't ridicule me, ok? I really do think the movie addresses real human issues, and has some substance. A whole lot more than Entrapment, which is just a caper flick that is about high-tech gizmos and Catherine Zeta Jones being gorgeous but keeping her shirt on.I know, I know. The Kid is Disney. Its Bruce Willis. I don't care. It actually does try to explore a real human situation Someone who is by all appearances a huge success, with a thriving business, a large income, a flashy sports car and a stunning house, but is isolated and unhappy, estranged from his family, estranged from his emotions, unable to connect with those who would love him.But its a cliche, you say? Another canned Hollywood movie, a deft exercise in commercial  kitsch, cuteness and emotional manipulation, tugging at the heartstrings, then warming the heart? I don't think so. But why should I care? I'm no movie snob. I'm willing to like a Bruce Willis flick, and say so. I went to the movie to be entertained, and to be moved, and there was enough verisimilitude - similarity to real life problems and real emotions - in Willis' situation and performance to make it satisfying.One more thing The Kis is not really a children's movie. Its a light fantasy, a sort of ET meets Big, in reverse, but basically for grown-ups who can appreciate the notion of having turned out in a disappointing way, in spite of worldly success. While it is not a serious heavy duty adult drama, little kids aged 5 through 11 are liable miss a lot of what goes on, and might even get restless. And therein lies an issue for another day It must be harder and harder to get teens to go to a kids movie (my 14-year old six-foot one son has seen Gone in Sixty Seconds three times, but wouldn't be caught dead at The Kid), and hard to get adults to take the little kids to a real little kids movie. "},{"Title":"Refreshing","Date":"8 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I found this movie an excellent exercise in the study of the child psyche and how it develops into the adult psyche.  It really jogged my memory and got me thinking.  It is interesting how much of our lives (or at least mine) is built around forgetting our failures in the past and proving to our present selves that those failures do not amount to our selfworth.  And the saddest part about it is if that's how we look at it then we've already lost.  By employing those safeguards against the past we are accepting that those events are what define our worth.  (spoiler)Only when Russ(Bruce Willis) stopped defining who he was by acting against who he used to be could he actually realize the root of the problem.  His own self worth.  And he remedied that by accepting who he was instead of trying to prove he was better than himself.  A powerful lesson I think all of us(or at least I know I) could benefit from. "}{"Title":"great family movie","Date":"8 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Both myself and my 10 year old son thought that it was a great movie.  It was very touching and enjoyable.  I was thrilled to see a movie that was great without all the bad language and bad scenes.  A rear rarity!  Bruce Willis should do this more often. "},{"Title":"Great family film!","Date":"7 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I saw a sneak preview of 'The Kid' in Los Angeles last week.I thought it was a charming, touching and funny movie.  Bruce Willis looked great, the 'kid' was excellent and I really enjoyed Lily Tomlin.  The audience laughed and cheered at the end.  It was really an enjoyable film. "},{"Title":"A comedy about acting your age","Date":"21 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" The whole idea of someone meeting a younger version of themselves pops up in films quite a bit and this film is perhaps one of the better examples.The Kid is a mildly amusing film,that certainly has a lot of heart behind it. Bruce Willis reminds us why he is such a good comedic performer and is well supported by Lilly Tomlin and Emily Mortimer (who is not nearly as annoying here as she is in the terrible 'The Newsroom').However the star of the show is undoubtedly Spencer Breslin, who went on to be just as cute in The Santa Clause 2...and poor in The Santa Clause 3. In this though he's great and the relationship between him and Willis is the shining light of the film (apart from a nice cameo by Matthew Perry).Sadly though the film is slow at times and quite heavy on the sentiment. I know for some people it is the film of their childhood but for me it's just another average Disney film. "},{"Title":"Pretty good","Date":"29 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This is a Disney movie about a man who is too adult that rediscovers youth through unusual circumstances. That's the plot of a great many films, but those films happen to be guilty pleasures for me. And this movie is no exception, it's an enjoyable film with a wonderful cast. Spencer Breslin, the actor playing 'the Kid' does a great job- and I've always been a Bruce Willis fan. The rest of the supporting cast also does some good work- Lily Tomlin is particularly fun. The movie gets you thinking about what you would think if you met yourself as a child- and what that child would think of you. And it shows you that just because you're an adult doesn't mean that you're ever done growing up. Good movie. "},{"Title":"The  Kid starring Bruce Willis","Date":"15 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" We found this movie to be one great story, very intriguing and totally blew my mind. I've experienced something very similar to this movie. It sure makes one think, especially if you've ever seen a child doing some of the same things you used to do.Even my 10 year old son enjoyed it and had his and my husband's full attention. What a terrific film to watch. I can't tell you how much I enjoyed it, its different with an original twist. Bruce Willis was wonderful in this part or should I say parts! Amazingly makes you think of your own life and what you've been through and maybe what you missed when you weren't paying attention to the world around you. I would recommend this terrific movie to anyone. "},{"Title":"Incoming News Flash See this movie!","Date":"21 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" The Kid is one of Disney's most excellent of their hundreds of films. Movies will truly come and go, but none will ever beat this one cinematic experience. Bruce Willis' acting is absolutely marvelous and this is one my favorite movies that he stars in. The movie deals heavily with real life, and has real life situations. If you have the time, grab this movie from Blockbuster or whatever, and flip it into your DVD player, and watch it. This is a rare movie that both adults and kids will enjoy, although younger children may not understand it. This picture has a great storyline, and I really enjoyed it. Sit down on a couch with your family, and enjoy The Kid. "},{"Title":"Bruce shines an shows off his comedic side","Date":"10 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I was pleasantly surprised to find out that he could do comedy. Bruce Willis combines his many talents to bring this role to life. The best thing I enjoyed about this movie is the fact that Willis is not trying to be funny or trying too hard to make the movie a success; the comedy just seems to flow out of him as did the way the story was told.The Kid is one of best comedies I have seen all year. It had a talented cast that included Spencer Breslin, Lily Tomlin and Emily Mortimer. With talent such as this, it is inconceivable to me that The Kid was not more commercially successful in the theaters. After all, Spencer Breslin stole the show with his scene stealing comedic talents.The Kid is also a movie that searches to find the kid in each of us and locate the amazing power it brings when it is found. This is an inspirational film that will is a spirit lifter.Each scene was carefully orchestrated by the director with only one thing in mind laughs. It truly is spectacular to see an actor such as Bruce Willis, who has a wide range of talents in his repetoire, become a great comedic actor.I was very impressed with the direction of this film because it is not often a movie is made as much heart as I have ever seen. The Kid is a truly remarkable film that will leave everyone breathless. The Kid is just a fun film to watch. "},{"Title":"Music for two films.","Date":"20 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I'm a Bruce Willis fan but not because I think he's a great actor. In this movie he gave me the impression that most of the time he wished he were somewhere else.Since the plot wasn't exactly riveting I began to listen to the background music. This led me to think that perhaps Harrison Ford aka Indiana Jones would suddenly make an unexpected guest appearance on his way home from the Temple of Doom.Did John Williams really get paid for the scores of both these films? "},{"Title":"A Disney film, very good","Date":"13 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I saw this movie tonight for the first time. I have decided that nobody has a sense of humor.  I enjoyed this movie very much. Certainly a different role for Bruce Willis.  The little boy, who plays Russ Duritz, at age 8 is very good also.  Thought that Lily Tomlin was wasted but again I think that nobody has a sense of humor.     "},{"Title":"warm and funny fantasy for the whole family (Spoilers)","Date":"31 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Russ Duritz is an image consultant who doesn't care about his family and has little concern for other people, particularly women.  His girlfriend Amy does make him a little more human, but not by much.  He needs help.  And he gets it in the form of a little boy who somehow gets into his house and escapes.  When he can't find the boy, Russ assumes the boy might have been a hallucination, like the plane he keeps seeing.  Russ visits a psychiatrist and demands some strong medication.  Then Russ sees the boy again and discovers that the boy has his name, his birthday, and even his birthmark and scar.  The boy, who goes by Rusty, is Russ 32 years earlier!  Russ tries taking the boy home, but to the boy's dismay, another family lives in the house.  Russ realizes he will have to take care of the boy. He figures no one will believe him, so Russ takes the boy to meet his patient and longsuffering secretary (Lily Tomlin in a standout performance).  The secretary sees him, so the boy is not a hallucination.  But introducing him to other people is a problem.  He convinces other people the boy is his nephew.  Rusty gets along well with Amy and hopes Amy and Russ will get married.  Russ and Rusty help to improve each other's lives, but there are stumbling blocks.Bruce Willis goes from a real jerk to warm and caring.  He shows quite a range.  The scenes with the boy are quite good, and there is a lot of good comedy as well as some sad moments.  One memorable performance comes from Jean Smart, as a Southern news reporter who Russ meets on an airplane and gives advice to.  The reporter gets a job in California and later gets a chance to show her appreciation for Russ' advice.I had a good time.  This is the type of movie I can enjoy.  It is a family movie, despite some mildly off-color humor and one reference to the possibility that Rusty might be Russ' illegitimate son.Possible Spoiler  Russ and Rusty are in a car going through a tunnel, and when they come out, it is 1968.  Rusty gets a chance to change history.  The scenes from 1968 include several possible red flags for parents, but these are not serious a three-legged dog is shown being mistreated, and Rusty's father is quite harsh with him in telling the boy his mother is dying (that might scare younger kids).Definite SPOILER  Russ and Rusty finally realize where the plane came from.  I'm not sure, but it looks as if the pilot is Russ many years in the future, and because Rusty changed history, Russ will eventually realize his dream of becoming a pilot. "}{"Title":"Crap","Date":"27 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  What a misguided waster of film!  You'd have to be a die-hard Bruce Willis fan to make it through this one.  Unappealing, dragged out, and with a muddled plot, this is one of those if-only-I-could-go-back-in-time-and-change-everything fantasies apparently beloved by middle-aged movie executives.  Willis is okay (actually, he is very well cast as an obnoxious, self-absorbed creep) but the kid (Spencer Breslin) is one of the least attractive, least subtle child actors foisted on us yet.  Let's hope his career is mercifully brief.Lily Tomlin is wasted in a supporting role and the film is saturated with a treacly musical score, cued to hit us over the head with whatever emotion we are supposed to be feeling at the moment.I borrowed this one for free from the public library and I still feel like I should ask for a refund.  My eleven-year-old son gave it an unenthusiastic okay when prodded for an opinion. "},{"Title":"Simply the best!","Date":"5 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I have seen The Kid about 5 times now and every time I've seen it, it only gets more hilarious. Spencer Breslin is so adorable and funny as Rusty. This movie is for families of all ages! No one could have played Russell/Rusty better than Bruce Willis and Spencer Breslin. This movie will always be one of my favorites! If you want to watch a movie that's funny, entertaining, and just plain great, I recommend you rent or buy The Kid! "},{"Title":"Willis and Breslin make this movie work!","Date":"6 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  How many times have we all chided ourselves for the way we handled events in our past, and said If only I had handled it this way instead?? This film explores that theme and it's a must-see. Thanks to my friend, Kim, for recommending this sweet, funny and sentimental comedy. Bruce Willis portrays Rusty, an unhappy image consultant, who blocks out his miserable existence by engrossing himself in his work and basically being a jerk to everyone he knows. Then one day he begins experiencing what he believes are hallucinations of a small, bothersome boy. He soon finds out, however, that these are not hallucinations at all, but rather his own eight year old self, inexplicably arriving to give Russell (Willis) the chance to reexamine and possibly change the events that turned him into such a sad and lonely being. This movie works, if not only for the perfect casting of Willis in this role, but for the delightful performance of Spencer Breslin as the young Rusty. Willis and Breslin play perfectly off each other, making this a movie that is as funny as it is endearing.  "},{"Title":"Is it for adults or kids? It doesn't matter!","Date":"28 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie surprised me in being mostly aimed at adults (or so it seemed), not kids. It seemed to be saying, Break out of your dreary life and live it as a kid! Of course, this message can also be applied to kids Don't get stuck in a rut, and follow your dreams!The movie is about a man, who lives a busy, but unrewarding, life. He's unhappy and doesn't even realize it, until his younger self comes back from the sixties to show him what life should really be about.This is an amusing tale (I laughed out loud quite frequently) that teaches a great lesson, and even though it may seem it's aimed more at adults, it's great for anyone. I liked the running bit with the red airplane that the main character's younger self, Rusty, had, as well as the most memorable line of the movie, Somebody call the 'Waaaaaaaaa'mbulance!, which is what Russ, the main character, said when somebody started crying. I think I'll use that sometime. -)The ending is not that surprising, but isn't cliched, either. The movie leaves you with a sense of happiness, like all Disney movies. "},{"Title":"charming Disney comedy","Date":"8 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  `The Kid' is an amusing variation on all those body-switch fantasy films such as `Big' and `Like Father, Like Son' which became so popular for a time in the 1980's.  In this case, it is Bruce Willis who stars as the grumpy older adult who, through some kind of miraculous intervention, is able to finally come to terms with his inner child - thereby rescuing himself from the emptiness of his emotionally cold, tragically loveless adult life. Russell M. Duritz is a successful image consultant so traumatized by being a picked-upon, bullied `dweeb' in his childhood that he has managed to block out virtually every memory, pleasant or unpleasant, of his scarred boyhood.  In his current life, Russell attempts to compensate for all his previous `faults' by becoming a career-driven, hardnosed cynic who is unable to connect with other human beings on anything close to a meaningful level.  Then, right on the eve of his epochal 40th birthday, a strange supernatural phenomenon occurs  Russell is suddenly confronted by a mysterious, soon-to-be-8-year-old tyke who, it turns out, is actually Russell himself 32 years earlier.  As the relationship between Russell and Rusty deepens, the older Russell learns not only to reconnect with his own past, but to absorb all the lessons little Rusty has to offer &#150; lessons that he, big Russell, in his race to adulthood, managed to forget along the way.`The Kid,' despite the fact that it is based essentially on a one-joke premise, manages to remain fresh and entertaining for most of its running time thanks to a clever and witty script by Audrey Wells, breezy direction by Jon Turteltaub and, above all, first class performances by Bruce Willis and Spencer Breslin who, as Russell and Rusty, achieve a winning rapport in their many scenes together.  Happily, the filmmakers have, for the most part, resisted the temptation to over dramatize the fantasy elements of the scenario &#150; which could easily have led to a great deal of lowbrow slapstick antics &#150; preferring, instead, to let the scenes between the two main characters play themselves out with a quiet naturalness, thereby allowing us to penetrate to the basic human realities at the core.  Although the film does suffer a bit towards the end &#150; becoming a tad more sentimental than is perhaps warranted &#150; one appreciates the fact that the filmmakers have at least attempted to achieve something fairly profound with this lighthearted material.  Lily Tomlin, it should be noted, does a superb job as Russell's put-upon and harried assistant, who tries in vain to act as the voice of reason for her self-absorbed, conscienceless boss.`The Kid' is not a `great' comedy and it never really soars like some of the better family films of recent years (`Toy Story 2,' `Shrek'), but it does provide plenty of laughs, some stellar performances and even a few insightful observations about human nature along the way.  Whether you are a kid or not, you will probably enjoy this charming Disney treat.   "},{"Title":"Getting In Touch With Oneself Is the Tricky Part","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  	A significant emotional event can have a far-reaching and lasting effect on one's life, especially if the incident is allowed to go on unresolved.  Sometimes it becomes a matter of merely facing the issue-- whatever it is-- but more often it becomes a matter of figuring out what happened in the first place, which can be a bit harder, especially if a good number of years have passed having relegated that source of darkness in the soul to the subconscious.  And though getting in touch with oneself is often a conundrum of monumental proportions, it's a necessary step in order to allow, perhaps, that better person inside to emerge.  It's just such a situation that is explored in `The Kid,' a heartwarming film directed by Jon Turteltaub and starring Bruce Willis as a successful but cynical businessman who has a lot to offer, if only he would give himself a chance; which is just what he gets through the magic of the cinema.	Coming upon his fortieth birthday, Russ Duritz (Willis) has built a successful career as an image consultant, but he's also built a wall around himself that keeps everybody out.  He's perceived as a rather hard, shallow person, and he's reached the point where he doesn't even know who he really is himself anymore.  Not that he thinks about it too often.  He's lived so long behind that hard, external facade that gets the job done that he doesn't seem to care.  But it's taken it's toll.  He rejects his apparently loving and caring father, for example, but doesn't understand why, nor does he ever stop to even consider why it is so; it's gone on for so long it's just the way it is.  End of story and move along.	Then out of the blue one night, an eight-year-old kid named Rusty (Spencer Breslin) shows up at his house.  Rusty is about to turn nine, doesn't know where he belongs and proceeds to turn Russ's world upside down.  Because Rusty knows things he can't possibly know.  Things that soon force Russ to take a step back and consider his life from a different perspective; things that open that channel that allows him to get in touch with himself at last, through Rusty-- a mere kid and a total stranger.  And as the story unfolds Russ discovers that Rusty is indeed a kid, but a total stranger?  Maybe not.  There's just something about Rusty that is too familiar, and the kid simply knows too much.	Turteltaub has taken a sensitive situation to which many will be able to relate, and examined it through the medium of fantasy/comedy/drama to deliver an affecting, touching resolution to a universal matter of the human heart.  In the same spirit of films like `It's A Wonderful Life,' `Mr. Destiny' and the more recent `The Family Man,' he has used poetic license to peel away layers of cynicism and repressed feelings to get to the heart of the humanity that lives within us all, and he has done it successfully and to great effect.  In a world of fast-food and instant gratification, the story of Russ and Rusty is not unique; and it just may be that a film like this can become the impetus for resolution and communication between estranged parties in some cases.  Which, of course, would make this film more than mere entertainment, and thereby demonstrate the true power of the medium.	As he proved with such films as `The Sixth Sense' and `Unbreakable,' there is much more to Bruce Willis than the action-figures he has created so well in so many other films (John McClane in `Die Hard,' for example).  Here he shows that he can tread that fine line between comedy and drama and make it work very effectively, which is no small feat.  He convincingly sells the hard-guy Russ at the beginning of the film, then just as convincingly sells the gradual transition and acceptance of a man who has for too long lived with a deception that has served to fool even himself.  It's a solid, strong performance that makes Russ believable and allows the viewer to embrace the characters and the fantasy that is being played out, which ultimately is what makes the movie work.	Breslin, meanwhile, gives a natural performance that makes Rusty an endearing and credible character.  He's all boy and all kid, and because he's so real it is easy to empathize with him, which in turn opens that inner door to Russ, as well.  And he really clicks with Willis (who as an actor is very generous with Breslin, giving him his own space and moments), and their scenes become alternately hilarious and extremely moving. 	The supporting cast includes Emily Mortimer (Amy), Lily Tomlin (Janet), Chi McBride (Kenny), Jean Smart (Deirdre) and Dana Ivy (Dr. Alexander).  In today's world (or anytime, for that matter), it's a treat to run across a film like `The Kid,' because it's not only entertaining, but a reaffirmation of the good that resides within us all, hidden away in many cases as it may be.  Well crafted and acted, this is a positive, feel-good film that celebrates the best side of the human spirit and puts a smile on the face of humanity.  And that's the magic of the movies.  I rate this one 9/10. 		   "},{"Title":"Sort Of Big Meets It's A Wonderful Life","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  An entertaining and touching story from Disney features Bruce Willis in a pretty good performance as Russ Duritz, a high-powered image consultant who is somehow mysteriously visited by his eight year old self (played by Spencer Breslin), and who, as a result of the visit, starts to learn a little bit about what he's wasted and how his life could be different.I tuned in expecting this to be funnier than it turned out to be, but it wasn't a disappointment. It's really quite a charming fantasy - easy to watch; sometimes humourous; sometimes emotional. It perhaps lacks originality (as my heading suggests) but - especially if you want to watch it with your kids - it's well worth the 145 or so that it takes.Not a blockbuster, but enjoyable enough, and I've rated it as a 7/10. "},{"Title":"I liked it alot.","Date":"10 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Why would I say that? Because when the movie ended, I was in a good mood. So many people exclaim at the end, wow! Bruce Willis can be funny. For those of you who believe he learned how to act after the sixth sense, you must be very new to his career. He won an emmy for best actor in a comedy series before he did Die Hard. It's like saying, wow, the sky learned to deposit snow on the ground just because it's your first winter in life. The movie was hilarious. What boggles my mind is how some other comments made about this movie claims that there are no memorable lines or scenes. Spoiler...The waaaambulance? I am not a loser? Have you ever seen a grown up scream I am not a loser before?I thought this movie was great. It was funny, it was never boring and in a cheesy Disney sort of way, it had a point to make. Something to do with life and of course any kid movie trying to do that is in over it's head but for once, I didn't care.If you haven't watched it. Do so. You'll like it. "},{"Title":"For Kids or Adults? Movie Unsure of What to Be","Date":"13 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  When Bruce Willis (as Russ) is stifled from unleashing his trademark string of jubilant profanities or donning his irreverent, naughty-boy sneer against European bad guys, his characterization takes on the single note of... snooze. His character has been inexplicably selected by the fates to be visited by HIMSELF, although an almost-8-year-old self (known as Rusty). Over the years, Russ's inner child has been squashed, and he's grown up to be a surly, humorless, and friendless image consultant (irony likely intended); his pudgy child-self reminds him of his past humiliations and geekiness, and much of the film is spent with him barking nastily at the boy for being... a kid. The movie is a tepid quest to find out why the Russ-boy is there.From a child filmgoer's perspective, this muddles through with a few amusing gags, but not enough of them to sustain my 7-year-old's attention for 1 hour and 40-plus minutes. The loss of the inner child theme is too esoteric to click with kids. From an adult's perspective, I was more preoccupied with who kept Bruce/Russ's glass mansion so clean. From the get-go, it's so yawningly obvious how the film will end, you're sure that there will be a bread-crumb trail of heartwarming revelations or clever, sweet comedy as the movie progresses; however, there is none.Russ is a bore. Without Bruce's yippy-yi-kayay bravado from his previous action films or his snappy, cynical dialogue from the olden days of Moonlighting, his Russ character is not compelling for viewers of any age. He's a middle-aged sourpuss who makes gobs of money and has a twitching eye, but is a loser to little Rusty (and filmgoers) because he doesn't have a wife, or a dog, or any dimension. Only Lily Tomlin's underrated performance as Russ's put-upon secretary makes this half-way watchable. But tell that to a 7-year-old squirming restlessly in his theater seat. "},{"Title":"8 on a scale of 10","Date":"12 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I liked this movie! I really thought it was about an 8.5 on the scale, but just couldn't quite pull the trigger on a 9 versus an 8.I probably should have given it a 9 for the simple reason that it was VERY clever. How many hundreds of movies have we seen about time travel? And, how many times have we seen someone interact with another person in their early lives? But, to be able to interact with YOURSELF - and for both parties to know it - and to be able for both parties to teach the other something valuable that changes their lives - is really remarkable. And, if you think I am telling you the punch line, I'm not. There is a little more of a twist to it. Not quite the Sixth Sense, mind you, but a little surprise at the end.It was simple, sweet and even a little romantic. I would strongly recommend it for anyone. Interestingly, the survey of reviewers in Entertainment Weekly averaged a B- as I recall, but someone gave it a D. Seriously, they have to be out of their mind. "}{"Title":"Interesting parable","Date":"28 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  The title is misleading, especially with Disney's tacked on the front. This is not a kiddy comedy. It is actually an insightful look into human aspirations, let-downs, and regeneration. The idea of meeting one's self face-to-face is given amusing treatment here. At the same time, the point of the story is both touching and uplifting.The cast is great, and the story is worth seeing. The kid or inner child in you will respond to the film -- if you let it respond. "},{"Title":"The story of an over achiever that loss his way.","Date":"17 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  The movie is very entertaining for both adults and children.  It presents in a humorous fashion Bruce Willis' character as he tries to find who he was, who he is and how being in contact with his inner child helps turn his life around.  Bruce Willis did it again, his portrayal reminds me a little bit of his acting in Moonlighting, the TV show. The kid's expressions and blue eyes were worth a thousand words, he is very talented and his good acting was a pleasant surprise.  Great movie. "},{"Title":"And you thought Jack was good...","Date":"14 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is, by far, one of the BEST movies I have ever seen.  I laughed, I cried!  Even my fiance (who prides himself on not liking kiddy movies) truly enjoyed himself.  I recommend this movie to anyone and EVERYONE who doesn't want to waste $8 at the movie theatre. "},{"Title":"Funny, sweet, and touching- for kids and adults","Date":"10 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Many family movies fail to be enjoyed universally because either they're so cute that adults can't stand them, or they try so hard to appeal to grownups and kids alike that they become too complicated for the kids to enjoy. But every once in a while a movie comes along that manages to achieve a balance between the two, and winds up being fun for anybody who watches it. My Dog Skip was like that, and so is this. It's funny, charming, and sweet in about equal doses, and doesn't pile on the false cuteness too much. Bruce Willis gives a fun performance as a kind of modern-day scrooge, who gets a visit from a ghost of sorts, in the form of his 8-year-old self. Talk about getting in touch with your inner child! As his relationship with his younger self goes on, he begins to remember how much he enjoyed his life when he was younger, and reflects on his own life through the kid's point of view. The film's climax, which involves him trying to get the kid back to his own time and put something right that went wrong long ago, manages to be entertaining without going over the top.   Reflecting on the movie, I thought about all the ways that it could have gone wrong, but I was shocked by how good it was. I am a 21 year-old guy, and I went to see it with a buddy of mine who is 26, and we both had a great time. So trust me when I say that this isn't just a dumb movie for kids- it's a whole lot more, so give it a chance.   "},{"Title":"Go see this movie","Date":"8 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  We were expecting to like this film and we were not disappointed.  Its about time someone realized that there's room for a movie thats just plain fun.  The Kid has the same good natured qualities of the classic Disney films of yesterday, in a contemporary setting.  Bring the kids and the grandparents!  "},{"Title":"What a great and unsung family film","Date":"10 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" The often family-unfriendly Bruce Willis did a fine job in the movie, but the one I really liked was the pudgy and just plain adorable kid, Spencer Breslin. He made this film by both his adorable behaviors, poignant ones and his ability to act. There are many horrible child actors out there and fortunately for this film, Spencer wasn't one of them. I loved this film and it's sad that most didn't seem nearly as impressed as evidenced by its relatively low IMDb score and critical responses to the film in the media. Sure the main idea was a bit over-used (such as in BIG and VICE-VERSA among many others), but the film was not just another re-tread but had a lot to offer and a really great deeper meaning. Plus, while the film was marketed more towards kids, it was great for adults as well and I loved the movie. "},{"Title":"Redemption and Life","Date":"25 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Sorry to read many of the comments.  Many of John Eldredge's Wild at Heart readers will see the theme played out beautifully in this movie.  A story of rebirth and redemption and the possibility of becoming a Kid again as an adult.  Commedy?  Lot's of fun stuff in here.  Whoppi in her uncredited opening role as a sales clerk at the airport is funny.  Bruce's journey into facing his past and working past it to become a real man is not funny.  It's real, it's moving, and it's meaningful.  Hardest part for me to accept was that this is a Disney movie.  There is something significant going on behind those doors.  Trite humor or a real look at the possibilites of what it means to become a fully alive and engaged adult. John "},{"Title":"somebody call the Ouaaaaaaaaambulance....","Date":"19 December 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  The Kid is a funny film that brings us a Bruce Willis in a totally new kind of role for him. Bruce is an adult without a wife or family, without becoming what he wanted, but very very rich. Oh, and also without a dog. Everything's normal til one day a kid enters his house. Who? The adult at the age of 8. The kid hepls Bruce understanding the real values of life and manages to change him into a better person.Bruce plays for the first time in a film like this. He's great as Russ, the rich guy in search for the better he. But the MVP of the film is definetely Norman Spencer, the kid. He is adorable. And most of all, he acts very very well. Still it's predictable and the ending is not as good as i expected. Also a few questions remain unanswered.All in all, The Kid is a good comedy, for both kids and adults, a family movie that will make you think. Think about your life, what you've accomplished.Vote 6.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Good on DVD with Special Features","Date":"7 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I wanted to contact the director, Mr. Turtletaub, et. AL, to mention that I loved the movie; just found it (DVD) at the local Bloackbuster (a lonely brick and mortar close by luckily for me). Loved the 'commentary' with a then much younger Spencer Breslin... just the art of conversation on both parts... classic. thanks (another Bruce Willis picture, not to mention Lily Tomlin, Jean Smart).... I'm such a DVD fan( but also still go to 'big screen'!)- And just coincidental that I just got a 'Nutribullet' which was featured early in the movie where 40yr old Rusty is making his 'Nutriblast' shake! (they're updated the model since I guess). thank you Disney and Mr. T.; I'm going back to find Phenomena, now! "},{"Title":"The Cuttest Movie Ever","Date":"15 December 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Imagine yourself at age eight. Now imagine you at age eight, is standing right next to you. This happens to Bruce Willis, in Disney's The Kid.I must say that The Kid is one of the funniest comedies of all time. It also reminds yourself of what you were like when you were eight years old. That feeling is priceless, and Bruce Willis carried it out in the best way ever.10 stars out of 10 stars, and nothing less for one of my favorite Disney movies of all time. There should always be more movies with type of comedy, and I expect there will in the mere future. "}{"Title":"Doesn't quite work, but the film does have some humorous and touching moments","Date":"6 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Russ (Bruce Willis) is a hotshot image consultant. He flies all over the country, advising business folks about how to improve their profiles in the minds of the American public. Because he is such a busy guy, he has no time for a personal life. His secretary (Lily Tomlin) caters to his every wish and his work colleague, Amy (Emily Mortimer) ties all of the loose ends in his business dealings. One day, as he is approaching his fortieth birthday, he goes home to find a young boy (Spencer Breslin) at his posh apartment. It's not long before Russ realizes that this chubby kid is himself at a far earlier age. Calling himself Rusty, the kid has quite a bit to say about Russ' current life, which includes no dog, no wife, no junk food, and no relaxation time. Will the older Russ get the message and find a way to take his life in a different, more positive direction? This film is a fairly successful family film, even though it doesn't quite work smoothly. The story goes in one direction and then turns abruptly into another direction completely, making the overall ride a bumpy one. The cast, however, is not to be faulted at all, as Willis is terrific and Breslin, Tomlin, and Mortimer do very fine jobs as well. The costumes, sets and production techniques are all quite wonderful, too. At its heart, the movie is very similar to a more successful film called If you believe, although The Kid is told from the male perspective, not a female one. In short, if you like Willis, cute kids, family films, and/or happy endings, here is one for you to try. Although you may not ultimately put the film on your list of movie favorites, it is a pleasant enough affair for an evening of light-hearted fun. "},{"Title":"Willis and Spencer save it","Date":"27 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Bruce Willis is Russell Duritz a wealthy and popular image consultant who apparently needs to get in touch with his inner child, or rather the kid he was decades and decades ago. Luckily said kid (Spencer Breslin) shows up out of the blue one day to help his older self out. Filled with saccharine sweet moments and female characters that come off as ditsy morons. Willis and little Breslin single handedly shave this film from being completely unwatchable Bruce through sheer charm and personality alone and Spencer with his Aw schucks factor. Although it's still not a very good film, Disney DID drop the ball when it came to advertising the film which led to it not being as popular as it could have been if properly marketed.My Grade C+ DVD Extras Commentary With Director Jon Turteltaub & Spencer Breslin; Behind The Scenes Featurette; a Conversations With Jon Turteltaub; Theatrical Trailer and Trailers for Disney's Dinosuars, Lady & The Tramp 2 Scamp's Adventure, Toy Story 2, Fantasia 2000 "},{"Title":"It was a imaginative film but the ending left me hanging","Date":"17 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  ****Plot spoilers********Don't read unless you want to know the ending. When I first heard of the film's plot, my biggest question was how Bruce Willis meets a younger version of himself? Was it a dream state, a psychotic brake, pixy dust or fairy godmothers? The film was very good and would have been allot better had they bothered to explain premise allot clearer for us dunces.By the film ends we are to presume that by the year 2030 time travel has been mastered. This explanation is very loosely implied thereby negating any reason to explain any potential time-space travel paradoxes and complications.I have not read any of the original film's reviews so I don't know if the public bought the premise or not.I am aware that my elementary aged nephews enjoyed the film. I guess that's whom Disney was marketing to. My sister-in-law could not offer an adequate explanation of the premise either. I recommend this film for anyone willing to sit down and suspend belief for a good old fashioned whole morality play. My two cents.  "},{"Title":"A smart fantasy","Date":"11 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  In this Dream-Come-True, I found myself loving what was going on.  It's a good movie, and should not be passed off as a corny fantasy movie. It's too smart for that.  It's definitely a feel good movie, but with a nice message to leave you with. 7/10, B, **1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"(Not) The Best","Date":"24 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  After the phenomenal success of Bruce Willis' partnership with a young boy, Disney came up with an idea of teaming the Hollywood superstar with a new talent - the lispy Spencer Breslin - as his younger self. But this isn't a supernatural thriller like the awesome 'Sixth Sense' was, this is a family comedy. Unfortunately, there's too much family and not enough comedy. Although Breslin's attempts at mirroring Willis are very good for someone his age, and that also Willis is good too, these 2 things aren't enough for me to really like this film. One for the youngsters - but even they could get confused by the time-lapsing conclusion. 4/10 "},{"Title":"funny i loved it","Date":"23 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  the kid is a great film bruce willis plays the grumpy old man on the edge the kid gives him a cannonball run he crys,sings a youger verson of him he has a good casting with the aroplane and the ending was sad but the film was good and ill watch it again  "},{"Title":"Good Family Film, but too unexplained.","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  (mild spoilers)When I went to see this film in theatres, I wasn't expecting too much from this film, and that is pretty much what I got.  My opinion goes in two directions.The film The Kid, although it seems like a promising movie,has many unexplained parts.  The writer, to fix this, says in one sentence Older Bruce to Young Bruce I'm sure you have a lot of questions and just glides right past that part.  Much of the movie leaves you wondering, and you get no payoff at the end.  This gives the movie a 'hollow' feel.  If the writer hadn't been reaching for so much, she could have given us an explanation.For the good part of this film, it is a movie the whole family can relate to and enjoy.  It is a warm hearted film, and is very possible to like, or even love it.  Bruce Willis gives an excellent performance, and Spencer Breslin is quite perfect for the role of Willis as 8 years old.  Although unexplained, I find it impossible for anyone not to like this film.The storyline is easy to understand, although it hasn't been used hundreds of times.  The film starts off showing Russ' (Willis)life.  After a few minutes of this, Russ Durwitz finds himself, only at the age of 8.  Most of the movie is Russ (40) adjusting and getting know to Rusty, with a few subplots.  The storyline is catchy, but the film is too disjointed, and as said before, is too hollow.If you're looking for a film that the whole family can enjoy, and isn't thought-provoking, this film would fill your needs fully. "},{"Title":"Almost.","Date":"13 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  As you know, it's a time-travel sort of movie - there's a lot to recommend for it - it's a nice pleasant story and the performances are all great. Lily Tomlin proves with her few lines of dialogue why some people are just funny. Her delivery is priceless and you wished she were in more films. The kid is great. And they are so intent on avoiding the cliches of the situation (both the time travel thing and getting carried away with having a funny kid) that the ending resolution is weird and out of place. But it's a pleasant movie - nothing Earth shattering but interestingly enough. "},{"Title":"Big disappointment..","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  what was Bruce Willis thinking when he signed on for this one?? this one made no sense to me.. i was so confused by it, it wasnt funny at all.. I dont even know why Disney made this one.. Bruce is a Great actor whom ive liked for a Long time .. and this disappointed me a lot.. Pass this one by on the video shelf....  "},{"Title":"*** 1/2  Wonderful and charming","Date":"16 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Actually enjoyable comedy romp about a middle-aged image consultant with no hope (Bruce Willis) who suddenly gets a jolt in his system when he's visited by himself as a child and finds himself searching through his childhood to discover where things went wrong. With a script by Audrey Wells, the film is at times quite moving, though far too highbrow for a movie marketed at children and therefore unappreciable by the under-fifteen set. Still, for us adults who found ourselves in the theatre with nothing to do it was quite fulfilling. Jean Smart outright steals the show in her small cameo as a television reporter who taps Bruce for advice from time to time. "}{"Title":"Interesting story","Date":"17 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  The story is quite slow at the beginning except few interesting humour that come along the way but some of the plot still empty.The science on how the kid entered the 21st century is still a mystery except at the end of the movie, we have been shown of how.Other than that, everything looks ok! "},{"Title":"Old idea, big holes, worth a 5","Date":"4 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  The Kid takes an idea we have seen I don't know how many times -- grizzled adult gets to see his/her life through a kid's eyes and wises up -- and tries a slightly different spin, placing both an adult and child version of the same person in the current time and place.The movie starts by completely neglecting even an attempt at explaining how 8-year-old Rusty shows up on 40-year-old Rusty's doorstep. It is rare that one sees a movie give up so completely on a plot point. The movie does introduce a kind of ghost diner which may have something to do with this strange occurrance, but that idea never develops beyond the fact that the ghost diner appears and disappears at convenient moments. It would have been a good idea to at least show in a brief scene that the people in the diner are *all* people who are being shown the error of their lives one way or another, but the people we see are simply scenery.Not to get personal here, but the actor who plays 8-year-old Rusty isn't appealing. He is a kind of amiable slob. Doesn't seem to have any dreams beyond general kid dreams. It would have made more sense for little Rusty to at least display a little focus or obsession, to give us foreshadowing as to how 40-year-old Rusty got the way he is. Also, little Rusty didn't look the slightest like older Rusty, not even hair color.The female lead, the sort-of love interest, did a terrific job and was very appealing.The climactic scene, which revolved around little Rusty standing up to some bullies to protect a dog, never did explain why it was a turning point for Rusty. There were some vague inferences, but nothing that showed us that *this time* what he did made a difference. His dad yelled at him, but really, in that situation, dad would have yelled at Rusty eventually anyhow.Finally, the biggest conceit of The Kid is that tired, old Disney cliche, A person with a family is happier and better than a person without one. It seemed like the main goal here was to reform Rusty not so that he was a kinder, gentler person, but so he would get married and have kids and a dog. I guess if you don't get married and have kids you can't be a good person. I'm married and expect to have kids and even I am offended by this archaic notion.I gave The Kid a 5, and that might have been generous. Disney strikes again with another predictable, nonsensical movie that seems to exist only to support a timeworn Disney cliche. But hey, at least this time there were no cheap sidekicks. "},{"Title":"If only it were so. . .","Date":"2 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  The Kid would have us believe that one day ,or Once upon a Time, we or someone we know will be visited ,unbidden, by our past or future.  Don't you believe it; not for a second. Unearthing the buried hurt which runs us takes courage and determination.  The courage to risk feeling overwhelming pain, and the determination to stay with it until lasting transformation is effected. The Kid makes this process seem like a ride in the (Disney) park, and in doing so insults the very real work that men and women are doing, step by step now. Want magic?  Roll up your sleeves and join with other adults who can support you. Forget this malarkey. "},{"Title":"Do NOT get this movie for the kids!!!","Date":"11 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I can't emphasize it enough, do *NOT* get this movie for the kids.For that matter, you'd best spare the adults from it as well.All right, perhaps I'm overexaggerating a little.  This isn't the worst kids' movie... no, let me rephrase that.  This isn't the worst movie made by dissilusioned adults FOR dissilusioned adults and somehow marketed towards kids (that would be Jack, which I've been meaning to review / gut like a fish).Adults won't learn anything surprising (well, if you must, fast-forward to just before the end credits for a Educational Bit about an Interesting Cosmic Phenominon).  We don't usually end up doing as adults what we wanted to do as kids as reality tends to get in the way.  Well, duh, I could have told you that (so can four years of college at an art school, but I degress).I have no idea what the heck kids could possibly get out of this movie. Most likely it will only upset them (we get to watch the moment when Russ was traumatized at eight years old).  There's a better movie, Kiki's Delivery Service, that has essentially the same message but handles it litely instead of drilling it into your head.  And the adults will like it too!By the way, there is a moment in the movie made with amature MST3K-ers in mind, if they think of that OTHER Bruce Willis movie with a sad little kid in it. "},{"Title":"My wife and I really like this movie, I rate it 8 of 10.","Date":"20 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  CAUTION -- REVIEW CONTAINS SOME SPOILERS -- As the director says in the DVD extras, he likes to make movies where the main characters encounter something unexpected that changes their lives for the better. This is definitely the overall theme of The Kid. Bruce Willis is at his likable best, Lily Tomlin gives a fine, understated performance, and Daniel Von Bargen as Willis' dad is just perfect.Russ (Willis) is to turn 40 in 2 days. He is a competent and wealthy image consultant who also happens to be a total jerk. Meets a lady on the plane, flying to Calif. for a new job as a TV anchorwoman, she asks for advice, he rattles it off, she says thanks, then he says with a smile, Now please lady, will you shut up? That is typical of his interactions with everyone, even his dad. When his dad had asked him to come home to visit and help move, Russ sends a check instead, his  rationale -- time is money, and my time is worth a lot more than it costs to pay a mover.Then, coming home, he glimpses a kid in a red jacket, who eludes him and slips away on his bike. Later, he finds a red toy biplane on his doorstep, Rusty written crudely underneath. Then the kid is in Russ' home. Turns out, they compare scars and birthmarks and somehow, this kid, Rusty, is Russ when he was 8 years old. He is chubby, meek, has a lisp, and eats all the wrong things. Rusty, going around the house observes, I can't believe I grew up alone, and there isn't even a dog in the house!So, why is this happening?  Russ figures it is so he can help the kid grow up properly. Russ teaches Rusty how to defend himself, and through the process of their getting to know each other, Russ eventually realizes he has let himself down, not growing into the person he had wanted to be as a kid.  Together, they begin to change adult Russ' outlook on life.Near the end, Russ and Rusty, 8 and 40, are eating in an old-style diner after they had passed through a tunnel which seemed to transport them to a different time.  A dog comes to their table, and its owner at the door calls to Chester, the dog, the name the kid had always planned to give his dog. They follow the fellow outside, and it turns out to be Russ around age 70, gray hair, mustache, now a pilot, they all three meet face to face.  Really a touching moment. Then Russ (70) flies away with dog and wife and obviously a great life.  Russ (40) and Rusty (8) are on the tarmac as the plane flys away, jumping and yelling, We did it, celebrating the life they now both know they will have.  There is one short following scene which shows Russ' changed interaction with his co-workers and family, and beginning to take a more relaxed approach to career.The written description, above, does in no way do justice to the fine writing, musical score, acting, and directing which make this one of the more enjoyable films I have seen.  "},{"Title":"WEll directed with emotionally on target material, but isn't sure what age group to identify with. **1/2 (out of four)","Date":"10 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  DISNEY'S THE KID / (2000) **1/2 (out of four)When My Giant and Holy Man hit in theaters several years ago, they provided cynical disappointment for critics and audiences alike. From trailers and posters both films appeared to offer simplistic laughs through big comic stars like Billy Crystal and Eddie Murphy. The productions ended up as sentimental, heartfelt dramas with comic undertones to make them seem as if they are comedies. Movies have a difficult time blending emotional clichs and zany comedy together, and although those films induced audience participation, neither My Giant nor Holy Man worked on either level.Disney's The Kid does what My Giant and Holy Man did, except this movie does it in more of a clumsy, although sophisticated, method; it is heartwarming, gentle, touching, and in some aspects works enormously, but I am not sure how it flourishes on the level it does with such a disoriented, unexplained plot that provides us with more questions than answers. The film supplies important plot nuggets where necessary, even through the closing credits. Only audiences with a determined willing suspension of disbelief will buy into the plot. Disney's The Kid is also very engaging at certain points, clearly because of Jon Instinct Turteltaub's strong direction of a sloppy script by Audrey Wells.Bruce Willis stars as Russ Duritz, a self-centered but very successful image consultant who is single and not afraid to tell it like it is. Although rich, intelligent, and forceful, he has very little time to himself and lacks a life outside of business. His only friends are his secretary, Janet (Lily Tomlin), and his personal assistant and romantic interest, Amy (Emily Mortimer), who have grown accustomed to his lack of emotional depth.The movie has excellent character introduction and story development. We learn of Russ' character, how he is selfish, demeaning, and strictly business, not only through sharp dialogue, but also reinforcing actions and incidences. Side characters contribute to Russ' defining, although not necessarily defined themselves. Whereas we have seen this material before in movies like Scrooged and Groundhog Day, Bruce Willis furnishes a fresh, appealing touch of charisma. I probably would have casted a more obligatory actor for the role, like Bill Murray or Tom Hanks. Still, Willis does a fine job.Russ soon repeatedly encounters a young, clumsy, chubby eight-year-old boy named Rusty. It is not too long before forty-year-old Russ figures out Rusty is himself as a child. This kind of occurrence, much better portrayed in this year's earlier Frequency, can be believable, but the movie never actually explains why or how young Rusty returns to Russ like a ghost out of nowhere. The kid's presence obviously brings forth many conflicts and opportunities the two characters must work out together. Even if you were to just except the concept of Russ' returning childhood, the idea becomes lost within the film's own mushy romantic subplot, and by the end, the movie is stuck on resolving one specific event in Russ' history, an event complete pointless to the rest of the story.Apart from the many other flaws present in Disney's The Kid, perhaps the biggest and most destructive of them all is that the filmmakers are not sure what age group in which to identify. The silly comedy scenes, somewhat borrowed from movies like Big Daddy and Turner & Hooch, are squarely aimed at preteens. However, the story detailing an executive getting in touch with his inner child will certainly appeal to adults. I say this time and time again, material is more effective if played straight. One way or the other, Hollywood, one way or the other. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as I thought","Date":"14 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I thought Disney's The Kid (using Disney to differentiate itself from the 1921 version) wasn't the best kid movie ever made, but it was definately better than I thought from the previews.  It turns out this film is a version of Bruce Willis' film from last year, The Sixth Sense.  The difference (and of course) is that while in the Sixth Sense looked at a kid who kept seeing dead people and only one person could help him out, this film as a man who is dead inside and only one kid could help.  Still, both films deal with supernatural dealings and Bruce Willis.  Sometimes funny, sometimes melodramatic, but usually OK.  Not the worst, but not for all kids.  B+ "},{"Title":"Not really for the KIDS","Date":"6 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Although it's not a bad movie overall, I would not recommend this movie for the family.  The messages that it can convey to a young mind are rather disturbing.  Especially in this age of school violence, why put such an emphasis on fighting?  I felt bad for any overweight kid, the speech impaired, or those who were 40+ without a spouse or a dog who attended the film.  It was rather offensive.  I'm sure that wasn't the intention, but imagine what a child would gather from the story. It really didn't need the hickey comment either (as seen in the trailer). The acting was good, however.  A good role for Bruce Willis and Lily Tomlin added some humor. "},{"Title":"If crutches were funny","Date":"12 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  The Kid was born retarded. It pulls in a half-dozen directions, features dialog and action lifted from much older and better-known flops, and might be funny -- if only the writers knew what funny is.Disney stuff has gotten a lot better in the last couple of decades, but don't let that fool you. They should have given The Kid a wide berth, sang it a lullaby, then ran the train into a ravine. Mercy killing. "},{"Title":"No kidding, what an awful movie!","Date":"21 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  After 15 minutes watching the movie I was asking myself what to do leave the theater, sleep or try to keep watching the movie to see if there was anything worth. I finally watched the movie what a waste of time. Maybe I am not a 5 years old kid anymore! "}{"Title":"Tired plot.  See as matinee or video.","Date":"14 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Bruce Willis, as usual, does an excellent job.warning  may be considered a spoilerWhile my friend thought it was good, I kept glancing at my watch during the entire movie wondering when it would end.  After seeing such great flicks as The Patriot and Chicken Run I was really disappointed in Disney's The Kid.Willis plays a middle-aged man with a harsh and realistic attitude on putting a positive spin on people's images (he's an Image Consultant).  An unknown kid shows up.  Yes, it's him but younger, and even Lily Tomlin can see him.  At this point I'm reminded of a cross between a poor Quantum Leap episode and a bad time traveling flick.Kid and Willis go through trying to figure out why he's in that time period. They figure it out.  They meet Willis when he's older.  Nevermind that it never goes into detail how old Willis teleports them between time periods and gets them together to begin with, how he got that knowledge to begin with, how he came to the realization that he needed to do this, and so on.Basically, it's a very tired, unoriginal, uninspiring plot that has some great actors in it.  The good news is that the Kid actor is nowhere near as annoying as he's presented in the trailers on television. "},{"Title":"Pretty Flubbery","Date":"29 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  The first few minutes showing the cold and crusty the Willis character were pretty enjoyable, especially with Jean Smart, but it really tanked after that.  This is just hackneyed big man and little irritating kid stuff from way back with no innovation at all.  I know that the casting probably picked this kid to show that Willis was just as irritating in his younger self, but I found this kid ESPECIALLY irritating and whinney. "},{"Title":"The Ear's Eye","Date":"19 December 2000","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  There are two ways of watching a movie for me. I can decide to participate, or if it doesn't seem promising for some reason, I can watch it for the craft. This is in the latter category. And it has two really interesting things to watch.I like Bruce Willis. He's a superb technician, which is why he can do comedy and, say Harrison Ford cannot. Watch how he carries not only himself, but the space around him. A certain zen. Lilly Tomlin helps - she's great, more of an intuitive, but isn't used well here.The other thing the score here is elevated to the level of a major character. What's done is to use Disney's first rate expertise in personally dramatic music as surrogate for the viewer, and it is done well. Lots of cornets and bassoons. Real instruments, real voices in your head. When you do this, the music doesn't complement the action, it comments on it. It is in YOUR mind, not the world of the action. Very clever. "},{"Title":"Starts of bad, Ends surprising","Date":"10 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  The story about something magical happens so that a horrible man can change into something better has been filmed to many times. Russell Duritz plays a unpleasant imageadviser who teams up with himself a year 8 to change not only his life but the kid life to is a new kind of story concept is still the same. This make this a pretty lousy film. The only thing slightly watchable is the ending. The film can be watch, But that is if you must burn a couple of hours. "},{"Title":"Don't bother unless you're a big Bruce Willis fan","Date":"25 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  First of all, I wasn't sure who this film was aimed at - it seemed like a story for kids but had stuff in it kids wouldn't understand and find boring. There wasn't really much to it, Bruce Willis wasn't stretched as an actor at all.  He did a lot of glancing to the side with that half smile of his - unless you are a big fan of his I wouldn't bother.  And if it's the story you're interested in (guy who seems to have it all but is lacking emotionally is taught lessons from a child), I would go to see About A Boy. It has everything this film lacked, humor, sadness and reality. "},{"Title":"A wasted opportunity.","Date":"5 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  There are a few scripts like this one floating around Hollywood; this one is not even close to the best--just the first.  This is all production value, no substance, but the Disney name probably will help it.  A good idea, a wasted opportunity. "},{"Title":"Annoying Bruce Willis","Date":"29 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This movie is one of the perfect examples of how downhill Disney has become in the last years.What I got from this was a cheap, ordinary movie that is no different from most mediocrity produced nowadays.It is, however, another perfect propaganda for Bruce Willis, one of the most overrated actors in all history. I don't think he's that great as an actor and I don't like him. The only movie I like him is 'The Sixth Sense', which is also the only good movie he ever did.As for 'The Kid', it clearly follows the standards and fashion of nowadays's films and as such it can never be compared to classics. But the worst thing about it is definitely Bruce Willis constantly yelling. It becomes too much and made me cringe so much that I nearly gave up on watching the rest and wished he'd just shut the hell up. Is that entertainment? Not in my book...Bruce Willis portrays a jerk, Russ. As for the kid, nicknamed Rusty, he is nothing less than Russ as an infant. Rusty isn't the most captivating kid of all, but still I think he is quite insulted by Russ. Not only Russ is always yelling at him, but also there is a particular scene when Russ does a rude comment on Rusty just because he is a husky kid. "},{"Title":"Pure drivel.","Date":"22 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Let's be honest the only reason this isn't in the bottom 100 is because it's a feel-good inoffensive family movie.It's drivel, but inoffensive drivel, and that's why moral guardians rate it so highly.The plot is so cheesy and so replete of holes it could be sold as Emmental, the kid character is thoroughly annoying, the message simplistic and deluded, the rare humour juvenile and the romance trite and conceited, the tone patronising.Frankly, this is the kind of movies everyone should find offensive. This movie is a gargantuan insult to the viewer's intelligence, and that should be considered a lot more offensive than any on-screen violence or nudity. "}]