[{"Title":"Funny, entertaining and original","Date":"7 June 2002","Score":"49 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This could've been just another Bonnie and Clyde-style crime caper, but it's more than that.  Bandits starts out as a slick action-comedy and evolves into a sweet romantic comedy.  When I found out Barry Levinson was the director, I assumed the film would be at least halfway decent.  Levinson has a keen eye for character development, and that's one of the things that interested me.  Normally, a film like this would be consisted of cut-and-dry, stereotypical characters, but we gradually fall in love these three characters.  After reading the rave reviews (Joel Siegel voted this as one of the best films of the year), despite poor box office numbers, I had high expectations for this film--higher than they were after watching the trailer.  For some reason, this just doesn't look like a film that would receive 4-star reviews.  Now that I have seen it, I can't regard it as a 4-star film, but it's good and entertaining and I wasn't disappointed. Bruce Willis and Billy Bob Thornton make a great team--they really have an impeccable chemistry.  I hope to see them teamed up again in the future.  They have the potential to be the next Martin and Lewis.  Billy Bob especially steals the film, playing a neurotic Woody Allen-type.  He is absolutely hilarious!  Bruce flashes his trademark grin and speaks in his usual soft tone, but his role doesn't exactly require the talents of Pacino or DeNiro.  Still, Bruce is entertaining and his constant banter with Billy Bob makes the experience even more entertaining.  And last but not least, I will mention Cate Blanchett, who gives another incredible performance.  I was lucky enough to rent 2 Cate Blanchett movies--this film and The Gift--by coincidence.  I got to see her sweet, charming performance in Bandits as well as her powerful dramatic performance in The Gift.  Just watching those 2 films, gives me a great idea of her scope as an actress.  It's sometimes hard to believe she's an Australian actress.  How she pulls off such an impeccable American accent--I don't know.  I think if I were to hear her speak in an Australian accent, I'd think she's feigning it.  Well, Blanchett perfectly completes the trio of actors, and has a great chemistry with the 2 male leads.  And it's great to see that Willis, Thornton and Blanchett all seem like they're having fun.  When first watching this movie, I found some of the bank robberies--though very slick and original--to be quite implausible.  If the film wasn't as charming and likable, I'd probably have a difficult time suspending disbelief.  But then I found out the story of the Sleepover Bandits was actually based on a real duo of bank robbers.  Of course, this is nowhere close to a biopic and most of the story is obviously fiction, the concept of these two guys sleeping over the bank managers' houses and robbing their banks the next morning was based on truth.  Why these managers didn't call the cops while the two guys weren't watching or why they didn't try to strangle the two guys in their sleep--I don't know.  The truth really is stranger than fiction.  But the bandits did have an interesting gimmick  they only robbed banks, since the money belonged to the government; they never snatched money from people's pockets.  There's actually a scene in the movie in which they bust out of prison and rob a lady's car.  Willis hands the lady her pocketbook and says, Don't forget your pocketbook.  The film evolves into a romantic comedy during the second half.  I guess that's why audiences were disappointed--they probably expected a sheer action-comedy/crime caper and not a romantic comedy.  But I think the fact that the screenwriter and Levinson stretched this out into a romantic comedy made it all the more better.  It added new dimensions, and helped us better fall in love with these amiable characters.  It was fun watching the strong and macho Willis vie lanky pushover Thornton over the love of alluring Blanchett.  It creates an interesting conflict, and spawns some very funny scenes.  The film concludes, picking up from where it left off in the beginning--which is the two bandits pulling off their last bank robbery.  The twist ending is nifty and unpredictable, and left me satisfied.  Though this is basically a feel-good comedy that kept me smiling, there's no cheap schmaltz or trashy sentiment.  That's what happens when you're under the wing of a great director.  This is not an excellent film, like some critics said--I don't think any movie that contains Blanchett's horrible rendition of Walk on By deserves to be regarded as excellent (Cate should DEFINITELY stick to acting!)--but it's good, solid entertainment.  And I love the use of U2's Beautiful Day!My score  7 (out of 10)      "},{"Title":"Energetic, romantic fun. Works wonderfully. ***1/2 (out of four)","Date":"12 April 2002","Score":"43 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  BANDITS / (2001) ***1/2 (out of four)Barry Levinson's clever romantic comedy Bandits makes stealing money look fun and simple. I can see it now young, influential criminals holding up entire banks with magic markers. Certain things in this movie make such perfect sense, we wonder why nobody's thought of them before.Even the casting makes perfect sense. Who better to play a handsome, spontaneous ladies man than Bruce Willis? And who could portray an intelligent, hypochondriac better than Billy Bob Thornton? Together, these two characters make the perfect man. Of course, it's only a matter of time before a woman becomes involved and finds herself split between the two.But Bandits is anything but your average run-of-the-mill romantic comedy. Willis and Thornton play Joe Blake and Terry Collins, two criminals in a high security prison. As the movie opens, they escape from prison in such a way that probably makes the other prisoners hit themselves on the head and ask Why didn't I think of that?Just as soon as they switch getaway cars, Joe and Terry rob a bank to finance their upcoming adventures. After hooking up with an old friend of Joe's, a wannabe stuntman played by Troy Garity, the criminals devise a foolproof plan to rob banks they take the bank manager hostage the night before a heist, sleep over at his house, then go into the bank with him the next morning before business hours. No unexpected holdups. No complications. Just take the money and leave before the first customer arrives.The Joe and Terry dream of escaping to a tropical location and opening a margarita bar. Their success as bank robbers eventually puts them at the top of the FBI's most wanted list. Things become even more complicated when Kate Wheeler (Cate Blanchett) runs into one of the crooks and wants to become a part of their lifestyle. When she falls in love with both men, the situation really starts to heat up. Oscar-winner Barry Levinsion gives Bandits a humble sense of reality. He doesn't place Joe and Terry on a pedestal and treat them like superheroes; he actually opens the film revealing their presumed demise. Although in interviews he explains that he was initially unsure how to handle the material, his uncertainty does not show in the final production. He has found the perfect blend of romance, action, and comedy to satisfy all tastes and styles. Bandits opens with a bookend revealing parts of the film's finale. This doesn't really work. Normally, this technique is used when a movie is more about a journey than what actually happens at the end. Although Bandits is indeed more about a journey, the movie's structure does not support such an opening. It doesn't provide us with enough information to work effectively, and, after a final twist at the very end, this technique seems pointless since it doesn't reveal the actual ending, anyway. Nonetheless, Bruce Willis, Billy Bob Thornton, and Cate Blanchett deliver fine performances, forming a charismatic, unlikely love triangle. Troy Garity, gleeful and eccentric, steals all of his scenes in memorable supporting role. Despite the various structural flaws, the cast alone is enough to redeem Bandits as an above average comic adventure. It's one of the year's most fun surprises.   "},{"Title":"If you like your comedy explained and in-your-face, this one is not for you.","Date":"14 November 2004","Score":"37 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" If you like your comedy fully explained and in-your-face, this one is not for you. If you appreciate deeper levels of subtlety and are prepared to suspend hard-nosed reality for the duration, you will love this one. Reminds me of Cohen Bros movies. If you are prepared to relax into it and let the movie take you where IT goes, you are in for a good ride. For those that want to predict a movie and try and show some perceived level of intellectual superiority by telling the person next to them what is about to happen just before it happens (yes - we know they exist), I would hazard a guess that you will not enjoy this movie. Having said that, I found the movie beautiful in the detail. This is not about grandiose plot, high speed chases and super cool cunning people. This is accidental and bumbling happenstance where random events are delightfully used. Truck, garage door etc. I carried with me the finer and more easily lost details of each character and I found they surprised me and delighted me with often times whimsical twists and subtle growth/support. I didn't find any huge character surprises or character twists, just good solid development, the kind where you can leave your opinions open to the end. Times like the late night rendezvous at the juke box joint and what happens when Bob tries to dance. Perfect. I walked out with a smile on my face, well amused and very much liking the attention to detail in character, shots, lighting, soundtrack etc. Not edge of the seat, sit back and relax.Nice one. "},{"Title":"Simply Excellent","Date":"9 April 2006","Score":"35 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" BANDITS (2001) ***** Barry Levinson's 'Bandits' is an outlandish story of two prisoners who break out of restrictive quarters and take to the road for a change of pace. They rob banks to get their income, intertwine with a run-away housewife, and are, of course, chased by the law. From the very beginning the movie takes off with such exciting momentum one may wonder if it will keep its pace until the closing scene; yet it does. Terrific turns by Bruce Willis, Billy Bob Thornton, Cate Blanchett, and Troy Garrity make this the best film of its kind--where we root for the bad guys--since early cinema. Simply excellent. "},{"Title":"Three class performances, an original plot  and a humorous script make for one entertaining film","Date":"29 January 2005","Score":"28 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Bandits is an interesting original film about two outlaws, Joe Blake and Terry Collins (Bruce Willis and Billy Bob Thornton) whom, after escaping from prison decide to continue their bank robbing spree but with a different tactic. They kidnap the bank manager,take him to work the following morning and get him to open the vault without the complications of tellers and customers. This works successfully until they run into Kate (played to perfection by Cate Blanchett in an overlooked role).Kate is an overworked stressed out housewife who decides she needs some action in her dull life. She forms a romantic relationship with Joe and starts to rob banks with them, a little extreme for a mid- life crisis don't you think?. Later in the film she falls for Terry. Cate becomes torn between the two and a rift is formed between the thieves. This is the interesting dilemma explored in this film as the two cannot afford to be torn apart as all they have in life is each other.This film is funnier than you would expect, it plays more as a comedy than a crime film. Willis nicely escapes his cop persona in the role of Smooth likable Joe Blake. Thornton is superbly funny as Collins, the neurotic paranoid partner. As aforementioned, Blanchett is perfect as the love interest.The ending is enjoyable if not a little expected. The one big flaw in this film is that Thornton's character, though entertaining is clearly not the criminal type. Though the relationship between the two main characters is touching.Bandits is a funny, enjoyable, original comedy that I recommend to everyone. Go out and see this film. There will hardly be a moment in it that you will not adore. "},{"Title":"One Last Big Score","Date":"18 April 2006","Score":"23 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" The story of two unlikely bank robbers, a sexy accomplice, and a would-be movie stunt man who come together for one last big score. The story is complex enough to keep your attention right up until the surprise ending. Beyond that, though, this is an ensemble character study with four wonderful actors and it is a pleasure to watch them work. Bruce Willis is a tough guy with a believable sensitive side. Billy Bob Thornton is a hypochondriac with a penchant for making trivial observations at extremely critical times. Billy Bob enjoys doing different characters and this is a memorable one. Cate Blanchett is a beautiful woman running from a failed marriage who falls in love with both men. Troy Garity is a cowboy stunt man whose lapses in judgment are made forgivable by his love for his work. This is, for Garity, a very different character from role in Barbershop. The movie is beautifully filmed in interesting places and there are even a few classy automobiles around. If you enjoy a good story, some action, and good actors working well together, I recommend that you rent this one. "},{"Title":"Fun, just to relax to.","Date":"29 May 2005","Score":"23 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Bandits is a fun film high on average laughs and low on most other things, although I thought Cate Blanchett's performance was pretty good, and actually Billy Bob Thornton was hilarious. Bruce Willis does his usual cool act. The story isn't too deep, so don't watch this if you want something thats going to make you think, but it is definitely an amusing premise, and the odd clever moments serve well enough to raise extra smiles. The direction from Barry Levinson is interesting, but really it's just average stuff, no bounderies are pushed, nothing too daring is attempted. Overall there isn't really much to this, but who cares? It's just for fun. Kick back after a hard days work and just enjoy this entertaining flick. "},{"Title":"Very entertaining and quite original","Date":"27 August 2004","Score":"29 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I must admit, when I sat down to watch this film, I didn't expect much; I had seen a few trailers, maybe a TV-spot or two, but that's it. The only thing I knew about it was that it was a crime-comedy, and that Bruce Willis and Billy Bob Thornton portrayed the leads. I didn't think it would be so funny and thoroughly entertaining. The idea is somewhat original, though slightly derivative of movies like Bonnie and Clyde. The plot is very good; it details the various bank-robberies of two very different partners in crime. The pace is very good too, though I found parts of the last half hour of film somewhat dragging. The acting is great; Bruce Willis is great as the aggressive and determined robber, Billy Bob Thornton does a great job as the hypochondriac and very nervous robber, and Cate Blanchett gives a great performance as the slightly neurotic hostage who eventually falls in love with both robbers. The characters are well-written and credible. The comedy, crime and drama was well-integrated, and well-done. I didn't care too much for the romance angle, though, but, for what it's worth, it's not a bad one, and definitely not the worst I've seen. The actors have great on-screen chemistry, and they are well-casted. I liked the way the story was told; it left you thinking that you were merely following the events leading up to the end, but then, during the last few minutes, there is an excellent twist, which took me entirely by surprise, and made a great ending for a great film. Considering that the film is a PG-13 rated, two-hour long comedy which deals with crime, and has some drama integrated in it, it's really good. It's very funny, entertaining, and original. The humor is well-done, rarely falls flat, and mostly works great in the film. I liked that they mostly dodged stereotypes and cliches, instead of wallowing in them, like many other comedies nowadays do. I recommend it to fans of comedies, crime related films and dramas. To a lesser extent, it's also recommendable to fans of romance. Most general movie fans should also enjoy this, at least to some extent. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Entertaining Comedy","Date":"17 April 2003","Score":"19 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Fun but no great shakes.  Not the best of Barry Levinson's movies but certainly not the worse either.Billy Bob Thornton is hysterical as Bruce Willis' partner in crime.  Their method of bank robbery is rather considerate, all things considered, and kind of touching.  They visit the bank president the night before and get in with his cooperation.  Why this happens without incident is anyone's guess, but I don't think its supposed to be deep or insightful or anything, and I don't mean that it insults the audience either.Cate Blanchett is along for the ride, eventually.  She doesn't belong with them, or anyone else, but she adds a lot of fun.I'd rate Billy Bob's hypochondriac in this alongside Woody Allen's in Hannah And Her Sisters.  7/10. "},{"Title":"When you think of a typical heist picture, aren't the bad guys normally the bandits?","Date":"20 June 2002","Score":"15 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Writer Harley Peyton puts a spin on the script of Bandits, making his trio of bank robbers compassionate, harmless and down right funny. You end up rooting for them as the movie progresses. Director Barry Levinson is brilliant as he makes his robbers become the heroes while the police are deemed the bad guys.Joe Blake (Bruce Willis) and Terry Collins (Billy Bob Thornton) are inmates who partner up in an escape from prison by stealing a cement truck. Once out, they decide to rob a bank by using a yellow highlighter as their sole weapon. In order to fulfill their much longed for dream of opening a nightclub in Mexico, they expertly plot a series of bank robberies. To secure them from ever being captured, the plan is to enter the home of the bank manager the night before the robbery, sleep over and escort that person to work the next morning. All is well until an unstable woman named Kate (Cate Blanchett) enters the game by hitting Terry with her car. After much quarreling, the duo decides to keep the woman on board, allowing her to join in the fiasco. Their title quickly becomes The Sleepover Bandits as a TV tabloid show, Criminals at Large, follows their every move.Willis and Thornton make a marvelous team. Opposite in every way possible, Joe is the sexy, strong criminal while Terry harbors the neurotic brain behind the operation. Thornton's choices of his character's facial ticks, his compulsive manner and nervousness are brilliant in its exploration. Willis is pretty much the same aggressive man going for the girl (Kate) and yes, he succeeds. Although, it's nice to see that macho Joe doesn't get to keep pretty Kate. He must share her after she falls for his other half, Terry. The movie takes a turn after Kate professes her love to both men. Now, the movie focuses less on the robberies and more on who gets to keep Kate. She says that she cannot decide between the two and that together, they make the perfect man.Cate Blanchett is an extraordinary actress but is a bit too crazed in this movie, going overboard with her character as a dissatisfied housewife. At times, you feel compassion towards her character and at others, you just want her to shut up. Maybe this is what she intended but it doesn't make her character too lovable. Blanchett shows her vulnerable, free-spirited side while singing a hilariously disastrous rendition of Walk On By. This scene follows along the lines of Cameron Diaz's impromptu version of I Just Don't Know from My Best Friend's Wedding.Worth mentioning is the lesser-known actor, Troy Garity, as Joe's cousin Harvey, whom Joe talks into joining the gang. Harvey is an aspiring LA stuntman who ends up driving the getaway car for each heist. While perfectly fitting in between Thornton and Willis, Garity brings very amusing nimrod qualities to Harvey as we watch him fall off buildings and set himself ablaze.While the movie is cute and seemingly funny, in its entirety, it is too long. Cuts to the tabloid show Criminals at Large are not necessary to further any plot. Neither are flashbacks from the ending scene as a narration for the entire movie. It's nice to use that technique of having the characters narrate the movie from the end but it doesn't help any here. Plus we've already seen it done many times and if removed, wouldn't affect the movie at all. It would just tighten it. Otherwise, this movie is a great escape for the country right now, a nice dose of comedy mixed in with a pinch of action and voil치, you have America smiling. "}{"Title":"A must see !","Date":"29 November 2005","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I Think this is the first movie I saw starring Cate Blanchett, since Bandits I watched every single movie with this wonderful actress . She is just brilliant, hilarious, beautiful, charismatic  she IS the perfect actress! When you put Bruce Willis and Billy Bob Thornton beside her, and Barry Levinson who directs her ... It's a magical reaction on the screen !!! If you're searching for a good comedy, a breathless thriller, a well done action film, Bandits is for you, because it mixes all those movies in a single one, and it's impossible to resist when there's such a great cast in front of you. It deserves its Golden Globe Nominations ! "},{"Title":"Burning Feathers","Date":"16 October 2001","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Here is another intelligently conceived notion, ruined by an uncentered director; having a dozen producers may have had something to do with it.Levinson has some skill. He does some interesting camera management, which keeps us occupied. And he does understand what's going on, as the writing is pretty cleverly structured. He just has no center.The cleverness comes from two things the elaborate framing and Ms Cate's games.The framing is rather studied We are given two Dylan songs right off the bat that concern someone acting out well enough that the act becomes life. A Dylan strength, at least before the fundamentalist excesses. Then we actually have Kate the character who wants to become a singer, and this develops first into a fantasy and then beyond to the con. Song lyrics both annotate the action and are woven into the dialog. I'll bet the script idea started with those Dylan songs.We have the conventional framing of a noir-narrator's flashback. Ho Hum, but that is deftly woven into another common device, the film as an extension of a film within itself a televised interview that contains the `story.' Which incidentally is partly told through bank surveillance cameras -- and in one case, the camera of someone filming singers! Very good folding joke. More one character (Billy) is highly suggestable, so the other character (Bruce) toys with him by feeding him suggestions about `dis-eases' that then become real.This is pretty crafty stuff, and the execution is well conceived in the casting too Bruce and Billy are superficial actors. They act by `putting on' their characters -- while keeping their `real' selves just visible. The `real' Bruce often winks out at the audience in his roles, which is something we post-postmodern audiences like. So we pay them truckloads of dough. What they play here is -- you guessed it, men who put on disguises and with genteel manners walk away with scads of cash.It only works because of Cate, who is one of the three most intelligent actresses in film today. She comes to a role by actually transforming her soul, at least a much of it as we can see. So when she is bereft, looking for an alternate reality, we not only believe, we climb aboard. She is so charming and open we believe -- and conspire in -- creating the film to suit her needs, even if it means concocting these two prancing oafs.Bottom line even Levinson's clumsiness cannot dampen the conspiracy the gifted Cate weaves with this clever writer.  "},{"Title":"It's like Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid and Bonnie and Clyde for the new generation","Date":"27 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Bandits is, simply, an outstanding movie. Everything about it is great, including the feel to it, and you simply love the characters.It's about two bandits who rob banks in a peculiar way they sleep over the bank manager's house the night before the robbery, holding him hostage, and then go with him the next day before hours to the bank, take the money, and run. Then, they accidentally stumble upon a woman who stays with them, and they both begin to fall in love with her. Also, as the movie goes on, the public begins to become less and less afraid of them because they know the robbers so well, since they hear about them on the news all the time.This is a very good movie, very entertaining and well made, and I highly recommend it to everyone! It's also very thrilling, for you fall in love with the characters so much that basically any bad thing that happens to them feels like a tragedy.But I also must go into detail about the soundtrack. There is Rod Stewart, U2 (including my favorite song, Beautiful Day), and all these songs set the perfect mood for the movie. And that mood is a fantastic one.This is a very memorable movie, and in fact, the only reason I don't own the DVD is because i'm an absolute nut about only getting Collector's Editions with tons of features, so i'm waiting for a better DVD edition to come out first!! The movie itself is a gem.I love it! I give this a 10 our of 10. "},{"Title":"SUPER Funny!","Date":"9 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is about the best you can get! Although I am not a crook, I was rooting for the bad guys in this movie (which you have to do in order to enjoy it!) I laughed so hard, and was excited the whole way through. Bruce Willis and Billy Bob Thorton are outstanding actors, and do a great job in this movie. Filming in my home state of Oregon, their are great locations throughout this film! After escaping from Oregon State Penitentiary, they have quite a fun-filled journey to Portland, and then make their way south through Oregon towards my home in Southern Oregon. The one thing that comes between them is a woman! Still, they find their way through it somehow, and the ending is the BEST and most surprising I have ever seen!Best of all, it was filmed in my home state of Oregon (except for the end.) Anyway, this movie is excellent, well done, VERY funny, and has a VERY surprising end. I would recommend it to anybody with a good sense of humor. I give it an A+, and on the 1-10 scale, a 10! "},{"Title":"Surprising.","Date":"8 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I didn't expect much from Bandits, and it is not a *great* movie. But I enjoyed it immensely and at times laughed so hard my stomach hurt. Billy Bob Thornton gives an excellent performance. Maybe if I'd watched it on some other night . . . but I have to give it 10! "},{"Title":"Human traffic","Date":"28 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  there are movies when you don't want them to end. you want to sit in the cinema, not leaving, you want the story to be endless, to go on for another hour.the first time when i felt this way was when we checked out Human Traffic.Bandits did the same to me. Billy Bob stole the show, i laughed my head off.  "},{"Title":"Where did all that money go?","Date":"6 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Honestly, can somebody justify spending $80million on this tripe? Where did it go? Sure, there are a couple of big set pieces, but nothing worth $80million. The obvious answer is that it was spent on the big name cast and director. And if this is what the ordinary money paying cinemagoer gets for all that money, then God help us!You can see Bandits working (maybe) as a low budget indie flick with a no-name, but talented, cast and an exciting new director. Maybe Harley Peyton's original screenplay was quirky, funny and entertaining (I always am prepared to give the writer the benefit of the doubt), but in these hands, and with this cast, it unexpectedly has become one of the most annoying, tiresome vanity projects ever made.I have read and seen interviews where Willis, Thornton, and Blanchett have all talked about being the best of pals, and have so much respect for each other, and how this project was a blast to make. And this, unfortunately, is all too apparent in the finished project. There is an obvious amount of adlibbing going on, scenes are allowed to run beyond the point of tedium, and you can almost hear the cries of That was cool! or You were wonderful!, backed up by cast and crew laughing their socks off, between every single scene. I am certain there are loads of out-takes from this movie that are more entertaining than the movie itself.And the butt of this great joke is Joe Public, duped by the big names into putting down hard earned cash to watch what is, ultimately, a big, boring home movie. If the cast want to self indulge so desperately, don't do it at everyone else's (including the studio accountants) expense.There are moments of hope the supporting cast (especially Richard Riehle as a bank manager who responds hilariously to threats and stress) are quite good when the three stars can deflate their egos enough to get out of the way. And there are some good songs. But, all in all, this movie should be a lesson for all involved Blanchett and Thornton will, I'm sure, redeem themselves with their next projects; but Willis (with superduds like The Kid and Breakfast of Champions on his CV) and Levinson (a talented director who seems to have lost it big time with turkeys like this and An Everlasting Piece) really need to get their acts together and produce something of real entertainment value.Because, quite honestly, this ranks right down there with Pearl Harbor as the worst movie of 2001. Avoid.   "},{"Title":"Increasingly irritating buddy-caper movie","Date":"12 October 2001","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Overlong, and increasingly irritating (and supposedly comic) buddy-caper movie starring Bruce Willis and Billy Bob Thornton in what director Barry Levinson clearly intends to be a contemporary BUTCH CASSIDY AND THE SUNDANCE KID, but which mistakes a bunch of contrived tics, quirks and traits for sharp characterisations as the two laid-back escaped cons, complete with requisite flaky female to complete the triangle (Cate Blanchett in a role which suggests her career could swiftly subside into a slew of shrewish neurotics - she's rich and underappreciated, so we're supposed to warm her) take down a series of federally insured banks ('I never steal from anyone that's earned it' says Bruce in a throwaway remark that makes you wonder whether he's ever heard of 'bank charges' and their effect on beleagured customers who indirectly wind up paying for his jovial criminality). Watching B & BB don dopey disguises once is good for a grin but, when you realise that this running gag is essentially the movie's comic highpoint and that we're meant to find the idea of them repeatedly kidnapping bank managers and sleeping over with their family the night before pulling the heists hilarious (don't worry, they don't rape their wives or douse their kids in petrol - Billy Bob's culinary tips to one man's wife is about as hostile as they get), you get a measure of the level of invention in a work which outstays its welcome well before the overstretched two hour running time is up. Opening with a bank hostage setup which is surprisingly similar to the superior SWORDFISH (yep, this rates so low that Travolta's lightweight high-tech caper movie shines in comparison), boasting a lame AOR soundtrack (complete with  supposedly ironic deconstruction of Bonnie Tyler lyrics - give me Patrick Bateman's take on Phil Collins any day), and drawing attention to the fact that it's plot makes no sense even on its own tarnished terms (a bank hostage remarks that she knows they'll be safe as B & BB are known for preserving the lives of their victims, which begs the inevitable question 'Why don't the hostages merely overpower their armed captors?'), this is the type of film which evaporates in the mind before it's reached a lame 'twist' ending. You'd be far better off renting Redford and Newman's wittier and snappier buddy-caper Western which, at least, imbued its cast of characters with more than a smattering of irritating mannerisms to pass for personality, had entertainment value to burn and played fair with the fade-out.  "},{"Title":"Simply not funny","Date":"30 May 2002","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  What a waste of 2+ hours! This rambling, tedious, horribly edited and directed piece of junk is a complete washout. The simple problem - it's not funny. The scenes that are supposed to be funny are just painful to watch. This film just drags and drags - the action sequences are few and far between. Pacing is awful. The twist ending is no surprise because we see a sneak preview of it earlier.Pure torture! 1/10. "},{"Title":"Slick, character driven romantic comedy about bank robbers","Date":"13 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" If you rated this movie any less than 7/10 then your not sure what a good movie is. The storyline isn't exactly perfect but it works simply because of the characters. The three main characters of Joe Blake, Terry Collins and Kate Wheeler are impossible not to fall in love with. Bruce Willis as Joe Blake, though one of his least action packed roles is easily one of his most menacing, but funny and charming at the same time. Billy Bob Thornton as his high strung paranoid partner Terry Collins is unforgettable and hilarious, and it works great with Bruce. I've watched this 100 times and still watch it whenever it's on. Funny, smooth with a little action, a little romance and a very nice twist at the end. Watch this movie, if you don't enjoy it then like I said you don't know what entertainment is.9/10 stars. Anyone smell burning feathers? "}{"Title":"Loved it!!","Date":"17 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I really enjoyed watching this film, I love the unusual story & great comedy through out. Bruce and Billy are great in it. 'Bandits' is a really entertaining funny film that you could watch over and over again!! Definitely would recommend for anyone looking for something funny and exiting to watch. Bandits doesn't deserve the low rating it has been gave on IMDb I think it definitely deserves a strong 7/8 rating personally think it is a really good film!! Finally I think this film has something for everyone really the soundtrack Is also really good love U2 beautiful day a personal favourite. Definitely go and watch It you won't be disappointed "},{"Title":"good fun","Date":"5 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" a very well-written script (hat tip Harley Peyton) with defined characters who are believable and true to themselves throughout. the performances were top rate, and billy bob got several nominations, but for my money, Cate Blanchett steals the film... perhaps it was her opening sequence that sealed the deal and made it hard for me to give Billy Bob his props, but she knocked me out. Levinson starts with a close shot of her as she peers into her refrigerator and he captured those luminous wolfen eyes Cate is known for, then she launched into an improv sing-a-long to Bonnie Tyler's I Need a Hero as she fashioned dinner for her husband - and it's a show-stopper. you sit forward in your chair in anticipation of how her life will intersect with Billy Bob and Bruce Willis and when it does, you laugh until you cry. my favorite line from Cate comes as she weaves in and out of traffic at a hundred miles an hour and Billy Bob pleads with her to pull over and let him out. she says, i'm not crazy, i'm unhappy, and there's a difference, as she roars through traffic, then roars through their lives like a summer fire tearing through a wheat field ...it's a treat to watch her creates such an unforgettable character.i liked all of the minor roles, from Harvey dog Pollard, to the woman who played the bank manager who wouldn't give Bruce Willis the money. and pink, with those big blue eyes and breck girl hair played a memorable, albeit, minor part.the film obviously falls down with the LAPD's inexplicable lapse in security at the end. nothing and no one would have left their perimeter until the LAFD EMT people pronounced the obvious, and then the county coroner would have had to agree with their pronouncement of death, let the LAPD know that it apparently was by their own hands, and then they'd have put place markers down for the shell casings, taken photos up the gazoo, and then and only then would those bodies have been moved. and even then they probably would have been given the ambulance, or the coroner's van a three to six car LAPD escort. minor point.i loved the film even though i saw it for the first time on DVD, not on the big screen and since, at this point, that's probably where you will see it, i highly recommend its purchase. i put it right back on, and watched it a second time, and liked it more the second time. if Hollywood made films like this every time they tried, with smart dialogue, great acting, and a get out of the way and let the talent work attitude by Levinson, they'd make more money than Saudi oil princes.no, it's not Shawshank but i'd put it only a slight notch beneath Get Shorty and that's high praise. this is a very entertaining film and in some places, it's laugh out loud funny. a good way to judge films like this are scene by scene, and i can't recall a weak scene in the film. they're all good, and some, like Cate's singing in the kitchen, and Willis and Kate dancing on the beach at night (shot through the window of their cottage) are as good as it gets. everyone who worked on the film should be proud of their efforts. i bought it on DVD so i can have a good laugh whenever i'm so inclined and i've been so inclined three times since the purchase. i say, bravo. "},{"Title":"Do you smell burning feathers?&#133;Bandits","Date":"13 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" A true overlooked movie, Bandits is a gem waiting to surprise people. With a guy like Barry Levinson directing, having classic comedies like Diner and Toys, (another ill-received winner) under his belt and dramedies like Rain Man, you know you will be entertained. If you still feel unsure after finding out it stars Bruce Willis and two of the best actors working today in Billy Bob Thornton, (when not playing the vulgar schlub he has lately), and Cate Blanchett, you don't enjoy cinema. This trifecta of actors really shine together causing laughs at every turn while still grounding the film enough to keep the serious criminal consequences relevant.Breaking out of jail on a whim, Joe (Willis) and Terry (Thornton) find themselves free men needing money. They decide to rob banks long enough to make a nest egg to run a hotel/ club down in Mexico; yes that is where they are keeping Acapaulco these days. They become the sleepover bandits as they kidnap the bank manager the night before the crime so as to take the money without hostages causing a problem. Just the satirical notion of these hardened criminals becoming overnight celebrities where bank managers revel in the thought that they can be victims, is funny enough. Throw in Cate Blanchett's manic-depressive housewife on her last thread Kate, and we have some really laugh-out-loud hijinks. When she is singing to cheesy 80's Bonnie Tyler music while cooking and driving, you can see the amazing comic timing she possesses to go along with the dramatic chops she usually shows. One of our most versatile actresses, maybe not quite deserving of the Oscar last year, but definitely worthy of the Oscar-winner status, there hasn't been a bad performance by her that I have seen. I can't wait until later this year when she joins heavyweights Alejandro Gonz치lez I침치rritu and Guillermo Arriaga with their emotional epic Babel.Bruce Willis shows again that playing against his tough-guy type is really where he succeeds best. Joe has all the charisma and muscle of an action hero, but also the sarcasm and wit to really poke fun at the stereotype. Thornton gives a magnificently physically showing as the hyperchondriac Terry. His idiosynchrsies are hilarious to watch and the banter with both Joe and Kate is perfect. There are so many one-liners that spew from his fast-talking, too smart for his own safety mind. You know the hardest thing about being smart? You pretty much know what's gonna happen next. There's no suspense. He also has the uncanny demeanor to switch personas mid-sentence, acting tough and then, when ridiculed about his disguise, almost quietly, as though to a confidant, asking if it really is that bad.Rounding out the comic genius is relative newcomer Troy Garity. His stuntman is the ultimate stereotypical guy's guy whom needs to be babysat at every turn by the two criminal minds. The childlike fascination is perpetually ingrained into his features and expressions as he is just a kid in a candy store. Garity's charm makes the role successful and an integral part to the story. Credit writer Harley Peyton for loading his script with so many disparate characters which when mixed together work together like clockwork. After writing ensemble work with quirky roles in the likes of TV show Twin Peaks, one can see why. Hopefully we will be able to see more from him in the future, and also more like this from Barry Levinson, who's last film Envy was so bad it was released after a hiatus on the shelf for two years. "},{"Title":"Entertainment with a hint of creativity","Date":"8 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I saw this flick a long time ago, and a second time a few days ago. I was surprised how much I had forgotten. Even though I did remember several key moments, I found this film to be entertaining enough to continue watching until the end. But only this time I payed more attention to the story, the acting and as much details as possible and I found this movie to be not only entertaining, but also quite creative and funny.The actors chosen for this movie are probaby perfect, because I cannot come up with different actors that would fit well in this movie. The chemistry between Willis, the tough guy, and Thorton, the clever yet a bit crazy guy, is genuine and very entertaining. Adding Blanchett, the mentally unstable woman, only creates more possibilities for events.Although the storyline isn't anything unique or even special there are several moments in this movie that really are the result of creative thinking on the writers behalf. Some of these moments do require some thinking, but the majority of the runtime is pure entertainment.BANDITS is a plain, yet very entertaining action, comedy and a bit of drama movie. If you watch it, you'll probably like it. "},{"Title":"a nice surprise","Date":"17 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Cate Blanchett stands out as the neurotic wife with a corporate husband, more interested in himself than her. When she's thought to be kidnapped he goes on TV to tell her that he's okay and that if she wants to reach him she ought to call 'the house' because he'll be in Spain. Oh and 'the house misses you.' This is a film you can do whatever you like with. You can analyze it as a feminist piece or a story about love (Blanchett goes on to romance the two bank-robbers)and friendship; a story about individuals within 'the system.' Or as a fun piece of chuckle-inducing (usually from Billy Bob's great guy that gets left hypochondriac)action piece. Although Bruce Willis looks a little bored and lacklustre, the film has an cute (kind of a twist) ending. An interesting choice of using a TV-show format to structure the film, which lifts the film.Billy-Bob Thornton has found a new admirer and Cate Blanchett proves she's an all round talent yet again. Although we already knew that.6 1/2 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Awesome!  Perfect Film.  And not based on Elmore Leonard!","Date":"29 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Reading through some of the more recent comments on this brilliant film is just so strange -- I guess some people just didn't get it.  Too smart or sophisticated for the average moviegoer.  Though the user ratings show that 70% gave the film a 7 or better, so go figure.For the record, however, the film is based on the TRUE STORY of Terry Collins and Joe Dougherty.  Has nothing to do with Elmore's book.  They were bank robbers in the early 80's, who really did rob banks as depicted in the film.  Much of Peyton's excellent script was lifted from real incidents. Do a search on the net and you'll see I'm telling the truth.In any event, I LOVED this film, and recommend it highly for anyone whop likes good smart writing, and amazing performances from Thornton, Willis and Blanchett.  There's a reason they were nominated for the Golden Globes. "},{"Title":"Hilarious!!","Date":"13 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  One of the funniest movies ever!  The entire cast really does an excellent job of keeping the audience entertained.  The extras on the DVD are very interesting.  You find out that one of the cutest scenes in the movie resulted from Bruce Willis continuing on after something unexpected happens with one of the props. "},{"Title":"Oh dear","Date":"21 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Honest opinion? A very poor film. It's astonishing to think that having collected a line-up of A-grade actors that the film makers didn't think to get a decent script writer in. The jokes are stale and tired and the film drags and falls to a predictable conclusion. Yes, there are some decent one-liners, but on the whole this is a puerile caper that offers viewers nothing new. Crushingly disappointing, and to be blunt, a waste of my time. "},{"Title":"Excellent movie with one mistake","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Billy Bob Thornton and Bruce Willis are Terry and Joe, two opposite bank robbers who make a big mistake by picking up a bored housewife (played by Cate Blanchett).  Them three are really funny and they all bring out their characters really well.  I enjoyed this for the most part, but they have one problem.  When Joe and Terry sleepover the soon robbees houses, none of them have the right mind to call the police when they're sleeping!?!  That lost this a point.Overall the movie is very excellent and surprising and I recommend this.  Rating 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Great fun for savvy 'boomer' film buffs ....","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  As the movie opens Joe Blake (Bruce Willis) and Terry Collins (Billy Bob Thornton) are holed up in a downtown LA bank. Naturally Terry is freaking out.`One last big heist! What a great idea! Joe knows best. And what does Joe get me? Stuck in a bank called the Alamo surrounded by the entire Los Angeles police force.'How did America's most famous bank robbers get in this mess? Reporting from the scene, tabloid TV host Darren Head (Bobby Slayton) tells viewers the pair visited his home a few nights ago and forced him at gunpoint to film their version of events.`The result is part soap opera, part crime drama,' he intones, Geraldo-like, ` it's part 'Bonnie and Clyde', it's part Barnum and Bailey.'Uh oh, I feel a flashback coming on. Sure enough, the movie spools back to the duo's daring escape from an Oregon prison and a subsequent string of bank robberies with Joe's cousin, Harvey (Troy Garity), a wannabe stunt man, acting as getaway driver. Nervous, timid, a hopeless hypochondriac, Terry tends to fret over small details (`I ask him to get me a good mustache and he gets me something that looks as if it came out of a Cracker Jack box.') Joe, on the other hand, is cucumber cool, whether sweet-talking a lady or stealing her car. Of course, he can be a tad impulsive. Take the way he improvises a bank robbery on the spot, disarming the guard by sticking a Magic Marker in his back and pretending it is a gun. Now, Terry, he's cautious and methodical. It's his idea to kidnap a bank manager after work, spend the night with the family and open the safe in the morning.before business hours. (As for Harvey, well, he's not the brightest light on the string but, as Joe says, he's honest and he falls real good.)Everything goes smoothly (more or less) until unhappy housewife Kate Wheeler (Cate Blanchett) bumps into Terry while he is attempting to hijack her car. `I'm a desperate man,' he tells her, none too convincingly. `Desperate? You don't know the meaning of the word,' she sobs, zigzagging in and out of traffic like a demented Indy driver. `Desperate is waking up every morning and wishing you hadn't.'  `On second thought, why don't you just pull over and let me out,' he pleads. No such luck. Terry represents an opportunity to escape the emptiness of her life and she is not going to let him get away. Since she refuses to stop the car, the pair winds up at the motel hideout. For Joe it's lust at first sight. For Terry, well, he recognizes trouble when he sees it (`Kate is an iceberg waiting for the Titanic.') Too late. Kate becomes romantically entangled with both men and is unable to choose (`Together, you make up the perfect man.')Director Barry Levinson gives his actors plenty of room to move and they respond with some intriguing choices. Thornton is wonderfully twitchy while Willis handles his role with straight-faced panache. Picture Abbott and Costello playing Butch and Sundance. Blanchett's Kate is the perfect female match for these characters. After seeing her as a regal young monarch in `Elizabeth', a troubled welfare mom in `The Gift' and a deliriously funny refugee housewife in this film, I'm convinced there is nothing this chameleonic actress cannot do. As for Garity, he's a natural born talent. Harvey may be a little slow on the draw but it only adds to the character's na칦ve goofy charm. I like the way Garity savors his dialogue.  He talks like Willie Nelson sings, the line readings a little `behind the beat' and flavored with a hint of country twang.The script (by Harley Peyton) ripples with wry movie references. The video the two teens are watching in that first home Joe and Terry break into? It's 1963's The Great Escape (that's Steve McQueen on the motorbike.) During Kate's first night at the hideout, Joe gallantly stretches a curtain across the bed he is sharing with her. `Saw it in a movie,' he explains. The reference, of course, is to the famous scene in 1934's  It Happened One Night. Peyton also slips in sly nods to boomer music faves like Bonnie Tyler and a certain Canuck rock icon. `You really think you're going to fool anyone in that get up,' asks Cloe (Stacy Travis), the wife of kidnapped bank manager Darrill Miller (Brian O'Byrne). `I mean, you look like Neil Young in . what was that album . 'After the Horses'?. ` `It was 'After the Gold Rush',' Terry says. ` And, besides, that's not the one. It's the one where he's leaning against a tree in the snow or whatever. That was actually what I was going for.'  (That would be 1969's `Everybody Knows This is Nowhere.') Some of the show biz satire may be a little obscure. For example, Joe likes to read Sun Tzu's The Art of War. This would seem to be a dig at fallen uberagent Mike Ovitz who reputedly used the ancient Chinese text on strategy as a guide to daily living during his Hollywood heyday. Peyton sketches his characters with a droll wit reminiscent of Elmore Leonard, not surprising when you consider that the screenwriter adapted Leonard's `Gold Coast' for a 1997 TV movie. (I looked it up in the IMDB database.)Although it begins to run out of steam in the last half-hour `Bandits' is still great fun for savvy film buffs with its appeal skewing towards an older boomer demographic. "}{"Title":"Great comedy!","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is a true winner, start to finish. Willis and Thornton play two escaped convicts, out to rob enough banks so that they can live out their dream of leaving the country, owning a hotel and drinking margaritas all day. When a bored housewife (Blanchett) joins the group, she puts a rift between the two convicts that just may turn them against each other and ruin their plans. Although Willis has top billing and plays his role to a tee, this movie really belongs to Thornton, who steals every scene as Terry, a neurotic hypochondriac. This movie is good clean comedy, packed with lots of non-violent action, accompanied by a great sound track. You can't ask for better in a comedy. "},{"Title":"An unexpected pleasant surprise","Date":"12 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I originally rented this movie just to see Cate Blanchett. And surprisingly found a movie well written, directed and acted. The characters and the story is written very well with intelligent-adult humor dispersed all throught the movie. It was more than a simple bank-heist movie with nicely drawn human characters who could have been anybody. I am not particularly a fan of Billy Bob Thornton and his vulgar style of acting but in this movie that fits him perfectly, and he plays the little nuances that accentuates his character flawlessly. I think of Bruce Willis as one of the least talented overhyped stars of the era, always giving a one dimensional sneery sarcastic personafication; well that fits him well in this movie too (watch for his real daughter as the young offspring of the first bank manager; she is hysterically funny and natural in her acting; much better then her mom and dad!!)..And of course the great Cate never ceases to amaze me, with again another one of her marvellous transformations into the character, her comedic timing, her mimics, her naturalness; and despite her being in 4-5 movies this year, there is no repetitiveness and familiarity in watching her.. Overall this is a very funny movie with cute surprises along the way.. "},{"Title":"A clever script performed by just the right cast.","Date":"6 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I really liked this movie. Everything in it works-the dialog is crisp and witty, the acting is excellent, the photography beautiful, and best of all, I want to see it again. The principal actors seem like they were born to play these roles, and once again Cate Blanchett shows her immense talent and versatility as an actor. Even if you're not a fan of Bruce Willis or Billy Bob Thornton, see this film for Blanchett. True, the story bogs down a bit in the middle when the relationship between the trio gets a little more scrutiny than it deserves, but the rest of the film makes up for it. You'll definitely be reminded of 'Butch Cassidy & the Sundance Kid,' but I felt the similarity was not at all a rip off; more of a tribute, really. See it! "},{"Title":"The Sleepover Bandits will get you in!","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  What a winner of a little movie! I say little on account of the fact it never aspires to being anything other than what it is, a non-larger than life tale of a bandit, his reluctant co-conspirator, a manic depressive housewife and a wannabe stuntman. By far and away Bruce Willis' best role since DIE HARD. He is the eminently likeable Joe Blake, innovative but small time bank job specialist who breaks out of jail by seizing a rare window of opportunity and dragging along, more by luck than judgment, passive and ultimately quirky Terry Collins. Billy Bob, who with his chameleon capabilities never looks the same in successive movies, is equally lovable as Collins, a simple man with a simple plan - to just be happy! Subtle yet hysterically funny in execution, Ms Blanchett is inexorably drawn into the lives of the two convicts after her character, bored housewife Kate Wheeler, flattens Collins with her car.Five star outing from Cate Blanchett here who so totally balances the lives of the other two men in her 'borrowed' life. Disparate and at opposite ends of the spectrum, she loves them both and tells them at once stage Together you make the perfect man!  So true! Caper follows caper until she must chose between them, which of course she cannot.Thornton takes quirky to a new level here (how this can be the same man who played Karl Childers in SLING BLADE is a poser of some magnitude) So many delightful touches to the film you simply have to watch it multiple times to catch them all. I will not give away anything in terms of the concluding plot-line but if ever there was a feel good film - then this is it! Even at 2 hours plus, one finds themselves wishing it didn't end!All the leads are simply brilliant, I could not insult the others by nominating a preference. Long time since I saw such a thoroughly tasteful movie with absolutely no bad language that I can recall. I would suggest it merits conservatively a 9.5 rating.  "},{"Title":"Entertaining and Fun!","Date":"5 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Bandits is entertaining viewing. Cate Blanchett is fantastic as Kate and the movie is worth watching alone for the everchanging disguises that Billy Bob Thornton wears. The end of the movie will have you guessing for a moment but will leave you satisfied with with your decision to watch this movie "},{"Title":"this movie is one of the very few movies which really made me laugh","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Although some people think that this movie is one of the bad movies Bruce Wills has taken a role,i think it's one of the cutest ones.this is a good comedy film for the ones who has a tasteful sense of humor.in the film ,besides Bruce Bills ,we can watch how good Cate Blanchett plays a comedy role.This is a film which the laughing parts are hidden in details, that's why this is not just a comedy film. "},{"Title":"Loved it!","Date":"20 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I loved watching this movie. It has an amazing cast. Bruce Willis is one of the greatest actors ever and Billy Bob Thornton plays his character extremely well. Bandits has good twists in the plot line and a very surprising ending. Go see it. Its a wicked movie! "},{"Title":"Beavers & Ducks!!","Date":"20 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  My but there's been a great many user comments on this movie.  The few things I can think of to add to the mix are some rebuttals to the poo-poo'rs & negative commentors, in case there is anyone reading these reviews in consideration of whether or not they're going to see the film. The plot does not drag at all in my opinion - you do have to have at least 10 living brain cells to be able to catch the twists however. Blanchett, Thornton & Willis all make believers out of you as soon as any of them open their mouthes.  The chemistry between the three is evident from the get-go. Each of these actors are excellent and their collective bodies of work speak for themselves. Myself and my companions were delighted with the film and each of us would be willing to plunk down our $7.75 again to see it on the big screen.  The comedy is fresh and sidesplitting, the romance is sweet without being sickening (well, Cate Blanchett painting Billy Bob Thornton's toenails red was really the limit!) The plot moved at a perfect pace & kept you guessing 'til right before the finale'.If you're on the fence about this one, don't be afraid to jump down & head to the theater - hurry up and catch it before it's gone! "},{"Title":"Nearly P#ssd my pants laughing-best movie","Date":"23 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is fantastic, the whole audience was laughing Billy Bob Thornton was fantastic.  Old BW I even forgot Die Hard watching him.  Cate need I say an Aussie Actress well there the best "},{"Title":"A Great Film!","Date":"23 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is definitely one my favorite movies of all time. It was intelligent and hysterical. It wasn't boring for a second, but it wasn't too fast-paced. I suggest that if you haven't seen this film you go out and do so right away! -)  "}{"Title":"This is a great film !","Date":"15 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I liked this movie very much. It was very enjoyable, especially that great ending. It is a stroke of genius!!! And Bruce Willis is great as usual ! And why is that not surprising? That is because he is a truly brilliant actor! End of discussion!You have to see this very enjoyable movie !!! 10-/10. "},{"Title":"Pleasantly surprised by excellent cinematography","Date":"9 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I was pleasantly surprised at the excellent, almost Derek Jarman-esque cinematography of this film. It was one compelling visual after another. Now, we all know that Barry Levinson tells a good story in almost all his movies -- what's special about Bandits is that here he does so beautifully. I have been an unashamed fan of Cate Blanchett, as well as an extoller of her sheer screen presence, ever since Elizabeth.  I am pleased to report that Bruce Willis actually holds his own against Ms. Blanchett, and Billy Bob Thornton does the best work I have ever seen him do.  His character is the most appealing bundle of neuroses and hypochondriacal fetishes you will see on screen this decade, and yet he is utterly, convincingly real.  Cate Blanchett's Kate-the-not-quite-hostage is an over-the-top character, but that is neither quibble nor criticism  Ms. Blanchett was born to play over-the-top women in ways that make the surreal seem the most intensely real thing the viewer has ever experienced.  Here, she succeeds, and succeeds with grace, style, and, as I have said before, compellingly visceral presence. This is a very good, very funny, loving portrayal of one of the more criminal (but, revealingly, least violent) frayed edges of our social fabric.  Go to see it because Bruce is doing work of the same caliber he did in The Sixth Sense; go to see it because you want to see the apogee of Billy Bob's acting; but above all, go to see it for the sheer joy of Cate-as-Kate.         "},{"Title":"Funniest Film I've seen this year.","Date":"1 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This was the funniest film I have seen all year.  Willis is his usual great self but I never realized that Billy Bob Thornton could be so funny, especially when he is on the floor as Willis and Blanchett are dancing. And when Cate Blanchett is singing.  Well, you just have to see this movie, but bring a napkin to wipe away the tears of laughter. "},{"Title":"Very excellent !!","Date":"25 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Last weekend I happened to of caught a screening of 'Bandits' here in Manhattan and I thought that the movie was hilarious !!Bruce Willis was sexy, funny, and intense and he pulled it off the best way that Willis knows how to !  Billy Bob Thornton showed that he could be superb in any role that he is given.  He played the neurosis sidekick on the verge of a breakdown to a 'tee' !  Cate Blanchett was wonderful as the very lonely and ignored housewife who finally got the chance to live out her life on the 'wild side'.  And Troy Garity was extremely cute in his role and hopefully the movie going public will see a lot more of him in the near future.  The entire cast blending together and vibed on the same length.'Bandits' is a must see as far as buddy films go.  And the bar scene has to put Billy Bob on the map as far as his comedy side goes !Go see it. "},{"Title":"Bruce Willis and Billy Bob Thorton had me snorting!!!!!!!","Date":"19 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Bruce and Billy Bob were and excellent team.  Bruce as the Straight man and Billy Bob as the comedic was  reminisant of Abbot and Costello. I hope to see more of them together in the future.  Lord knows we can use more comedic relief in these times ;o)  "},{"Title":"Bandits Surprisingly witty and humorous","Date":"15 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Billy Bob Thornton has found another script that shows his clever side of acting, while being humorous at the same time.  In addition; Bruce Willis doesn't hog the camera and comes across as the Yin to Thornton's Yang. It's a good example of how two friends can remain friends even with opposite traits in their personalities which each other needs.  The love interest in the film comes across as believable in her portrayal as Thornton and Willis' while exuding her own style.  Influences from the Cohn brothers emerge that are unmistakable, although a bit more subtle.  It's finally encouraging to see a film without gratuitous sex scenes that rely on dialogue and humor to make it a totally pleasurable experience. "},{"Title":"Very funny, Bruce Willis and Billy Bob Thornton work great together.","Date":"14 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A very funny film, that follows two bank robbers the Sleepover Bandits. The characters are very likeable. The action and comedy was great.  I strongly recommend this movie. If you want laughs, you will not be disappointed. "},{"Title":"The Stars Shine In This One","Date":"14 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  	They don't want to hurt anybody, they just want the money; and so it goes as a pair of non-lethal outlaws cut a swath down the West Coast and provide escapism at it's best for the audience in `Bandits,' a funny and entertaining film directed by Barry Levinson, starring Bruce Willis, Billy Bob Thornton and Cate Blanchett.  After a spontaneous escape from the Oregon State Penitentiary, Joe and Terry (Willis and Thornton) need cash, so they make like a modern day Bonnie and Clyde-- make that `Clyde' and Clyde-- and proceed to do what they do best  rob banks.  They have a long-range goal in mind, but not much in the way of day-to-day planning, so they just kind of wing it as they go.  And though they want the money, they really don't want to inflict any serious bodily harm on anyone, so they come up with a way to circumvent any untoward opposition; to wit, they simply go to the bank manager's house, spend the night with him and get on with the robbing first thing in the morning.  Soon dubbed the `Sleep Over Bandits,' they are well on their way to effecting their goal when they run into the proverbial unforeseeable element, and her name is Kate (Blanchett), a woman in a state of flux who becomes their hostage-- or is it the other way around?  It's the question that Joe and Terry are going to have to answer if they want to get on with things; but as always happens-- especially in the movies-- when a woman becomes involved, it's just not that easy to figure out.  In fact, as Joe and Terry discover, it's down right complicated.  And it's just the hook the audience needs to really get involved, and for everyone concerned it becomes a wild and hectic ride into that cinematic sunset.	As he's proved in numerous films before, Levinson certainly knows how to tell a story, and he has a great cast of actors with which to do it in this one.  Most importantly, he knows what works, how to present the material most effectively and how to get the best out of his stars.  And he keeps it all moving without a hitch; the two hours you spend with this bunch veritably flies by and leaves you wanting more, which in itself says a lot about the entertainment value of this film.  Make no mistake, this is definitely a romanticized take on some `bad' guys, but suspend disbelief at the door and go with the flow; these are characters you're going to like-- even care about-- and they're going to give you an exciting time out from the rest of your life.  Not a bad deal, especially when it's done this well.	In Joe, Willis creates a character that can only be described as a `good' bad guy, more like Robin Hood than Dillinger.  He brings a tough, determined edge to the role, giving Joe a kind of focus and discipline that defines him, and he comes across as menacing without the menace.  Willis conveys the fact that Joe may not know everything, but he knows what he wants and is going to do all he can to get it.  It makes for a convincing portrayal of an average guy who has fallen into extraordinary circumstances, to which he reacts in a very real and credible manner.  Joe is believable, which makes the film easy to embrace and enhances the fun.  A good job by Willis, and though Joe is essentially a variation of Jimmy `The Tulip' Tudeski, the character Willis played in `The Whole Nine Yards,' this guy is all Joe, and that's what counts here.	As Terry, Billy Bob Thornton continues to demonstrate his versatility as an actor; can this possibly be the same guy who played the disturbed Karl in `Sling Blade,' or the nerdy and wanting Jacob in `A Simple Plan?'  The answer, of course, is yes, and it underscores what a talented character actor Thornton truly is.  As the phobia-prone, hypochondriac Terry, he infuses a dry, subtle humor into the film that works incredibly well opposite Willis, and it makes the characters different sides of the same coin.  It's a complex character that Thornton delivers with facility and care, and he succeeds in making Terry likable and memorable.	The real highlight of the film, however, is-- hands down-- Cate Blanchett, who plays the repressed, lonely and frustrated housewife, Kate, with a vitality that brings her brilliantly to life.  Blanchett lets her hair down and immerses herself in the role, and her very presence on the screen is absolutely vivacious.  The first time she appears on screen is a shot looking out at her from inside a refrigerator she is opening; a pale, blue light falls across the close-up of her face, and though is passes quickly it's one of those `moments' that instantly become indelibly etched in your mind's eye forever.  Because in that split second you realize that something special has just transpired-- that the movie has just been catapulted to the top rung of the ladder.  And because of Blanchett, Kate just as quickly becomes the central character in the film, and it's simply a terrific performance by one of the most gifted actors in the business.	The supporting cast includes Troy Garity, January Jones, Rocky LaRochelle, Jaye K. Danford, Anthony Burch and Bobby Slayton.  An engaging and thoroughly enjoyable film, `Bandits' is like a `best of all genres' movie, because it's a mixture of action, drama, comedy and suspense all rolled into one-- and it's done perfectly.  Levinson presents it in such a way that it draws you in from the beginning, and the performances are all as good as it gets-- the stars simply shine in this one.  It's the kind of movie you can watch time and again and never tire of seeing.  It has it all, including a great ending.  And that's the magic of the movies.  I rate this one 10/10.                                        	 "},{"Title":"This movie has everything, romance, action and comedy!","Date":"13 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie has everything. It is romantic, it has action and it is hilarious. The unique combination of characters gives it a great chemistry! If you want to come out laughing this is the movie to see and it is definitely worth every penny!  "},{"Title":"Absurdly funny, a laugh from","Date":"13 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  start to finish. Billy Bob shines as the excessive/compulsive (reminiscent of Woody Allen), and Cate Blanchett is perfect as the love interest. The entire cast sparkles. Barry Levinson's got himself another hit. "}{"Title":"Awesome Movie","Date":"13 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie was simply outstanding.  Willis delivers his best performance since Sixth Sense - showing that he can, in fact, be a successful comedic actor.  Thornton & Blanchett delivered fantastic support roles that could have been considered leading roles in their own rights - they were that good.  Go See This Movie!!! "},{"Title":"Funny funny stuff!","Date":"10 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  After a summer of movies that mostly disappointed, what a pleasant surprise to find a picture that exceeds expectations!  I caught a sneak of Bandits 10-06-01 and this Arkansas crowd loved it.  I haven't laughed out loud so much since There's Something About Mary.  Billy Bob is cast against type as the smart, sensitive guy, Willis is the macho tough guy and Blanchett amazes again as the woman who loves them both, at one point saying that the two of them combined make the perfect man.  This trio forms a bank robbing team unique in film history.  Great action sequences, nice romance, lots of laughs, and a cool twist at the end.  What more could you want? "},{"Title":"Great Fun","Date":"8 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Not since Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid, has watching bank robbers been so much fun. Bruce Willis is at the top of his smirky, tough guy game, Cate Blanchett is amazing, and Billy Bob Thornton gives an incredibly funny and touching performance. Thank you, Barry! "},{"Title":"The Odd Couple meets Butch Cassidy!","Date":"8 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is so good -- and so much fun! It's like a perfect combination between The Odd Couple and Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid. The cast is absolutely flawless.  Bruce Willis is effortlessly charming, Billy Bob Thornton is endearingly neurotic, and Cate Blanchett is fabulously unbalanced. I can't imagine anyone else in their roles.  Their chemistry together is great.  They make it seem so easy.  The movie itself is well-plotted and executed -- under a great direction from Barry Levinson. You're rooting for the characters the entire time, and the end is just fantastic!  "},{"Title":"Funny action comedy...","Date":"3 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I'll be honest, when I saw the trailer I wasn't too interested in seeing this movie. Then my roommate gots some free passes to the sneak preview. I figured, what the heck. And now I'm glad I went.Bandits is one of the funnier comedies that has come out this year. Bruce Willis and Billy Bob Thorten had great on camera chemistry. When I saw the trailer I thought Kate (the character, not Cate Blanchett) was going to break this movie. I was wrong. The interactions between her and the two bank robbers and Cate's chemistry with Bruce and Billy was just as good.All the acting in the movie was good, like I said... The directing and camera style was equally as good. It was an interesting style. Everything worked together to make a good movie.Not an Oscar winner, but I left with no complaints. Great movie!!! "},{"Title":"it deserves more","Date":"27 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" i cant believe this movie to be a box office flop. i mean what was bad in it? it was such a good entertaining movie. forget about the faults,cause they are not worth to be counted . a bit slow in some places,but the funny scenes were really funny,and i really laughed. it was obviously a worth movie. n trust me don't believe on those comments who say that this movie is a bore.... i recommend it anyone who would like to watch a real entertainer. Bruce and Bob were awesome. though i was expecting a different kind of end,but still its good. Bruce willies proves once again that he deserves to be called a superstar ,though bob steals the show. he was simply superb. though i only write comments about bad movies but i could not resist ,cause there had been a lot of bad comments about this movie. this movie deserves a lot better rating. "},{"Title":"Truly fun film","Date":"15 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" We often wax on and on about films -- usually justified in doing so, and can enjoy comparing our analyses with others, debating with those who loved a film we hated, or vice versa, etc., etc.But sometimes I just enjoy letting friends know about films I'd recommend to them which are funny or amusing or clever or just plain enjoyable.So in commenting on this picture, I would only say it's all of these.The story is fun, the performances outstanding, and the chemistry among the three leads is tremendous - both as a unit and in any of the three possible combinations of two of them together.All three provide outstanding performances, as well as the entire supporting cast. And if you regard this performance by Billy Bob Thornton, compared with his in Bad Santa and Sling Blade - and think for a moment of these three diverse characters - can there be any doubt that this man is as fine an actor as one is likely to encounter? "},{"Title":"Kate @ Billy make this movie fun to watch....","Date":"4 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is still one of the funniest/best performances by Billy Bob Thorton I have ever seen.In the beginning of the movie,he feels that his civil rights are being for not getting fresh garlic cloves anymore.The hypochondriac, starts naming all these aliments to Bruce.Bruce is trying to spar, then gets whipped by the other guy,being distracted by Billy Bob. My favorite scene with him is when he just got out of a car wreck and he hears sheep.Very disoriented,he says, I'm hearing sheep, I think were in Scotland... Kate is an absolute doll too.She can't choose between Billy and Bruce so she says, I must be an outlaw too, because why can't I have you both? The quirky thing about Kate is she actually sings a lot throughout the whole movie, so we already know when she is first introduced that she is a bad singer. With questionable taste of music.I loved this movie because all the characters had their own idiosyncrasies to make this movie tick. "},{"Title":"The 2nd Movie I've ever turned off before it was over.","Date":"22 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I must not be reading reviews of the same movie I just tried to watch yesterday... I saw Bandits with Bruce Willis (one of our favorite actors) and Billy Bob Thorton.The wife and I watched more than two hours of this movie (at least it felt like it), chuckling on occasion but mostly trying to NOT fall asleep. Finally we compared notes and turned it off.The only other movie that we've ever done that with was Baby Geniuses with Kathleen Turner, another of our favorite movie stars.  That one lasted maybe ten minutes.With a solid cast, this movie should be been at least entertaining if not good.  Personally, I think Bandits suffers an identity crisis.  It doesn't know if it's an action movie, comedy, drama or romance movie. What it achieves is being boring. It moved slower than our son when asked to take out the trash.I'm not sure what all these other folks saw that they loved so much that we didn't see.  Maybe we didn't take enough drugs or something.I'll give this movie a 2 out of 10 only because it wasn't as bad as Baby Geniuses which I gave a 1 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Mora a Clown than a Bandits Movie !!","Date":"6 April 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  What a mess! I was very diappointed at the end because I expected a a good entertaining thriller but not at all! The film never get suspense and Willis / Thornton acted like two clowns in a circus.  For all fans wishing action and thrills avoid this one and don췂t waste your precious time. Save your money for another movie. I gave 4/10 ! "}{"Title":"Misery","Date":"25 January 2002","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Some movies are just awful. Bandits is one of the top of my awful movies list. Not many times in my life I went out of the movie theatre before the movie ended. Bandits tries to be too many things and because of that it fails in every field. It's not funny. It's hardly exciting and it's not even bit thrilling. The most astonishing thing about it is that the cast is full of talented players, the idea of the sleep-over bandits is quite funny but still the movie fails to be even an average movie. Find something more useful to do with your time (washing dishes is a fun activity compared to watching bandits).  "},{"Title":"BORING","Date":"11 November 2001","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie couldn't end fast enough. It had no interesting plot lines to follow. My God was the chemistry between Bruce & Billy Bob non-existent. DON'T SEE THIS MOVIE! BORING! BORING! BORING! I am so serious, don't go to this movie. Terrible idea for a movie.  "},{"Title":"Claw your eyes out rather than see this movie!!!","Date":"19 November 2001","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  trust us! for the love of god this is one of the single worst movies in creation. we can honestly only name you about ten movies that we didn't like and this is most certainly one of them. It shares the same urine trough as such films as big business starring bette midler AND lily tomlin, goldeneye, and the neverending story 3. ridiculous characters, with a few saving graces like the appearance of the song total eclipse of the heart and stupid animal banter thanks to billy bob thornton. Way to go peter jackson, you turned decent actors into god awful film disgraces.ps we could not bear to watch the last 10 minutes, so we walked out of the theatre, clutching our guts in agony, wishing for that hour and forty five minutes back, so we could do something better with our time, like strangle ourselves with our own intestines. love, adam and sarah thank god we got in for free. we still feel like we lost a lot of money. "},{"Title":"Doesn't Steal Much.","Date":"16 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Bandits (2001) Dir Barry Levinson / Cast Bruce Willis, Billy Bob Thornton, Cate Blanchett, Troy Garity, January Jones Title represents Cate Blanchett and the irony that nobody knows what she is really doing. Flashbacks narrate as Bruce Willis and Billy Bob Thornton are surrounded by police in a bank where hostages are taken. Upon escaping from prison they rob banks using a magic marker. They take bank managers hostage the night before and rob the bank the following morning. This has the media tagging them as the Sleepover Bandits. They meet Blanchett, a dysfunctional housewife who feels unappreciated by her workaholic husband and bratty children. She joins the bandits for excitement but media see her as a victim. This leads to a very violent climax. Director Barry Levinson plays off the humour effectively. His resume contains such titles as Rain Man and Wag the Dog. Willis and Thornton are well cast with Blanchett in fine comic flair. Blanchett will end up in a romantic triangle with both parties but it is the deception that eventually wins out that keep this film from greatness. Troy Garity plays a brainless stunt guy who acts as their getaway. The big downfall is the idiots they attempt to rob who play off the media. While special effects are familiar, the film points out destructive nature of particular lifestyles as well as the media's ability to exaggerate it. Score 5 췋 / 10 "},{"Title":"Great Poly-friendly film!","Date":"28 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I loved everything about this movie. It is uniquely funny, the plot surrounding the sleepover bandits is hilarious, & the character dynamic supports the film & gives it its own feel. My favorite part by far though is the polyamorous relationship that develops throughout the film. It's very rare to see a triad relationship at all in a movie, let alone one that has a happy ending & is portrayed in a realistic light. It isn't all drama, it isn't all sunshine & roses. It's like how a real polyamorous trio would potentially develop.(minus the bank robberies & faking your own death to go live in Mexico). I would recommend this film to all my poly friends, as well as to anyone else with a sense of humor. "},{"Title":"Bonnie (Tyler) and Clyde and Clyde","Date":"29 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I knew nothing about this film before I watched it. I saw that it stars Bruce Willis and Cate Blanchett, and it made me curious. What kind of film might serve as the intersection of those two disparate careers? Now that I have watched the film, I am glad I did. I really enjoyed this crime comedy. And it all starts with Cate Blanchett. If I had to choose one word to describe her (as a person or as an actress) it would be mercurial. And her willingness to do the unexpected and to challenge herself comes through every role. Here, as Kate, the woman who (literally) accidentally becomes a part of a crime spree involving two escaped prisoners, she shines. And she is totally believable as the woman who is off-center, somewhat kooky, dangerously unpredictable and still deliciously desirable.Bruce Willis plays Joe Blake and Billy Bob Thornton plays Terry Collins. Joe is spontaneous and confident. Terry is a hypochondriac with OCD tendencies, who is always one twinge away from what he believes to be an exotic demise. Together, they are dubbed the sleepover bandits. They bicker like Butch and Sundance and similarly dream of a south-of-the-border paradise (filled with tuxedos and margaritas). Eventually, they become popular folk heroes, like Bonnie and Clyde. I think it's no accident that their sidekick/driver is named Harvey Pollard--an homage to Michael J. Pollard, who costarred in Bonnie & Clyde.The story allows the desperadoes to interact with their victims, who they treat as family friends. But the main thrust is the development of the triangle between Kate, Joe and Terry. There are some memorable lines and some wonderful moments. This comedy may be somewhat understated for some viewers, judging by some reviews, but it is not so understated as to bypass an opportunity for some incidental physical comedy. "},{"Title":"Quirky comedy","Date":"16 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" &#x84;Bandits is a lighthearted comedy about &#x85; well , bandits. I can easily picture this movie as western. Anyway this isn't your typical American comedy . The humor here is offbeat and rather odd. It might mot be everyone's cup of tea. The whole movie has a sense of specific boredom in it &#x96; nothing really happens , yet the audience isn't bored. The funniest scenes are IMHO Willis and Blanchett talking about Bonnie Tyler's music and Thornton after the car crash.The trio of stars deserves some praise . Bruce Willis is good as the tough guy with good heart. Billy Bob Thornton is brilliant as the hypochondriac robber and so is Cate Blanchett as the frustrated housewife.The movie makes some mild attempts at being a satire at the media , but never really develops that idea. The story is simple and predictable , so is the ending . It doesn't mean that Bandits aren't a pleasant way to spend your evening . Just don't expect big laughs and you should have kinda odd sense of humor.I give it 5/10. "},{"Title":"lack tension, not quirky enough to be funny","Date":"19 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Joe Blake (Bruce Willis) and Terry Lee Collins (Billy Bob Thornton) are a bank robbing team. They break out of prison and come up with a different scheme. This time around they kidnap the bank managers and rob the bank before it opens. They become known as The Sleepover Bandits. Everything is going well until bored housewife Kate Wheeler (Cate Blanchett) runs over Terry.This should be much better than it actually is. It has veteran director Barry Levinson, and great actors. But something is missing. There is a lack of energy. There is action but they're shot weakly. There are jokes but they lack the punch. Maybe they needed a real comedian in one of three lead roles. The three leads are great actors who sometimes do a few jokes in their roles. They aren't actually comedians. "},{"Title":"an original watchable and entertaining bank heist caper","Date":"26 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Bandits is a clever, unusual bank-heist caper staring Bruce Willis and Billy Bob Thornton as Joe and Terry, escaped convicts on the run, jacking banks under the guise of the sleepover bandits given their technique of kidnapping Bank Managers the night before to robbery. They're charming and non-violent, just wanting to finance their dream of getting Mexico to live the high lift. Playboy Joe (Willis) and hypochondriac Terry (Thornton) get into difficulty when bored housewife Kate (Blanchett) joins the duo. Comic relief, the klutz of the operation is wannabe stuntman Troy Garity, who is on a mission of his own having seen his dream girl Pink Boots (January Jones). Director Levinson played the action/drama realistic and close and it was believable enough to keep you in the story; the viewer believes the premise of the film as being plausible, why hasn't anyone thought of this before? This keeps the story zipping along, with wise cracks, tos and fros in story, and flashes back and forward, which I found clever devices to misdirect. With Willis' charm and Thornton's chameleon funny disguises and great acting his various symptoms and annoyances, and Blanchett's brilliance, the film was well cast and clever. Enjoyable, watchable and entertaining. "},{"Title":"The Sleepover Bandits","Date":"8 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Although Bruce Willis (as Joseph 'Joe' Blake) has the top billing in this movie, it is actually Billy Bob Thornton (Terry Lee Collins) who carries this film with an outstanding and hilarious performance as a hypochondriac who seems to have contracted just about every disease known to mankind. Essentially, Joe decides to break out of prison at the spur of the moment and Terry mindlessly follows him out of the gates. Once outside they decide to rob banks which leads them to fame as the Sleepover Bandits due to their penchant of kidnapping bank presidents at night and sleeping at his house prior to robbing the bank the next morning. In one specific botched get-away Terry accidentally kidnaps a passing motorist named Kate Wheeler (Cate Blanchett) which further increases their fame. Rather than divulge the entire plot I'll just say that this film had some good moments and some bad moments. The beginning and the end were very good but it seemed to really slow down in the middle. Big time. And while both Bruce Willis and Troy Garity (as the get-away driver Harvey 'Dog' Pollard) added decent performances, Cate Blanchett didn't seem to have the right chemistry for this movie. Be that as it may, the end result was a good comedy aided primarily by the excellent acting of Billy Bob Thornton. If the bar room scene doesn't make you laugh then nothing will. "}{"Title":"The Real Smooth Criminals","Date":"22 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Two convicts escape prison during a dastardly spontaneous break. Joe Blake (Bruce Willis), with charm and sex-appeal to spare, leads the duo into a series of bank robberies, however the brains behind the operation is Terry Lee Collins (Billy Bob Thronton), a hypochondriac with a subversive knack for stealing. After conceptualising the ploy to kidnap bank managers at their home the day before a heist, thus giving them access to the bank vault prior to its opening, the enter into a highly successful spree which gives them country-wide prominence. Blake cousin Harvey Pollard (Troy Garity) completes the team of robbers, functioning as the heist middleman and getaway driver. The situation however complicates itself when an dissatisfied housewife Kate Wheeler (Cate Blanchett), suicidally saddened by her husband's lack of interest, ends up a willing hostage of the three robbers, soon becoming a lover of both Joe and Terry...Hilarious, often through subtlety, not straight forward humour, Bandits turns several premises on its head, offering a well-conceived robbery ploy which simultaneously functions as a great instrument for comedic content. Although Willis is invariably himself the show is truly stolen by Billy Bob Thornton, whose quirky nervous character is revelatory offering apt space for him to present his comedic attributes. At times keeping the story simple and close to the audience, it nonetheless manages to bring about twists that are both ingenious and uncontrived. Features several absolutely charming scenes, including the most peculiar dance in memory. "},{"Title":"Hostage Situation.","Date":"21 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I wish the media would simply refer to hostages instead of hostage situations. How can you have hostages taken WITHOUT there being a situation? Don't we have enough redundancy in everyday life -- thunderstorm activity and free gifts -- without hostage situations? I tell you, it soured my whole outlook on the film even though I don't remember that the term itself was ever used.A good guess it that this looked like a fine comedy on paper to director Levinson, a former writer. And it does have a couple of funny lines and situations. Yet it somehow doesn't come together. The performers are all competent but the script requires them to do and say things that usually land with a slight thud.Three bandits, led by Willis and Thornton, rob banks the easy and non-violent way, just by staying overnight at the bank manager's house and accompanying him to the bank the next morning so he can open the safe and give them the money. A bored housewife, Cate Blanchett, is swept up into the crime spree and plays an active part in the robberies. Both Willis and Thornton sleep with her and find her irresistible.It's understandable. Blanchett, in addition to being a magnificent actress with a wide range (from Elizabeth to The Gift) and able to shed her Aussie accent instantly, has a long enough nose to set off her piquant beauty. It's not a traditional ski-slope nose either. Yes, it's long and it seems to extend down half her face but it has an alluring lump or two. Nobody has a face so unconventionally stunning. Her figure is merely stunning in a conventional way, so far as it's possible to tell, which is not far enough. She's like a tall, more symmetrical Vera Farmiga.Her two compa침eros couldn't be more different. Willis, with hair, plays his usual role of robust man of action, a little dumb. He explains to a TV interviewer how his friendship with Thornton is like that of Lewis and Clark. Why else would Lewis have tracked Clark through the African jungle until he finally found him? Thornton is the hypochondriacal and indecisive passive figure, intolerant to all kinds of foods, allergic to this and that, worried about brain tumors, and phobic for Benjamin Disraeli's curly hair and even Charles Laughton.That kind of nonsense -- confusing Lewis and Clark with Stanley and Livingston, and being phobic for Disraeli's hair -- really IS funny as hell and it's precisely what the movie needed more of.As it stands, there are longish longueurs during which we watch the bored and glamorous housewife seduce the two bandits, who later must come to blows over who owns her. After a delirious and frenzied climactic bank robbery, everybody has a serious and completely unconvincing falling out, although who owns Blanchett is still an issue waiting resolution. She certainly doesn't go back to her husband. During her status as hostage, he makes a plea on TV for her to come back home if she possibly can escape. He won't be there. He's taking a vacation in Spain. But the house needs her. The house WANTS her. It's very moving.The photography and location shooting, mostly on California's northern coast, is colorful and evocative. Nice job there. "},{"Title":"A Feel Good, Entertaining Crime Caper Comedy","Date":"14 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" In a lighter flare than BONNIE & CLYDE (1967) and a much more sizzling intellectually pungent dynamic than BUTCH CASSIDY AND THE SUNDANCE KID (1969) with Billy Bob Thornton's renditions of lofty cynical humor, the script of BANDITS is a Hannibal Lector without the sinister element and perhaps even reminiscent of CHARADE (1963) in its wry humor in a crime caper. BANDITS also has some derivative suggestions from the earlier PULP FICTION (1994) style but also with the edgy nature. The playfulness of this movie is involving as a relational, comedic romantic crime genre. The flavor of this movie was later captured by TROOPER THUNDER (2008) in a much more extravagant fashion on a larger action canvass and suggestive of MATCHSTICK MEN (2003) and THE MATADOR (2005). "},{"Title":"A really fun, all-American ride","Date":"2 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I enjoyed it epically the first time I saw and, I still haven't gotten tired of all its charms. Bandits is almost adorable. It takes us on a breezy ride of crime and comedy, up and down the US west coast with killer one liners, witty dialogue, in addition to soundtrack which features more great hits than any five movies combined, including some Bob Dylan, some Bonnie Tyler, some Robert Plant, some U2 and many others. But seriously, don't get the soundtrack, get the movie.When the curtain rises, The 'Sleepover Bandits' Joe Blake and Terry Collins, have screwed up a major bank robbery and are now trapped inside surrounded by the LAPD, the Swat and hundred of press. We then flash back several months to when the two break out of prison in Oregon. Once on the loose they form a plan to escape into Mexico and run a hotel. But first, they have to rob a lot of banks. Thinks are going well at first until a big bump in the road appears. Kate Wheeler is running away from her miserable life, she runs into the Bandits, who make her a hostage, but both fall in love with her, and while she is having the time of her life on the run with these guys, she may also be the straw that breaks the camels back and ends Joe and Terry's friendship.From the first scene it is established that Kate was the one who tipped of the cops, and is the reason why the two are trapped in the bank. The Journey towards this particular moment however, is wild. The romantic element is funny, the crime element is funny, and the comedic element is especially funny. These Bandits turn out to be likable guys, We end up rooting for them, even though they may occasionally get childish and immature. Bruce Willis is not a funny guy, but here he plays almost a satire of himself. We are used to seeing him as a ruffian. Billy Bob Thornton is very funny, and because of his character's hypochodria, he gets to deliver some of the best lines in the movie. Bandits also offers what may Cate Blanchett's most adorable role. This must've been a fun movie to act in.There is a lot more worth saying about Bandits, but I don't wanna over sell it. You really have to see it for yourselves. "},{"Title":"In the history of bad ideas, this is a humdinger.","Date":"25 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" You would expect the team up of Bruce Willis, Billy Bob Thonton and Cate Blanchett to be pretty good, and Bandits has it's moments, but you sure have to disengage from some of the less plausible elements of the story to make it work. Like the character of Joe Blake's (Willis) cousin Harvey (Troy Garrity). Didn't he quit the bank robbery business at some point along the way as he tried to pick up his dream girl hitchhiker? But there he was in the thick of things at the finale. So did he quit just to fool the audience, with Joe and Terry (Thornton) in on the ruse? I didn't get that, and I'm not going back to try and figure it out.But I generally liked the chemistry between Willis and Billy Bob. I don't know if throwing Blanchett into the mix was all that valuable or necessary. The other two palookas could have managed their bank heist without her being around. The love triangle really didn't work for me, once again referring to those less plausible elements I referenced earlier.The twist ending following the opening set up was pretty clever though. Not really buying it, but it did manage to extend a bit of misdirection offered by 'Criminals At Large'. If I can get my hands on a better quality print of the flick than the one I watched, I just might be up for a second viewing. In the meantime, I'll come away reasonably satisfied with the first pass, but without a glowing recommendation. "},{"Title":"Well, yeah... Very entertaining... but","Date":"3 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I could easily give Bandits a 10 if it were not because going over the top kills what was an interesting idea and doesn't do much for the threesome premise. I'm just saying that being the object of an excessive hypochondria can make the audience sick. So, at the end it did not work for me the notion that Kate would end up so heart split between the two male characters. The original idea of course was that Joe was all physical, attractive, suave and strong all in one. And Terry was oh so sensitive, smart, intelligent, vulnerable, soft and tender. OK, they were that way to a point and if if would've been that way you can swallow Kate assumption that the two of them can cake a perfect man... for her. So much so that she wasn't able to choose! Then, there is a couple of things to be said about this being wrong First, Joe demonstrated being very much a twin soul for her being gentle, romantic, sensitive, respectful and tolerant. And he was by no means a no brains male bimbo. Second, it's true that Terry demonstrates vulnerability more that anything else and probably she could fall for it. But it was so silly to have poor Terry being sick from about everything he would run into to the point that it went past the barrier of a suspended belief for a romance between the two. And if that wasn't enough, just take the scene at the bar where just because he had a numb leg the episode was taken to the extreme that the director would make Kate and him dance anyways so that she ended up holding a comatose guy going to the floor which he eventually did. All things said, should the script and the director had taken 2/3 or 3/4 of Terry hypochondria everything would have been fine Willis couldn't be better or more effective in his role; Cate Blanchett acting was perfect and she has a fantastic sex appeal; and Bob Billy did also very good, and his character's shortcomings weren't never his fault. I thought all the bank robberies, overnight dining and sleeping were absolutely charming, and several characters no matter how brief were really enjoyable. Too bad Terry had a phobia, an allergy or an imaginary illness almost every time he was on screen. Way too much... "},{"Title":"An intelligent Willis movie...","Date":"17 November 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I thought this movie was really nifty when I first saw it. I doubt it will stand out in the annals of cinematography, but it's a decent film.Bruce Willis, Billy Bob Thornton and Cate Blanchett are three unique people, thrown together by Willis and Thornton's bank robbing career. And even though it's not a flashy, exploding car movie, it is still really strong. First, the story is great, and every essential character is woven intricately into the plot. The movie basically develops through dialogue, so it may seem boring, but it all serves a purpose. The second strong point is the characters. Willis isn't the deepest guy, but his character has his own nuances that show in his behavior. Thornton is the real shining star here - he quite effectively pulls off an incredibly neurotic hypochondriac. The interaction of the characters is the main power behind the movie. I recommend this movie, not necessarily to Willis fans who expect big fiery flashes, but to the people who appreciate a movie with intelligence. There's probably more worthwhile story here than in every other Willis action film combined. "},{"Title":"Quick comedic dialog, and gives great sense of character development.","Date":"1 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Bandits. The film takes you through the lives of two similar, yet very different bank robbers. The bandits, Joe Blake(Willis) and Terry Collins(Thorton), have very opposite personalities but the same taste in women which clashes when they run into a depressed housewife named Kate(Blanchett). Kate finds their outlaw style of life thrilling and exciting. After falling for the Joe, the strong, handsome confident one; Blake and Collins decide to keep her on as an accomplice and carry out their plan of robbing various banks around the country and eventually high-tailing it off to Mexico with the cash and starting a nightclub. Everything is going according to plan, but unexpectedly shifts when Kate falls for the other bank robber, Terry. Terry is an unconfident, hypochondriac, nervous wreck who can't believe all this is happening to him. In life, when there are two guys fighting over a girl, the result is not usually pretty. Kate becomes confused and leaves the 2 alone with each other. Joe and Terry find that life with out Kate is more puzzling than before and decided they need her to carry out their last big job.The director Barry Levinson really knew this story and also knew how to tell it. The character development in this movie really made the whole thing. The characters are so distinctive and they needed actors who could portray those characteristics perfectly. The films casting was right on point. Billy Bob Thorton delivered an outstanding performance as Terry Collins. The on-screen chemistry between Thorton, Willis, and Blanchett is amazing. One thing that is refreshing about this movie is how their are no loose ends that need to be tied up because everything fits together perfectly. The cinematography plays a huge part in telling this story because it changes with every character and also runs with the film's music. The buried theme or conflict behind Bandits is 3 lost people who are just looking for happiness.  "},{"Title":"I want those 122 minutes of my life back, please.","Date":"24 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  You know it's a bad sign when you find yourself wishing, partway through the movie, that you'd brought along a good book to read instead.  Perhaps one with a good plot, engaging dialogue and sympathetic characters, as opposed to what you're watching... as was the case with Bandits, for me.  If I had been there alone, I would have left before this contrived yawnfest ended, in fact, since watching paint dry would have been more entertaining.This movie should be held up as evidence for the assertion that film-making is an art, not a simple formula.  In Bandits, we have Levinson + Willis + Thornton + Blanchett + potentially interesting plot idea, but it doesn't add up to anything worthwhile, in defiance of expectations.  Those are all great people, but they phoned it in this time, and with the script they had to work with, I hardly blame them.I didn't see these characters as anything but gimmicky, pretty unconvincing caricatures, and watching them bumbling through a stagnant plot was anything but entertaining.  I don't think I would see this film again if I were paid to, I'm sorry to say.  I have a fine sense of humor, like my comedy dry and black, but I still couldn't find wit in this with an electron microscope. "},{"Title":"Laugh Out loud Funny","Date":"25 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I found Bandits to be a very funny movie. The Sleepover Bandits, where they go to the bank president's house, take him and his family hostage, then go to the bank in the morning, rob it, and get away.  Then meet at a rendezvous point with their spotter, divide the money and go their separate ways for 2 weeks and do it all again.  The concept was different and original.  They're not your typical bank robbers.  Billy Bob Thornton as Terry Collins was a hypochondriac who's convinced he has a brain tumor and almost every disease there is.  He's also the brains of the group.  Bruce Willis as Joe Blake, was different.  One minute he can be a ruthless thug, beating someone up if he wants his car and he resists. Then he could take on the role of a protective father to Cheri (Azura Skye), when he sees her with her pants down and making out with her boyfriend or can be as polite as can be when he carjacks a woman or robbing a bank, always saying please and thank you.  Or he's playing councilor to a woman who comes to Bank President Darril Miller's (Brian O'Bryne) house to confront him and his wife about their affair.  The latter was deleted from the movie and can be found on the DVD.  That was a shame because it would've been great in the movie and Kiersten Warren (as someone identified her on the message board) was hilarious.Cate Blanchett as Kate Wheeler was good, but sometimes I found her to be a bit over the top.  Her chemistry with Willis and Thornton was good, but I thought they could've either developed her character a little more and/or toned her down a bit.Troy Garity as Harvey Dog Pollard was a goofball and I liked it.  The dance scene he did with January Jones (Claire) reminded me of the scene with Sylvester (Dick Shawn) from It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World.  I laugh when I see that scene.  All you needed next is the phone to ring and Ethel Merman on the line needing her son's help.The ending was great as well.  It didn't end the way I thought it would.  They threw a huge curve ball at you.  Well done.I bought the DVD last year and it was worth it. "}{"Title":"A surprisingly great movie.","Date":"6 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I'm not surprised by the number of reviews that just didn't get it. But this movie had me laughing out loud over and over again, beginning with the hilarious script (I think every review did agree that Billy Bob's character was a crack-up), and top notch acting (Thornton at his comedic best, Willis plays his role perfectly, also with great comedic undertone, and Cate Blanchett hits the nail on the head as usual). Yeah so some aspects are a little loose on the credibility scale, but so what. This movie is full of intelligent and subtle humor. It's also technically excellent, everyone looks great, every scene is shot beautifully, and the editing is very interesting and well done.   People who have preconceived notions they can't escape will complain about this or that, but give this movie a look. It's definitely worth it.       "},{"Title":"If you like bad movies, still don't see this.","Date":"11 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is disappointingly bad.  A solid combination of stars and director, and a plot that seems like it could be funny delivers a poor movie.  At points it seemed as though the film was trying to go for camp, but even that didn't succeed, as it was clear that this movie takes itself too seriously for its own good. One saving grace A scene involving the song 'Total Eclipse of the Heart'. Yet, even this is not as funny as one would hope.   "},{"Title":"The Wigs of Willis","Date":"29 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  You know what's great? When straight actors surprise you with a really inspired performance in a comedic role. Like DeNiro in Midnight Run, and you realize that an awesome actor on top of everything else, doesn't exactly take himself too seriously. If you took the opposite of that pleasant experience, you get this movie. This is normally dramatic actors and a grossly over rated director trying comedy and finding they don't have that particular gift. You end up with a complete embarrassment that's sort of like watching a comic bomb on the old Johnny Carson show. I love, love Cate Blanchett, but she's bad. I think Billy Bob is the best, but he is terrible! and Bruce Willis, well you know how that looks when things don't mesh...Its just awful, and painful to watch if you are so able. I couldn't, I cut in and out, and finally got tired of rolling my eyes and called it a night. For some reason misfires in a motion picture are more irritating than poison ivy, and this film gives you a textbook example of how overreaching ones limitations can produce pure banality. Think Natural Born Killers. "},{"Title":"I liked it, and I don't think I'm shallow","Date":"23 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A good collection of leads, some quirky characters, a nice structure for telling the story and a bit of feelgood malarky made me enjoy this movie. I generally prefer non-linear telling and half suggested storylines, and although this was mainstream and quite obvious by my standards, the above features made me rate it highly. It must have bombed in the UK, because I hadn't heard of it before it came onto Sky movies, despite the strong cast. I was prepared to be bored by it, but despite Bruce W doing his usual acting ability (see The Story of Us) I felt his character worked in the ensemble. I like the fact he has rubbish hair and isn't afraid to show it.Better than expected, as good as it should have been. "},{"Title":"All-time great comedy","Date":"23 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  When I went in to see this film I was expecting an average comedy, perhaps with a few good laughs.  What I got was a revelation.  All of this is down to the strong case, solid direction and a very good script.This film established Billy Bob Thornton as one of the best comedic talents around.  Two moments in particular stand out.  The first is a completely spontaneous moment of comedic genius.  In the scene we see Thornton asleep, then he wakes and says something that had me laughing for ten minutes. The second scene is towards the end of the film when Thornton and Blanchett are dancing and gradually Thornton loses more and more of his right side to the point that he is partially disabled (although this is all imagined).Some critics have said, for example Roger Ebert, that the film does not know if it wants to be a comedy or a drama.  The sense of melancholy in the film however centres mainly around Blanchett, and this was not as big a part of the film as some have made out.While he is not at the same level as Thornton, Willis still gives a solid performance.  This is a reasonably nuanced comedic performance from Willis, notice the scene where they rob a bank and Willis checks out one of the hostages.The chemistry between Blanchett, Willis and Thornton is very good.  The scene where Blanchett gives Thornton a full makeover was one of the best scenes in the film.Overall, I would have to say that this is one of the best comedies of the last ten years, with Thornton giving a performance that ranks up there with Nicholson in 'As Good As It Gets' for the best comedic performance of the last ten years. "},{"Title":"Loved it, but you might not","Date":"4 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I loved this movie, but am hard pressed to say exactly why.  As other people have noted, it does kind of meander and dabbles in a number of different plot points without actually deciding on one direction.  Ultimately, I think it is a hyper-realistic romantic-caper-comedy that you either buy into or you don't.  Judging from the number of negative reviews it is quite hard for most viewers to immerse themselves into this world - it seems to have quite a contrived quality to many.  For me, on the other hand, it worked.  I thought Billy Bob was hilarious, Cate Blanchett was excellent, and that they along with Bruce Willis worked great together.   "},{"Title":"After a decent start, predictable and annoying","Date":"23 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie starts somewhat entertaining then plods along so predictably boring that I was actually angry that I saw this movie for free.  On a positive note, Billy Bob Thornton's performance was right on note with his particular character, while Bruce Willis produces factory lines and emotions, like any other tough guy who shows feelings in any other movie. In other words, he added nothing to make his role unique.  The script was so ungodly predictable I found myself saying the next cheesy annoying line before it happened (that is not creative writing).  An average at best movie I will not want to watch again. ** (out of four) "},{"Title":"Another dud from Levinson","Date":"6 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Barry Levinson should replace Ed Wood as Hollywood's all-time worst director. His movies are overdone, unfocused, and poorly executed. Why Hollywood's elite group of actors and actresses want to make movies with him is a mystery. After watching BANDITS, it is clear that after spending time watching this flick, one comes away feeling it was a grand waste of time. There is no believability with the plot, which would be fine if Levinson was not trying to make the viewer believe that the plot was credible. Thorton is annoying, while Willis and Blanchette try to make the best of a weak and stupid script. A loser, both as a movie, and a director. Levinson should resign himself to cleaning the bottom of Blanchette's pool. "},{"Title":"Cate Blanchett is wonderful in this mildly amusing diversion","Date":"9 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The first time I'd saw BANDITS, my date wanted to smoke a little garanja in the car before the picture and the stoned-groove we were in didn't lift until 2/3rds of the picture was over. We were quite puzzled by the film; we thought it terrible, but didn't really know why since we had been so blotto through most of it. I recently saw BANDITS on DVD, and I must say, it's much better than I remembered (a statement that might be considered questionable as I didn't remember much of it at all).Cate Blanchett once again amazes in a role that could have been flat and one-dimensional or just plain cute in the hands of most actresses. Cate is the best actress in motion pictures right now; she is the primarily reason for seeing BANDITS.Billy Bob Thornton is quite good in his role, though his hypochondriac shtick wears a little thin towards the end of the picture. Bruce Willis turns in a solid Bruce Willis characterization, charm and slightly absurd, always not-quite self-conscious machismo. The only negative in the acting category is Troy Garity, who is as awful as I remembered him, in the role of fifth wheel. It was no surprise, watching the interesting extras contained on the DVD, to find out that he is Jane Fonda's son and was cast in the movie as his godmother is one of the producers! Garity is handsome, a sort-of unrefined John F. Kennedy, Jr., but his voice is terrible and he's not much of an actor. As we can see from the bottoming out of Bridget Fonda's career, unlike the Redgraves, the Fonda acting genes have become quite diluted unto the third generation. Garity's performance is an indictment against Hollywood nepotism.All in all, an entertaining diversion that would be a good rent for those times when better MUST-SEE flicks aren't in stock at the video store. The  film is well-crafted and beautifully shot, with great  locations in Oregon and northern California. I give the film a 6 out of 10 (and you may rate in higher) and Cate Blanchett a 10 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"fun, enjoyable film","Date":"31 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I liked this film. There are lots of funny moments throughout and the fantastic Cate Blanchett steals many scenes.  I found her character original and highly amusing, and very well acted.  (And I loved those first singing scenes in the kitchen!)  Billy Bob Thornton is very good as the hypochondriac and I had no problems with Bruce Willis.  The three leads had great chemistry together and it made for a very enjoyable film.  Things did drag a bit midway through the film but I didn't really mind it. "}{"Title":"Clever, sorta original","Date":"28 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I enjoyed this film from start to finish. The chemistry between Thornton, Willis and Blanchett was original. The story was interesting in itself. The climax being set up at the start and then the story unfolding to get you to that point. The ending got me by surprise. The acting was splendid, especially Thornton and Blanchett. They fit their characters so well you find yourselves rooting for them more and more as the movie progresses. out of 10, I give it an 8 "},{"Title":"Well, this is fun","Date":"28 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  ***Starring Bruce Willis, Billy Bob Thornton, and Cate Blanchett.Two bandits who recently escaped from prison kidnap an on-the-edge housewife who doesn't mind being kidnapped.  What was fun was seeing the two bandits diversities.  Willis is a more tough-guy bandit.  Thornton is a...uh...feminist bandit.  It didn't have as much laughs as I expected but I still enjoyed the film.  "},{"Title":"Long and Boring","Date":"19 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I consider that movie as a serious waste of my time. But anyway, it's worth watching, only because of the ending - kinda reminds me unbeatable 'Sting'.4/10 "},{"Title":"The film doesn't carry itself forward","Date":"7 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A good idea, and Levinson's idea of moving forward and backward in time is interesting, but the whole movie is a whole bunch of nothing.Most of the scenes doesn't carry itself forward or have any relevance to the story.  They could have probably edited the movie down to 80 minutes without loosing anything.The attraction scenes seems forced and predictable, one would have seen it coming from a mile away.  Bruce Willis' acting doesn't do anything for me.  Where is the part of him that needed anger management?  The only good acting was from Billy Bob Thorton, who plays a neurotic hypochondriac in constant search for a new disease that he might have got.  As far as roles, the dimwit cousin who constantly wanders off for some girl, I mean, they are in the middle of a heist, anyone that dimwitted would have been killed long ago in a traffic accident or something.The ending was the only thing that was any good, and even that was a far stretch, considering how the dimwit cousin could pull off such a series of stunts, their casually sliding the money away and everybody believing the body just burned into dust. "},{"Title":"A very funny, very good refreshing crime comedy","Date":"29 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Bandits is a gem from 2001.  To tell you the truth, I've never seen Bruce Willis like this, and I like it.  Billy Bob Thorton shines.  This may not be realistic, but it's fun, fun as hell.  See it. B+, 8/10 "},{"Title":"Great story, good acting, dialogue-movie.","Date":"16 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Bandits, is all about the bank robbers Joe and Terry. They're gentleman and wouldn't even harm a fly. Terry's a hypochondriac, intelligent and very cunning bankrobber, played hilarious by mr Thornton. Joe (Willis) is a muscle man, but with a sensitive and philosophical (Lao-Tzu is his favorite) nature. Although the movie starts with the end (they're in a bank completely surrounded by police) it's still very enjoyable to see how they got there in the first place. Cate Blanchett plays the girl who stands between the men and seems to play them apart, but the question Does she succeed?, keeps you hanging on, until the end. (vote 8) "},{"Title":"Bandits is one cool movie","Date":"15 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I really liked Bandits, it had a great story, it had good actors and it was a hilariously cool movie. Billy Bob Thorton did such a great job, he was absolutely hilarious. Cate Blanchett didn't do so well, it seemed like she was trying too hard to be funny but it didn't work, she is not a comedy person. Bruce Willis did good too but Billy Bob Thorton was the best. Great music too, I really enjoyed it. If you want a cool fun time definetaly see Bandits, 8.5/10 "},{"Title":"Enjoyable","Date":"2 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A nice combination of humor/action, like we've seen before from Bruce Willis. Also a tasteful collection of soundtracks used for this film, like Jimmy Page, Tanita Tikaram, Mark Knophler and others. But the film is fun and not boring till the last minute.I enjoyed it a lot. "},{"Title":"Funny, if not memorable comedy from Levinson.","Date":"8 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Barry Levinson's comical Bandits, featuring Bruce Willis and Billy Bob Thornton (much better than his co-star) as bank robbers with a difference. Kidnapping the bank president the night before the robbery and going in to rob the bank in the early morning earns the pair the &#145;Sleepover Bandits' moniker by the American press, which swoops on the story when a married woman is thought to be a Patti Hearst type victim of the kidnappers. The introduction of Cate Blanchett's character half an hour into the film (one of its faults &#150; should have been much earlier), provides one of the funniest scenes in recent memory with Blanchett belting out Bonnie Tyler's 'I Need a Hero' while indulging in her passion &#150; cooking. With a few plot twists along the way &#150; including a love triangle between the trio &#150; the film goes out on a bit of a clich칠. With great performances from Blanchett (as always) playing an unloved married woman and Thornton as the neurotic Woody Allen type bank robber, the film hits some high notes. An average turn by Bruce Willis as the dominant male of the three brings it back down most of the time. Coupled with a sometimes great screenplay, Bandits is a good 2 hours of escapist fun. (And personally, much preferred to Levinson's other much &#145;loved' film, Rain Man.) "},{"Title":"An epic(?) haiku to the complexity of irony","Date":"7 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This very funny film makes wonderful sport of romance (in that it takes two men  to be the ideal partner for one woman), of several key manifestations of mental  infirmity (Terry's hypochondria, Joe's machismo, Kate's romanticism) allreflected in Harvey's eventual acceptance that he's a stunt man and not a bank  robber. Refracted through the lens of the videographic Criminals at Large we  get the hyper-ironic experience of watching ourselves watching ourselves doing  all the things we'd REALLY rather be doing with our lives... "}{"Title":"Could have been condensed into a good quarter hour","Date":"28 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Man meets bank, man robs bank, man meets woman, man and woman get together... this is the basic plot and it repeats over and over again. The ending is a good one if you can sit through the rest of the movie. "},{"Title":"Very enjoyable!","Date":"14 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Walking through the the video rental place, normally a strange feeling of panic strikes... What movie should i rent? This time i grabbed this film from the shelves.I didn't read the movie description on the back of the box, and rented it without knowing what it was all about. I was in for a very pleasant surprise! This film is actually pretty good.In two words very enjoyable!A true feel good movie, and well played by our favorite elf from Lord of the Rings.My rating 8 "},{"Title":"Bandits Stole My Money","Date":"3 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Geez, what a turkey! You'd expect a lot more from a film starring Bruce Willis, but the title is suitable considering I wasted money renting the DVD.This flick is a dud and isn't worth a look. Save your money on something else.0 out of four stars. "},{"Title":"Terrific, funny, adventure","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a magical combination of comedy, romance, bank robberies and phobias. Willis, Thornton and Blanchett are great together as The Sleepover Bandits plus babe. The script is crisp, and the actors execute it beautifully. Blanchett's opening scene is excellent with very few words we get a vivid picture of who this woman is and what troubles her life contains. This is immediately followed by an absolutely hilarious sequence with Thornton that clearly illustrates the comedic abilties of both actors. Willis, of course, plays the wise-cracking ladies man perfectly, he has, after all, been playing that role for years. The TV crime documentary sequences get a little tedious at times, but do serve to keep us interested in the outcome of the story. And that outcome is worth waiting for. Having watched the DVD, along with the various actor interviews, I'm still amazed that Troy Garity appears to talk like that, even in real life!  "},{"Title":"** out of 5","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Billy Bob Thorton and Bruce Willis play 2 men who break out of jail and rob banks. The trailer showed the movie as a mix between thriller and comedy but the truth is it's much to dark to be funny and much to goofy to be taken seriously and really the only funny scenes in the whole movie were already shown in the trailer. I am a huge Willis fan and he is the only reason I saw this long and boring movie that delivers no laughs, no excitement and no sentimentality. You won't care ne bit for any of the characters because they are all bland and uninteresting especially Kate Blanchet who's charatcer has no point of being in the movie in the first place. Bruce Willis is the only person holding this whole mess together and I can't say that he was all that good either. They only people who should watch this movie are insomniacs who are trying to get some sleep everyone else should stick to the funny movies in this genre like Money Talks and Nothing to Loose.  "},{"Title":"Butch & Sundance Meet Take The Money And Run","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is wild, and lots of fun.  Terry and Joe, escape from prison in dramatic fashion, rob banks in one-horse towns, laugh together, drive each other crazy, fall in love with their depressed housewife-hostage, and amuse the audience while building up to the big finish.  We are escorted into this chaos in flashback by the raspy-voiced host of an America's-Most-Wanted-type show called Criminals-at-Large in quasi-documentary fashion.A revelation neurotic, paranoid, but brilliantly clever Terry is played magnificently by Billy Bob Thornton, showing range and a sense of humor I never knew he possessed.  Picture a southern-fried Virgil Starkwell (Woody Allen's character in TTMAR) embodied in Thornton.  Bruce Willis is ideally cast as Joe, the beastly suave and erratically tempered natural leader of the cellblock.  Creator Barry Levinson and Willis has fun paying homage not only to Butch Cassidy, but in slyly combining elements of other vintage Paul Newman movies/characters, including (I believe) Cool Hand Luke, The Sting, Where The Money Is, Hombre, Harper, Hud, Lady L, and Sometimes A Great Notion.  Cate Blanchett, who showed similarly indelible wildness in The Shipping News, scores big-time as a modern-day Etta Place mixed with the Susan-wannabe in Desperately Seeking Susan and a dash of Estelle Parsons from Bonnie and Clyde.  The chemistry and repartee between the trio are unforgettable.  Other characters pay homage to Bonnie and Clyde, Take The Money and Run, Pocket Money, and others.This movie is a lot of fun.  Enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Mmmm.. beavers -n- ducks!","Date":"11 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  CONTAINS SPOILER For whatever reason, that line made me laugh (very odd thing to say when you just woke up).  This movie turned out to be a lot better than I thought it was going to be.  Very ingenious plot for the perfect crime, reminded me of that bill murray movie quick change.  Only one part during the movie was I able to predict what was going to happen (end scene when they shoot each other), they sort of foreshadowed that with the specialist guy when they first meet him.  Also, it's rare when you see a movie where you root for the bad guy more so than the good guys. "},{"Title":"Fun Caper Movie","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This one was a lot of fun to watch.  Not a particularly relevant movie, but what is entertainment for anyway?  And it's not the kind of sophomoric, crude humor that can make you feel embarrassed about enjoying it.I particular enjoyed Billy Bob Thornton.  He is a master thespian.  He brings you on a ride into the psyche of any of the characters that he creates, and it is usually a fun trip.  Bruce Willis is solid as usual and doesn't get in the way of the story.I thought the twist at the end was just a little too unbelievable, but it was (again to overuse the word) fun!  This movie is definitely worth a couple of hours to watch. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable and fun","Date":"2 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Billy Bob Thorton made this movie for me. He was hilarious as the hypochondriac brains of the operation. He didn't know it yet but he was about to spend the night with the sleepover bandits... that sounded good didn't it? That was good... he didn't know it yet, etc. And the whole group of people I was watching it with were floored after the beavers and ducks! line. I'll be laughing about that scene for years. The chemistry between all the characters is great. Especially between Willis and Thorton. The stuntman/getaway driver is also hilarious. The ending is a bit far fetched and all is cleaned up a little too nicely but because of the emotional investment you have in the characters by that point, it's accepted. All in all, a fun quirky little movie that's extremely worthy of your time.  "},{"Title":"Very disappointing","Date":"27 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie just because I love actress Cate Blanchette & admire director Barry Levinson. As long as Ms.Cate is concerned, she does fine job-she never disappoints me. Easy on the eye,too.But I am flustered to understand why Mr.Levinson couldn't revelate this movie a higher place. No, it isn't a normal triangle-romance movie. Anyway, very disappointing quality all the way; in the light of great actors & staff names. "}{"Title":"Mixed Reaction","Date":"23 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie was entirely fine until Cate Blanchett walked into it.The premise was at least fairly original, the script was well-written, and the comedic timing of Willis and Thornton was great. Thornton was in top form, performing excellently from top to bottom; Willis isn't exactly Barrymore, but if you give him a part he doesn't have to think about much, he'll do okay. The first few scenes were terrific - especially the back-and-forth between Willis, Thornton, and their 'victims'. And then, enter the female.Not only was Ms. Blanchett's acting horrible, her part was clumsy and poorly written. 'Bandits' fails outright as a romance. Had I seen a ninety minute movie with no romantic subplot - just the story of Willis and Thornton, bank robbers - I would've had no complaints, and probably enjoyed the movie much more.Until the end of the film, I was going to complain about the flashback nature of the plot - I thought too much was revealed at the beginning, but after the ending, I was satisfied.All in all, not a bad film, one of Willis' stronger efforts. A succeeding comedy, a romantic flop.My score 6 (out of 10) "},{"Title":"Cheesy characters, good ending )","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Now, mind you, I only saw the last 30 minutes of this movie, so it wouldn't be fair of me to given an opinion.  30 minutes was enough to see how cheesy these characters are, stereotype after stereotype after stereotype.  Bruce Willis seems like he is playing the same type of character he played in The Whole Nine Yards.  The ending was clever though, good twist.  Though if you want to see a better comedic-like heist movie rent Quick Change with Bill Murray. "},{"Title":"This movie is fun!","Date":"11 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I wasn't expecting a much, but was pleasantly surprised. The movie could only be described as fun! The three lead characters had very engaging personalities. The film was long, but I could have easily watched another hour of the film.  "},{"Title":"Superb performances in witty caper film","Date":"5 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  If I'd looked at reviews on IMDB I might not have gone to see this film, so I'm glad I didnt. In the whole spate of 'heist' films that have emerged over the last couple of years, this stands out with the best of them - better than the over-hyped The Score, for example. In fact the only film which measured up to this is the remake of Ocean's Eleven, which is a similar format in that you can't help rooting for the 'bad' guys.I was astonished to see reviews describing it as boring as it is not, not for an instant. Sure it does not have spaceship chases like Attack of the Clones but that film had huge turgid 'romance' scenes which were far slower than anything in this movie. I guess if you think all Woody Allen films, including Bananas and Play it Again Sam are boring then you might think the same about this. As one might expect in a Barry Levinson film, the dialogue and pacing are crisp and witty, and the way the two main characters bounce off each other is often very funny but never silly. Cate Blanchet, who appears quite late in the film, is breathtaking as a sort of femme fatale who doesn't seem to ever realize what her effect on others is. This is not a star vehicle, it's an ensemble film, although Thornton stands out with a role far removed from his 'typical' performances such as in Monsters ball or Sling Blade. I'd rate this in my top 3 for the year so far.    "},{"Title":"Delightful Little Caper Comedy!","Date":"4 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"   Bandits is another fine adventure/comedy from Barry Levinson. It involves the exploits of two bank robbers, Joe Blake (Bruce Willis) and Terry Collins (Billy Bob Thorton) who are known as The Sleepover Bandits. The night before a planned holdup they go to the home of the bank manager and hold him and his family until the next morning, whereupon they all proceed to the bank and rob it. They also steal a lot of cars one of which belongs to unhappy housewife Kate Wheeler (Cate Blanchett) who goes along for the ride. Naturally a love triangle ensues as the trio continues their crime spree. This movie is essentially a three character study involving the interplay between the three stars. Thorton is the nerdy brains behind the group, Willis the macho womanizing member and Blanchett the monkey wrench that gums up the works when comes between them. There are excellent performances from all three principals, particularly Thorton. The ending is a little hard to believe but is nevertheless entertaining. The fact that they are never caught with any of their many stolen vehicles is also a little baffling. That aside, I think that you will find Bandits a delightful way to pass a couple of hours. "},{"Title":"I didn't have so much fun at a movie since years","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Making a good comedy is hard to do. Unfortunately even the great comedies don't easily get Oscar nominations. You have to play a weirdo, a sick man, or make a movie with 75% blue screen to pick up such a nomination. Bandits proves again that comedies are worth an Oscar. No, I am not saying this is the best comedy I have ever seen, but this is what people in general go to the movies for. To have fun, be entertained, and not get dissapointed. So people who vote for 1-4 points probably had more attention for other stuff than for the movie I guess..... Cate Blanchet proves that by now she can play anything drama, comedy, action, horror, she is one of those few stars on the screen who will do well anywhere you place her. Bruce Willis has one negative point for me...that eternal little smile on his face which doesn't make him look serious, even when he would kill someone..... The movie is strong most of the times, only when the two have the interview with the reporter, the film arrives at a very weak point. Suddenly text and acting seem to be less important but luckely it is a little part of the film. Overall this would be a movie I would recommend to ANYONE who would ask if it's a good movie to watch. Well done guys/galls!! "},{"Title":"Ponderous, daft, intensely boring film...","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I was looking forward to Bandits. The film starts reasonably well, if unsurprisingly. From there it plunges head first into awfulness. This film drags like a corpse over sharp stones. It is utterly, utterly dull. The middle portion of the film is so boring I fell asleep twice, without fighting it. The best bits were when I was actually snoozing. My nightmare began when I woke up each time.My wife and I didn't even bother watching the end (whenever it was...). The prospect of another god-knows-how-many minutes of this shocking film was too banal to consider.Looking for an exciting action movie? You won't find it here. Looking for bone-aching boredom and misery? This film is for you! "},{"Title":"Pretty Good, Nothing Spectacular","Date":"25 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  There really isn't a whole lot I can say about this film, it was pretty good, but nothing to get really excited about.  The story was fairly interesting, and the characters were pretty cool, but ultimately it was just OK.  I must admit though that there were a few scenes that really got me laughing, but there were only a few.As for the acting, I thought everybody did a great job in the film.  Bruce Willis did a fine job, but it's nothing different than what we've all seen before.  Billy Bob Thornton did a great job, his character is VERY bizarre.  Cate Blanchett did a good job as well, and she looked great throughout the whole film.  I also really liked Troy Garity, I'd never heard of him before or seen him in any other films, but I thought he played an interesting/strange character.All in all, I liked it, but it wasn't anywhere near my favorites.  I hope you like the film.  Thanks for reading,-Chris "},{"Title":"Quirky fun","Date":"17 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  `Bandits' is one of those quirky comedies that require a bizarre sense of humor to enjoy.  The script is clever with an incongruous love triangle between escaped convicts and bank robbers Terry (Billy Bob Thornton) and Joe (Bruce Willis), and their captive turned accomplice Kate (Cate Blancett).This is not a film to be taken seriously and the bank robberies are more slapstick than dramatic.  Terry and Joe kidnap bank managers the night before, have a nice dinner with the family and then go to work with them the next morning to rob their bank, earning them the nickname `Sleepover Bandits'.  Before long, they are so famous that the bank managers treat them like honored guests.Director Barry Levinson's (Good Morning Vietnam, Rain Man, Wag the Dog, Sphere) forte is presenting human stories, though he doesn't have much of this type of zany comedy on his resume.  He is excellent at character development and presenting the finer points of relationships and that is evident here, though the characters are all wacky.  Many of the bits are funny in a peculiar way, but a good number are just goofy and miss the mark.  The best comedy comes from Billy Bob Thornton, who makes Terry into a hyper neurotic, paranoid hypochondriac.  Just about everything that comes out of his mouth is comical, and he delivers it with such an ironic sense of seriousness that it doubles the effect.  Anyone who has ever had a friend who was into self help books will find Thronton's performance to be a scream.  Willis again plays the macho straight man with his usual ease.  This is a character that he can play sleepwalking; he has played him so many times.  Willis seems far more tongue-in-cheek than Thronton, and it is hard to tell whether he is incredulous as the character or of the character.Cate Blanchett rounds out the cast with another loony character, a lonely housewife looking for excitement and fulfillment.  Blanchett has such outstanding range that almost any project she attempts produces terrific results.  To make Kate believable, she has to conjure a character that can be attracted to two men who are utter opposites, yet somehow she pulls it off.This is a strange story full of peculiar people and it is great fun if you aren't hoping for anything approaching reality.  I rated it 7/10.  It is good light fare for viewers with a twisted sense of humor.  "},{"Title":"Shoddy-looking, yet funny film (Minor spoilers)","Date":"14 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Bruce Willis and Billy Bob Thorton play convicts Joe and Terry, who are the polar opposites of each other. Joe (Willis) is a super-cool womanising Taoist-reading tough guy whereas Terry (Thornton) is the hypochondriac neurotic who has every phobia under the sun. They both somehow manage to escape from prison, and eventually rob a bank to get easy money. Terry unwillingly tags along as Joe decides he's heading to Mexico to establish a business. Eventually, Terry masterminds a plan to rob more banks to fund their ideal business, by hijacking the bank manager's family the night before the intended robbery. As the duo successfully begins a series of thefts, they soon become known as the infamous sleepover bandits and are wanted by both the Police and media nationally. During their travels, they unwittingly meet Kate (Cate Blanchett), a frustrated housewife who is more volatile under pressure than the pair themselves. She joins them to seek adventure in her ordinary life, as the media think she is their hostage. Soon enough Joe becomes infatuated with Kate, and the eventual romance ensues, except the only problem is Terry also falls for her.'Bandits' is a very funny film, but it's narrative starts with its climax and is told from a past perspective. In some films this works, but in 'Bandits' the pacing seems uneven and story is predictable. It won't take long to figure out the essential ingredients for the ending, and the main problem is the length it takes to get there. What distracts you however, is the interaction between Joe and Terry as they commit their crimes. Billy Bob Thornton is exceptionally hilarious as Terry, whose performance brings the most laughs, and Willis is his usual cool manner as the calm anti-hero in Joe. Cate Blanchett also adds to the mix, making the interaction between the love-triangle fairly humorous. The problem isn't in the acting, but in the characters themselves and their believability. 'Bandits' wants to be a black comedy with realistic characters, but the script doesn't allow it. Instead we get animated characterisations whose actions lack any real sense, and motives lack any real history- but they supply enough laughs for the duration of film. The storyline itself lacks severely in developing sincere emotion as the relationship between the three develop further, and it somewhat gets nauseating as you're ultimately waiting for the film to reach its established climax.Besides the acting, which was fairly good, the other technical aspects of 'Bandits' were extremely poor. The cinematography was too dark, and often badly constructed in a few scenes, which detracted from the performances slightly. Characters were difficult to see because of shadows in some shots, and some angles were completely obscuring the framing of them. Other photography aspects were great with some notably nice shots, during some of the romance and actions scenes. The editing in the film either added well to the pacing, or was completely jumpy. Some shots didn't match entirely and was especially noticeable during one action sequence where the two shots didn't correlate with each other as far as movement. Barry Levinson hasn't impressed of late, and he seems to have clumsily directed this film, leaving his three main stars to ad lib to a witty dialogue-driven script. The humour is derivative from a mixture of several previous comedies and independent crime films with dark humour. Billy Bob Thornton's Terry seemed to be the Southern version of Woody Allen's film personas with several nervous mannerisms and quirky behaviours intertwined into one unbelievable character in 'Bandits'. Terry's character was so over-the-top, to the extent that some of the comedy seems too forced and absurd, and it didn't sustain its running time. 'Bandits' shines in certain scenes of hilarity due to performances and its light-hearted feel, but overall the film is badly constructed and dull in parts. Bandits simply becomes a slightly above average comical-action movie that is entertaining yet equally forgettable as well.*** out of *****! "}{"Title":"Rubbish!!!!","Date":"14 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film was stillborn. Unfunny..... just awful. It will make you cry - 'cause it's so bad. You'll laugh - at feeble attempts at comedy. You'll cringe - when it tries to be cute. You'll sigh - when it's over!!I am embarrassed about this film. "},{"Title":"A lighthearted action/comedy with great performances that's worth checking out in the theater.","Date":"12 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Directory Barry Levinson (`Wag the Dog') delivers a winner this time with a fun, fast-paced flick with likeable characters and good writing&#133;a rarity this year! It's about a pair of likeable bank robbers named Joe and Terry (Bruce Willis and Billy Bob Thornton), who escape from jail and go on a well-executed bank robbing spree and become famous as the `sleepover bandits' for their pattern of staying over the bank manager's house the night before and cleaning out the bank as he lets them in first thing in the morning. They are saving to retire and open a South-of-the-Border nightclub when they meet a beautiful lady named Kate (Cate Blanchett of `The Gift'), who they both fall in love with and vice-versa, which then complicates their friendship and trust.  The robbers decide to tell their own story to Darren Head (Bobby Slayton), an America's Most Wanted-style TV show host at gunpoint in his home, where they become the subject of media frenzy, as they are the most friendly and likeable heist duo since `Bonnie and Clyde' or `Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid'. They never kill anyone and always seem to get away just in time, with the help of their willing hostage (Blanchett) and trusty driver Harvey (Troy Garity of `Bohemia') Although fairly predictable (with the exception of the ending), this movie keeps your attention through the full two hours with the help of an especially solid performance by Billy Bob Thornton. Like his dim, yet funny role in `The Simple Plan', he this time plays an idiot savant hypochondriac who is always worried about some kind of fate, like a brain tumor or a heart attack. Bruce Willis is no slouch in this movie either. He does his part by playing the charming yet dangerous role that he does best. If you're just feeling like you need a good laugh right now, this is probably for you. It is lighthearted, yet fast-paced enough to hold the viewer's interest. The performances alone are worth the price of admission. Go check this one out in the theater or make it a high priority rental when it comes out on video.  "},{"Title":"Well worth it","Date":"6 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a good funny movie and surprisingly clean (not much profanity, sex, or graphic violence).  Folks who didn't like it must have been expecting an action thriller.  It is definitely not an action movie, and it probably could have been a little shorter, but it is very entertaining and funny. "},{"Title":"Okay but could have been better.","Date":"4 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I guess this one was okay.  I guess I was expecting something a little better than it was.  I thought there was just a little too much fighting between Willis and Thorton.  The end scene was good and almost had be fooled for a moment.  I liked the way they robbed the banks as it was pretty good idea.  Over all, okay (5 out of 10). "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Told in a multilayered flashback, some folks might think Bandits is another crime movie influenced by Pulp Fiction. Maybe, but that doesn't take away what is really a great way to spend two hours. Another great Barry Levinson movie. "},{"Title":"Great Thornton Performance","Date":"17 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I missed this movie in the theaters and therefore rented it last weekend. I totally forgot what it was really about and just let it surprise me. What a surprise it was!! I really enjoyed this movie, due to Billy Bob's oscar worthy performance. His ability to act as a hypochondriac, yet try to act tough as a bank robber opposite Bruce Willis, was an incredible performance and a joy to watch. I even rewound a couple of parts, which I usually don't do, just to listen to some of that great dialog again. Mr. Willis, on the other hand, was quite dissapointing. He should not be cast opposite such an excellent actor as Mr. Thornton. He seemed weird and uncomfortable in his role. Overall, I give the movie an 8 out of 10. Very funny, and enjoyable entertainment. "},{"Title":"Really funny!","Date":"13 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I went to the cinema, although a friend of mine insisted that it was a very bad movie. Well if you ask me...he was WRONG! i won't get into to technical,script or acting details... i 'll just say that Somebody posted that this movie was one of the FEW comedies that really made him laugh loud...i TOTALLY AGREE!. I 've seen thousands of movies and hundreds of comedies... the best they got from was smiles...well this one made the difference!  "},{"Title":"Bring Your Laugh Bag to This One!","Date":"12 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  What a treat!Quirky, funny, original are words that describe BANDITS.Billie Bob Thornton, Bruce Willis, Cate Blanchett and the other guy (Garrity) all portray their roles superbly.  Miss Blanchette, especially, comes across as so endearing, that when you're not laughing at her, you're feeling sorry for her.Willis is the macho bankrobber, Billie Bob is his hypocondriac sidekick.Together, as Kate says in the movie--You both make one perfect man!I thought this was one very good flick! "},{"Title":"An O.K. Film","Date":"12 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I rented Bandits the other night thinking that I would love it but by the end I was just happy that it was over.  It seemed that the movie was going by so slow.  The acting was good and I really liked Cate Blanchett in it but besides that I was disappointed in this film...I gave it a 5/10. "},{"Title":"Wonderfully funny and entertaining","Date":"9 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Three marvelous actors work their chemistry well together to make this a very fun film. It's not classic, and it won't win awards, but it is very entertaining. Cate Blanchett continues to win me over with her chameleon abilities, wit, charisma, and charm. She is a blessedly talented actress with a presence and sensuality that transforms her less-than-Hollywood-perfect looks into something far beyond mere beauty. Billy Bob Thornton comes a close second to Cate in his chameleon-like qualities. He really can play any level of intelligence, charisma, or character. I don't think there's a roll that Thornton couldn't do.Bruce Willis is, well, Bruce Willis. He's fun, a bit tough, a bit tender, and otherwise everything you'd expect him to be. No surprises, no disappointments. On top of it all I'm very glad that, for once, Hollywood didn't shy away from the concept of polyamory. I'll let you look that up on your own. There isn't enough space here to explain that in any real detail.All in all, not a ten film, but definitely worth viewing.  "}{"Title":"Loosely based on the real sleepover bandits, gentlemen bank robbers, this one is highly entertaining.","Date":"7 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  SPOILERS - Bandits is one of the more entertaining films to come out recently. Many recent movies fail partly because they don't know how to end them. Bandits has a very clever and entertaining ending, and that's one reason it is so good. Bruce Willis and Billy Bob Thornton play Joe and Terry, opposite personalities but good friends in prison. After they break out by taking and driving a cement truck through the fence, Joe (Willis) muses that it would be nice to buy the old hotel in Acapulco, build a bar, and serve the patrons margaritas. Terry (Thornton) say, That takes money, where are we going to get money like that? Rob banks, we'll just walk in and take the money, reasoning that government insurance will cover it, and no individual person will lose anything.The film starts near the end, their last stand in the Alamo Savings and Loan lobby, patrons and workers inside, dozens of cops outside, helicopters overhead, Terry saying, Just one last, big heist, you said, now how are we going to get out of this? Then, a newsman is reporting later, Shortly before the bloody shoot-out that took their lives. So all through the 2-hour movie we know the story is leading to this. Joe and Terry couldn't be more different, Joe a happy-go-lucky, spur-of-the-moment type of guy that always gets the girl. Terry is a nervous hypochondriac, intellectual, likes to plan everything, and who always loses the girl.The filmmakers call Bandits a romantic comedy, and it is. Kate (Cate Blanchett) is a neglected housewife who accidentally becomes part of the gang. First she is attracted to Joe, then after a heist spends a week with Terry and gets attracted to him. Part of the story is the competition for Kate, who finds this lifestyle infinitely more exciting than her marriage. The writing is very good, the actors equal to the task, and there are many laugh out loud moments in the film. It is rated PG-13, with essentially no foul language nor overt sex, and no one gets killed, all of which is refreshing for this kind of movie. I hope others learn from their good example.The last scene reveals the misdirection set up when the film starts. Joe and Terry's getaway driver (Jane Fonda's real life son) has some ability with stunts and, it appears that Joe and Terry shoot and kill each other in that final bank robbery. In the confusion two paramedics come in, put them into body bags, and rush off, the ambulance crashes, the driver is on fire, the ambulance explodes and burns, completely incinerating the bodies. Apparently. However the two medics were the driver and girlfriend, the shootings in the bank were faked, the crash staged, and everyone gets away with the money to Mexico.The film is based loosely on real people and some real events, however is so entertaining for the interplay among the 4 main characters, and Bruce and Billy Bob are the best. Some have compared it to Bonnie and Clyde, but to me it is more similar to Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid, with the humor and the gentle approach of the bandits. Blanchett is OK, but her fake American accent sounds manufactured much of the time. I can think of a number of actresses who could have been better selections. Fonda's son is really good, and perfect for his role.The DVD has one of the better making of specials. It tells the story of how this project came together, how Willis first got the role of Terry, but when Val Kilmer had to bow out, Thornton was brought in to play Terry, and Willis became Joe, all of which seems to fit better. A very interesting extra is the making of scene 71, where Joe and Kate share a bed, separated by a blanket they hung from the ceiling. Much of what ended up in the scene was improvised after the curtain accidentally fell down. All this is covered in the feature, then when it is over, you can go directly to that scene to see the completed scene again. That's a feature on a DVD that I have never come across before, and I hope others borrow this idea.Overall a very good movie and, judging by the small number of IMDb votes, one that has not been seen by many people. "},{"Title":"A pleasant crime caper fantasy","Date":"6 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Another in-flight movie seen suspiciously soon after theatrical release, but it's an entertaining  crime caper with three well-matched stars and plenty of good lines. Bruce Willis is entirely convincing as a Mr Action who's not into reflective thought (in fact at times positively deficient in the brains department) and Billy Bob Thornton makes a good brainier, but less assertive (not to say neurotic) companion in crime. Who ever heard of someone with an antique furniture phobia? Billy Bob is an actor with an interesting range; he can be as stupid or as smart as the script requires, and he manages to convince us that Cate Blanchett, the bored housewife who joins the gang for the thrills, would be unable to choose between him and Bruce the Hunk.Otherwise we scream up and down the West Coast, robbing banks (all Federally insured of course) by the simple expedient of capturing the manager the night before. This involves sleeping over at the managers' houses, leading to some really surreal conversations around the breakfast table. It's really quite amusing how many bank managers actually don't seem to mind being robbed.In reality, bank robbery is a fairly nasty business, especially for those bank employees who suffer  a series of them. But Bruce, Billy Bob and Cate (with a fine American accent) are safely wrapped up here in a pleasant fantasy with no particular message (except maybe that everyone hates banks). This film would make a nice double bill with `The Bank'. "},{"Title":"An enjoyable medium rated film - actors save the film...","Date":"4 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" If it weren't for its actors, I doubt if this Bandits would ever succeed. Bruce Willis and Billy Bob Thorton are amusing when they work together, Willis is the tough guy, Thorton plays the clever guy. Together they make a nice version of the Odd couple (i.e. Jack Lemon & Walter Matthau) ) This is yet another we are nice criminals movie. They rob banks but with a notion that it's actually not a crime. They are very polite, and aren't really able to hurt people. Although the story is a bit idiotic and unreliable, it is still very funny and amusing. One might enjoy it, just for fun. 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Billy Bob's Quirky and Bruce Willis slick as robbers on the run","Date":"26 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Entertaining and solid, the first half of Bandits shines, with Bruce Willis and Billy Bob Thorton as an interesting odd couple of bank robbers. Mr.Thorton takes quirky to new levels with the character, Terry Collins, an obsessive-compulsive hypochondriac who entertains with obscure imagined health problems and maladies, and a comical running speach pattern replete with facial tics and humorous herky-jerky machinations, while being up-front and candid, somehow making abstract sense of his life as a criminal on the run.  Plus, he's a pretty good cook.  Mr.Willis's character, Joe Blake,is under-played nicely, especially in the movie's first half, with insidious undercurrents of an unpredictable twisted heavy.  Kate Blanchett's manic and unhappy character, Kate Wheeler, fits right into this cabaret of sleep-over bank robbers.  Directed by, Barry Levinson,Bandits entertains with slick direction and snappy blues musical score, but plods somewhat in the second half, losing it's rough-hewn edgyness, finally softening and backing away from the dark side explored in the movie's beginning.  Somewhat akin to Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid, and Bonnie and Clyde, Bandits makes for enjoyable viewing, as it's not necessarily the destination, but how you get there that counts.  "},{"Title":"Pretty good comedy/romance/caper  movie about bank robbers, a hypochondriac and bored housewives. Very good in parts. Needed a good edit. 3 Flys Out Of Five","Date":"25 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Bandits starring Billy Bob Thornton, Cate Blanchett and Bruce Willis won't get into many people's best flick lists but I'll guarantee that there will be scenes in the movie that will be remembered.                Willis and Thornton play Joe and Terry who escape from prison and begin a spree of bank robberies. They become the `sleep over bank robbers', named because they go the bank manager's house the night before the robbery, stay with the manager and his family and then head off to the bank the next morning to knock over the bank, manager in tow.                Along the way they encounter bored house wife Kate (Blanchett) who joins with the lads looking for excitement. She gets it, in loads, having relationships with both the boys as well as helping out with the heists.                The mood stays pretty jocular, Bandits is far from a serious caper film or even a romance of meaning. It is spiced with Blanchett's high energy acting style, Thornton's quirky joviality and Willis's solid urbanity. There's a crackerjack prison break using a cement truck, a great car crash later on and a very nice romantic scene or two, especially one on a beach. Blanchett sings badly. It's funny.                So there are plenty of fine elements, not the least of which is Billy Bob Thornton as a rampant hypochondriac. Still Bandits loses its focus somehow through its middle third, not knowing how to move from snappy romantic heist movie through the boy loses girl bit into its rather contrived finish. Pace might have been the problem.                Director Barry Levinson (Sleepers, Disclosure, Sphere, Wag The Dog, Rain Man, Good Morning Vietnam) has directed an uneven swag of films. Bandits will sit somewhere in the middle of the (much larger) bunch.                And again we have a film that goes for over two hours, a movie that would have benefited greatly from a careful twenty minutes of pruning.                  Three Brain Tumored Flys Out Of Five  "},{"Title":"There are, after all, only 13 plots in all of literature.","Date":"10 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I liked it better the first time when it was called Lucky Lady. It's the same story beginning to end.  Thornton and Willis and Blanchette are fine, but nowhere near as much fun as Hackman, Reynolds and Manelli, and it really misses John Hillerman's evil charm.  It's not too bad, but see the other one.  "},{"Title":"Good premise, got out wrong","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  From what comments i've seen, people are convinced that the problem was the story (predictable, blah blah). Actually i think that the story was quite good. it was the script that got out wrong. The idea was simple, ok, but it had a few twists, the characters were perfect, they even got the music right, but they somehow missed the whole point! The pacing was too slow, they insisted on the wrong moments, and it gave you time to predict the next move, the next line etc. And after a few dozen movies of this type, you're bound to get it. I think it was just not the right director for this type of movie. he tried to make it funny, and he missed. pitty. But, as i said, the story is lots of fun, and if you don't have much to do one afternoon, it's a great way of loosing or spending it (your choice of word). "},{"Title":"SleepoverBandits are the best sort.","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie build's a lot on Billy Bob Thornton and Cate Blanchett. Both are excellent in their roles and perform with comic perfection. Bruce Willis role is more flat, he's the cool, hard and masculine hero. Billy Bob is the opposite, weakling, funny sidekick (though he is actually the hero too) and neurotic as hell. Blanchett is also weird in many way's.Cudos for the good ending that I actually missed to figure out. That lifted the whole movie and the feelgood feeling was there when the funny credit's came. Good work, chaps.Dont forget the best line Beavers and Ducks!8 of 10. "},{"Title":"The pleasure of the unexpected","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I didn't want to watch this movie at first. I was brought to the theatre by my girlfriend, who wanted to see it just because of Bruce Willis. When the movie was over, I was absolutely surprised by how much I liked it, and, well, she was somehow upset by the fact that BW wasn't as cute as usual... Two weeks later we went to see it again.Bandits is a great movie from nearly every point of view. Although it has a fairly easy plot, it managed to surprise me continuously. It's got extremely funny scenes along with sentimental and reflective outbreaks... And it is visually stunning. I don't know how Barry Levinson managed to find all those beautiful spots and landscapes, but it's simply amazing how every single scene in the movie manages to be set in front of a breath-taking sight.Finally, it has got a fantastic soundtrack. The songs are maybe not so great if taken by themselves, but they fit perfectly in the movie scenes, making what would otherwise be a simple roadcomedy a much more poethic movie.A really nice movie. "},{"Title":"If you are are terribly bored...","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" ... and have too much money you could watch this one. But I wouldn't recommend it. Compared to all the other crap Hollywood is spitting out, Bandits is decent. The storyline is brainless and foreseeable. The jokes are mostly old and unfunny. The acting is plain bad (will Bruce Willis ever learn to act?) to mediocre (we have seen far better performances by Blanchett and Thornton). But as I said, by Hollywood standards Bandits is a decent movie. On the other hand you could waste your time with other things, i.e. counting the waterdrops in the atlantic ocean or teaching Willis how to act (okay, don't even try that, it's hopeless). "}{"Title":"Not best picture, not a script that someone found in the garbage, just a lot of fun","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  With all of the dump that Hollywood drops on us, it is hard to find a really fun movie.  Bandits is one of these rare gems.  There is exceptional acting from Billy Bob Thornton in a hilarious role not to mention great chemistry between the three protagonists.  There is nothing really more to say about this movie except enjoy.  "},{"Title":"Not bad","Date":"6 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A better than average comedy that uses the tried and true incongruity of the outlandishness of robbing banks for a living and the prosaic events behind the scenes, for its comic edge.  Unfortunately it lacks the freshness of say `Dog Day Afternoon' and the subtle character development of `Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid'.  Nevertheless, Willis and Thornton provide interesting characters and Blanchett is adequate (in reality it is a role that many competent actresses could have pulled off without much problem) and she provides one of the cool asides in the film by singing a couple Jim Steinman (songwriter for Meatloaf) songs.  I personally love Steinman's over the top tunes, so I really enjoyed those parts.SPOILER, SPOILER, SPOILER!!!! The ending is sub par because in trying to be crafty the filmmakers demonstrate how careless they are.  I can usually overlook technical details and suspend disbelief, but this was too much.  First of all the bodies would have been checked for vital signs and secondly if they were thought to be dead, the bodies would have stayed at the crime scene for a LONG time.  They would never have been whisked away like that.  "},{"Title":"Quality Comedy","Date":"27 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is the story of Joe Blake and Terry Collins (Bruce Willis and Billy Bob Thornton), the two most successful bank-robbers ever, And how their world is torn apart by a female hostage (Cate Blanchett). The script is very good, with lots of clever lines, most going to Thornton, who's performance is superb. He's very funny as the hypochondriac Collins. Barry Levinson should definitely stick to comedies like this and 'Wag The Dog', and stay away from sci-fi nonsense like 'Sphere'. Very funny and clever film with good performances from the three main stars. "},{"Title":"Bad Story, Boring Movie","Date":"26 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  SPOILERS!!!!!!!.... This one is a boring movie. The story is bad and predictable. When this stuntman is introduced (we know already that the media think the Bandits are dead) you know how they will end up.  The chemistry between the three is zero. So if you want a good story about bandits and friendship see Heat. "},{"Title":"A barrel of fun movie!","Date":"18 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is more fun than I've had in a long time.  Comedy, plot twists, adventure.  Even good car and truck chase scenes and silly love scenes. Billie Bob Thornton and Bruce Willis play the sleepover bandits, two lovable bank robbers.  They are joined by a dim-witted stunt man, played by Troy Garrity, aka Troy Hayden aka Jane Fonda and Tom Hayden's son.  Hilarious, fun, sexy.  Watch every minute of the movie or you will miss the plot twists that add up in the end. "},{"Title":"average at best","Date":"18 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie did have its moments, and there were some funny lines in it, but overall I wasn't terribly impressed. I found the atmosphere in the film to be somewhat banal, and I found myself wanting and aching for something better than what the film delivered. The performances were decent though.** out of **** "},{"Title":"I'd rather have Banned-It","Date":"13 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Yawn, why does Hollywood carry on churning out half-baked rubbish like this film? Was it made during the scriptwriters' strike? First it looked as though it wanted to be Fargo, then it made several stumbling steps in the direction of Pulp Fiction, then it decided to be yet another two buddies almost get torn apart by the woman who can't decide between them film, all the while pretending to be just another heist movie. Rubbing the salt of pointless homage into the wound of unoriginality, it even borrowed from Cameron Diaz' karaoke scene in My Best Friend's Wedding, except played for pathos rather than laughs, which didn't work. Add the gaping holes in the plot and the whole thing seemed like a montage badly held together with sticking plaster.The actors didn't help much either. Bruce Willis was... well, the same old Bruce Willis really. The man can't act, could never act, probably will never act. He just stands around looking... solid. Cate Blanchett can act (and how!) when she wants to, but her mind was clearly on other things here (Lord Of The Rings, perhaps?) Billy Bob Thornton tried to make the most of poor material, but his hypersuggestive hypochondriac was no more sympathetic than Willis' Tao-devouring tough guy or Blanchett's not-actually-manic-depressive housewife trapped in a pointless marriage to a rich but workaholic businessman (which a younger Goldie Hawn could have made so much more of, and probably has).It smacks of heavy-handed self-mocking that lines from the film included (roughly) expect the unexpected and just how long can these two continue to evade the police?. Sadly this kind of self-knowing point-making made absolutely no dent in the complacency of its time-wasting.Incidentally I was deeply unimpressed by the original trailer and I only went to see it because critics were saying nice things about it. There's a lesson there somewhere.3/10. About as bad as High Heels and Low Lifes and The Parole Officer. Don't bother, even when it hits the small screen.  "},{"Title":"A movie filled with comedy, action and adventure.","Date":"5 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Bandits is about two bank robbers, Joe and Terry, famous to everyone as the 'Sleepover Bandits'. With the help of stunt-man wannabe, Harvey as there getaway driver, they kidnap bank managers the night before their planned robbery, spend the night at there house and then get the bank manager to take them to bank the next morning, they get the money, then leave. When they meet lonely housewife Kate, she ends up tagging along with them and both Joe and Terry end up falling in love with her.The brilliant Barry Levinson directs the movie and he does a fantastic job as usual. Bruce Willis, Billy Bob Thornton, Cate Blanchett and Troy Garity all star here and they all give good performances.Bandits is a really good movie, with a mixture of everything, including comedy, adventure, action and more. There are some pretty funny scenes here, especially at the beginning when Joe and Terry escape from prison and the scene with the woman who doesn't seem to mind that the bank she works in is being robbed by the famous Bandits, at one of there last bank robberies. Even if the movie was a little overlong, it did leave you excited to see what would happen next. Anyway, Bandits is a good movie with a little bit for everyone. "},{"Title":"Allright and entertaining but you can't help feeling it could have been far better **1/2 out of five","Date":"4 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Entertaining while you are  watching it but not a very memorable film. And the worst thing is it could have been very good. Maybe it would have been better as a sort of black-humoured crime thriller. But this is lighthearted, good natured and silly unfortunetly. Now I like lighthearted comedies its just this would have worked better as a black-humoured crime thriller. To finish it up entertaining but dissapointing considering the strong premise. "},{"Title":"Order your fast getaway car - away from the cinema","Date":"3 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Now, this isn't a bad film. Bruce Willis isn't bad. Billy Bob Thornton is interesting, and Cate Blanchett was very good. (Mind you, anything had to be an improvement on 'The Gift'). It's the length of the movie which lets it down. 20 or so minutes chopped off, and a slightly faster pace would have eliminated the bits which drag. And it does drag in the final 30 minutes, until the climax is duly enacted. It is very funny in parts. It is very boring in parts. It's a sort of 'Butch Cassidy' of modern times. Mind you, I didn't like 'Butch Cassidy' (Katherine Ross excepted) either, so I suppose that explains why this movie was never going to brighten my day. Bruce Willis does have a capability in comedy-type movies, but I liked him better in 'The Whole Nine Yards'. Overall, 5 out of 10, which is a shame, because all three leads are capable. If only the editing had kicked in, then perhaps I wouldn't have been planning my getaway. "}{"Title":"Are you sure Elmore Leonard didn't write this?","Date":"28 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Very amusing and great songs on the track. The performers must have had fun doing this. It is so like something that Elmore Leonard would write that it isn't funny.Someone recommended it to us. Otherwise would have been led by the title to believe it was a cowboy picture. Bank Robbers would have been more appropriate. Good flic.  "},{"Title":"Billy Bob steals the show.","Date":"26 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Bandits is the story of two prison escapees, Joe (Bruce Willis) and Terry (Billy Bob Thornton), who go on a bank-robbing spree to finance their dream of opening a nightclub in Acapulco. Joe has anger management issues while Terry is a serious hypochondriac. Along the way they pick up Joe's cousin Harvey (Troy Garity), a stuntman-in-training who becomes the getaway man. Terry, the self-proclaimed brain, works out a plan to kidnap bank managers to get access to bank vaults. The plan seems to work until a distraught-and possibly chemically imbalanced-housewife (Cate Blanchett) hits Terry with her Mercedes. Next thing you know, Kate (the character's name, I promise) is along for the ride (yes, that is a double entendre). (By the way, if you were wondering if this review could be anymore parenthetical, you were right.)Bandits is a film where you cheer for the bad guys. Not because they're particularly attractive people, but because their eccentricities make them so real (and also because you aren't given any real reason to care about the good guys).  The situations presented here are pretty improbable, but the clever dialogue and snappy performances make up for whatever you might disbelieve.  I am converted; I was not a Billy Bob Thornton fan before now, but he is a brilliant comic actor here, and steals the show.  Bruce Willis isn't too shabby, either.  Their friendship is the core of the piece they are two completely different men who both gel and clash.  Cate Blanchett can do wrong as far as I'm concerned-check out the perfect American accent she wields here-she uses flawless comic timing to demonstrate raw vulnerability and loneliness.Harley Peyton's script is tight and, for the most part, lean.  There are a few scenes that the story could do without, but everything works for pure entertainment value, so as a viewer, I didn't mind.  The piece is driven by its characters, has a great twist that I'm not going to talk about, and lets its cast shine.  This is the best in ensemble acting. Really.  Don't be fooled by the trailer; it doesn't really give you a flavor for what this film is.  That flavor being great.   "},{"Title":"A Pleasant Surprise","Date":"24 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I didn't want to see this film initially.  The plot seemed too silly two robbers fall in love with their hostage, but some well-written reviews convinced me to see it.  I'm glad I followed their advice.The plot is shaky, but the actors are perfect.  It's great to see a movie with limited profanity and excellent dialogue.  Bruce Willis and Billy Bob Thornton are handsome and chose a movie with a great script.  Don't know if I've ever seen Cate Blanchett before, but I'll look for her again.This should make you smile, and might be considered a cult classic.Check Willis out in The Whole Nine Yards which has a similar feel. "},{"Title":"A tiny bit long in the middle, but still hilarious","Date":"18 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Bandits is a very funny movie, well acted all around, and very well plotted. Bruce Willis is very good as the suave criminal, as is Cate Blanchett as the woman he (and Billy Bob Thornton) falls for. But the real star of the film is Thornton. He is simply hilarious as Willis' eternally worried partner. The great thing about all 3 of these actors is that they're not known as comedic actors, but they do a stellar job. It's great to see this kind of range, especially from Blanchett and Thornton, who have previously done almost all dramatic work.The story of the film is great as well. It's hard to find comedies that have good plot twists in them, but Bandits has a few of them. The beginning and ending of the movie were especially great. The ending is funny and thrilling at the same time. My only complaint is that, in the middle, it could have been a little bit shorter. It's not going to make you fall asleep or anything, and there are no specific scenes that strike me as totally unnecessary, but perhaps the could have shortened a few scenes by a couple minutes. As it is, it's not horrible, and the end will make you forgive this minor flaw. See Bandits. There are very few flaws in it, and the acting and the story are more than enough to make you overlook those few little problems.Rating 9/10 "},{"Title":"An Awesome movie.","Date":"17 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a great movie, a little slow at times but with such great acting and an awesome ending you must see again and again.  Billy Bob Thornton is amazing in this movie. Bruce Willis is great again.  Cate Blancett would probably be the weakest character here but still delivers a likable performance.  Keep an eye out for the girl that plays pink boots.  Her name is January Jones and I swear she is going to be in a lot more movies soon.    "},{"Title":"Sweettalking you into enjoying a so-so movie","Date":"16 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  How is it possible that one movie can shift from being hysterical to boring, without hitting anything inbetween?Well, however they did it, Barry Levinson and co. succeeded in Bandits, a movie that, when it's not making soda squirt out your nose, is making you yawn with impatience.Bandits is the story of two escaped-convicts-turned-backrobbers, Joe Blake (Bruce Willis) and Terry Lee Collins (Billy Bob Thornton). Not wanting to hurt anyone but wanting to retire in paradise, the two men decide the best way to rob a bank is to do so as quietly as possible. They go to the bank manager's house the night before, spend the night, and then go with the manager to the bank the next morning, getting the goods while (usually) missing the bank traffic. For this, they are soon known throughout the country as the mild-mannered, crazily costumed Sleepover Bandits.Naturally, things don't go smoothly for long. In fact, the movie sets you up for a bitter ending -- we first hear about Terry and Joe in a TV show special, talking about how the two men died in a shootout at a bank. We know things go wrong, and we wait to find out how the misfortune begins.That misfortune takes the form of Kate Wheeler (Cate Blanchett), an unhappily married upper-class manic-depressive who, while crying her eyes out and listening to bad '80s music, hits Terry with her luxury car. She soon becomes the Sleepover Bandits' hostage, and even sooner, their love interest. Both men's love interest.Ah, a woman as man's downfall! How original! Lucky for director Levinson, it IS original, and he puts a fun spin on the normal Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid formula. All the actors do a wonderful job. Willis will hopefully soon figure out that he is a much better comedic actor than action figure, because most of us have known so since Moonlighting. Thornton is even better as the anal-retentive, obsessive-compulsive Terry, showing some wonderful timing and deadpan delivery. But Blanchett steals the show. She has never looked more beautiful, and, making a two-dimensional character into a rich, textured woman, she is even more stunning. Her performance is reason enough to see Bandits. But for some bizarre reason, when you aren't being completely entertained, you are incessantly checking your watch. Bandits is far too long (clocking in at over two hours), and, although the ending is definitely worth a wait, the middle is often muddling, sometimes downright dull. Levinson is a wonderful storyteller, but, somewhere along the line, someone messed up. The plot is too light, the story too thin, to take up the time allotted. It's like baking a cream puff out of pound cake ingredients. Too much weight for a very flaky dish.However, Bandits is not a total waste of money. The performances are stellar, and some of the jokes are hilarious. But be prepared to sit through some slow minutes. And be prepared to leave with a slight feeling of unfulfillment. Just like the burgled bank managers, the audience ends up feeling like they've been robbed in the sweetest of ways.  "},{"Title":"One of the best movies of the year!","Date":"16 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Billy Bob Thornton plays one of the most memorable characters I've seen in a while.One of this years best movies.See it! "},{"Title":"Billy Bob's Performance Will Steal Your Heart!","Date":"12 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Maybe Paul Mcartney & Wings should have remade their famous hit song `Band on the Run' and retitled it `Bandits on the Run' for this film. Why? Because this is what this movie is all about- a couple of zany bandits/bank robbers on the run. The film is very simplistic so it `withdrew' me from analyzing it too much. Also, I was in a very `low interest' state when I watching its too many cumbersome scenes. It stars Bruce Willis, Billy Bob Thornton, and Cate Blanchett. Willis just could not get the `balance' right as the macho bank robber who also has a soft heart. Blanchett's `transfer' of her english accent to a pitch perfect american one was pitch perfect;  she portrayed the lonely housewife on the run who gets caught up underneath the blanchetts (I mean `blankets') with both Willis and Thornton. However, what you have to `check' out from this film is the `unbelievable' performance of Billy Bob Thornton as the hypochondriac bandit. This is probably the best hypochondriac film character ever. Academy voters should `hype' themselves up and garner Billy Bob with a Best Actor nomination. Hey, if they do Billy Bob might even bring to the Oscars an `angelina' in disguise.  To `sum' it up, `Bandits' poor storytelling will not `steal' your hearts- but Billy Bob & Cate's performances are worthy enough for you to `getaway' and check this one out. *** Average  "},{"Title":"A nice surprise","Date":"11 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I wasn't expecting very much from this film, but I got quite a bit.  The script was clever, the directing was on point, and the characters were memorable.  Especially notable here are Cate Blanchett and Billy Bob Thornton, who are clearly having the time of their lives in becoming their respective characters.  The movie is generally upbeat and overall very satisfying.I will say that Bruce Willis sticks out like a sore thumb.  His acting is flat and he is clearly out of his league alongside Thornton and Blanchett.  It would have been nice if they could have found ANYBODY else but Willis for that role.  Even so, this film is still pretty good, even if it's a bit blemished. "},{"Title":"Many twists and turns","Date":"9 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Despite the fact that Bandits is slow in spots, it has a pretty good story line. Some places seems disjointed and some things don't make sense at the time they're introduced, but everything is tied up nicely in the surprise ending. Bandits is good entertainment; well worth the price of a ticket. "}{"Title":"Not terriffic, but still good.","Date":"8 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Fall is probably my favorite season of the year. There are all sorts of boring reasons that I could list, but the one that you're probably most interested in (as you're reading this) involves movies. Summer is over, kids are back in school, and Hollywood starts bringing out &#145;riskier' films. The costume dramas, the Robin Williams dramatic pieces, the Mirimax Oscar Contender 춽 -- things like that. Now, while Bandits probably won't win any awards, it's a character piece that would have been overlooked in the summer. By character piece, I mean that it shifts genres. The previews look like a heist/caper movie with a romantic comedy subplot. Those previews aren't misleading. However, what they don't show is that the romantic comedy is more along the lines of Being John Malkovich than the collected works of Julia Roberts. More on that later. Bandits is about 2 bank robbers &#150; Joe (Willis) and Terry (Thornton). As is usual in heist movies, they want to go straight. Which takes money. Which means robbing banks. Joe is the muscle, Terry is the brains. Terry's plan daylight robberies. They kidnap the bank manager the night before the robbery, and spend the night with him/her, and then, before the bank opens, have the manager open the vault and give the &#145;all-clear'. Works like a charm. Terry's plans are great. Until Terry gets hit by a car driven by Kate (Blanchett). Terry, you see, is a hypochondriac, and thinks he received a concussion. Kate, on the other hand, is massively depressed. Not the most rational pair. Kate drives Terry back to the hideout, where she meets Joe and Harvey (Garity). Harvey is Joe's cousin, a wanna-be stuntman and their &#145;front man'. Terry knows that an outsider in the mix is a bad thing, Joe wants to sleep with Kate, Harvey is dense &#150; LET THE FIREWORKS BEGIN!Probably the best part about this movie is the actors. Billy Bob Thornton is an amazing character actor. Just look at Slingblade. Bruce Willis can play nearly any role you put in front of him, and play it well. Cate Blanchett is a name that isn't familiar to most moviegoers, but she's really, really good. (She was Queen Elizabeth in Elizabeth, a psychic in The Gift, and will either be praised or pilloried by geeks when she assumes the role of Galadriel in the upcoming The Lord of The Rings trilogy).Another big plus in this movie is the focus on character rather than plot. George Bernard Shaw (a playwright) once said that he hated plots. He just put characters into a situation and watched what happened. That's what we see in Bandits &#150; we don't get massive amounts of detail about the planing of the heists, we don't have a moral. It's not like it's a Martin Scorsese movie. What we have is a strange marriage/love triangle thing (ala Being John Malkovich or Chasing Amy) that works because we believe the actions that the characters are performing, and we believe the actors that are playing the characters. The principle characters are well written and well rounded. This review is shorter than previous ones, but, honestly, there isn't a whole lot of detail that can be written about. I don't have the words to describe character interaction, and the subtleties therein. Stuff blows up, guns are involved, but the focus is on character.   "},{"Title":"Just couldn't pull it off","Date":"8 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Great premise. Two great actors but they just couldn't seem to get the chemistry right between Willis and Thornton. There were moments that made me laugh but the comedic timing just wasn't there. Worth a look but don't go out of your way. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Highly enjoyable.","Date":"7 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  BANDITS is a lot of fun. The story of two bank robbers who are completely different. Bruce Willis plays the tough guy. He's big, has a violent temper. Billy Bob Thornton is the twitchy hypochrondriac who is scared of everything (even antique furniture). Together the become the most successful bak robbers in American history. Everything is going good until Cate Blanchatt, a bored housewife enters their lives and ruins everything. There is nothing really new in BANDITS, its all just done very well. Director Barry Levinson finds the right note between comedy and drama and the performances are perfect. Despite the fact that is stars Bruce Willis, BANDITS is not an action movie. It's a story of three strange characters on the road. The just happen to rob banks. Willis is wonderful. I'm starting to think I underestimated for years. He plays the character perfectly. Blanchatt proves one again that she is one of the best actresses of her generation, playing a part completely different from anything she has done before. But the star of the show is Billy Bob Thornton. What a tremendous actor this guy is. His best roles to date have been as simpletons (SLING BLADE and A SIMPLE PLAN). But here, he's the most intelligent person in the film. It fits him. His outrageous phobias are funny, but they fit him. BANDITS is just a lot of fun to watch. "},{"Title":"I Watched The Premiere With Levinson- I Think 2nd Only To Rain Man For Him","Date":"6 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  When I saw the Bandits trailer, I was very anxious to see it. When I was invited by my local newspaper to attend the Orange, CT premiere of the film with Director Barry Levinson in attendance, I was all the more excited. Barry Levinson has produced Rain Man, Wag The Dog, Good Morning Vietnam, and other great films. As a young student of great and/or classical films, I feel that the Rain Man is among the top 150 movies ever made...so I knew that Levinson wasn't going to make a bad movie, but would have a hard time matching that earlier work of his. THE BOTTOM LINE IS that Bandits turned out to be a terrific movie...drama-comedy-romance mixed together perfectly. Thornton is truly funny, Willis is the tough guy who draws laughs as well, and Blanchett is as gorgeous as ever. Trust me on this one- Bandits is a fun packed film worth every one of the 9 stars I give it...it's one everyone should see just for the joy of it...especially at the difficult time in history in which it was released, when a few laughs mean a lot to people. "},{"Title":"Strictly for fun - with an ensemble cast of Willis, Thornton and Blanchett","Date":"4 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Barry Levinson's Bandits 2001 reminds me of Howard Hawk's His Girl Friday 1940, with Cary Grant and Rosalind Russell - the incessant/continuous banters and bickering, and Norman Jewison's Send me No Flowers 1964, with Rock Hudson as the hypochondriac husband to Doris Day, and Tony Randall as the buddy. Also felt similar rhythm as in Michael Lehmann's Hudson Hawk 1991 - the fun, adventuresome, paired romping plus a woman Bruce Willis with Danny Aiello plus Andie MacDowell. Here in Bandits, Bruce Willis is paired with Billy Bob Thornton plus Cate Blanchett. Both are light-hearted lavish comedy with romance and action, HH is more fairytale fantasy with three cool stars, lots of props, extras, and changing sets, while B is modern day road movie and bank robbery action fantasy with three unarguably charming stars. I rather enjoy Hudson Hawk more; perhaps it's the bonus Sinatra-style singing flair from Willis and Aiello sprinkled throughout the film.For a tightly scripted, well-presented substantial heist/bank robbery film, try director Don Siegel's Charley Varrick 1973, with superb performance from Walter Matthau in the lead. Michael Mann's Heat 1995, presents a more involved bank robbery plot (and lots of gunfire) with DeNiro, Kilmer and Sizemore opposite super detective Pacino. For the combination of thrills, romance and bank robbery of the younger set, try Kathryn Bigelow's Point Break 1991, with Patrick Swayze as the carefree surfer leader and Keanu Reeves as the undercover budding FBI agent who befriends him.Really look forward to the upcoming David Mamet's Heist, with Gene Hackman, Danny DeVito, Delroy Lindo and Rebecca Pidgeon, Ricky Jay and Sam Rockwell. Also, Billy Bob Thornton in Coen Brothers' The Man Who Wasn't There in black and white glory, with Frances McDormand, James Gandolfini and Tony Shalhoub.  "},{"Title":"Billy Bob steals the show","Date":"2 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The idea of two thieves who sleep over the houses of bank owners is not a bad one. Quite amusing scenes arise out of this premise, particularly from Thornton. The addition of Cate Blanchett's character in the plot would probably ruin the movie had Barry Levinson not been directing it. Pretty soon, the plot itself becomes far less interesting than just laughing at the characters that he has created. Willis, Thornton, and Blanchett have some sort of non-chemistry between them, mostly you just get the feeling that they are acting without too much effort - but the parts they are playing are so weird you find you are having a good time anyway. Especially with Billy Bob's Terry. Terry is neurotic and psycho in the most freakish of ways, and Billy Bob plays him perfectly. He seems to derive so much enjoyment out of it you imagine he still to this day annoys Angelina by sitting around stuttering incoherently about his paranoias, just for kicks. His enthusiasm to be a whack-job is just fun to watch, and the movie is worthwhile for it. "},{"Title":"Ruined by implausibility","Date":"1 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This had all the ingredients for a great film.  Bank robbers, outlaws, 3 great actors Willis, Thornton and Blanchett but the inter personal relationship between the three where the 2 boys sare her was just unrealistic and ruined what could have been so much better.Willis excels in these roles, and Thornton was his usual excellent self. This was let down a little by the writers, but is watchable anyway. "},{"Title":"Folks, this is Lucky Lady again","Date":"1 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Willis has the Gene Hackman role tough hombre with a criminal background and the guts to see it through.  Thornton has the Burt Reynolds role means well wannabe but too nice and somewhat bumbling to be the lead criminal. Blanchett has the Liza Minelli role coming out of a bad marriage, looking to fulfill herself and falls for both guys and can't pick between them. The Stuntman has the Robby Benson role of sidekick and facilitator.  In both films there is 1. Someone on their tail (gangster in LL, journalist here), 2. bumbling law enforcement (Coast Guard in LL, Cop that loses patrol car and cops that get grossed out over vaginitis here), 3. great West Coast scenery, 4. extravagences that waste the booty, and 5. the apparant happy ending. ***Spoilers follow***** Spoilers follow***** When the first scene cut from the L.A. Bank to the stuntman's home and the fake blood packets went off - was that intended to telegraph the ending!?!?!?!?!  Has anyone seen an interview with cast or crew where they admitted, Yes, we wanted the audience to predict the ending just 30 minutes into the film.?????  All that being said, this was the first movie I have laughed out loud at in a long time.  Pay the money, find pleasure in the little things (Bank error in your favor) and take a vacation from reality.    "},{"Title":"A fun little romp","Date":"1 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I don't go to many date movies.  But this one is worth seeing.  Kate, Bruce and ... dare I say it ... Billy-Bob are right on.  After Sling Blade and U-turn I had thought Billy-Bob might need a little nap.  But this role really turned it around for me.  Not since Julia Roberts did Conspiracy Theory have I gone from hate to respect in ninety minutes.  Bravo Barry Levinson.  "},{"Title":"Everything I expected, and more!","Date":"1 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I almost didn't go see this movie.  I had read several reviews on this site and was disappointed that some spoilers were revealed without warnings. So, even though I knew about some things, I can still say that I thoroughly enjoyed the movie.  Billy Bob Thornton was phenomenal!  His performance alone was worth watching the movie for.  I'm a new fan!  He was incredible. He could have easily ruined the character, but instead he made him my favorite!  Fantastic acting on Thornton's part.  Bruce Willis disappointingly played his character, but it's bearable.  Kate Blanchett was also very good.  It would have been very easy for her to over-act her character (she was borderline) but kept her performance very believable.  I admit, the movie did lull a bit about a third of the way into it, but I soon found myself enjoying it more and more, and by the end I was totally into it and loving every minute.  It does incorporate several genres of film comedy/action/romance.  And, I think it does an excellent job of putting them all together in the same movie.  Don't miss this one because of bad reviews, I loved it!   "}{"Title":"Fun movie, but I'm confused about the imagery","Date":"30 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Colorful personalities in the three main characters, but I have no thesis statement about the color imagery that peppered the film. There's a shot of a building in one scene where the word COLOR was painted in larger-than-life letters. They lingered on the shot. The film maker hit us over the head with it. But what about it? Was Willis blue and Thorton red? When Cate Blanchett's character was introduced, it was through the blue light of a refrigerator. She was shown as a red head with a blue top. Was Blanchett red and blue because she couldn't decide who she wanted to end up with? I don't know. We also saw other colors the yellow hot rod driven by the guy with the home movie camera and the yellow dolly they used to transport some bank money. There was the pink convention of makeup saleswomen. I've never seen so much pink in my life, said the hotel clerk. Billy-Bob's character professed that he didn't like black and white movies. By contrast, the two bank robbers wore neutral colored outfits during the heists.A promising visual imagery premise but no payoff for me.P.S. I love black and white movies "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"29 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I think that this is one of the funniest movies that I have seen all year. Bruce Wills and Billy Bob Thorten were a great match for this movie.  My friends and I are still talking about this movie.  We were so amused by Bill Bob waking up in the middle of the night yelling Beavers and Ducks  that when ever we see each other we say it just to make the other one laugh.  I found that this movie was well worth the 7.25 that I payed to see it and I will most likely go and see it again. "},{"Title":"Fun but flimsy","Date":"27 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  CONTAINS SPOILERS The movie gets off to a good start, but sags badly in the middle, before the ending manages to stretch itself beyond its predictable conclusion for a somewhat satisfying finish.  The characters do strange things for no discernible reason (why would a nerd like Terry end up in prison?  why would Kate marry that idiot?  why does Joe send Kate off with Terry?  what's with the nail polish?  where did the pagers come from?) and there are a few incredible coincidences.  Cate Blanchett is wasted, Bruce Willis plays Bruce Willis, and Thornton just doesn't have much with which to work.  "},{"Title":"Great performances by Thornton and Blanchett wasted","Date":"27 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Bandits has a few funny moments, but overall, considering all the talents involved, it is a disappointment. Blanchett continues to impress with another superb performance and Thornton provides the few laughs of the movie. Bruce Willis is just being Bruce Willis. But that's it for the positives, the movie is mostly boring because it tries to mix a love triangle, buddy movie, comedy and crime story all in one, so it loses it's focus and it's not really good in any of those aspects. The flashback structure is mostly annoying and really doesn't add much, it just seems like a trendy thing thrown in. Not one of Levinson's best.6/10 "},{"Title":"What a great movie!","Date":"26 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I caught this one on opening night with some friends.  We ALL loved it! That's really saying something.  This would be a GREAT date flick.  This may be lumped into the action/comedy genre, but it's not quite that.  Instead, it's a very offbeat, romance, adventure story brought to you by Barry Levinson.  Cate Blanchett is wonderful as the frustrated, unasatisfied housewife.  I've never seen her look more attractive.  We've all seen Bruce Willis before.  We know he is limited but here he is quite good.  His character is, by far, the most serious.  Billy Bob is a huge surprise here.  His character (Terry) is one part Woody Allen, one part Jerry Lewis, and one part Don Knotts.  I wholly enjoyed watching him and Cate Blanchett play off each other.  The two have amazing chemistry together. In a way, Bandits reminds me a little bit of Pushing Tin, another offbeat comedy starring Billy Bob Thornton and Cate Blanchett.  While that one may be worth a look, I reccomend Bandits.  It has everything that makes going to the movies fun and there will be something to talk about afterwards.  This one's a lot of fun. "},{"Title":"Billy Bob steals the show!","Date":"26 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Bandits is a typical Barry Levinson comedy -- if you enjoy his work,you'll more than likely love Bandits. There's laughs, romance,rivalry, and lots of thrills-n-spills, all juxtapositioned with a fantasticpopular rock soundtrack (Page and Plant's Gallow's Pole is usedto great effect as the two convicts escape from prison in the verybeginning).Bruce Willis (Unbreakable) is Joe, a charming ladies' man, andBilly Bob Thornton (The Man Who Wasn't There) is Terry, a fussygourmet cook with a potful of neuroses (including Thornton'sreal-life fear of antique furniture). The likable pair of bank robbersare known as the Sleepover Bandits because they surprise bankmanagers at home and stay the night with them (having dinner,watching TV) until they all go to the bank to open vaults before workthe next morning. (As implausible as this may sound, Bandits issupposedly loosely based on a true story.) When Kate (CateBlanchett, The Man Who Cried), an unfulfilled housewife,stumbles across the gang's hideout, she turns their world upsidedown.Soon Joe and Terry become the most successful bank robbers inthe nation, with TV coverage and a spot on every law enforcementagent's most wanted list. And as far as Kate is concerned, theyalso make the perfect man. Which means, she can't decidebetween them. Things get even more complicated when the policeassume that Kate is a hostage and they embark on a manhunt tosave her from the scoundrels.The trio of actors have an easy, friendly chemistry between them(Thornton worked with Willis before in Armageddon, and withBlanchett on Pushing Tin). The movie is a little slow in finding itsway  but in the end, these 'Bandits' will almost certainly steal yourheart.  "},{"Title":"Hilarious!","Date":"26 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a wonderful, original film. Billy Bob Thornton should get an Oscar, and Bruce Willis and Cate Blanchett are superb as well. I have not laughed so much in a movie theater in years. Only quibble a little too many music video cutaways (altho it's hard to argue with 2 Bob Dylan songs and a Mark Knopfler gem); and the Jules and Jim reprise is played a tad too serious. But those are tiny flaws in a delight of a film. One of Barry Levinson's best. "},{"Title":"ZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZ...","Date":"25 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" ...(snort)...hunh...wha...waddya mean I was snoring. Oh, the movie is finally over...thank heaven, I feel like I have been trapped in a closet for three weeks with my Uncle Harry, the guy who can never remember the punch line but keeps telling the same jokes over and over and over and over and over and over..... Somewhere in the bloated carcass of Bandits is a pretty funny 90 minute movie trying to get out. The idea is not bad, certain scenes have a nice whimsy to them, but my overall impression is sloth and bad bad BAD comic timing. This kind of comedy needs quick, Bada-Boom Bada-Bing pacing, where the next scene is on top of you before the last one wears out its welcome. Way too much repetition for minimal payoff. Billy Bob - puhLEEZE putasockinit!!! YUCK!!! (liked the wigs though). Not a terrible movie, but definitely a forgettable one.  "},{"Title":"Cate Blanchette shines","Date":"24 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I tried to like this movie but it just moved too slowly so I lost interest. This is yet another case where the editor needs to be taken out back and shot. Either that or they should have added plot thickener. There just is not enough story for the length. Both I and my wife found ourselves checking our watches and is a bad sign. If they snip out about 30 minutes then the story would remain interesting.Since we are dwelling on my peccadilloes, the makeup artist should be shot as well. On several occasions I saw wig lines on Bruce Willis.As for the acting, well Cate Blanchette simply shines. She just may be the best actress of our day. As for the rest of the cast, they just don't push the envelope very much. It was pretty much Bruce Willis paying himself and Bob Thornton was not much more extended. I did like the characters but it looked like a walk in the park to me.All in all, it is an OK movie but I would not make a special effort to see it.  "},{"Title":"Unpredictable and enjoyable!","Date":"23 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I really like this movie because you could not predict the next scene and it was funny and worth the admission.  Cate Blanchett was great as the flaky love interest.  Another fun part of seeing this was the wigs and clothes that were worn by the three main characters; always changing.  All in all it was a fun two hours. "}{"Title":"Very funny! Vintage Willis.","Date":"22 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  For anyone who remembers 'Moonlighting' with any glee at all, this is as close to David Addison as Bruce Willis has come in ages. The chemistry between his character and Thornton's is nearly perfect. The story is a typical lighthearted romp, despite the criminal plot, so don't expect a lot of naturalistic brooding or authentic bank-robber behavior. This is canned beer, not fine wine, and will make you just as happy. I saw it on a Saturday night in Buffalo, and no one made a move to leave until the credits were finished.  Start to finish, rib-tickling funny. "},{"Title":"Convincing characters","Date":"22 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Trailers of the movie, giving you an expression of a stereotype Holywood production to the audiences.  Partly true, story telling is aiming action movie viewers.  However, the characters are well profiled and played. Especially, Cate Blanchett and Billy Bob Thornton made the best performances of the year I believe.  As the writer, Harley Peyton, gave the mysterious profiles of the characters as he did on Twin Peaks, the TV series. Cinematographer Dante Spinotti keeps the creative scene making as he managed on LA Confidental and Nell.  Nevertheless, there are lots of Holywood marketing effects on the movie, might be caused by the anxiety of the producers or the director Barry Levinson himself, trying to pull down the movie to the ordinary money making class of the Holywood productions. Still worth to see. "},{"Title":"Light as a feather, but extremely entertaining anyway","Date":"22 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is the sort of film that Barry Levinson hasn't made in a while.  It has very little to say about anything; it's just pure character comedy.  And while it may be lacking in weight, it does what it does supremely well.Bruce Willis and Billy Bob Thornton unexpectedly turn out to be one of the best comic duos in years.  Their back-and-forth bantering style is so good, I honestly couldn't tell whether they were reciting written dialogue or improvising.  Cate Blanchett, with whom I am slowly falling madly in love, has a tough job just not disappearing while these two are sharing the screen, but she manages not only to keep up, but to carve out a memorable section of the film for herself.The film runs just over two hours, but you'd never know it.  It moves incredibly fast, never slowing down, never dull.  The screenplay does an incredible job of spicing things up every time a lull seems inevitable.If there's one serious weakness, it's in the predictability of the ending.  One can see it coming from the horizon.  The story gives you every tool you need to put together exactly what's going to happen.  It's a real shame that the story can't be as unpredictable as the characters. "},{"Title":"Bruce Willis and Billy Bob Thorton had me SNORING!","Date":"22 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Boring film. Tries to be clever. Is . . sort of . . at times. Cliched the rest of the time. Unconvincing. One of those films at the end of which you say - what the $*(%*(@ was . . THAT? I'll admit it was better than Blair Witch. It was shotguns, and stuff, that tended to wake me from my slumber.Willis is a tough as nails con, who opportunistically seizes a cement truck, in a low security (one assumes) prison, and rams the fences and gates to make a quick getaway. His pseudo-intellectual buddy, Billy Bob, hitches along, all the while complaining that he wants to return to prison. They start their career as bank robbers that very day.The film is a series of flashbacks, and cutouts, and interviews and 'how did they get there' scenes. The climax is touchy because one has to phrase special effects a certain way when people know they're watching . . . a movie, where everything's fake. And they didn't do it right, in this film. The payoff, is that crime not only pays, but that the payment is living as an ex-patriot in Mexico, on stolen money, running a bar/nightclub. What a .. 'dream'. Maybe they should have called him, Rick, and come up with a memorable tune you can't let the piano player play.The 'love interest' is the rich and bored 'kept wife' of some cheating playboy type. She's nutty. And she's happy in Mexico as the credits roll, if I'm not mistaken. She . . . shares in the 'dream'.And I must have been dreaming, or nuts, or something to not have walked out halfway through when I started nodding off. The crime isn't the fake movie bank robbers. The crime is Willis and Billy Bob, and the rest, and how they will get rich off this . . waste of time. I beginning to think the movie biz is just the greatest scam ever.And I used to like going to movies. "},{"Title":"This is an exceedingly clever and inspired comedy.","Date":"21 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I saw Bandits last week when I was in Cali and I'm still reeling from it. The sleepover bandits? What a novel premise for a comedy that is essentially a retread. The three lead actors are simply flawless in their respective roles. I'm usually of the opinion that a little bit of Bruce Willis and Billy Bob Thornton goes a LONG way. But they are quite well-suited--and humorous--in their roles. Cate Blanchet is absolutely charming. I'm convinced that she is the most versatile and talented actress in film today. She makes any character radiate. There are a few momentary lulls (and extraneous characters) in the mix, the direction however is so deft that I hardly even noticed. It's rare that a comedy succeeds at building momentum and engaging the audience en route to a truly unexpected and enjoyable finale. Bandits does so splendidly. "},{"Title":"Bandits  Good, Clean, Lovable, Neurotic Crooks","Date":"20 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Do you need to escape from the evil that so pervades our world now? Well, Bandits, a comedy                                       starring Bruce Willis, Billy Bob Thornton and the gorgeous and very talented Cate Blanchett will                                       do the trick for two hours at any rate.                                      This is a genre film - the genre being lovable and funny criminals committing truly serious crimes                                       who expose their inner vulnerabilities and make audiences love them, perhaps even identify with                                       their peculiarities.                                      The two male stars are big-time bank robbers with an unusual M.O. (I won't tell you what it is)                                       and Ms. Blanchett joins them as an alternative to marriage with a stereotypically self-absorbed,                                       vacuous but affluent hubby. So we get Bonnie and two Clydes, or perhaps two Clods, and no                                       one buys the farm.                                      This isn't great filmmaking, it isn't even great comedy but it does have its high moments                                       because of the really funny interactions between the three stars.  "},{"Title":"A sexy film you won't want to miss!","Date":"19 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Barry Levinson has done the seemingly culturally impossible -- he has my usually unattainable stamp of approval for translating, improving, and perfecting the ineffective, condescending and esoterically boring foreign movie Bandit Queen, which documented the rise, fall and yawningly inevitable assassination of a legendary Hindu princess.  The beauty of Bandits is not only its well-written prose and sharp-as-needles wit, but also its absolutely stunning and innovative hand-held photography and extremely fast-paced editing!  As an on-again, off-again apprentice of the five finger discount, I appreciated Mr. Levinson's tough-as-nails, Oz-like, approach.  Never before has a big Hollywood movie caused me to rethink my attitude towards criminals, derelicts, drug abusers, and untouchables.  Barry Levinson has more than his thumb on the pulse of the human condition -- he has both palms feeling us up and giving us a sensuous erotic massage (for only $6.50 a pop!).  Thank you for this movie, and for showing the world America's superior cinematically discerning sensibilities! "},{"Title":"Quirky crime drama with laughs","Date":"19 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Many films that attempt to be all things to all men (and women, children, etc.) fall flat on their faces - it is difficult to blend elements of drama, farce, comedy and thriller satisfactorily.Bandits, however, succeeds on many levels.  It does not take itself too seriously, but is well-constructed and intelligent.  It strays far enough from the standard formula to compensate for the lack of plausibility (eg bank staff seem far too happy to be held up and hand over the cash).  The mixing in of the documentary pieces breaks up the action in an interesting way and also provides a few laughs.The central performances of Willis (whose natural charm is evident throughout), Thornton (likeable hypochondriac) and Blanchett (kookily bewitching) are all quite convincing.An amusing and enjoyable couple of hours. "},{"Title":"Very Original for a bank robber movie","Date":"18 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I loved Bruce Willis and Billy Bob Thornton in this.  Bruce Willis tends to play just about the same character in every action movie he plays.  (He was different in Sixth Sense and Unbreakable though).  In this one he plays the same soft spoken tough guy with a even temper and a volcanic rage just beneath the surface.  Billy Bob Thornton never plays the same character twice in any 2 movies he does.  I love this guy.  In this one he plays the brains of a legendary bank robbing team.  He is also a sniveling and weakly little coward who is always sickly.  I thought this part of the movie was pretty funny.I don't want to give away the ending, but the final robbery was well done. I thought this was a very original idea.   "},{"Title":"Finally a movie that delivers what the trailers promise.","Date":"17 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Yes I know that trailers are supposed to put the best foot forward for any movie, but most of the movies this summer were far outdone by the trailers.  Find those trailer editors and make them directors please.This movie delivers nice performances with fun and at least one interesting character, Billy Bob's.Bruce Willis either did a great job playing the straight man or Thornton upstaged him.  You pick.Get the studio people and tell them we are simple people out here.  Make it funny and some action (or action and some funny); make sure there is a story, just a pinch of mystery twist, and a happy ending.  Leave art to the independent films.It is OK to go see BANDITS and to like it.    "}{"Title":"Don't waste your money","Date":"16 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is probably the worst movie I have seen since 15 minutes.  I'm not quite sure why they plugged this as a comedy.  I didn't find anything funny anywhere in the entire film.  If you must see it, why I don't know, please watch it on pay-per-view or rent it so at least you don't spend a whole lot of money on admission.  On a scale of 1 to 10 it receives a zero. "},{"Title":"Twists and Quirks, oneliners...","Date":"15 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I saw this is theaters for a birthday with about nine other sixteen year olds, and I'm proud to say they were all paying attention. I am an exclusive fan of Bruce Willis, and I look forward to any of his movies. He has this way of acting that makes any movie of his enjoyable, no matter how bad the story of supporting cast. Together with Cate Blanchett and Billy Bob Thornton, they are a superb trio of 'sleepover bandits.' Thornton is a nervous, sensitive hypochondriac with a pessimism towards every little thing. Blanchett is a woman who has had it with her life and wants a new outlook. Together, they really make each other think and struggle along the way. Harvey, the friend of Willis, is an aspiring stunt man who wants to become a professional. With him, the movie turns out surprisingly well. Lots of little twists and quirks, and some great one liner humor. See it. "},{"Title":"Not spectacular, but worth seeing","Date":"15 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  While this is not the greatest movie ever, it's a good time, A few laugh out loud one-liners, and Billy-Bob Thornton's neuroses provide enough comedy to support the action, the dramatic love-triangle drags7/10 "},{"Title":"not bad.. not great, but not bad...","Date":"15 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  this started out OK, then got really good at the end.  Bruce Willis was under-utilized, Billy Bob Thorton stole the show, and it could have been shortened by about 15 minutes, particularly at about 2/3 the way through the movie.  but the last scene alone makes the movie worth seeing.  go matinee and you won't regret it. "},{"Title":"Grrrrreat!","Date":"14 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Okay, now just to let you know upfront- I am a HUGE HUGE HUGE Bruce Willis fan. I adore the guy. And even though his hair was a little hard to adore in this movie, he was fantastic as always. Billy Bob Thorton was a little annoying, but his acting was fabulous. Together, these two made a very lovable pair of 'Bandits'. Cate was a litte annoying too, but maybe I was just jealous, who knows? Overall, this movie was a ton of fun to watch and I would go see it again in a heartbeat. **** out of ***** "},{"Title":"Bandits is a real steal","Date":"14 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Director Barry Levinson's crime caper Bandits doesn't occupy a single inch of original territory.  The movie's essentially another addition to the long-winded genre of sympathetic villains.  For whatever reason, fictional bank robbers have always been touched with a velvet glove.  And if you just so happen to be `mobbed up', then you're well, `untouchable'.  While the outlaws featured here aren't connected, they do portray evil people we gratefully forgive.  And exoneration is so effortless with characters and situations that make you smile. I'm reminded of Bill Murray's less-than-stellar flick Quick Change.  While the majority of the film is pathetic, his planned bank robbery/escape at the beginning was ingenious.  Bandits relies on a time-released gimmick to bamboozle the audience, and unequivocally trumps Murray's climatic twist. Terry and Joe (Billy Bob Thornton and Bruce Willis) have just broken out of an Oregon State Penitentiary.  Why they were incarcerated to begin with isn't mentioned, but it becomes crystal clear ten minutes after their escape.  Without a plan of action, the duo fall back on habit and rob a bank, utilizing a magic marker as their weapon of choice.  Within a half-hour time, Terry and Joe regain a semblance of freedom, plus some much needed travel money. Levinson doesn't allow much time to get acquainted with the leads. Apparently Joe's a hothead who's in desperate need of anger-management. Terry's a basket-case hypochondriac who suffers from more phony illnesses than the American Medical Association has terms for.  Joe's the brawn, Terry's the brain.  Together they devise a foolproof scheme to successfully pilfer enough banks to fulfill their dream of running a nightclub 60 miles south of Acapulco.  Instead of knocking over a bank in daylight, they plan to kidnap the bank manager and his family the night before.  Then in the morning, before guards, tellers, and customers become witnesses, the outlaws can steal the cash without incident. While Joe and Terry rob the bank, their getaway driver Harvey (Troy Garity) impatiently waits.  This is a young inexperienced fool who'd rather concentrate on blondes walking across the street, or fantasize about his dream job as a Hollywood stunt man.  What he doesn't do particularly well, is pay attention to the risky job he participates in. Two stories diverge, when a lonely housewife named Kate (Cate Blanchett) accidentally hits Terry with her car.  Her husband would rather spend time at work, than with her, so Kate finds it exhilarating when she discovers true identity.  Terry, not one to talk, isn't keen on her sticking around, calling her `mentally imbalanced to a spectacular degree'.   Despite the bickering and negotiating, Kate convinces them and willingly becomes kidnapped, just as the `sleep over bandits' become an American phenomenon. Because the screenplay is long-winded, there are segments when it appears as the movie is stuck in neutral.  Truth be told, writer Harley Peyton (Twin Peaks) is intricately setting up a well thought out plot, worthy of substantial lag time.  Without the unfortunately slower scenes, the development of characters and situations would have been rendered impossible.  Plus the major difference with this action/comedy caper compared with other Hollywood flat-line fiction, is character development. Dialogue makes all the difference.  While some movies can abuse talk, Bandits allows enough speaking lines to fixate our imagination, but complements it with enough silence to allow us to recoup.  With such an emphasis on discourse, good acting is indispensable. While I want to express my continued amazement over Billy Bob Thornton, and his versatility that may only be matched with Dustin Hoffman or Jack Nicholson, even the scenes he steals, are stolen by cast mate Cate Blanchett.  Her supporting performance is Oscar worthy, though I doubt a movie like this will garner a second glance.  She's sweet, unsettling, diabolical, insane, and occasionally, all four simultaneously.  Willis left an awkward taste in my mouth.  His shift from mean-spirited bully to sweetheart and back is partly a fault of the writer, but largely is his deficiency in acting versatility. Director Barry Levinson doesn't make or break any of his films.  He isn't an artistic blockhead who involves deranged camera angles to provide a certain signature to his work.  Yet the man's track record is spottier than a Dalmatian.  For every Wag the Dog, he does a Sphere.  While not as socially significant as his Oscar winning masterpiece Rain Man, Bandits has moments of brilliance surrounded by relentless laughter. (star) (star) (star) (star)  "},{"Title":"A wonderful comedy","Date":"14 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Some good belly laughs which we all need during these trying times. Excellent casting, too. Bruce Willis and Billy Bob Thornton play off each other so well as dysfunctional bank robbers. A wonderful duo that I would hope we'd see together again. I thought this was a terrific comedy without being slapstick. "},{"Title":"Very Funny, Considering it's Levinson","Date":"14 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Director Barry Levinson, who has made MANY more bad movies (Sphere, Jimmy Hollywood, Disclosure, Toys - the remake, Good Morning Vietnam, Bugsy, Avalon) than good (Wag the Dog, Rain Man, The Natural, Diner) comes up big here. This is by far the funniest film I've seen this year, with most of the humor relying upon asides from Billy Bob  Thornton's character. He's a case study in hypochondriacism, the more sensitive and realistic but less attractive half of a brother team of bank robbers. Action figure Bruce Willis portrays the older, tougher- but-still-charming, womanizing brother to a T... rounding out the crew is a would-be Hollywood stuntman (Troy Garrity) and, knowing Levinson, the fact that he's a stuntman isn't coincidental.Along comes a bored red-headed housewife -- Cate Blanchett -- who becomes the focal point of an anything-but-usual love triangle. A few words about Blanchett after Elizabeth and The Gift who knew she was a drop-dead knockout? I saw Willis on Letterman hawking the film and he made a Cate Blanchett -- woo hoo! remark and I said huh?. Because after seeing her with virtually no makeup (or rather, made up to look as if she was wearing no makeup) in several films I viewed her only as a gifted actress, another Aussie who could adapt various American accents apparently effortlessly. Bruce was right she's hot with a capital H.Via real-life comedian Bobby Slayton's John Walsh-like character -- he's the host of Criminals At Large, a reality TV show which chronicles the exploits of the duo, then trio as they happen -- the gang comes to be known as the Sleepover Bandits. They arrive at a bank manager's home the evening before each heist, spending the night then escorting them to each of their respective financial institutions the following  morning so that they may rob them pre-opening.The look of the film is pure Hollywood (hey, it's Levinson after all) but it does roll along at a merry pace, mixing progressively funnier pseudo-ailments from Thornton with equal doses of almost-tender romance and quick, well-done capers.Apart from the occasional Slayton recaps, this is an entirely linear flick, despite a comment made to open the movie.I give Bandits my highest recommendation for a film of this type. Potential Oscar nominations for Thornton as well as Harley Peyton's witty story & script.9/10 "},{"Title":"Had a really good time","Date":"14 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie was a blast.  Bruce Willis was great, Cate Blanchett proves she can really do anything but Billy Bob Thornton steals the show. He is SO funny. I want to see it again to see what I missed of his lines. A fast moving, engaging comedy with lots for everybody and an especially great soundtrack. "},{"Title":"Laugh out loud","Date":"14 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I defy anyone to see this movie and not laugh out loud at least once if not consistently.  The laughs are more intelligent than you might expect.  It moves along well and is well directed.This has got to be another Oscar nomination for Billy Bob Thornton.  He used a little physical humor, just a little (but who expects physical humor from him?) and tremendous timing as the smart, somewhat nerdy hypochondriac part of the team.  Kate Blanchett gives a very good performance and is much more attractive here than any other film I have seen her in.  Bruce Willis gives another very good performance but nothing that seems to be a stretch for him.Other Oscar nominations for the Screenwriter and Barry Levinson's direction.  This is one of those movies that fits well into multiple genres comedy, romance, drama.  Finally, the music is a very nice fit into this charming, funny little escape from reality. "}{"Title":"Wonderful, fun caper movie!","Date":"14 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I went into this movie with not much in the ways of expectations.  So many movies, lately, have been disappointing to me.  I was so very pleasantly surprised by this movie, which works well on so many levels.  The dialogue is clever and witty.  The ongoing banter between Willis and Thornton really made for a lot of fun.  The humor surrounding the politeness of these criminals as they rob banks was really fun.  Kate Blanchett's off-kilter woman-on-the-edge left you with a sense of expecting the unexpected (which of course defeats the purpose of expecting the unexpected, since you're expecting it...).  Music was more than simply incidental in this movie, and was in many ways another character in the story, and that worked well, too.Its nice to see a comedic movie that doesn't slavishly stick to the 90-minute formula.  It's not a simple sitcom movie.  It's more of a caper flick, and a really enjoyable one, at that. "},{"Title":"See This!","Date":"13 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Bandits was a really funny movie. Billy Bob Thornton in my opinion stole the whole movie. I identified with his eccentric phobias; I have so many of them myself. Maybe that's why every time Billy Bob was on the screen I laughed so hard. He does drama great and comedy great! He can do it all! Bruce Willis and Cate Blanchett were also very funny in their roles. I am definitely going to this movie again, and I suggest you all do the same! (It slightly reminded me of the same smart humor in Bottle Rocket.) "},{"Title":"absolute fun","Date":"13 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is an exceptional film that plays on the personalities of the three main characters. It is witty, romantic with a clever ending that comes as a surprise. The funniest scenes deal more with the somewhat annoying character played by Billy Bob Thornton who takes on every illness eluded to by Bruce Willis (or anyone else in the film). This is a fun film that is a treat to watch. "},{"Title":"Very Predictable","Date":"13 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  From the time the movie began it was quite easy to stay at least 2 steps ahead of the plot.  Billy Bob was the only reason this movie didn't deserve a one vote.  He was great.  I found that the movie drug on in too many spots and really lacked great acting from the other leads.  Wait for it to hit the $1.00 movies if you must see this one. "},{"Title":"Non time linear movies","Date":"13 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The only thing about the movie that I really didn't like was the fact that the end of the movie (chronologically speaking) happens first.  Ten years ago that might have been an intriguing new twist to a movie, but not anymore.  Anyway, the result of showing the ending first is that it severely limits how the movie is supposed to progress.  I suppose the theory is the trip is the important thing, not the destination.The movie reads like a standard buddy road trip, love triangle, bank robber movie.  While there aren't really movies of that sort, if you put them all together you get a picture of what is going on in the movie.  Bruce Willis plays the typical tough guy (who even though he is a notorious bank robber he doesn't hurt people), Billy Bob plays his hypochondriac/psychosomatic partner.  Cate Blanchett plays Cate, a lonely housewife who runs away with the bad guys to put some excitement in her life.  Basically the movie is about the love affair between those three, with the rest of the movie happening in spite of their interplay.If it weren't for the ending happening first I would have rated this movie higher, as is, a 7/10. "},{"Title":"As good as it gets...","Date":"13 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  In the all too rare comedy-romance-action-gangster movie  category, this one rules. As might be expected from such a proven director and mighty actors (Cate Blanchett is particularly amazing here), the result is from beginning to end hilarious, the characters attaching although all quite extreme in their various traits, the ending is surprising enough, and the whole thing very witty. A must-see ! "},{"Title":"there are a number of levels to this film, if one knows film...","Date":"13 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Having seen Bandits tonight, I am surprised at some of the reviews I have read (especially Roger Ebert's recent review). As with any movie, when you are compressing the passage of time into 2 hours, there will be some bits of jumpiness, some scenes that might seem out of place. Despite this, we enjoyed Bandits immensely, found much to laugh at, and much to talk about afterwards. Yes, on the surface, it is a film about 2 bank robbers, their rise and fall; But--if one thinks about it for a while, you realize that it is much more; it is an homage to earlier films and film-makers--my wife and I saw elements of, or references to, Dog Day afternoon, Jules at Jim (a lot...), The Odd Couple, Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid, The Great Escape, Titanic (that one is an obvious line, tho), a nod to Mickey Rourke, It Happened One Night, etc..... All of these are blended into the mix rather skillfully, and help make an over-all entertaining film. "},{"Title":"Hey this movie is pretty funny.","Date":"12 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  When Bandits came to film in Northern California, I hung out for a day. It looked funny when they shot it, and by golly the end product is just as funny. Imagine that.Bruce and Billy Bob are a perfect fit for their role as bank robbers with a sense of humor.  Cate Blanchett...hmmm...I dunno, I kept hoping for someone more like...Kate Hudson.  But it still works.The ending is particularly clever and I have to admit, that I was slow to the punch. My sister had to fill me in. Nice twist.I can see why these top actors hopped on board to this very well written script. And Barry Levinson makes directing comedies look easy.8/10 "},{"Title":"Pleasant little film has surprise ending.","Date":"12 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  BANDITS  **+_  Crime Caper / Comedy Bruce Willis, Cate Blanchett, Billy Bob ThorntonTwo prison escapees become notorious bank robbers. Along the way they they pick up a girl, who joins them in their escapades. The film is a little slow paced, but offers comedy along with offbeat but warm character studies. It has a satisfying, surprise ending. There are some explosions, but no significant violence.  "},{"Title":"Funny, but looonnnggg","Date":"12 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Bandits was clever.  It delivered good acting on a fun script.  Many scenes were very humorous.  Unfortunately, the movie hits a lull in the middle portion which causes the viewer to forget about the funny beginning and pray for a good ending.  If only they could have taken a half-hour out, they would have had a superb film.  Billy Bob Thornton was great. "}{"Title":"Best movie of the year... and then some.","Date":"3 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I saw a screening of this film. With the exception of some minor editing that is needed about 2/3 of the way through this film to tighten it up a bit, this movie rocked! I laughed to the point of tears a few times, clapped with excitement and felt drawn into the characters. Billy Bob should get Best Supporting Actor for this one! If you see one film this year, make it Bandits!!! "},{"Title":"You'll cringe, you'll crack up, you'll come back for more.","Date":"3 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Not to be put on any top 100 list, this movie was still an amazingly fun and well executed story.The acting was (as expected) very convincing and the characters were well drawn and true-to-life... maybe not yours or mine, but someone's. The film's combination of action, story, and comedy, with just a few smidges of sappy romance place it solidly in good company. It follows two bank robbers - the Sleepover Bandits - and their strange successes. Spliced with scenes from a blow out ending and seasoned with almost documentary-style narration, the flow of the film keeps you enthralled. It sucks you in, makes you wince, cracks you up and then leaves you very satisfied at the end.This is one to watch again. "},{"Title":"A witty, intelligent and very funny movie","Date":"3 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I recently attended an advanced screening of Bandits. Very good movie. Much better than anything from the recent past. It's an intelligent movie about three bank robbers and the situations they get themselves into. A good plot with a few interesting and hilarious twists. The acting was good, especially Billy Bob Thornton. He really did justice to the character. I thought Cate Blanchett was very good too. It was nice to see her in a slightly different light. I didn't expect any intelligent humour. The previews made it look like more senseless humor if anything. I was surprised at the screenplay. It was very witty and  I thoroughly enjoyed it.From the reaction in the theatre, it was easy to see everybody liked it and it's definitely worth watching.  "},{"Title":"Some cuts and it's OK","Date":"29 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is kind of predictable, and that's OK, I can deal with that, you know that you're going to the movies to have a good time... Bruce Willis again playing a charming man, with everything under control, the winner... Almost the usual role for Willis, because he make a fair work. But Billy Bob Thornton and Cate Blanchett have the real fun and chemistry on screen, because the funny thing is that they're playing characters in a very realistic way. The movie is OK, but I think that 2 hours is too much for a comedy... "},{"Title":"Clever well-done feel good comedy brought to mind Alex Guiness classic crime comedies, The Ladykillers and The Lavender Hill Mob","Date":"5 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Bandits is one of those comedies where everything is so perfect that it is just a joy to watch. That feeling of enjoyment is from a clever plot, and acting and directing that never lets the story become a farce.The writing, directing (Baltimore's Barry Levenson) and acting are all superb. I particularly appreciated Cate Blanchet's performance as Kate Wheeler, an unappreciated gorgeous wife in despair because she has prepared a fabulous gourmet dinner and then her dolt of a husband decides to skip dinner. (I recently saw a serious drama, The Man Who Cried, in which Cate Blanchett was also terrific. She hadn't come to my attention previously.) Billy Bob Thornton also was great as a neurotic convict/bank robber, and Bruce Willis uses a tough guy persona that has worked exceedingly well in such previous films as Pulp Fiction. The plot, derived from a true criminal case, is about a pair of convict buddies who break out of prison and begin robbing banks to finance their dream of a plush retirement in Mexico. But they don't like the dangers that ordinary bank robbers risk, so they come up with a novel approach of getting the bank managers to let them into rob the banks in the morning before the bank is open to customers. But when Cate Blanchett's character enters their life, a romantic conflict ensues. Troy Garity is very good as an easily distracted movie stunt man (I don't recall if he was a friend or relative) in need of some excitement who jumps at the opportunity to drive the bank robbers' get-away-car.The story is told as a narrative reflecting back on the events that led up to the narration's current time. The end has a surprise twist that I was able to guess because of something included earlier in the film.If you are old enough or fortunate enough to have seen Alex Guiness' 1950's era classic crime comedies, The Ladykillers and The Lavender Hill Mob, I think you will find that Bandits brings them to mind, despite Bandits being a less broad form of comedy. "},{"Title":"Hilariously entertaining.","Date":"10 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" It's not a film that's about the direction or the plot or anything technical. This film relies solely on the relationship between it's characters and boy does it succeed. Most of this is due to the great performances from Willis, Thornton and Blanchett who all come together perfectly with hilarious chemistry and they manage to pull the romantic scenes off quite well also. Cate Blanchett is the highlight of the film for me and it's probably my favorite performance of hers just because of how willing she is to just throw herself out there and be as insane as possible. Billy Bob Thornton being cast as the paranoid hypochondriac Terry was the perfect decision, as was Bruce Willis as the intelligent, brutish Joe. Everyone hits their marks perfectly and create a hilarious, entertaining adventure film that I can re-watch over and over again. "},{"Title":"Average, okay, but way too long....","Date":"29 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Bandits' has it's moments. There is some sharp black humor, but also, way too many dead spots for this movie to be anything but average. The acting is acceptable. I thought Billy Bob Thornton's hypochondriac obsessions were overdone. The love triangle could have been trimmed. The ending was totally unrealistic. The over the top disguises added little. My conclusion is that a half hour could be on the cutting room floor and actually improve the film. If you come in with moderate expectations, you will probably not squirm too much, but I found myself wishing it would move along when it dragged, which was often. Certainly a disappointment, but watchable. - MERK "},{"Title":"Fun Caper Movie","Date":"22 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Bandits is a fun caper movie that steals a lot from Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid, so it's like a Western set in contemporary times, here in small West Coast towns. Cate Blanchett shines as a housewife transformed by her involvement with the hapless bandits.It gets lost for the last quarter, so my mind wandered until the cute powie ending.But I'm a sucker for movies that use classic rock lyrics as part of the dialog, and the songs are mostly used effectively.(originally written 11/3/2001) "},{"Title":"Movie-enjoyment-stealing bandits.","Date":"7 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Thornton and Willis team up to make some easy money in this less than average caper, literally. It's been several years since anyone has seen anything from the famed child actor Jonathan Taylor Thomas, known as JTT in girly magazines, yet his influence in hat trends is still seen today throughout Hollywood. Why does Thornton wear this hat in this film? Actually, why in the hell does he always wear it?! He's been doing this for years, mostly in public appearances along with the likes of Rosie (surprise I'm gay!) O'Donnell, Samuel L. Jackson, Joe Pantoliano, and Tim Robbins! Why they wear these hats is a mystery to me, but more importantly why they wear them all of the damn time. It's ridiculous, and the simple fact that Thornton wears it in this film just pisses me off. Now that that's out of the way, let's move on.Bandits is based loosely, very, around the actual robbers who were aptly named the Sleepover Bandits, who would kidnap bank managers the night before their robberies and spend the night with them so they could take the money with ease the following morning without much fuss. Fairly clever, but it wasn't the creators' idea so they can't take the credit. So, throw in an impossible prison escape, a silly love story with a beautiful temptress, add some pyrotechnical friend that should have his eyes stabbed out for his utter stupidity and uncanny likeness to David Arquette&#133;.with a dash of what could have been a clever ending and you have Bandits. Don't forget the cheese&#133;.oh, and the hat.Thornton's acting is fairly decent, although Willis is surprising wooden here. The cast itself is fairly impressive, however the characters and story are just weak. While the overall cast is manageable, one character in particular is just retarded. Their getaway driver&#133;the David Arquette wannabe. His unquenchable thirst for ass is pathetic, corny, and takes entirely too much away from the main story. He mumbles and fumbles around like a wounded mongoloid who just huffed a can of ether. Coincidentally enough, the culprit is none other than Jane Fonda's crack-binge-conceived spawn.That's it, I'm tired of this....I'm beginning to convince myself that I have become jaded. Bandits is a below average caper with a silly love triangle that makes you feel cheated of your time with it's clich칠d script. You can go through life with the consolation that you're not missing anything great or particularly good here. If you have any ether or spray paint lying around, it might be better to go find some bags and get your huff on than sit through this. On the bright side though, I didn't want to murder anyone after it's viewing, except for Mr. Crack Spawn Fonda, which is entirely justifiable. I can't say that for many movies that I don't enjoy. It is easy and fun to hate it though which means it's not among the worst I've seen by any means. What it comes down to is that there is far more bad here than good.  "},{"Title":"Fun but not consistent","Date":"31 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Levenson's latest is an actor's tour de force for Willis and Thornton, less so for Blanchett who is simply not up to her role as a love-starved crime groupie. Lots of funny bits, although the film becomes repeitive and boring long before the fairlly predictable climax. Remove Blanchett and at least you'd have a decent buddy cape flick. "}{"Title":"Too damn long!","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I really like Bruce Willis, Billy Bob Thornton and Cate Blanchett, but in Bandits we find nothing interesting to see. Too long and boring, with NOTHING new. Everything we see in here we have seen millions of time before. In the very beginning we think this film will be nice, but it's far from being cool. It's not a comedy, or a romance or an action film. It's two hours seeing nothing. It's really a pity. Such good actors in such a bad movie. "},{"Title":"Who likes this movie? It was BAD!","Date":"25 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Bandits is one of those movies that you are waiting to get good but it never does.  The pace is so uneven. It tries to be a love story but you just don't care about the characters. There are a few spurratic one liners that are funny but are far and few between. I am a very big Willis and Billy Bob fan (if you want to him see a role that requires ACTING try Sling Blade, U-Turn or a simple plan). I watched 70% of this flick and shut it off. It just made no sense. These guys are friendly celebrity bank robbers who float across the country.  The only good character is the cousin, stunt man, side kick guy who only has one or two good lines.  "},{"Title":"I can't believe I watched the whole thing","Date":"2 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"            By some quirk of coincidence, the last three movies I've seenhave been heist movies released in 2001.  First, I saw Heist, theThe Score, then Bandits.  Despite the excellent casts of all threemovies, each one has been a bit worse than the last one Iwatched.            Bandits was just plain boring until the last 8 minutes or so(despite exactly two moments when I laughed out loud).  I think theonly way this movie could score a high rating is if a viewer leavesthe movie remembering only the cool ending and forgetting themonotonous, seemingly-endless hour and a half that went before. The movie's self-conscious borrowing from Bonnie & Clyde andNatural Born Killers and other similar pics doesn't make it cool--itjust makes it old and tired.          If it's on cable, and you really have nothing better to do, watchit.  But don't pay money to rent the video.  I don't know--buy a comicbook or something.          4 out of 10 "},{"Title":"A Long Wait","Date":"30 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  All right, this movie is two hours and three minutes long.  It consists of one hour and 48 minutes of inane, boring, predictable dialog and unimaginative plot development and dialog, culminating into 15 minutes of hilarity.  If you don't mind the wait, it's a pretty entertaining final 15 minutes. Otherwise, you'd be better off watching Quills or something a bit more thought-provoking. "},{"Title":"Incredibly boring film","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** This movie is one of Bruce Willis worst movies except from Color of the night. First of all Bruce is wearing one of the most ridicoulus wigs Ive seen yet. Youre bald Bruce. Either accept it or wear a wig that looks like real hair. The wig alone makes me take Bruce less seriously than usual. Now for the plot, if you can call it that. The movie starts out okay but from the minute thay kidnap the very annoying woman Kate, its downhill from there. The way they rob banks is done the same way over and over again. And its not even funny or clever because all the cool moments are shown in the trailer. If youve seen the trailer, youve seen the movie. This movie has very little action and too much talking. Its overlong and ccould have easily been 30 minutes shorter. The movie concentrates most on the incredibly boring lovestory and very little on the bankrobberies. Cate Blanchett is, Im sorry to say so, not attractive at all. Especially not in this film. She looks old and the red hair annoyed me too. And Billy Bob Thornton, who is also wearing a ridicoulus wig, overacts to the point where I wished the cops would shoot him. Hes not funny at all. Neither is Bruce. In fact none of the moments that are suppose to be funny are funny at all. Because theyve already been shown in the trailer. The only good things about the film are the beginning and the twist in the end. Clever done. But the fact that Kate choose both men and they both accept sharing her seems unrealistic and really stupid.  "},{"Title":"Great expectations or none...","Date":"24 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  BANDITS was one of the most interesting films I have seen. Sadly, I use the word interesting to remain politically correct, in the midst of several people who actually liked this film. Perhaps someday, I will have the wisdom to see a story where I see none today, and perhaps on the same day, someone will make a film that will come to me through a wire, directly into my brain, in less than a second and bring out a complete reaction in less than that! For spending anything more than that length of time, I have found several films far ahead of this interesting film we are discussing here, even the ordinary ones, made with shoestring budgets. "},{"Title":"Could have been better.","Date":"16 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Bandits will include itself in many of the films which came out in the nineties, which knew how to start and how to end, but had a lot of trouble in the middle. (I can think of The Thomas Crown Affair for one)There are traces of Butch Cassidy, The Sting, and many other films about conmen and thieves. This film tried to be more. While Bruce Willis was the action type, we have Billy Bob Thornton, whose hypochondriac role fits perfectly on Woody Allen. But Thornton pulls it off well and everything is well on it path, till the girl comes along.Not only inclusion of Cate Blanchett as the bored housewife seeking adventure turmoil the two bandits relationship, it also succeeded it making the movie too long. There was a lot that could have happen, but did not happen simply because the scriptwriters fell in love with Blanchett's character. Nothing wrong with Blanchett of course. She is fine, enjoyable but spends too much time not helping the Bandits the stuff they do the best...rob banks.Nevertheless, the film was still enjoyable. There are genuine moments of humour, coupled with great performance from the trio. Good film, only the damn middle part. Not something I would remember in my old age. "},{"Title":"Mediocre flick with lousy screenplay relies on star power","Date":"2 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Bandits is a comedy trying to be an action flick trying to be a drama trying to be romantic trying to.....etc. Levinson and Peyton  conjure up the usual, the nominal, the mediocre Hollywood fare in this story about a couple of obviously manufactured characters who rob banks. The flick never really connects with the audience as it move schizophrenically through it's meager plot wearing out the charm and quirkiness of it's characters, not building, and ending predictably. Nonetheless it does manage a modest level of entertainment with some humorous moments. A good one to save for broadcast. "},{"Title":"Good Entertainment from Levinson","Date":"11 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Barry Levinson's Bandits is a consitently yet unperfect comedy/caper with Willis and Thornton as very different people who are the best of friends, and bank robbers, who plan to open a club in Acapulco from bank robbing money (they're formula to robbing the banks is pretty clever).  But a monkey wrench is thrown in the works, in the form of Cate Blanchett as the sexy and eccentric red-head hosewife who tags along.Alot of good old laughs mixed with some adrenaline moments make this a decent Levinson project, though it could've pushed the envelope a little farther than it aimed to do.  Still an enjoyable night to be sure.  B+ "},{"Title":"Billy Bob and Bruce's Wigs...","Date":"1 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Bandits is a disappointing film coming from a great director like Barry Levinson. The whole thing is not believable at all and it's very uneven. That said, I have an issue with the director in misusing a great actor like Billy Bob Thornton in this film. His whole relationship with Cate is absurd, but the worse thing is to have to watch Bruce and Billy Bob in those hideous wigs throughout the film. Now come on Mr. Levinson, it would have made more sense to show us the actors the way they are instead of dressing them for Halloween. "}{"Title":"Bad Guys Get the Money and Go Free","Date":"12 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Bandits is a movie to inspire young people everywhere that bank robbery is romantic, harmless fun.  For a good time, simply rob some banks.  It is okay, as long as no one gets hurt and you have a sense of humor about it. For a well adjusted viewer, it is light entertainment with subtle slapstick and wry humor. "},{"Title":"Bruce Willis with a mullet.","Date":"22 October 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is really bad. The plot is unbelievable. The stupidity of the plot makes me wonder as to why Mr. Willis and Mr. Thornton took this movie. The movie SUCKS. IT IS SO BAD. IT IS ONE OF THE WORST MOVIES I HAVE EVER SEEN. I hate when they do shaky camera movements and try to make these stupid movies look like a documentary. "},{"Title":"Hmmmm...","Date":"8 June 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I can't believe some of the reviews praising this movie!?! Put your crack pipes down and de-tox. Despite a great cast and a promising first 15 min., this movie is a POS through and through. It pains me to write this! I've loved Harley Peyton's work on Twin Peaks. Barry Levinson is most definitely a capable director/writer/producer; however he is the same guy that brought us Toys. I'd consider this movie Toys 2. One thing that bugs me is the overuse of the word quirky by people in describing and reviewing this film. It had a few screwball moments, but they were lame. Billy Bob's way, way, way-too-much over-the-top hypochondriac scenes, IMO, was just bad comedy. If you want to call bad comedic scenes quirky and wacky, so be it, lame-o. "},{"Title":"Worst Comedy Since GONE FISHIN'","Date":"3 August 2003","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  To say that BANDITS one of the most crudely put together movies I have ever seen is an understatement.  There were times where I didn't know where the characters were, what their motivations are, what their relationships are to one another, etc.  It also does this thing where the whole movie is a flashback and its so poorly directed and edited that I didn't know when we were in the flashback or when it was the present.This movie steps into every bad comedy trap there is, and I mean EVERY SINGLE trap.  There are at least five of those loud arguments where nobody says anything important and its supposed to be funny.  I counted two times where two guys are in a fist fight over a woman and she gets in the middle and yells at them to stop.  There's the character that's a hypochondriac (ha ha).  I counted 3 faints (nobody laughed at those since the Marx Brothers). At least three or four senseless car chases, etc.  The movie's like a road map of what can go wrong at the screen writing stage.  It might even make a good educational tool for aspiring screenwriters.The thing that's really shocking though are the people involved.  Barry Levinson's one of my favorite directer (or at least he was before I saw BANDITS) and the guy who edited BANDITS has done all his films.  They did YOUNG SHERLOCK HOLMES, WAG THE DOG, and RAIN MAN.  Billy Bob Thorton's has done great movies before (has anyone seen A SIMPLE PLAN?) and Cate Blanchett should have won the Oscar for her work in ELIZABETH.  So why was this movie made and why did all of these talented people make it incompetently.  This movie looks like it could have been written by some of the losers at the International Student Media Festival! "},{"Title":"What were they thinking???!!!!","Date":"24 November 2006","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Whenever I see good actors in a movie this bad, my first thought is that somehow they were blackmailed into appearing in the movie. Surely, Bruce Willis, Bob Thornton and Cate Blanchette read the script beforehand. To see Cate Blanchette in something this bad is unsettling. It certainly speaks to her range when one sees her in Elizabeth, and then sees her in Bandits.' In fact the best moment in Bandits, is her poignant reaction when her husband re-enters the kitchen to suggest she go to a movie (hopefully, not one as bad as Bandits.) And there is the issue of making serious felonies look like pranks and the felons into merry pranksters. All in all, a BIG disappointment. "},{"Title":"My brief review of the film","Date":"23 June 2005","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" At times exciting and entertaining, this is nevertheless a rather run-of-the-mill crime comedy overall, despite an interesting twist of the bandits being very well mannered persons. The style is frantic as well as clich칠d, with an overly loud booming soundtrack not helping it out, plus there is a silly romantic triangle, and the whole thing goes on for way too long, considering how thin the content is. Still, the film does have its amusing moments, and it is all quite watchable, particularly because Billy Bob Thornton is great to have on the screen. Little else is great about this piece of cinema, but it is okay stuff overall. "},{"Title":"The Good & Bad Of 'Bandits'","Date":"13 April 2007","Score":"11 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" GOOD - Hilarious in spots and overall, a lot of laughs. Billy Bob Thornton and his hypochondriac character produce a number of those chuckles. Cate Blanchett also is a hoot in here. She has the American accent down pat and I never realized what a good comedienne should is, although I certainly am aware of her dramatic talents. Although a bit long, I didn't find that many lulls. Bruce Willis always is good in low-key roles, his macho Die Hard days behind him.BAD - Another poor moral message in which we are supposed to root for the criminals (thieves, in this case). The story is ludicrous, but that's part of the comedy. There is too much profanity and usage of the Lord's name in vain here, too, for a comedy. Thorton's whining is acceptable on the first viewing, but on multiple looks it gets annoying. I rated this a '9' after the fist viewing, but it goes downhill in subsequent looks.OVERALL - If you can take the language and overall ridiculous story, this is a very entertaining movie. "},{"Title":"Pretty decent, but messed up by boring romance","Date":"5 July 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Here is what I remember thinking after having watched this. Had they just cut out (or at least cut way shorter) the romantic bullcrap, this would have been heaps better.I see this movie like this. 3 parts. 1 part entertaining bandit-movie. 1 part boring romance. 1 part entertaining bandit-movie.Romance messing up movies is super annoying. We don't need no silly romance! I give a lot of extra cred to movies that skip romance all together.Anyway, I don't have a long in-depth review of this, I just remember enjoying the non romance parts of it. I liked both the Bs', Billy Bob Thornton and Bruce Willis. Bandits is also way too long. Again, because of the romantic crap. "},{"Title":"Useless","Date":"26 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie is pretty useless. It just rambles on and on, going nowhere. It's not too long before we stop caring about the characters and stop caring about what happens next. The stars in it are shallow and annoying, just going through the paces, thinking about the big paychecks their agents negotiated for them. They have the same smug, bored expressions throughout.I guess the movie's best use is for late night TV cable stations where it's essentially filler between commercials. Oh look, they've got big stars on this station. Let's watch until the next commercial break, then we'll change the channel. I've never heard more useless mumbling and whining in any movie. There are scenes that are totally stupid and inane. Maybe they have a special award somewhere for a film that best grates the nerves of the audience. Does it take a special talent to do this? The positive side is that Bob Dylan sings a couple of songs in the soundtrack, and it's a special pleasure to hear him. I don't know why he wanted his name associated with this piece of garbage, but here we have it. Someone said they spent $80 million making Bandits. I wonder how much Mr. Dylan got? Another positive is that there are some good location shots in Oregon, California and Nevada. However, there is no integration of the characters or plot into the surroundings. They may as well have blue screened it, and just paid that money to themselves.I saw it on television with commercial breaks. I know it's a bad movie when I'm looking forward to the commercials.The twist ending? It's been done so many times, it was an insult to once again throw it at us. Besides, it wasn't much of a surprise, as we saw it all being played out. "},{"Title":"Bandits-Crime Does Pay But Never So Nicely **","Date":"7 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Bruce Willis and Billy Bob Thornton teamed up as bank robbers in this 2001 farce.Thornton plays an intellectual hypochondriac who nonetheless would kill if he had to. Willis is a care-free guy.After escaping from an Oregon prison, the two go on quite a spree, where they invade the homes of bank officials and stay overnight and then take them the following morning to rob the place.Their escapades are absolutely real. The police and bank officials are made to look foolish in the eyes of those viewing this film.Bored and upset with her husband, Cate Blanchett meets up with this dynamic duo and becomes a member of the gang in the way that Patty Hearst did as well as Estelle Parsons in Bonnie & Clyde. Unlike Parsons, Blanchett becomes attracted to both of these guys.Their final caper is one for the books and would leave us all saying that crime does pay. Not really as it's really not worth paying to see these fools create themselves as legendary heroes.A good point is that the film lacks violence and in some ways becomes a comical tribute to film bank robbers. "}{"Title":"could of been better, could have been worse","Date":"24 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Two convicts Joe Blake and Terry Collins (Bruce Willis and Billy Bob Thorton, respectively), break out of prison only to go on to become infamous as the 'Sleepover Bandits', for the methods they use to rob banks, which is keeping the bank managers in their houses, spending the night, and going with the manager in the morning to get the bank loot. Things get complicated when a desperate housewife (Cate Blanchett) decide to runaway with them. creating a twisted little love triangle and sexual tensions between the felons. Sometimes when one feels develops a favorite actor (in this case me for Bruce Willis), one feels compelled to watch every movie said actor stars in. At times that can bite someone in the ass, such is the case with this film. Bruce's performance is actually good, but the hypochondriac tendencies of Billy Bob's character tend to get old REAL fast, and at over 2 hours that's a long time to spend with an annoying character. He brings the whole movie down. Not to say this film is completely unworthwhile, as there are some very choice parts, Just that the bad ultimately outweighs the good, and you're likely to keep glancing at your watch in a vain attempt to make the film end faster.My Grade C- DVD Extras 20 minutes Inside Bandits featurette; Script To Screen; Who's The Dad? Alternate Ending with optional commentary by Cate Blanchett; 4 Deleted Scenes; Soundtrack Ad; Theatrical Trailer; and Trailers for Hart's War, Windtalkers and Rocky SE DVD DVD Gripes Why the hell don't we, Americans, get a commentary track??!!? The Regions 2 and 4 do. "},{"Title":"I'M IN THE MOVIE!!!","Date":"16 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I liked this movie for many reasons. One being that I like Bruce Willis and him teaming up with Thornton was priceless. Another being that my Step-Aunt worked on this movie. And lastly, my picture is in the movie.LOCATION OF PICTURE As Willis and Thornton are in the first bank manager's house, the camera follows the wall down to a table with 3 pictures and the disguises. My baby picture is the one on the left with the pink dress. My cousin is the boy in the blue winter outfit.I remember her asking for photos for the movie as well. It's really cool to have an Aunt like that. This is definitely a movie that I can watch over and over and not get tired of.By The Way...my family all thought that the belching girl was based on me. -P "},{"Title":"my comments","Date":"28 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  i truly loved this movie. i loved it so much when i saw it at the movies the first time with my aunt becky that i saw it again with my parents and my mom's friend susan who was visiting from out of town. i also  have added it to my dvd collection a collection that also includes hot shots,missing in action and *61. "},{"Title":"Clever ending","Date":"23 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film was OK. It wasn't really funny, but Billy Bob's hypochondria was entertaining.  I think Bruce Willis was the weak link of the cast. I just didn't like his character.  There really wasn't anything original about the plot.  Two guys fall in love with the same girl.  In this movie, they happen to be bank robbers.  So, the movie basically follows these 3 along with a fourth guy, their get-a-way driver, as they rob banks.  The good thing about this movie was it was another film with a clever ending.  I always like it when thieves come up with some outrageous plan to get away with the final big heist.  And not only do they get the money, they come up with a way to get the million dollar reward for their capture.FINAL VERDICT  If you like films with a creative way for the bad guys to get away at the end, then you will like this. It is OK, but certainly not the best robbery movie out there. "},{"Title":"Great plot, horrible execution","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I suppose this is one those movies that some people love and some people hate.  I liked the plot and the way that the robbers ripped off the banks.  Billy Bob Thornton gives another great performance as a hypercondriac and Bruce Willis gives a surprisingly, sub-par performance as the robber with 'anger management' issues.  Sorry, Bruce, I wasn't convinced with that one.  The movie has some good parts to it, but, it seriously drags through most of the film.  I absolutely could not stand Cate Blanchet's character.  I thought her acting was attrocious, and her character had no redeeming qualities about her.  I thought the 'romance' was incredibly dull, stupid and unbelievable as hell.  Though this one drags, majorly, it is well directed and has a great ending which is what saves it from total mediocrity.  Though others have said this movie is hilarious, and I truly made an effort to laugh at a lot of scenes that weren't that funny, it really was a pretty dull movie.  I'm surprised at it's high rating on this site, it was decent, but not great.  It is not good enough to get an average rating of 6 stars.  5/10 stars, only for the ending, the occasional great acting and the plot, though a feeling in my gut tells me that 4 stars is really pushing it.  That's my story and I'm sticking to it. "},{"Title":"Does the right hand know what the left hand is doing?","Date":"24 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Barry Levinson directs this comical crime story that leads to romance. Joe Blake(Bruce Willis),a small time bank robber with big ideas, breaks out of prison dragging Terry Collins(Billy Bob Thornton) with him. Collins suffers hypochondria and with never-say-die Blake, this very odd couple are just down right weird. The two become known as the Sleepover Bandits because of the preparation for their heists. Along the way a bored, manic depressive housewife(Cate Blanchett) upset with her husband accidentally becomes their hostage. The finale is most clever. Willis and Thornton work well together. Also notable in the cast are Troy Garity and Bobby Slayton. The soundtrack is pretty diverse featuring Bob Dylan, Five for Fighting, Pete Yorn and Bonnie Tyler. This is real fun to watch. "},{"Title":"Worth watching","Date":"23 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Bandits is a film in the mould of Ocean's Eleven and Shawshank Redemption. If you watch those films, but miss the last ten minutes then the film doesn't add up. Bandits is this 100%. The ending is good, unexpected, although there are hints of what will happen throughout the film.I think Cate Blanchett's character was well underdeveloped, and maybe she wasn't the best actress for the job, but she bumbles through the film, and Billy Bob Thornton and Bruce Willis more than make up for it. I really enjoyed the film, and for this reason, I give it 8 out of 10. Not the best film in the world, but an enjoyable two hours nonetheless.Those people who didn't like it and turned off half way through, I can only suggest they WATCH the film, instead of HALF of the film. By only watching half of it, you can't really judge it! Watch it from the beginning to the end, it's well worth it. "},{"Title":"Much more than a funny caper movie...","Date":"27 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  If one thinks the movie is about bank robberies, one is missing much of what the film has to offer. It is much more than a comedy--just the same way the Seventies Michael Caine/Noel Coward film The Italian Job left you wondering when that film finished open-ended.The clue of what is to follow is provided by the opening credits lower case/upper case letters with a mirror effect. One is the image of the other. Yet version of the letter you read in the foreground is the smaller one. The bigger capitals are in reverse. That is in essence the plot of the movie.The script is top notch--the best script of a Barry Levinson film after Good Morning Vietnam (I have not seen Diner yet). The credit falls squarely on Harley Peyton. Peyton is able to cleverly etch two distinct characters that complement each other--physically and mentally like the Italian comedy pair of Terence Hill and Bud Spencer (their Hollywood names). I would like to look at the two male characters as two sides of an ideal man just as the film credit implies. The female character would like to live with an ideal combination of both.The film to me is first a beautiful unconventional love story of two men and a woman. The bank robberies merely provide the backdrop for this. The film is amoral justice does not catch up, polygamy is okay, the film seems to imply. Yet the film is not an amorality essay. It tends to laugh at today's lifestyles--the bored housewife who has everything, riches, rich husband, dream kitchen, dream car but goes hysterical when the husband suggests they go to a movie. It laughs at management issues, including anger management. It laughs at medicine (garlic as the wonder of the century). It laughs at cooking skills...The sparring between TV and movie is not to be missed for media buffs. The film script is laughing at TV producers. Cinema seems to have the last laugh.The film would not be what it is were it not for Thornton. He carries the film. This is a top-notch performance. The make-up crew deserves kudos to make him look so good. Cate Blanchett opening scenes in her kitchen was really funny. Her character required the high strung performance that she gave. Every character in the movie comes alive because of the lines they speak (sometimes when they do not as the rich lady whose car is stolen as she stands dazed by the charm of Bruce Wills). Those wonderful lines belong to screenplay-writer Harley Peyton. What a script...! Was he influenced by Noel Coward?!!Dante Spinotti weaves magic with his camera especially with director Micheal Mann. Here too his contribution is noteworthy in outdoor shots.This movie belongs to Billy Bob Thornton, Cate Blanchett, Cinematographer Dante Spinotti, the make-up crew, and the screenplay writer Harley Peyton. Their synergy is magic. Maybe Levinson deserves a pat on the back in bringing this group together. Finally tennis-player-turned-producer Anand Amritraj has put together a good decent film that he can be proud of financing! "},{"Title":"It's not that good.","Date":"11 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I rented this movie on a hunch that this movie would be one of those rare comedies with substance, out of the mold of Ghost World, most recently.  It turned out to be a boring 2 hours and 2 minutes.  I can stand slow movies, too(Blood Simple, Unbreakable, Fargo, The Man Who Wasn't There).  Bandits' first hour and a half are very good.  After that it is a movie of Willis and Thornton's characters beating the crap out of each other, and the occasional cheazy 80's song. Cheazy plays on old songs can't necessarily make or break a film.  For example, American Psycho.  However, the recital of a bad song can represent the cheazy sense of the movie.  Sindney Lumet's(Dog Day Afternoon, jury member on AFI) Running on Empty contains a god-awful version of a very good James Taylor song.  Along with horrible dialogue, the twist scene ruined Sidney's movie. It seems like Bandits was trying to be a mixture of genres.  They have failed miserably.     "},{"Title":"ANOTHER WASTE OF GOOD TALENT","Date":"12 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I feel that I am lucky to get to see the previews of these films, as I would be muttering about the money I WASTED otherwise.  This film starts of as an intelligent film, but as it continues it is just a waste of good talent. What outside of the $$$$$$$ causes actors like Billy Bob Thornton, Bruce Willis and Cate Blanchet to take scripts like this is beyond me. This one is a definite waste of money and time.  Just one of the many that have been popping up on the screen of late. "}{"Title":"It's a romance movie!","Date":"19 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I remember liking this movie the first time I saw it, but I must say, it did not hold up to a second viewing. Bandits is near the middle (in rankings) of the caper/romance/comedy movies with Oceans 11 (Clooney and Pitt) and The (updated) Thomas Crowne Affair at the top (I'm not sure what is on the bottom of this list).The movie starts at the end with a bank-robbery gone bad and Thorton and Willis arguing while the place is surrounded by the authorities. And then, it brings you back to the beginning of the story with an implausible jail break (unless, these two were in a minimum security lock-up). Someone else's review said it best. The story does not lead up to the climax at the bank, but you are supposed to believe it will. In fact, our anti-heroes get away cleanly from a pretty messy car crash. And even though they're supposed to be stealing cars all the time, the same vintage GTO keeps showing up throughout the movie. You have to suspend a lot of disbelief to make this one work. That's not unusual for this genre, but this movie's payoff isn't as good as Ocean's 11. What Berry Levinson should have done is told this entire tale through Cate Blanchette's perspective as a female romance fantasy, because this is exactly what this movie is. The only thing missing was ripping shirts off and heaving chests. Bruce Willis could've been anybody, Billy Bob Thorton does all right, but Cate Blanchette, as a neurotic runaway housewife, chews scenery almost every time. However, 3/4 into the movie, you realize that every character exists for her, because she is the only character with any emotions. There is even a secondary female romance fantasy in which a hitch-hiker finds her dangerous boyfriend in a cool car. So, bottom line is, chicks dig dangerous cool types who can make every dream come true by running away with money. Great, thanks for the advice. Also, Bruce Willis is obviously impersonating Nigel Tuffnel in his interview with the America's Top Criminals guy, but there is no David St. Hubbins or Marty DeBerg to make these scenes work as a comedic pieces, so they just fall flat. The best way to have told this movie, would've been from the female fantasy perspective, because then you can accept all the implausible conclusions to all the set pieces. Fabio could've replaced Willis. This was a chick flick. "},{"Title":"Terible film!","Date":"3 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I don't think that this film was at all good, and i was very dissapointed, i only watched it half way through and then turned it off....ok so the film has a few good lines in it at the beginning but then the story doesn't move along and it seems so slow...not something i was expecting from Bruce Willis "},{"Title":"Not your average romantic comedy","Date":"16 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I don't know for how long, but my mom has been begging me to watch Bandits, I think because I keep telling her how gorgeous Bruce Willis is, she just knows what I will normally like. So, I finally broke down and watched Bandits last night and over all, I'd have to say that I did like it. It was a different kind of story that was refreshing to be honest, it had an interesting story that really has not been done before. It also has some terrific actors not to mention that all present the story very well. Bruce, Billy Bob, and Cate all had a great chemistry that made the story funny and lovable. But for me, as much as I am a fan of Billy Bob and Bruce, I think Cate was the one who stole the movie and really made the story just such a pleasure to watch.Terry and Joe are two bank robber bandits on the run from the law. They're not your average bank robbers, they are charming and usually get their way with robbing every bank. They are also combined the perfect man Terry is smart and sensitive and Joe is adventurous and spontaneous. One day when they have to meet each other, Terry hijacks a car with a unhappily, depressed married woman, Kate, who begs them if she can stay with them. Joe decides to let her stay, and they both end up falling for her. But she loves them both and is now on the run with them instead of being their hostage.Bandits is just a fun film over all. I'd say that it's enjoyable and tells the story very well, it has some dark humor in it as well that makes it in some ways light hearted and gives you a breath as well as a laugh. Cate was so beautiful and proved that she could also do a comedy as well as she brilliantly acts in drama's. Bruce and Billy Bob were so much fun to watch, especially in their final bank robbery scene, you'll see what I mean, it's a cool ending. I would recommend Bandits, it's a good film with great actors, just sit back and enjoy.6/10 "},{"Title":"An interesting attempt at something better but it doesn't pull it off despite the talent involved","Date":"28 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Joe Blake and Terry Collins are criminals who are safely out of the way of the public by being locked up. However when they breakout on an impulse and rob a bank they are on the road and breaking for freedom. With the need for income, the neurotic Terry comes up with a new way of robbing banks &#150; kidnapping the bank manager the night before, staying at their homes overnight and then joining them to open up the next morning. It is a plan that works so well that the media dubs them the sleepover bandits. However when they kidnap frustrated housewife Kate Wheeler it starts a strange love triangle that threatens to break them apart.A strange affair this one. The plot is quite obvious in one regard, the delivery rather restraining and dramatically stylish, the laughs thin on the ground and the comedy takes second place to the emotional drama. It is an interesting film in what it offers but for some reason it doesn't really ever come off. It all starts lively enough with a bank-robbery caper movie with the two main characters working off one another. However in the second half it does come down to the relationships it doesn't convince and starts to fall over to some degree. The depth in the script is not really there to make this love triangle work at the level it needs to and instead it just feels a bit forced and unnatural. This uneven and unsure tone doesn't help matters and it is rather infuriating at times as it kicks out rubbish moments (eg the girl in the pink boots) and seems happy to exist on the level it does.The actors try to hold it together the best they can even though the material isn't there all the time for them to work with. Willis seems ill at ease in the latter stages but enjoys himself in the easier caper stuff. However when the emotional dramatic side of the film comes in he comes over increasingly stiff and unsure of who he is playing. Thornton is better because he has more live in his character but his hypochondriac act gets tired long before the film ends. Blanchett is the strongest as she is the only one that convinces in the second half of the film, if the others had matched her for understanding it might have been better.Overall a film of two halves, neither of which are that good or that bad. The caper side is generic enough and delivered with a sense of humour but the love triangle side is far too superficial and lacks the depth that was needed to engage me the viewer. An interesting attempt at something better but it doesn't pull it off despite the talent involved. "},{"Title":"If you survive this film you are absolutely shielded against any catastrophe","Date":"7 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" That's not a film that will revolutionize the cinema industry and cinematographic art. Easy going remake of so many teams of famous bank robbers or other thieves. The trick here is to make things that are so improbable that they necessarily succeed because no one is expecting such antics. This of course goes against the grain of modern police work based essentially on profiling. If thieves or criminals become unpredictable, hence impossible to profile, they will escape any attempt to arrest them. In other words this is the best pedagogical film for would-be criminals of the after profiling era. But that has already been done. The originality of this film is the general light tone that dominates all along. These bandits are entertaining themselves in this boring life of theirs and they are entertaining us at the same time because bank robbery is showbiz and nothing else. So let's take care of the audience and provide them with the highly original fun they are expecting.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University of Paris Dauphine & University of Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne "},{"Title":"Dreadful heist comedy (though I'm prejudiced)","Date":"9 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I mentioned elsewhere that I like very few action comedies, and heist ones, and so on. But that doesn't keep me from seeing different degrees of good and bad. To me, Bandits has almost everything going AGAINST it. It's true that it has good actors, but I think it's also true that they had more funny moments in The Sixth Sense and Slingblade. If I could tell the makers one thing, it would be this - if you're going to make a movie about loveable bank robbers (even if it's an edgy one), DON'T have a scene with one of their hostages sobbing uncontrollably, while one of them sits there unconcerned. Another thing I don't like too often is medical humor, but again, without being UNABLE to notice CLEVER medical humor. And the running tumor joke just WASN'T IT. And even though I hate it when people throw around the word ripoff too easily, I have to say this about the ending - if you've never seen The Sting, it might work. I mentioned in the section on the movie Slither, that I wish other comedies of that kind at least APPROACHED it. But when it comes to not approaching that one, I think Bandits is almost in a category by itself. "},{"Title":"Boring, Boring, Boring. A career low for all concerned.","Date":"25 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Bruce Willis is a hard-ass robber. Billy Bob Thornton is his neurotic partner in crime. Together, they break out of prison in a cement-mixer(!) and start robbing banks to fund a new life fixing up a bar in Acapulco. Their tactics are to kidnap the manager of the joint the night before, then hold his family hostage while they use his codes to open the safe in the morning before the staff arrive. No fuss, no muss. What they don't count on is a crazy Bonnie Tyler obsessed redhead coming into the equation, thus setting out a love triangle which leads to major friction in this little group. Other characters include their wannabe Hollywood stuntman driver who loves to set himself on fire (ho ho) and a TV reporter on a syndicated crime show who apparently got the last interview of the boys before they snuffed it. In the prologue, we see them shoot each other while being surrounded by police, after apparently being betrayed by the woman they both loved. But is the legend of the Sleepover Bandits really ended that easily?YAWN. Oh excuse me, a natural reaction for anyone who has sat through this claptrap. Let's start with Brucie, who is yet again playing a variation of the cool John Mcclane guy from Die Hard. Sorry dude, we're sick of it. Next, we have Billy Bob, who finds himself as the biggest hypochondriac of all time. Oh no, I've got a BRAIN TUMOUR! I can smell burning feathers! I have ringing in my ears! Oh no, that's just the police sirens! This whining goes on throughout the movie, and it is never funny. I just felt like giving him a good slap. Lastly, is Cate Blanchett who is apparently 'Every man's wildest desire'. Well, not in this film she isn't, as a crazy housewife using frying pans as drums while singing so badly, Simon Cowell would blow his brains out. And she is such a slapper, she sleeps with a guy she's known less than an hour.. because he knows the lyrics to 'Total Eclipse Of The Heart'. I actually felt sorry for her poor husband, who is abandoned because he commits the terrible sin of going out for a business meeting when she had a dinner planned. According to her, he didn't know how to 'kiss' properly, which is why she had to leave. Try and use that in divorce court in real life, and you'll lose the kids, the house AND the Merc.Aside from the annoying performances, the real problem is there's far too much useless talk. We're promised exciting action sequences, and indeed the first one set in a jail is quite thrilling. Sadly though, we have long stretches of nothing but tedious chatter, and I had to check the DVD box just to make sure it wasn't a drama. When they do eventually get to the bank raids, everybody is just so gosh darned nice about being threatened at gunpoint and having their children kept captive, the atmosphere just turns to the surreal. Yes, we all know nowadays a lot of high profile criminals are celebrities, and people love to associate themselves with the famous. But to actually suggest the public would be honoured to be held up in these money heists, and not be climbing the walls screaming is a stretch of the imagination too far. These completely unconvincing scenes are the final nail in the coffin, and the totally predictable, so-called 'twist' ending rams it home with a bang. I'll say one thing though.. Willis & Thornton are really good crooks. Why, they've stolen an hour and a half of my life, and I have no idea how I can get it back! Any ideas? 3/10 "},{"Title":"A flawed masterpiece...","Date":"27 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" In fact the flaw was too great that it crushed the masterpiece.**SPOILERS** I am writing this review after maybe two or more years since I last watched this film, but many things stick out in my mind, including the one thing that ruined this movie.Firstly, this film is very good at pulling you into its world early on and you endear yourselves to the story very quickly as the humour helps the opening act along.(Billy-Bob steals the show, but Bruce gives a near-perfect performance too) The plot of the film is straightforward - albeit told in a complex manner, (ie, the news report AFTER the events) but this adds to the mystery. - and is overall an original take on the crime/heist/comedy genre with an inspired choice of actors.However, this is where I feel the film fell from being a memorable comedy to one that no-one really remembers only a few years later.Where the choice of actors in Bruce Willis and Billy-Bob Thornton to play these roles was nothing short of genius, the selection of Cate Blanchett must rank alongside the greatest casting cock-ups of them all.Now, I'm the first one to say Blanchett is a fantastic actress, but this role cried for someone like Meg Ryan. Blanchett's portrayal of the female lead continued to annoy and her introduction just halted the progression of the story. Her sobbing seemed faked, her mood swings unjustified and you just could not sympathise with her whole character.What the casting department should have looked for was an actress with an innocent charm and too likable to be annoyed by.Blanchett does not have this 'innocence' or 'charm', which is why I kept on wondering about Meg Ryan in this role (perhaps with her 'Innerscape' performance in mind).BANDITS Every time I think of this film, I can't help but think of the single mistake that undermined what otherwise would have been a classic. For shame. "},{"Title":"terrible movie","Date":"19 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" this was such an awful movie. despite the fact they had great actors and actresses in it. i read that the same person did 'wag the dog'. that was one of the worse movies i had ever seen, so i guess i'm not surprised. if you're into prairie home companion or something like that then you might enjoy it. if you are a red blooded American you won't. well this review is 5 years late but if i save just one person 3 dollars in rental than i have done a good deed.Billy bob thornton deserves much better than this. Kate Blanchett, boy is she beautiful, i feel sorry for her. By submitting this comment you are agreeing to the terms laid out in our Copyright Statement. Your submission must be your own original work. Your comments will normally be posted on the site within 2-3 business days. Comments that do not meet the guidelines will not be posted. Please write in English only. HTML or boards mark-up is not supported though paragraph breaks will be inserted if you leave a blank line between paragraph. "},{"Title":"Pathetic - Just Pathetic","Date":"4 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Bruce Willis and Billy Bob Thornton break out of the can and resume their careers as bank robbers called the Sleepover Bandits. Then along comes a ditzy redhead (Cate Blanchett) whom they both fall in love with. Screwball comedies were popular in the 30s but they don't work now. The robbers are portrayed as nice guys who wouldn't harm a fly and no one buys that now. Credibility really goes out the window during one robbery where the bank manager is honored to be robbed by such famous men!!! Blanchett is a redhead in this movie and is not that pretty. Few redheads are. On top of that her personality turned me off seriously.I like Bruce Willis but I really hated this show and stuck with it because some people here said it had a twist ending. Yes it does, but everything else stinks. "}{"Title":"Ridiculously confusing, poor script, bad direction, instantly forgettable.","Date":"6 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" As a former member of the script department at MGM, I can only say that this script should never have got to first base. A trio of losers start robbing banks but we never find out what happens after they do the deed. 친nd there is not a single scene when bank security guards try to stop the robbery... I think this was supposed to be comedy but if so, it fails miserably, and above all else, the ending is atrociously bad, like the script, the poor direction and the overall unsatisfactory tone of this miserable attempt at a movie. This is one that makes one wish for the good old days back in the 40's and 50's when they really made good movies... "}]