[{"Title":"A film doesn't have to be revolutionary for it to be brilliant.","Date":"2 October 2000","Score":"25 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Mike Figgis does a Robert Altman.  Except, instead of creating a large narrative of interconnecting plot strands, he puts them all on four split screens.  Is this therefore more subversive than Altman?  I don't think so - Altman's method is an attack on Hollywood linearity, on conventional methods of 'connection'; his characters exist is the same space but are emotionally etc. miles apart.  The characters in 'Short Cuts', like the city of L.A. itself, are a mass without a centre.  Figgis, for all the supposed diffusion of his visual strands, actually reunites, glues together Altman's ruptures.  In this way it might seem a more optimistic kind of film.  It isn't.'timecode' is being touted as a revolution in cinema, a new way of watching films.  Instead of watching one screen and being led by a director, we are given four, and asked to make our choices. I was surprised at how panicked I was at this in the first 20 minutes, darting between scenes, wondering which one I should follow.  This forced me out of the film much more disturbingly than anything by Fassbinder or Godard.  But this alienation is deceptive.  Firstly we are not really bombarded by four narratives - put 'pierrot le fou', 'diary of a country priest', 'vampyr' and 'branded to kill' on four screens, then you'd be confused.  Figgis leads you all the way, gives you an illusion of choice, but rarely fulfils it.  The focus is on one screen at a time - either the soundtrack is turned up loudest, the plot is more interesting, whatever.  For long periods of time, you can safely ignore other scenes because there is nothing going on - for about 20 minutes, for example, Lauren sits in a limousine listening to a bug planted on Rose; this leaves us free to watch another screen and see what she's listening to.  Other scenes are merely tedious - eg Emma droning to her shrink (a nod to Godard's 'week end', that famous end of cinema?) - so that you gladly look elsewhere. It is possible to listen to one scene, and flit around at the others to catch up on what's going on.  What I'm saying is, 'timecode' is not a difficult experience - after the initial adjustment, you watch the film as you would any other, especially as all the stories converge and are really only one story.  Even at the beginning, the feeling is less one of Brechtian alienation than akin to being a security guard faced with a grid of screens - you rarely think about the physical processes of film or performance, as you would in a Dogme or Godard film.So if 'timecode' is less revolutionary than it seems, that doesn't mean it isn't a brilliant film, a real purse in a pig's ear of a year (or whatever the expression is).  One reason for this is the four-screen structure I would have to watch it a few more times, but I was very conscious of the orchestration of the screens, the way compositions, or camera movements, or close-ups etc., in one screen were echoed, reflected, distorted in the others - a true understanding of this miraculous formal apparatus would, I think, give us the heart of the film, and bely the improvised nature of the content.  Figgis is also a musician - he co-composed the score - and the movement here, its fugues and variations are truly virtuosic, almost worthy of my earlier Altman comparison.But the content is great fun too.  At first I was disappointed at the self-absorbed drabness of the material, the idea that we shouldn't be made to work too hard because we've enough to deal with the four screens.  And, it is true, that the stories rarely transcend cliche.  But, such is the enthusiasm of the performers (people like Salma Hayek  obviously relishing slightly more useful roles than the bilge they're usually stuck in); the precision of the structure; the mixture of comedy and pathos, and the way the style facilitates both, that you're convinced you're watching a masterpiece.  Quentin's massaging and Ana's pitch are two of the funniest things I've seen in ages, while Stellan Skarsgard's rich performance stands out all the more for its brittle surroundings. "},{"Title":"Ridiculously good","Date":"7 September 2004","Score":"26 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I am pretty sure that I will not see a more jaw-dropping piece of film-making for quite some time. To put the complexity of filming 4 continuous takes simultaneously and in full co-ordination into any perspective, is extremely difficult. And then to have such a dramatic climax at the end of 93 improvised minutes is pretty mind-blowing.I'm sure plenty of people will scream pretentious crap - as the girl suggests in her meeting speech - but the innovative brilliance of this film should be applauded above everything else. For example, little things like how the camera is focused on Skarsgard in the meeting while his wife is having it away with another woman. And then bigger things such as each screen simultaneously focusing in close-up on their characters eyes. Unbelievable.I'm sure this isn't everybody's cup of tea - some people just don't appreciate the concept of doing something unique and risky. Some people even go as far as criticising Mike Figgis for attempting this - when in truth, this experiment was never likely to reach the masses, so any accusation of arrogance/pretension are pathetic.As for the story and acting, I have a sneaky suspicion that maybe the sound was turned down on certain screens in post-production when actor's were fumbling or struggling for dialogue, I also thought the sound should have been muted from the other 3 screens while we were focused on one - because at times we get mumbling from all 4 at once, which doesn't work. But none of this detracts from a truly great achievement from all involved - for actors to go 93 minutes undisturbed is very impressive.A perfectly constructed and co-ordinated film, I am in absolute awe. 10/10  "},{"Title":"Too many degrees of freedom","Date":"25 November 2002","Score":"16 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  There is a rule in science that for an experiment to be meaningful, all the variables must be controlled but one. That rule could be applied to experimental cinema, too; at least it should have been applied to this film.Time Code combines two experiments, one that has promise, and one that is doomed. The promising experiment involves multiple screens following different parts of the story in real time. The doomed experiment  involves requiring actors to script and direct themselves. In addition, this movie was shot in four simultaneous uninterrupted takes. Maybe this was an experiment, too, but it is comparable to live theater, which is not exactly a novelty. It is neither a good thing nor a bad thing -- and should be a matter of complete indifference to the audience, as long it works. Instead of cutting from scene to scene, our attention shifts from screen to screen. The four-screen experiment did work reasonably well here, especially on DVD, where one can instantly back up to catch bits one missed. The multi-view device might even have been truly excellent in this film, had it not been for the other experiment -- the Absentee Director. A feature movie is not an improv sketch. There is a reason that an army has one general, and that a movie has one director. Although each of these endeavors requires the effort and cooperation of many talented people, both a military campaign and a feature film must be focused on one person's vision and goals. Time Code has the same fatal flaw as Dancing at the Blue Iguana. Each actor was instructed to invent his own character, and then to direct himself. In Time Code each performer was evidently told to make of his character a recognizable Hollywood stereotype. The result eight variations on coke-snorting pretentious but sycophantic loser, who all walk stiffly through their parts like zombies trying to perform soap opera. I cannot imagine how desperate a viewer would have to be, in order to care about any of them. I suppose this should not reflect badly on the performers, although it cannot have helped their careers. I have seen most of them in other films, and they are all capable actors. It does reflect dismally on the director. Where was he hiding while the four cameras were running? Maybe he was busy watching four tumble dryers at the laundromat up the street.Time Code might be worth a peek on dollar-day at the video store -- which is how I found it. Otherwise, forget it. 3/10.   "},{"Title":"A daring, original piece of cinema","Date":"24 June 2001","Score":"14 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Timecode is not conventional filmmaking, which is the whole beauty of it. This is a totally improvised piece of cinema, shot on a hand-held camera for 90 minutes straight--not a single cut--and shot in real-time.  Every word of dialogue is improvised, the only thing written is the story (also by Mike Figgis).  The way it turned out is quite impressive.  Of course, the process gets tiresome and repetitive at times, but overall it's a pretty fascinating work that will probably be better appreciated by the more open-minded moviegoer--as opposed to mainstream viewers who will probably view this as just plain weird.I was really impressed by the talented cast filled with great actors who simply went through the WHOLE ENTIRE process without once messing up.  If you watch all these behind-the-scenes specials with actors stumbling line-after-line, doing take-after-take, until they finally get it right the 100th time--it's astounding to see that the whole cast was able to pull this off without a scratch.  Even with such talented actors like Stellan Sarsgard, Holly Hunter, Salma Hayek, Jeanne Tripplehorn, etc., I have to commend them especially for taking part in this risky project.  This movie not only showcases their knacks for acting, but also their potential to try something new, innovative and quite difficult--after all, taking risks is one of the main elements in becoming a good actor.This type of format does--at points--feel like a theatrical version of a Big Brother episode, but Figgis wrote a story with as much intriguing elements as he can possibly fit into a film of this scope.  After all, this is supposed a day-in-the-life type of story and you don't want to be too far-fetched.  So he tries to generate as much suspense and intrigue (involving the many smutty attributes of the stereotypical white-collar LA resident) as he possibly could.  There are subplots involving drug abuse, alcohol abuse, homosexuality, philandering, jealousy and of course the biggest theme of all...Sex!  Naturally, my interest did sometimes drift, but the material compelled me enough to be interested for the majority of the running time.  I've never been a fan of those corny reality shows.  Quite frankly, I think the kind of reality displayed on those programs is very dull.  Timecode transcends the dullness of the reality shows and, in a way, the Blair Witch Project (which is another reality-based film shot entirely on a hand-held camera, but executed very poorly).  The material is engaging to a degree, the actors perform it very well and everything is down-to-earth to preserve its sense of realism.  My only criticisms lie in the earthquake effects.  Those looked totally cheesy, created entirely by camera tricks and actors pretending to be shaken up.  In one of the closing scenes, Jeanne Tripplehorn is clinging on to a nearby bannister while you can see cars in the background moving along smoothly.  He could've done without that pretentious trick.I'm not saying this a great film, but it is one I'll remember for its unique sense of style and I will always remember Mike Figgis for coming up with this innovative method.  If you're tired of mainstream cinema and feel anxious to see something new and exciting--this is a film I would recommend.My score  7 (out of 10)   "},{"Title":"Form, form, form, form...","Date":"29 January 2001","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I respect the challenge that this movie presented. Four cameras running in real time, with synchronized events? Wow. But without an engaging story the challenge is equivalent to building a replica of the Empire State Building out of matches. Impressive but pointless.If you are a movie student it is worth seeing. Maybe you can turn this great idea into a real movie. "},{"Title":"Awesome Effort","Date":"23 January 2001","Score":"13 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A fantastic effort that narrowly missed out on being brilliant. I loved what this movie tried to do, although ultimately it became a little boring. I love real time movies, and I love long takes, in this case the whole movie. With a stronger plot and script for the actors to work with, this style could succeed. The one thing I noticed at the end of the movie was how draining it was trying to follow every conversation on each of the four screens. "},{"Title":"awfully constructed","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I have never seen a movie quite so awful as this. Producers went too far, adding to much artsy understanding. The average person who did not attend film studies classes would not understand some of the lingo spoken in the movie. What was with all the lesbian action in the movie? Is that part of the film industry? C'mon! (SPOILER) The last couple of scenes, when the funky white man is rapping to an opera undertone is the worst and actually made me laugh. I was actually embarassed for that actor, whomever he was. Don't bother watching this movie, it's a waste of two hours. "},{"Title":"Space Code","Date":"24 September 2001","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Architectural LocationSpoilers herein.Much has been made of the three experimental techniques used here unbroken takes; four screens; heavy improvisation. But there is a powerful effect that seems to be overlooked.Film is inescapably two-dimensional, and many clever tricks of different types have been used to give meat to the narrative eye. The most interesting of these concern how to introduce visceral notions of space. Studying these is one of my film hobbies -- there are many clever ideas, but nothing with the immediacy seen here.Its because very soon, you understand that the four cameras are near each other and all deal with the same time. People move from one frame to another, with the view often overlapping. In `regular' film, you get used to a single eye. Talented directors will play with this single note, shifting between god, an invisible person, the perspective of a character, the position of a virtual audience. Here, all cameras are uncompromisingly human, but because you always have these four eyes, you are given a particularly deep notion of space. In fact, it is hyper-real a richer feel of depth than you can get with your own eyes.Figges is particularly aware of this effect (though it doesn't come up in his DVD comments). The primary narrative involves the fellow splitting his attention (between two women) and involves the notion of films about film. It has a primary character who `listens' in on other frames, from (mostly) a car, expanding her virtual space. She's the center of the `action.'  "},{"Title":"First step","Date":"31 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The purpose of this movie was not to entertain with an extremely dramatic plot full of twists. It was just to show that it is possible to film four separate quadrants and make them work together. THIS film did not even have a real script or anything, and it didn't take much time to complete. In the future, a major production could be created. The only problem is that because the viewer sees everything at once, the film would have to be shorter (Timecode did get boring because it is 90 mins x 4). "},{"Title":"Stay away!!!","Date":"31 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" After the atrocious Loss of Sexual Innocence you wouldn't think that Figgis could get any more pretentious or heavy-handed; but he manages to do it with Timecode. It's unwatchable, pointless and serves as a role call for a group of actors and actresses who cannot improvise to save their lives. But then they were saddled with a director who can't direct. The self-reflexive joke the film makes about itself toward the end has a pretty sour ring to it the joke is on the audience who was unfortunate enough to pay money to see it. Figgis has the last laugh. This smug jerk is the same person who made Leaving Las Vegas?! It's seems impossible. "}{"Title":"Interesting...yet not","Date":"6 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Watching the film, it was easy to see that it was a challenge to film. I think it was well directed and coordinated. If only I could get past the fact that the plot line is craptacularly boring. There is really very little memorable about the plot. I mostly entertained myself in the challenge of trying to follow as much of it as possible. It was kind of fun to see a conversation going on in one frame, and seeing that same conversation simultaneously taking place in the background of another frame. Thus I can't imagine wanting to watch it more than once. Good to rent, but not to buy. I made that mistake, but that doesn't mean you have to.  "},{"Title":"I can honestly say I have never seen anything quite like it...","Date":"21 November 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie follows a weird and wonderful concept of showing 4 stories that have some common ground. Where it's a brilliant concept at first it's very disorienting, you don't really know where to look, the music gets too loud and drowns out dialogue, yet from what you can hear it sounds like the dialogue is important.Once all 4 stories are running they don't seem to have the ability to keep the viewers attention. There is clearly 1 key story being told that all 4 stories are connected to yet as the dialogue keeps shifting from story to story you find yourself getting bored and confused, it's a lot like if you leave the movie theatre to go to the bathroom part way though a key scene then when you get back the story doesn't make scene as you missed a key development. Equally as difficult is where there are 2 or more scores of dialogue running at the same time. I understand the logistical nightmare in shooting this film yet there are times where you don't know who 1 character is in dialogue with, it's like they are saying something important outside the window or to a wall.The key relationships are very jumbled up and confusing due to the dialogue changes between the 4 stories. Again a great idea, worth watching but only if you have the patience to get through the first 30 to 45 minutes otherwise don't waste your time or money.I applaud the courage of the director and producers and feel if they could have worked out a better way of running the dialogue this would be an absolutely brilliant movie. "},{"Title":"Painful","Date":"31 December 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Timecode was a failed experiment. Four screens running simultaneously, running for 90 minutes in real-time. Sounds pretty intriguing, right? Sure.. If you assume that the plot is interesting, the characters believable and likeable, and the acting competent. (spoilers) This was not the case here.. It started off pretty good, with an amusing lesbian verbal exchange(You are a $@^#%$# SLUT!) but got progressively worse as the movie went on. A vapid sex scene follows, as well as some conversations between characters that seem to be completely impertinent and unnecessary. Seriously, I would've liked to see Salma Hayek get hit by a car or something in this movie, she comes off as sounding so highschool drama course. One of the LEAST annoying characters dies in the end, and then they throw in a weak connection to this blonde woman who did absolutely nothing of import previously.Seriously, skip this, or watch this as an example of how innovation doesn't always produce sexy, tense and unnerving results.. "},{"Title":"Four In One - And It's Still Not Worth The Effort!","Date":"30 June 2001","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I see that many people actually liked this movie. I must have missed something. I thought it was dreadful. How Mike Figgis ever got nominated for an Oscar for directing this rubbish is a mystery to me.My first complaint simply reflects the fact that I'm not much for gimmicks. Having the four storylines (often intersecting) on screen throughout the entire movie is a gimmick plain and simple. It was distracting and made it difficult to follow the plot as it developed. The first half hour or so of the movie was a muddle to me as I struggled to figure out how everything was relating. Once it all finally came together, we were treated to a relatively dull and unimaginative storyline that revolved around the shady morality of Hollywood. In an attempt to make this more interesting, some erotic (although non-sexual) scenes of lesbianism were included. Again - dull, dull, dull. And the ending of the movie was telegraphed almost all the way. You know what's going to happen; you just spend a lot of time hoping it happens soon so you can get this over with.In my opinion, a disaster. 2/10 - and that's generous! "},{"Title":"Technically innovative, Actually Boring","Date":"27 October 2000","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Here's the concept &#150;later explained by one of the fictional characters as she makes her `sales pitch' for exactly the same kind of movie to a group of producers.  Over the course of 98 minutes, four separate stories were filmed simultaneously and without any cuts, with the characters eventually intersecting at the same venue in the dénouement.  What we the viewer get, is a collage of audio and video from all four scenes, divided into four distinct quadrants on the screen.  While this perhaps more realistically reflects life, where we are bombarded with myriad stimuli and must choose what we look at and listen to and interact with &#133; as a viewing experience it is very difficult to watch and hear.  But in the end, that really doesn't matter because the individual and combined stories are inane.  I couldn't have cared less one way or the other about any of it.  Touted as a `technical achievement' and a `revolution in filmmaking', I guess it is.  But there is no value added by pushing this particular cinematic envelope.  Apparently the actors improvised their dialogue, which solves the mystery of why a good screenwriter is worth her or his weight in gold.  I'm with Norman Jewison on this one a good or great movie is all about the story, and this one is boring.  The characters are uninteresting louts, and frankly I didn't care if they all got buried alive in the earthquake that threatens them throughout the movie. "},{"Title":"A sure headache due to eye strain.","Date":"23 September 2001","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Sometimes 'original' does not mean good. Or 'daring' equate with talent. This movie has a tired old plot and not believable as presented. Plus someone capsulized it as 'an amazing experience'. Well jumping out of an airplane without a parachute at 10,000 feet, would also be an 'amazing experience', but it would only happen once in your life time. Unfortunately this may not be the case for this style of film making. Again this is just my opinion. "},{"Title":"The title gives the game away.","Date":"21 April 2001","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Timecode.  What does this have to do with the content of Figgis's film?  As we discover towards the end, without any chance of our being mistaken, nothing.  It must be a reference to whatever device Figgis used to synchronise his actors.  And that lets us know where his interests lay in filming four simultaneous, 97-minute takes - certainly not in telling a decent story.This lack of concern for anything except the technical challenge - we don't even get a sense of exhilaration at seeing Figgis pull it off - could not be more naked.  On four occasions, there's an earth tremor.  How do these little earthquakes help the film or the viewer?  Not in the least - but it helps Figgis synchronise his actors.  (Can you think of a LESS creative way of working a necessary synchronising device into the - cough - story?  I can't.)  Characters from different frames bump into one another now and then, and sometimes this serves an artistic purpose.  Equally often, however, it doesn't.  The characters aren't interacting; the actors are reminding one another which bit they're up to.And here's the moment that really gives the game away.  Towards the end, in the two bottom frames, we see a young director pitching her idea for a new kind of movie - and it turns out that she wants to make Timecode!  Wow, self-reference!  The last, and this case probably the first, refuge of the creatively bankrupt.  I wanted to swear out loud.  I'd been waiting over an hour for some payoff, some tiny sign of confluence between Figgis's four-frame device and the (cough) story he was trying to tell with it, and THIS is the best he could do?  To add insult to injury, the movie our young director was pitching wasn't QUITE Timecode.  It was better.  It had music by Hans Eisler, for one thing.  (Apart from the melody sung during this pitch, the music in Timecode is banal, and it's used with a ham-fisted incompetence that has to be heard to be believed.)  Also, our young director had a neat idea.  She wanted to adapt a Borges story in which an old man and a young man meet, chat, and gradually discover that they're the very same person, at different stages of his life.  Each of the four main characters, continues our young director, will be the same person, at a different stage of life.  At this point our eyes scan the four frames to see if this is true of Timecode, at least metaphorically.  No, it isn't.  Not even metaphorically.  I felt like beating my head against the chair in front of me.  Why was I watching Figgis's wretched movie?  I wanted to watch HER movie!As the young director points out, this kind of thing is the offspring of digital technology.  Well, not quite.  Alfred Hitchcock came up with the idea of a film without cuts in the 1940s, and more or less put it into practise with Rope.  It goes without saying that Rope is far superior.  The irony is that it's also far truer to Figgis's avowed ideal of perfect continuity.  In Timecode a vertical slash and a horizontal slash divide the screen into four.  EVERY FRAME is cut into pieces - Hitchcock merely had a discreet, and to the best of his ability invisible, cut every ten minutes or so.  (He also had a story, but I should stop harping on that.)  Talk about a bad bargain.  And it gets worse.  The digital technology that makes Figgis's inferior vision possible also makes every frame look ugly.  Add the fact that nothing worth looking at is going on in any of them, and what do we get?  Instead of one good thing, a choice between four worthless things.It may not have escaped your attention that the last few years have produced a pretty poor crop of films.  1999 was the worst year in living memory - unless you were exceptionally old in 1999, and could remember the transition to sound - and 2000 turned out, contrary to all reasonable expectation, to be worse.  Even regression to the mean gives us little reason to hope that 2001 will be any better.  Yet every so often a film comes along that makes the future seem even bleaker.  The Blair Witch Project promised us nothing but incompetence from the next generation of film-makers; The Phantom Menace let the world know just how successful a  technically sophisticated, creatively barren rip-off could be; Scary Movie introduced us to the novel idea of comedy without any actual humour.  Timecode is yet another depressing sign of things to come.  I'm sick of them. "},{"Title":"Don't Get Your Hopes Up","Date":"19 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The idea for Timecode is an excellent idea and it seems like such a concept could have amazing potential. Sadly, it simply does not have the greatness to make it a memorable revolutionary film. Sure, this concept has never been done before, but it doesn't make up for the fact that the film tells a boring story and feels more like a video than a prestigious film.It is extremely difficult to follow all four screens throughout the duration of the film. Not all screens focus on a specific story, but certain stories are made less important than others which is disappointing with this film trying to be a good web-life film as well as the first to capture real time from four cameras.The audio mixing definitely manipulates the way the audience attempts to watch the film. Certain dialogue is tuned down so that only one or two screens can be heard and which have more importance than the others at certain times in the film. This may help to focus on what is essential in each moment, but overall all information within a story should be essential, so when some of that information is tuned out it can be an aggravating experience and not enjoyable.This is a failed experiment to change cinema forever.2.0/4.0 "},{"Title":"way too confusing.","Date":"6 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I give this movie a 2 out of 10. I believe that the four vignettes going on at the same time is way, way way too confusing. I saw this movie on TV and not on DVD which could explain the differences in the reviews. It was way too much work to sit and enjoy the movie. Not only were there four different vignettes, the sound kept going off and on through each of the four vignettes so that even though the video was continuous the sound was choppy and it was difficult to get into the cohesiveness of the movie(s).This is definitely a movie for those 20 and above and for those below the age of 70 who would enjoy a more cohesive movie. There is no snack time during this movie since it will take your complete and total focus to understand all that is going on. Way too much work for me. I like to sit back and enjoy the story (singular) on screen and not have to try and concentrate on four different vignettes with intermittent sound. This movie is only good to figure out if you enjoy multiple movies at the same time. It is almost a waste of time to see. "},{"Title":"Keep Focused.","Date":"26 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Timecode (2000) Dir Mike Figgis / Cast Jeanne Tripplehorn, Salma Hayek, Stellan Skarsgard, Saffron Burrows, Holly Hunter Focusing our attention becomes a big priority when one embarks on Mike Figgis's creation. Unique film in which its initial concept works against it. Four situations are presented in real time on screen blocked into cells. It is impossible to keep track of all of the action, however dialogue and noise usually gain an advantage. Director Mike Figgis details the film with a large ensemble cast as well as present his own personal project where viewers can decide what they wish to devote attention to. Among the cast is Jeanne Tripplehorn who acts out jealousy and lets the air out of her lover's tires. She will bug her purse and spend much of the film listening in on an audition, which will result in a fatal jealous rage. Salma Hayek plays her lover and she is off to an audition but Tripplehorn believes that she is cheating on her. Other than Tripplehorn and Hayek there is Stellan Skarsgard as a diverse member of the film crew whose projects contains an unexpected twist that is fatal. Saffron Burrows plays his wife who is planning a divorce. Holly Hunter steals moments as an executive. Figgis is setting out to make a film that is compelling and original. The challenge for the viewer is focus but it plays off several points of view. It is up to us where our attention will go. Score 8 / 10 "}{"Title":"Challenging experiment that fails to be a movie","Date":"23 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In L.A., businesswoman Lauren (Jeanne Tripplehorn) slashes Rose (Salma Hayek)'s tires and tricks her to ride in her limo. Rose wants a screen test from director Alex Green (Stellan Skarsgård) and girlfriend Lauren had found out her secret boyfriend. Alex's wife Emma (Saffron Burrows) is having a session with therapist (Glenne Headly). Meanwhile there is a discussion about Alex's new project but he seems disinterested. Actors and staff comes in and out of the movie.The screen is divided into four as it follows four different real-time POVs simultaneously that was shot at the same time. It's an interesting premise that may be too much of a gimmick. The one camera shot in each of the four sections doesn't lend itself to be watched by itself. It's actually tiresome to follow one screen. It's also tiresome to follow one screen to the next. Writer/director Mike Figgis pushes the audience to follow a specific section by turning up the sound in a specific section. It's a gimmick that interested me for 20-30 minutes but is a real drag for the rest of the movie. In the heart of it, there isn't a cohesive drama. I couldn't really explain what or who we're suppose to be following. I wonder if the story isn't so Hollywood inside ball, maybe an exciting thriller would be more compelling. "},{"Title":"Impossible to watch","Date":"20 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" TIME CODE (not Timecode) was filmed in 4 continuous takes beginning at 300pm on Friday, November 19th, 1999. All of the cast improvised around a predetermined structure... WHAT'S THE POINT!?! This film may being artsy or experimental but if the audiences viewing and enjoyment of the film is totally ruined as a result; then really What Is The Point? Going into the movie I didn't know what to expect and when I saw that the picture was split into quarters I thought this is unusual but was wondering WHEN the screen would turn into a single visual. It wasn't until about 15 minutes in that it occurred to me that - THE WHOLE FRAKKING FILM IS LIKE THIS! All 97 minutes. Even the flipping End Credits FFS! Trying to follow a story from one of the 4 frames is very restrictive because although you can see 4 frames at once, you are only allowed (for obvious reasons) to hear one frames' dialogue clearly at a time.And just as you are following THAT storyline, the filmmakers decide to fade down the volume and switch to a different frame. SO F***ING ANNOYING! What's most annoying is that this fail of a movie does have a brilliant cast, so it's a real shame that their efforts went to waste on this nonsensical idea for a feature film. "},{"Title":"Good technique, but tedious.","Date":"4 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I much prefer the shifting split screens on 24 to this static movie.  But my main problem with it is that it deals with the idiotic pursuits of shallow Hollywood people.  The actors are given the opportunity to improvise a movie, and so they make a movie about moviemaking.  It's not that interesting.  Give me a movie about steelworkers or slackers anyday.  And nothing really is made of the big stunt the earthquake tremors.  It's fun to watch people on all four screens react, but then they go on with their shallow lives.  I suppose it's a reminder of mortality, the smallness of these people at the edge of the continent.  But it just doesn't go anywhere.Ultimately, there is a plot of a sort revealed--a typical Hollywood sort of dramatic event.  Soooo, let's give Mike Figgis an A for effort, but the movie is just tedious. "},{"Title":"Interesting...","Date":"31 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Timecode 2000 is an interesting and innovative experiment. The themes are subtly woven into the improvisation of the actors, however I found myself wanting more explanation and more of a story. It is an uneven experience, but a dazzlingly stylish one that will set a new trend for modern directors. ***  "},{"Title":"Probably pretentious, but certainly not s**t","Date":"24 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Films do not come bolder and more experimental than this. Throughout the entire 93 minutes, the screen is divided into four segments and each quadrant is occupied by the product of one hand-held camera generating one continuous shot - a feat not technically possible until the advent of digitalisation. As if this were not enough, there was only an outline script, permitting and indeed requiring considerable improvisation by the cast of 28.It is not as difficult to follow as one might fear because the soundtrack is usually dominant in one corner, focusing the viewer on one quarter while allowing other points of view. There are some very attractive women on show the director's partner Saffron Burrows, Salma Hayek, Jean Tripplehorn and Xander Berkeley. But plot-wise the focus is on a male a dissolute producer played by Stellan Skarsgård (`Ronin').Essentially though this is the work of an auteur - the British Mike Figgis was director, co-producer, writer, and even composer. The whole thing is a satire on Hollywood film production and, when one character describes the very kind of film portrayed by `Time Code', the producer character condemns it as `the most pretentious s**t I ever heard'. `Pretentious'? Probably. `S**t'? No. Successful? Tentatively. "},{"Title":"A massive disappointment.  Good idea, very badly done.","Date":"24 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The idea is that there are four separate quarters to the screen, each showing the footage of a different camera.  I had expected that I would get four different stories, each featuring one character, each woven cleverly together.  I was massively disappointed.  The cameras do not stay with one character.  There are not four strong stories.  Instead, there are a dozen or so very weak stories, each of which could be told in one sentence, and would not be found interesting.  The bottom left quarter, for the first half an hour or so, shows the security guard and what he gets up to.  None of what he does turns out to be relevant, or interesting, and this screen quarter then goes on to follow other characters.  One screen quarter shows us someone eavesdropping on someone else.  For about an hour, we see this person reacting to what she hears, with the same anxious look.All the way through, one finds oneself looking at the most promising-looking screen quarter, in the hope that one might see something interesting or informative.  This generally proves futile.  While doing this, however, one occasionally catches a glimpse of something in another quarter, and then, on looking at that other quarter, one then wonders what it was that one has just missed, and whether it might have been relevant.  I saw a character in a bookshop put a book in her bag.  Had she stolen it?  I don't know.  Either way, it proved to be of no consequence whatsoever.The film opens with a woman talking, at great, and boring, depressing length, about nothing much in particular, to her shrink.  This is not a good start for a film.  The sound keeps fading up and down from each quarter, suggesting to the viewer that the events in one quarter are more important at that time than in the others.  However, very often, the sounds in the other quarters interfere; very often, the louder sound is still uninteresting; and always, the sound is never loud or clear enough to be easy to listen to.  I spent the entire film wishing that people would speak up.Had Tom Stoppard or Alan Aykbourne written this film, it would perhaps have been excellent.  They would have picked an interesting hour and a half, in which several complete stories intermeshed, and were acted out in real-time.  Instead, we have an hour and a half of people feeling a bit low, browsing in bookshops, having dull business meetings, listening to headphones, smoking, and walking about in the street.  It seems that the director feared to put four interesting things on the screen, for fear that each would distract from the others, so he gave us four mundane and dull ones instead.  These do not add up to one interesting picture.True, there are half a dozen amusing bits, but these fall a long way short of making this an entertaining film.It is at least good to see that Figgis has put his efforts where his mouth was.  Years ago I met him at a writers' workshop at the Tyneside Cinema, and he said then that people should make feature films with DVD cameras, and that these films would be successful because they would put content and originality above high-production gloss.  Snag is, he has made a film almost perfectly devoid of interest.  It is hard work to watch, and low reward.There are some amazingly good-looking women in it, but again, this is no substitute for plot or incident, or even half-decent dialogue.Figgis has damaged his cause.  The public will be less likely to go and see a film shot cheaply on video, thanks to this one.  "},{"Title":"Good impro'd quad-like action let down by poor ending.","Date":"22 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I guess it's easy for directors and writers to stick to the same old conventions, perhaps they have no choice, moulded by the big boys who appear to know just what us movie goers like. At least some choose not to follow this route, to proposition and shoot a film like this, which come on, sounds pretty pretentious, is something in it's own right. Perhaps this luxury is only for the triumphant moviemaker like Figgis who has previously provided us with the great 'Leaving Las Vegas'.Digital cameras produce low resolution images, so we have to have four mini screens to the big screen to make up for it. This worked well. It wasn't as hard on one's head as you may imagine, but through the clever use of sound my focus was passed around all four quarters. The overall effect was interesting and the eventual merging of shots and alternative camera angles gave a three-dimensional perspective whereas normally this would have been left to our imaginations.This film like 'Vegas' has an alcoholic as the main focus, a man we don't hate or pity, despite his actions. A jealous girlfriend who obviously can't trust her partner, becomes detective. Simultaneously we watch a lovely young wannabe screw her way to stardom avec the 'red mullet' Production Company.Well there isn't much of a plot here and the ending spoilt what I thought was a good movie, but up until then things were fine.I'm not sure where Mr Figgis got his inspiration, perhaps it was from playing popular multiplayer computer games or from watching tacky old eighties music videos. Maybe he'll hand us a director's cut for the smallscreen, or four different releases for us to set up cunningly, hardware permitting, heck he may as well treat us to a fifth.The film looks great despite the plot, definitely recommended. "},{"Title":"Experimental split-screen drama about a Hollywood sex triangle","Date":"6 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  E for effort. Four screens carrying four separate stories (or so it seems at first) were exhausting to watch (and hear, with all four stories talking at once). This was supposed to have been filmed in real time, meaning,I gather, that the four stories were synchronously and continuously filmed. It was tempting to walk out in the middle in hopeless confusion. (Not for schizophrenics who don't want to be!) I stuck it out hoping it would all come together in the end which it does, but far from happily. It is an interesting approach to film but I hope I never have to sit through another one. I have no problem with unhappy endings, but the effect of the quartered screen and the four synchronous stories was to distract and distance me from all the characters. Well, maybe that was the intent. BTW, it features bisexuality, perfidy, and music that frequently doesn't synch with any of the stories. "},{"Title":"White Noise","Date":"4 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Timecode, Mike Figgis' intriguing 'quadri-filming' experiment, is unfortunately more hype than substance.  We are told at the end that the actors completed their work over four hours on a November day in 1999 and many sequences were done extemporaneously.  That would explain the fixated fugue the four main characters portray, they simply didn't have time to develop themselves.  Rose (Salma Hayek) finds herself torn between bisexual relationships and the goal of landing an acting role.  Lauren (Jeanna Tripplehorn) cannot resolve the jealous rage that is dominating her life.  Alex (Stellan Skarsgard) mourns lost love with an indifference to his work and with alcohol and extramarital sex.  Emma (Saffron Burrows), too, grieves about a depressing existence that seems to have no relief.  And so we watch as each one displays their angst on simultaneous frames as they blabber away, even as Figgis turns up or down their voices. While the plot is inconsequential, side stories develop which are much more interesting but which again lack development.  How will the executives save the day for Red Mullet company?  How is Lester (Richard Edson) going to be able to put 'Bitch of Louisiana' on production?  What are the different mind-games the aspiring actress who befriends Emma playing with herself and those around her?  In the midst of this 'noble' experiment, Figgis threw in unneeded distractions earthquakes, a very active masseur (Julian Sands), and even a role player at the end who tried to slyly explain what the film was all about.  Timecodes would have succeeded as simultaneous cinematography if the subject had been more concrete and mundane, say like 'Perils of Pauline'.  However in delving into human wants and emotions, Figgis should have stuck to the conventional way.    "},{"Title":"Very original, but lacked spice","Date":"1 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Timecode will never be blamed for a lack of originality, but there is no way this project would not have flaws. Director Mike Figgis was trying something here and it is very cool. One thing he did in the film was poke fun of himself. One character wants to make a movie with quadrants and have no takes, just ongoing filming with improvisation. The idea is laughed at, whether Figgis uses this to get back at Production companies or not remains to be seen but he certainly does satire Hollywood. The storyline is easy to follow even with 4 screens, though the sound is hard to follow at times. I would recommend this movie to anyone who doesn't take bad movies so personally. If you want to see something different, then go see Timecode, but if you want good entertainment or comedy then see Gladiator or Road Trip and never see Timecode. It's your call. "}{"Title":"Future Tense","Date":"24 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  No Comments on the storyline, just on the form and functionFour POV, ONE continuous time line.  Editing is movement, screen to screen.  Sound is of the essence.Shooting in real time is not now, by any means, but it is extremely rare for a dramatic feature.  Modern viewers are used to film montage, and they expect it.  They are easily bored if the time line is real.  This movie uses four points of view, the time is still linear and real.  The separate images are tied together by the reality of the time line.  The amazing thing about this is that it works surprisingly well.  The viewer is quickly acclimated...The sound moves the eye around the screen.  Although not tremendously subtle, this editing style was at least as natural feeling as tradition editing.Those settled in the Old Ways, beware!  DV is here, the Net is coming, and new ways of viewing reality are becoming commonplace.  Stories will always be told, but by whom? "},{"Title":"An intense audio-visual experience","Date":"22 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Paradoxically, I found Timecode both exhausting and energizing, but the bottom line is that although this is a movie that is clearly going to hit everyone a different way, I loved it.Some of the people that were in the theatre with me walked out, but most were expressing emotions that betrayed the powerful impact of this fascinating movie.  They laughed, they sobbed, they cried out.  Everyone stayed through the closing credits, and several people, including me, were so shocked and drained that they sat in their seats for minutes after the credits were over.Watching four screens simultaneously was almost like being in a grand prix automobile race, having to keep yours eyes on all your mirrors to keep track of the other cars around you, versus the usual movie experience of leisurely driving down a one-lane one-way road, looking straight ahead in a totally passive way.Another way to look at is that the four-fold multiplexing compresses time; in effect you are watching a 6 hour movie in an hour and a half.As a guideline, I would recommend that anyone that has a problem with watching subtitled foreign language films skip Timecode; but, for those of you looking for an intense and totally absorbing movie experience, I recommend this movie highly. "},{"Title":"Not much of a revolution","Date":"21 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Someday digital cameras could very well replace film cameras. But this movie doesn't help that movement. When the day comes that the picture created by a videocamera looks just like film, then it will be a revolution. Timecode looks like video. What's the difference between shooting this on digital and shooting it on Beta? Nothing. Who wants to watch a narrative that looks like video? Digital is great for documentaries, but not quite up to par for narratives. "},{"Title":"OUCH","Date":"14 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  sorry, but as good an idea as this film was, it left me with a headache. it was too much to focus on and the story was amatuerish at best.  salma hayek is possibly the worst actress working today, whose idea was it for her to be part of this improv cast?  it also seemed a bit howard stern-ish at times, with the excessive lesbian kisses.  not that there is anything wrong with that!  i think the premise was ingenious, mike figgis is a talented director, but the 4 screen idea is better left as that.  i was impressed with the seamless transitions, characters going into each others camera space and no other cameras in sight, but i just can't recommend this film. "},{"Title":"Really interesting idea, mediocre script..","Date":"13 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I thought that the four screens worked really well although it could have been a lot more interesting if the story had been better.  I liked the way people wove through all the screens and that there were no cuts so it must have involved a fair amount of improvisation.  I thought it looked very good considering the format it was shot on, and the acting wasn't bad.The unfortunate thing is this will probably spawn many copycat type of films that are really annoying - but then again maybe someone will nail it and produce something great using this good idea.. "},{"Title":"He's havin fun...","Date":"12 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  One might think that this idea is preety cool and unique.  And it is.  This is something that no one has etempted since Alfred Hitchcocks's Rope.  But the problem lies within the plot.  In Rope, Hitchcock had a extremely interesting story that unfolded in Real-time witch kept your interest from the beginning.  In Timecode, Figgis goes beyond by telling a very usual story in four entwining segments that turns out destracting the audience instead of getting the plot out into the open.  As your watching this movie, you find yourself concentrating on the upper-right square that seems to be the most valuable but then you realize that something just happened in the bottom-right square that was important in understanding the plot so you lose the sense of the story and give up.  You end up sitting in the theater for the remaining 94 minutes wondering if your basketball team is winning or not.  The movie is defenitly innovative and unique and it is completely obviouse that Mike Figgis was experimenting with the digital age and was having fun with it.  A flat and solid 7 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Nervous breakdowns, infidelity, alcoholism, drug use, and earthquakes - just your average at Red Mullet productions.","Date":"11 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Red Mullet Inc. is a small independent production company with both a bright future and a host of problems.  While the company founder is one of the best schmoozers in the business, he also happens to be a philandering alcoholic, on the verge of a breakdown.  Also, while they  have a breakthrough film on the go, the producers just fired the entire cast, and the director can't find the lead.  Finally, while they have managed to attract one of the best up- and-coming actresses around, she will only work if she can bring her hip-hop socialist music maker.  There's also the little matter of the earthquake&#133; Filmed in four continuous takes, with bouncing cameras, a barebones script and largely improvised dialogue, Time Code is the Blair Witch Project for 2000. Code also boasts a diverse, well known cast (shades of The Player), and a Pulp Fiction style interwoven plot.  Its most striking feature however is how the film is displayed the screen is split into four sections, each with its own unique point of view, dialogue and action.  While the sound tends to follow the pivotal action, fading from quadrant to quadrant, it is ultimately up to the viewer to decide what they want to watch and get out of the film. Although some viewers will undoubtedly find the film disorienting, and hard to follow, it is undeniably engaging, innovative and dare I say it, groundbreaking.  There will undoubtedly be many second rate copycats in the coming months so see this film while it's still fresh. "},{"Title":"A cool idea","Date":"10 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film was only interesting because of its innovative technique.  The story itself was quite weak, but was enough to keep me watching.  I would have preferred more Julian Sands and less Salma Hayek, who I find hard to take seriously. I thought it was worth seeing, but I just hope that not many people choose to imitate this style.  Mike Figgis is interesting enough to keep me watching, but I don't know how many others could do it well... Go on a cheap night, that's my advice. "},{"Title":"Artichokes, Lobster and Time Code.","Date":"7 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Normally, eating is a simple task.  On occasion, one is presented with something different.  If I gave my son an artichoke and told him to eat it, I would not presume that he would know how to do so.  Lobster presents a similar problem.In going to a movie, for me, the biggest problem is  getting through the previews without succumbing to the urge to leave.  Watching Time Code presented an immediate problem. The movie is presented as 4 quadrants on the screen with a fixed camera in each quadrant presenting its history in a continuous, (seemingly) unedited format. What am I supposed to watch?  What am I supposed to listen to? My mind actually had to think.  It was akin to watching a football game live rather than  on TV.The only hint as to what to watch comes from the increase in sound level associated with a given quadrant.The end product is in no way overwhelming but extremely interesting.  It begs for expansion to  things more daring.  "},{"Title":"The revenge of art upon THE BLAIR WITCH PROJECT","Date":"1 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  When somebody kicks down a door, you don't comment on how gracefully they destroyed it. You're grateful that they opened up the space. Mike Figgis' TIME CODE is a digital-video gimmick movie on a par with BLAIR WITCH, an abstract-ified version of I'M LOSING YOU and/or THE PLAYER, and a mainstream digestion of THE CHELSEA GIRLS, and of Warhol's let-the-mag-run-out cinema in general. Its L.A. is one of tinny cliches iced lattes and lots of cell phones, actresses balling B-movie production execs in the back of the screening room, lesbian power brokers making sure you'll never eat lunch in this so-forth-and-so-on. And its cast is not uniform in the gift of improvisation. (Holly Hunter, bless her soul of an artiste, is really, truly bad at it.)Despite all this, TIME CODE is some kind of an almost-great movie. Which kind, it will take a little time to deduce. Figgis invented a form that's apt for our present-day condition ninety-nine channels of cable TV and nothing to watch. He lifts the glam, vacuity and split screen of THE CHELSEA GIRLS and turns it into a twenty-first-century reading-while-watching-TV-and-skimming-the-Internet language. Like Warhol, he moves our attention from one panel to another by fading the sound up and down; though the ideal form of TIME CODE would seem to be a multi-track DVD. The movie isn't so much interactive as it is horizontal, open-ended, multiple. It does, though, make such narrative breakthroughs as PULP FICTION and MAGNOLIA look like Chaplin two-reelers.Like this year's other strong Hollywood movie, James Toback's BLACK AND WHITE, TIME CODE uses an advanced, tightropish, improvisatory form to vent the filmmaker's most uncensored id. Figgis' fantasies are not as outre as Toback's, but the two filmmakers share some odd similarities--both virtuosos of self-pity, they are as willing to share their sex anxieties and weird fetishes with you as a Tourette's victim. That's the stuff Figgis uses as grout to hold his high formalist structure together.There's a special delight in the let-your-eye-roam freedom Figgis gives us. It frees up cinema from its roots in the Homeric campfire. It brings it closer to painting than to theatre. It opens the door to participation at a time when movies seem to forbid it. But one practical note to Mr. Figgis When Salma Hayek takes up one of your four frames, the other three are impossible to tend to. "}{"Title":"a revolutionary breakthrough in film making","Date":"27 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I was lucky enough to see this film at a free screening and I was blown away.  This could be the type of movie that sets new parameters for how a narrative can be told.  I thought that it might have been difficult to watch due to the fact that there are four screens fighting for your attention but that was not the case at all.  I think everyone should see this film. Even if you don't like it, you may have seen a revolutionary breakthrough in film making "},{"Title":"A daring attempt at forging a new audience/filmmaker relationship","Date":"21 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Mike Figgis has always been a filmmaker unafraid to try new things in the name of his art.  TIMECODE is an attempt to tell several parallel stories simultaneously on four quadrants of the screen.  As a result, the viewer is forced to make his or her OWN edit of the film.  You follow a number of characters as they await the casting decisions of a producer making a low budget film.  The producer, nearly on the edge of a breakdown, is caught in the middle of a lovers' triangle.  As the audience, we get to see all of the characters in the play, nearly all of the time on the separate quadrants, so we get to determine just what is important enough to follow at any given moment.  At times quite brilliant, at other times slightly less successful, it is always interesting and provocative.  Definitely not for everybody -- merely for everyone who likes to think while watching a film. "},{"Title":"A pleasant surprise.","Date":"10 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I just saw a screening of this film at the DGA theater in NYC ( I must admit I snuck in pretending to be a student).  I must also admit that I walked in on my guard. I mean this was some sort of seeming digital experiment, right? I have to say now though that it is simply a wonderful little film. Notable not so much for being digital or presented in four quadrants, as much as for showing us the comic talents of Julian Sands. The story and setting is relatively simple but enjoyable and the production was executed perfectly. The film brings together a wonderful group of talented actors, most notably Stellan Skarsgard, Steven Weber, Holly Hunter, and Richard Edson.  The complimentary Figgis score is as good as any of his past achievements and he himself at this screening proved to be an intelligent and modest if not excited man. He responded to questions with real answers and his overall ambition with this project seemed genuine and that comes across in the film. It's wonderful to see a talented director like this make the films he wants and be happy (and make eager filmgoers happy too)!  "},{"Title":"Get Reel","Date":"8 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Time Code is likely to be remembered more as an awe-inspiring innovation than a blockbuster movie. It's the result of an incredibly ambitious all-digital production that was filmed in its entirety by four cinematographers 15 times in a row, in order to achieve a final, unedited 93-minute cut. The plot of Figgis' latest work is a straightforward love-and-murder story in which wealthy Lauren Hathaway (Jeanne Tripplehorn) eavesdrops on girlfriend Rose (Salma Hayek) as the latter pursues a love affair with an alcoholic movie producer (Skarsgard) whose wife (Burrows) has decided to leave him. All of which ends up secondary to the films visual style the screen is split into four quadrants, each showing a continuous shot of a different aspect of the story at the same moment in time. As the lives of the charecters overlap and collide, they cross from one frame to another. The attention of the audience is directed by sound Dialogue is muted in all but one frame, for example when an important piece of the story is unfolding there. Time Code was a collective production in which the stars supplied their own stylists and catering, watched the film at the end of each day and contributed their critiques. Figgis does overcome the novelty effect to achieve an enjoyable feature, albeit one that probably won't reach far beyond the art houses.  "},{"Title":"A Split Decision","Date":"5 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  One interrelated story about a fictitious Hollywood production company told on one screen divided into quadrants. Neither as innovative technically nor as pointlessly experimental as one might think. Director Mike Figgis even makes light of the notion that it's earth shattering within the movie. He's having fun, and it shows. "},{"Title":"ABSOLUTE CRAP! Just shows why we need cuts and a real script in movies.","Date":"3 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" My god... I'm warning you. This movie is absolute GARBAGE and SERIOUSLY a waste of time! I wouldn't even call it a movie. I had to watch this for a class so I didn't really have a choice. I wanted to turn it off so badly. I want my 97 minutes of life back! At least I didn't have to pay a dime for this mess. But then again, time is money... I should be reimbursed $100 for seeing this movie. The gimmick movie never gets any better. Trust me.Sure, the idea sounds interesting (take four cameras and shoot simultaneously without cuts), and it was an ambitious attempt, I'll give that, but honestly, the end result is sooooooooooooooooo HORRIBLE. It's like a really bad student film.This experiment just shows why movies need cuts, directing actors (even the big stars were horrible in most of the scenes), a real script with a real story, and most importantly, using a freaking boom mic (obviously they didn't use one because it would get in the shots). It is extremely boring and horribly shot.You can tell which scene the director wants you to focus on by the audio level; the audio gain becomes louder for the one that should be focused on by the audience and the rest become less. The director cheats because while one scene that is being focused, the rest is just obviously dragging time doing absolutely nothing. For example, Jeanne Tripplehorn (Water World, Sliding Doors), I think she was supposed to be Hayak's lesbian agent or something... all she basically does is sit in her Limo 95% of the film(sometimes she gets out of it) wearing headphones to spy on Hayak. Wow. What a great part for her! I guess she accepted the role so she could make out with Salma Hayek.That reminds me... what is up with the random lesbian scenes? Everyone seems to be lesbians and making out constantly like a porno flick. It's a pathetic device to keep the simple minded audience to keep watching. That's probably the only reason some people voted high. And of course they just have to have drugs in a movie... LAME.And they also randomly throw in THREE pointless huge earthquakes within a few minutes from each other in this movie, just because they want to show off that the scenes are all connected (we'd probably forget they're all supposed to be connected if it wasn't for that gimmick effect). But so what? Obviously someone in the crew is just queuing all the cameraman with a countdown (probably with an earpiece) and then they all just shake the camera.This movie literally is like a cheap student film. I'm not kidding.Blair Witch Project cost less to make and was also experimental, but it actually was well-made and intriguing (they even had better acting!) and that's why it succeeded, even to the mass market, as well as the style repeated years later like Cloverfield.The climax for the Blair Witch was worth it and was actually the best part of movie. For this movie, the ending is just as bad as the entire movie, especially the acting. It really falls apart. It actually turned into more of a comedy; the security guard doesn't do anything, and neither does the front desk lady or whoever it was, saying You can't go in there but they don't do a damn thing! Worst security ever. I mean, come on. There was absolutely nothing close to being real about this movie. People are so oblivious and obviously only acting on 'que' than anything close to being natural. Oh, and did I mention it turns into a porno flick every so often.The gunshot just sounds horribly cheap. Hayak's reaction and everyone else to the gunshot is laughable. And out of nowhere, what is up with the girl, who was giving the pitch, all of a sudden just filming the dead body? -- And the lady in complete white, that was sitting outside with the security guard (why was he just chilling outside?!), seems like she was some sick person from an institute, just joins the scene as if she's some medical assistant but does absolutely nothing to help the guy. This movie was just so annoying, laughable and a complete mess.I'd bet the cast weren't that impressed with the final result than they first heard about the idea and getting on-board. That Stellan guy probably accepted the role because he could do Salma Hayek and 'improvise' whatever sexual moves he could think of and get away with it.If you pay close attention, the four cameras aren't really even synced exactly. For example, in one shot you see Hayak enter the conference room earlier than the other camera angle for a couple seconds off. That may be picky, but that's bad editing if you ask me, especially when the whole point of this experiment is to show that's actually totally synced.1/10. (1 just for trying something new. -9 for the end results.) "},{"Title":"Pretentious","Date":"5 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie is a pretentious attempt at being revolutionary or whatever the hell you want to call it. Sure this was a potentially interesting idea (real time and quartered screen), but it wasn't used in a very powerful way. Being different doesn't make something good, and this movie is a prime example of that. This idea could have actually made a point or followed a story that wasn't clichéd and boring instead of some over-dramatic Hollywood crap. This movie was a confusing and bland waste of time. I never felt the need to find out how anything ended up or felt any attachment or interest in any of the characters. It was lacking in any kind of substance whatsoever, and I hope that the majority of people who consider viewing this movie spare themselves and change their minds. "},{"Title":"Nice Idea, sloppy and poorly executed.","Date":"13 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I think Figgis' got ahead of himself when he thought he could pull this off. It is a great idea, but even after 15 takes there are still scenes where the actors flub lines or can't think of something intelligent to say. Cameramen appear in multiple scenes as well as other members of the production crew. Yes there is no film editing, cuts I mean, but he does edit the sound which in this case is just as effective. Yeah you can watch any frame of your choosing, but most will choose to watch the one or two with sound than the others. I think editing would of actually helped this because so much of an actors performance is driven by the editor. You could still have four screens, but why not cut a little to see some performances shine? This is no Rope by Hitchcock thats for sure. "},{"Title":"How interesting can a soap opera get?","Date":"24 February 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I began watching Timecode with a few friends; one bailed part way through, calling it a glorified soap opera. I stuck it out to the end, but even though some of it was not typical daytime fare, overall I thought the criticism was deserved. I found it difficult to identify with or feel empathy for the stock aspiring actress characters; the random masseuse was clearly the most enjoyable of an otherwise bland set of individuals. The interesting twist in filming with four simultaneous cameras was interesting, but the banality of the storyline- cheating lovers and the toll it takes, dreams of big screen success, inter-office tensions- detracted from the innovative idea. Trying to keep track of all four frames at once was a sort of mental aerobic, probably working those muscles you develop from listening to Mozart as a baby, but the plot just didn't seem worth it. The attempt at realism was checked by the fact that there was always only one frame in which important action was taking place; at times it seemed they might as well have just cut the superfluous cameras. Anyway, not sure if I'd recommend it; it's a challenge to keep track of, but not quite worth the extra effort over simply watching a movie. "},{"Title":"Really enjoyed it","Date":"9 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" was prepared for the absolute worst in watching this and actually really enjoyed it...I enjoyed watching time pass in real time, ppl actually having to sit in the car and drive somewhere, ppl sitting in an office waiting for someone to arrive, i really liked so much about this that i was surprised it took me so long to see it, gave me a ton of ideas about film-making and a lot of thoughts about story in general... well done...the soundtrack was good and the acting was spot on, it must have been so much fun to make this film...and it was all seamless, no fake cutting, no editing, just roll the camera for 90 minutes and lets see what we get..man, I am so going to work with a concept like this...it was so visualQ "}{"Title":"blue donkees.   3/10","Date":"17 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I give it a three outa 10 rating.  1 point is for a cool concept....which was unfortunately developed poorly.  2 more pts for Salma's racque......which is awesome and the only reason, really, to bother renting this video.  Since it rates below my minimum cutoff of 5 pts......I can't even recommend seeing it on video rental.  The concept of starting with 4 screens is great....but duh, as each story reached its connection with another screen, the border between those two screens should have disappeared.  Eventually all four screens should have become one and the ending should have mattered.  For that matter, a plot and a script would have been welcome relief from the mess this film is. I love the way the director realizes in the editing room that the film is a bomb...so he tacks on the excuse that the actors were ad-libbing the whole way through.  Um, yeah....we could tell.   The resulting mess is proof that a script is a good thing.  "},{"Title":"Edit me","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Time Code was an interesting experiment.  It is worth seeing for the experience of seeing 4 simultaneous 90 minute interlocking scenes played out at the same time.  As an entertaining movie it failed.   Too many performances were way over the top, some were ridiculous.  There was never a chance to get to know any of the characters well at all and therefore you never developed any empathy for them.  I can't say I liked any of the characters much at all.  Most seemed self-important and over indulgent, maybe it was meant to be a portrayal of the movie industry.  The 4 scenes were distracting and I found myself rewinding often to catch the action in the other scenes.  Sometimes I rewound multiple times to capture everything.  I spent so much time watching Salma Hayek in her tight skimpy top that I, mistakenly, thought I was missing important information in the other screens.  That was the basic problem.  You thought you were missing something in the other screens but after rewinding you found nothing important was actually happening.  Somewhere in all the action there might have been a movie but so much of it was just a waste of time.  The movie should be watched by film students to help them understand the importance of editing.  "},{"Title":"One of the WORST Movies Ever Made","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film had the potential to be something wonderful but instead, it is a pretty horrible film.  The only real positive thing I should mention about it is the interesting idea it uses of having four screens and shooting scenes in constant timing.  If you are looking for a new approach to how films are made, this film is remotely worthwhile.However, if you are looking for a film to enjoy, bypass this one at the movie store.  First of all, the title of the film has little to nothing to do with the film.  I certainly didn't see any 'code' and it was a waste of 'time' to watch it.  Next, the constant earthquake effect is annoying and adds nothing to the film.  It is clear that the cameraman is merely shaking the camera and everyone is reacting.  When the so-called earthquake is over, everything goes back to normal like nothing every happened.  It is ridiculous.  The story, which sounds interesting because we have lesbian lovers and the Hollywood lifestyle, is very boring.  Most of the characters are highly annoying and did nothing for the plot.  Most of the time, the actors talk so softly, you can't even hear them unless you pump your television volume to the max.  The music is horrific, especially the idea where they mix rap with opera singing, just terrible.  The ending comes out of nowhere and doesn't make much sense but I was just glad that the movie was over.Like I said, avoid renting or buying this one, you will be doing yourself a huge favor.  I give this film a complete zero.  I am very sorry I watched it.   "},{"Title":"Great Idea!!!","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Ok I have to admit I was not crazy about the film, but in the otherhand it is a very amazing experience, I mean inventive and greatwork done by the full team.  Adding a great cast to a great idea anda innovative way of making film and you get Time Code, also I cansuggest the DVD, very nice extra!!!  What more to say?  Well see itif you like new cinematography, don't if you like the kind of actionexplosive, kick-ass movie or you will sleep during the movie!  It isfor a very different kind of viewers! "},{"Title":"Interesting experiment, but","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Interesting experiment, but if you look past the experimental bits, its really a mediocre little potboiler.  As with all movies that are fundamentally dependent on special effects, the question arises whether technical wizardry really can so transform the nature of film as to make the more conventional elements (plot, dialogue, acting) relatively unimportant. "},{"Title":"Close, but no cigar!","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I heard about the concept of 'Timecode' before it was even released, and I found the whole idea of it intriguing. I was also incredibly impressed by Figgis' unromanticized look at alcoholism 'Leaving Las Vegas'. Add to that a wonderful cast containing many of my favourites, and how could it go wrong? Well sadly it does. I didn't find this a complete waste of time OR a bore, but I didn't think the finished movie sustained the interest as much as it should. I can understand why in a way because of juggling the logistics of the filming with an improvised script. Maybe this is the best that was possible under the difficult conditions involved. But even so, it ends up that as a viewer much of what is on screen at any one time is NOT interesting, and several of the fine actors here don't actually end up doing much.While I can't completely endorse 'Timecode' as it is, I still admire Figgis for not playing it safe. There's much too much of that going on in Hollywood already! Hopefully this movie will plant some ideas in other creative people's minds, and Figgis or others will try something similar again, and next time it will BLOW MINDS! "},{"Title":"A fine line between 'original' and 'interesting'","Date":"13 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I really love how when a movie does something that has never been done before, there are some people willing to overlook the fact that the movie itself was just plain unwatchable.  Just like this movie.  It was as if Figgis KNEW he had a horrible movie to work with, so he had to do SOMETHING to make it stand out.  Unfortunately, confusing does not make it GOOD.  I really doubt there are that many people out there who want to watch a four way split screen at a movie.  (Ever notice how upset people get during the NCAA tournament when they split the screen into just TWO games?)Anyone who says this movie should be studied in film school is absolutely right.  It should be under the category of Don't Do What Donnie Dont Does.  The instructor should force students to watch this movie, and then follow it up with the warning If you have not made an Oscar winning movie in the past, and you try this kind of garbage, your career will be over before it even started. "},{"Title":"Interesting concept, poorly executed","Date":"10 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Mike Figgis is a director who likes to take chances and doesn't follow the crowd.  Sometimes the chances pay off (`Leaving Las Vegas', `Miss Julie') and sometimes they lay an egg (`Loss of Sexual Innocence').  This attempt belongs in category B.Figgis has to be given high marks for ambition and innovation in producing this unusual movie.  He shoots the story from four cameras at different locations that are all shooting in real time as the characters weave their way from camera to camera.  The resulting footage is then shown simultaneously with emphasis placed on a particular camera by bringing up the sound.  The technique is interesting and vanguard from a production standpoint.  The result, however, is disappointing.Figgis is so intent on the gimmick that he abandons all else to pursue it.  The story is extremely weak.  The movie is shot with hand held video cameras giving it a homemade look.  The work by the camera operators is dismal.  Shots are out of focus and bouncing around, subjects are improperly framed.  It looked like it was shot by a bunch of college students (Oh, I forgot; that is what made Blair Witch Project a smashing success.  I didn't like that one either).  The lighting is poor and other than the limo, the sets and props are just whatever is lying around.Two of the frames spend almost the entire movie focused boring characters doing next to nothing.  One stays with Lauren (Jeanne Tripplehorn) eavesdropping on her girlfriend Rose (Salma Hayek) with an electronic listening device from the cab of her stretch limo; a real yawner.  The other follows Emma (Saffron Burrows) around as she wanders the street depressed over her breakup with Alex (Stellan Skarsgard); another utterly unexciting theme.  Thus, there are only two frames of any interest for 90% of the movie (notice I don't call this a film, because video is not film).  Figgis also throws in four visual non-sequiturs, i.e. the inexplicable earthquakes that relate in no way to the action in any of the scenes.  I suppose he felt that watching four screens simultaneously wasn't chaotic enough.Figgis played around with the idea of simultaneous shooting in the seduction scene of `Miss Julie', where he used a split screen of the scene from two different perspectives.  In that film, the technique worked well.  Actually, the technique is not new, as it was used from time to time in the 1960's (`The Thomas Crown Affair' with Steve McQueen jumps immediately to mind).  However, Figgis should be given credit for taking the concept to a new level with an uncut real time shoot, strangely reminiscent of the Steve Martin film, `Bowfinger' where he had actors follow Eddie Murphy's character around in real time, playing scenes with him without his knowledge.The acting is more a tribute to the ensemble cast's improvisational ability than anything else, and in that regard the acting is excellent.  The story is unscripted and the actors improvise around a general framework provided by Figgis.  Given that fact, the scenes went extraordinarily smoothly and whatever magical means Figgis used to cue the actors to stay coordinated, it worked amazingly well.  The cast is comprised of recognizable and talented second tier actors, who normally appear in supporting roles in major films.  The exception is Holly Hunter, who is a bona fide star, but had very little to do in this movie.  The two best performances are given by Salma Hayek and Jeanne Tripplehorn.  Tripplehorn, when she was not sitting around eavesdropping, was explosively good.Figgis, who could never be described as unassuming, throws in a little tribute to himself by having one of the characters pitch a concept to the movie producers that is essentially the movie of which she is a part.  As always, he cast his girlfriend Saffron Burrows in the film, which is becoming his signature much the way `Silent Bob' is Kevin Smith's signature.  Hopefully, they will never break up, or Figgis will need to find a new watermark.Overall, this self-indulgent experiment does some things well, but lacks the minimal production values necessary to make it more than a novelty film.  I rated it a 4/10.  It is an interesting concept that is poorly executed, wasting some good performances by a talented cast.    "},{"Title":"A Wonderful Idea, a Horrible Movie","Date":"6 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Mike Figgis is having fun, and it shows.  He has a brilliant idea, and executes it flawlessly, and has the sense of humor enough to poke fun at the whole thing.  Unfortunatly, while it was fun for him and his performers, it is torture on us.  The plot is weak, the acting (except in a few cases, i.e. Stellan Skarsgård) is over the top and in many cases bad, and frankly, the whole thing is really boring to watch.  You don't care about anybody, because there isn't much of a story to get into it.  A noble failure. "},{"Title":"why?","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  You know, some times an 'idea' has never been done before because it should never be done.  This movie is a perfect example.  Why on earth would anybody think that people want to see a movie split into four quadrants?I mean, I could take a script as bad as this, and film it upside down.  Does that make it good because it is 'daring and original'? "}{"Title":"It Is Time For These Types Of Films","Date":"3 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Imagine seeing four different stories at the same time on screen. Well! My friends! The time has come. This movie concept has been developed in Director Mike Figgis' `Time Code.' Even though it is visionary exhausting, I think it works. Of course, all four stories interrelate with one another in the film's last act (which is something that we see from time to time- `L.A. Confidential' , `Magnolia', and `Short Cuts' etc.) Even though it is not as good as the Figgis' classic `Leaving Las Vegas', I am glad that Director Figgis took the time to make a different type of film. **** Good   "},{"Title":"The capitalistic society we are living in has absorbed all the innovations","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  In an age where top-rated films involve Australians in xenophobic, concocted histories, or should-know-better Oscar winners in films about nicking cars, innovation seems rarely welcome.It comes as no surprise then that the first film to be told via four separate panels on the screen, with continuous 93m takes and improvisation should only be shown on one single screen in the whole of the West Midlands.What did surprise me, however, is that the film isn't that good. It is above average, though is too mainstream to really appeal to the artset, and too arty to interest a mainstream audience. The attention is directed around the four separate panels by virtue of judicious sound editing; dips and fades occurring throughout.Of the four panels, while their fixations may merge or change, generally speaking they take the following form the top two are the serious ones, the upper left seeing Lauren Hathaway (Jeanne Tripplehorn) using surveillance to listen in on her girlfriend's conversations, whom she (correctly) suspects is having an affair. The upper right is the dullest, a meandering affair with the self-absorbed Emma (Saffron Burrows) who goes through counselling and has very little interaction or involvement with the rest of the film.Lower left are the cast-offs, often sharing perspective with its adjacent panels and mostly being used for light relief. Lower right, arguably the most interesting, is centred on a movie production meeting which allows for some industry parodies. These include movies such as Time Toilet, Bitch and a hip-hop Soviet incidental music that offers Can you dig it - Trotsky in da house!I did chuckle at the Asian staff member whose name - Connie Ling - produces sniggers when introduced, though Onyx Richardson's (Golden Brooks) assertion that black people get short shrift in film seems hollow when you consider the only thing her character gets to talk about is her colour, and that she's the only black cast member. The film's lesbian relationships also seem only there for titillation. Lastly, when you meet a character who pitches a film based around four separate panels and continuous takes (dismissed by a committee member as pretentious s***) you realise that this film either isn't as clever as it thinks it is or too clever by half. Without the gimmickry - and it could easily get by with only half of it's four screens - this would be a forgettable 4. Therefore, isn't it a pity that the innovation wasn't applied to a better movie? 6/10.  "},{"Title":"Inventive, but maddening","Date":"22 September 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Films that are discovered through serendipity seem to be the most fun to experience.  I still fondly remember the fateful evening when I went to the Oriental Theater to see Malcolm X and arriving late, so I picked the other film that they were showing simply because I was there and it was starting in ten minutes.  That film being Reservoir Dogs.  So when I saw that Time Code was playing on the Independent Film Channel, I thought that this was a film that a friend overseas recommended to me so I watched it. Unfortunately, this was not the film that he had suggested I see, but it turns out that it was a film that was enjoyable because of its presentation. The plot lines involved in Time Code are fairly simple  We have a husband and wife who are going through tough times, a lesbian couple who are less than trusting of one another and a `day in the life' of a film production company.  The stories intertwine, which is nothing new; the interesting feature is the cinematography.  The screen is divided into four boxes, with one story being told in each - sometimes entering into the other's `space' but always connected in some way.  It is essentially like sitting in a security guard's station and watching four monitors at once. While this is innovative, it is also quite maddening at times because you may be getting into a particular story in one segment of the screen, but you are missing the activity in the other three.  The director circumvents this problem at times by raising the volume in one of the segments during certain moments, but in reality it is pretty much the perfect film for someone with ADD, not someone who wants to sink their teeth into a story, because this film truly does not have a strong enough plot to merit watching it four times in order to get the complete impact of all of the story lines involved. On a positive note, this film had an excellent cast, made up of character actors such as Xander Berkeley, Holly Hunter and Steven Weber.  However, this is a novel film to watch once to see an interesting experiment, but beyond that it left me more frustrated than anything. "},{"Title":"Creative, unique experiment in audacious, bravura filmmaking.","Date":"8 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  `Time Code' is the first film to use the method of split-screen quadrants where four stories, done in real time, unfold onto the screen. And an audacious, refined experience it is. This technique was going to be hit-and-miss. With four stories, you can only watch one at a time, and by focusing on one you may miss some key elements in another story. All are loosely intertwined, some more interesting than others. There is no digital grading/ authentication done to the images, so the film looks perfectly realistic.The sound is emphasised on one of the screens at a time, though sometimes it is hard to differentiate which one. While the stories are perfectly watchable, they aren't invigorating or compelling and are only worthy of a passive attention. The narrative is strong and continued in a series of earthquakes that would rank about a 4 on the Richter scale. This is the first occasion in which I can honestly say that characters get plenty of screen-time (in fact they are in every scene), but barely develop.Case in point is Saffron Burrows whose character is barely ever emphasised upon and we are offered pretty much no guidance as to what's going on in her story. Jeanne Tripplehorn's part is pretty much wasted as 95% of her screen-time is wasted on her simply sitting in her limo, barely even talking. She shows her true colours in the end, but these revelations are made too late in the game to be indispensable. In the third quadrant, there are many big names such as Holly Hunter, Salma Hayek, Julian Sands (`Leaving Las Vegas', `Naked Lunch), Stellan Skargaard (`The Glass House') and Kyle McLachlan. There are solid, subtle performances all round from the ensemble, but the characters themselves are poorly written.Still though, Mike Figgis' avant-garde risque direction is suitably original and proves to be a talent to look out for in the future. While it is an accurate portrayal of high-class Los Angeles, there is an over-emphasis on drug use and lesbianism that compromises the originality of it all. `Time Code' must have been a step away from `impossible' to film. As there were no edits and stories took place in real time as they interwove, there's no telling how many takes they had to execute.If one actor were to forget their line after about 90 minutes, everything would have to start all over again from the top. It's a surprise that the film even finished shooting, but they pulled it off and that deserves admiration.  The movie ends on a sourly climactic moment that may leave a bad taste, but seems perfectly in keeping with Figgis' bravura tone. If you haven't yet seen `Time Code' it's best you know the gist of the plot and sub-plots before watching it, or you'll be absolutely lost from start to finish.One of the most groundbreaking, though not spectacular, movies in recent year, `Time Code' proves to be an intelligent, admirable effort. While this experiment is unlikely to be attempted again, this is the first and undoubtedly the best of its kind. It definitely should have received attention on Oscar night. Curiously enough, the sound effects editing is the film's strongest point. My IMDb rating 7.4/10.  "},{"Title":"Interesting Experimental Film","Date":"6 February 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  What an idea! Use four different cameras to shoot a movie in real-time, simultaneously. Stage the action at a single office building and nearby streets. Each camera has a group of characters to follow as they act out their parts. For 93 minutes, the interwoven stories are filmed with no breaks, as actors sometimes move from one camera's line of sight to another. Just film the events as they unfold. Now here's the kicker. Theatrically show all four films simultaneously by dividing the screen into four quadrants. You watch the movie as it was filmed. The viewer's attention is focused from screen to screen by turning up the volume on one screen, and diminishing the other three. And it works...just don't do it again.  "},{"Title":"Loose the remote!","Date":"12 July 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" As I sat down to watch this movie I was cursing because I couldn't find the remote. Lucky break for me! After a few minutes of uncomfortable misgivings, I mean! 4 screens of hand-held camera with weirdly variable sound - Oh God, what am I watching here? I slowly became hooked and hypnotised. I would suddenly realise that I had been so intent on the top left corner that the situation in the bottom right had changed from an interior with one character to an exterior following another and I hadn't noticed when and how this had happened. If I had the remote I would have been constantly stopping and rewinding and I would have totally destroyed the flow.So, here's the thing thing. If you are watching this movie for the first time on DVD or VHS - loose the remote control! Not a Great Film but an interesting and noble experiment. (And heartening to know there are still some grown-ups left in Hollywood). "},{"Title":"Film school geek gone mad","Date":"25 May 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Too much. Too bad.Screen split into four sections. Some seem connected. Some don't. Woooooooo.It's got the video look. Glassy. Too bright. Too far away or too close. Shaky at times. Woooooooo.The dialogue is hushed in three screens. Loud in one. Loud screen  changes often. Draws your attention. Woooooooo.All this can't cover up the fact that this film is essentially crap. Boring dialogue. Stilted acting. Pointless drivel. Boooooooo.Too much. Way too bad to watch more than a few minutes. "},{"Title":"Cheap gimmick - Horrible story","Date":"25 June 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" OMG this was an absolutely awful movie! The movie puts you in the wrong mood from the very beginning when they start with the upper right camera but keep rolling credits and playing intro music in the other three frames (making it nearly impossible to understand the upper right frame). Then they gradually bring in the other frames one at a time. Once all four frames are on-board you're thinking the movie will pick up and the plot will take shape - never happens. If you're going to do something this daring you should at least have a good story with which to do it. However, this is without a doubt the worst movie I've ever seen (and I've seen some pretty bad movies). Even if the same story was a single screen movie it would also be the worst movie I've ever seen - again the story sucked. The story goes nowhere and there's never a payoff. It's like the producers put this movie together simply for the sake of syncing four frames in a time-code without any concern for the movie being good; either that or they spent so much money on the technical challenge and the brand name actors that they didn't pay for a writer and had a retarded monkey write the script for them. "},{"Title":"A Nutshell Review Timecode","Date":"19 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I've always been intrigued by films that either play itself out in real time, like John Badham's Nick of Time starring Johnny Depp, or films that contain moments of one continuous take, such as the spiraling opening of Brian De Palma's Snake Eyes, or fight action sequences in Tom Yum Goong, and of course, plenty of art house fare that employs the still camera. I can imagine the kind of logistical nightmare the production team has to go through in ensuring a meticulous delivery, otherwise it'll be back from the top all over again.Which was why one of the first films I've decided to have a look at during this year's Hong Kong International Film Festival, was an indie slasher film Cut, which is done in one continuous take for the entire film from start to end. Little can be said of the storyline, but the premise and delivery technique was flawless, that you can't help but to constantly deal with the nagging thought of how things were done, and especially how the stunt team and camera crew got to get out of each other's way constantly.Then thanks to this month's SFS Talkies, I learn of an earlier film, done some 10 years ago by Mike Figgis of Leaving Las Vegas fame, that made Cut look like child's play, and everything else that I had experienced thus far look like a walk in the park. Why? Four simultaneous cameras all shot in synchronization, done in 1 continuous take each, following a myriad of characters in and around a film casting location for the most parts, with characters interacting with one another, and the cameras following different characters when they criss- cross.It's a brilliant technical nightmare. Half the time I was keeping my eyes peeled if a camera crew was found to be in the gunsights of another, but this was not the case. You can imagine the kind of meticulous planning during pre-production to have everything and everyone in sync, and challenging even that preparatory work with a few narrative events like earthquakes to literally shake things up. And having to film everything 15 times in 2 weeks in order to either take the best one (no splicing, no editing here) just boggles the mind, and surely it's an exercise in the technical sense rather than one focused on telling a story in straightforward sense.The story isn't much to behold, granted it was all improvisational based on how the actors decide to get around to the pre-determined markers to get to the end. I suppose it is this freedom that attracted a cast list that happens to be remarkably strong, with an ensemble to include Saffron Burrows, Salma Hayek, Holly Hunter, Kyle MacLachlan, Leslie Mann, Alessandro Nivola, Julian Sands, Sellan Skarsgard and Jeanne Tripplehorn, besides a whole host of others. Characters range from the intense to the comical (Sands' masseuse, Nivola's keyboardist and Hayek's mediocre actress wannabe), which is a good thing to keep the interest and spirits up as the narrative just sprawls all over the place, and what more having 4 scenes simultaneously up on screen.Which provides the viewer with quite the experience in a snapshot of existentialism, and life in general. We see things from our POV in real time at any one time, but we're well aware that during the same time frame, life around us revolves, whether we're participating actively or otherwise. The film provides a curious look at scenes before and after something pivotal, and like our attention span, we can choose to focus on those that interest us and ignore the rest. We have to, we have no choice, given limited cognitive abilities. But here, we're presented with a choice to see everything almost in focus, and at times two or more sections will amalgamate from different angles, especially with some milestone scenes.I was a little apprehensive before the film about how I was able to follow the narrative given that I can't possible filter 4 different audio tracks as much as I like to, but again here's where the director makes decisions to assist us. Certain scenes were played out in an extended format, such as a quiet drive, which allows us to take our attention off a particular quadrant for a while. Or some where characters just laze around in quiet contemplation. Or have to suffer a frustrating wait, such as those involving Tripplehorn. For areas that Figgis wants our attention on, the audio will drift in, and sometimes it's balanced on different speakers, so watch this with a proper sound system set up!For sure this is a film that demands more than one viewing, which allows those amongst us intrigued enough to just focus on one particular quadrant for the entire film, before moving onto another, if one is hardcore enough to do that. And with Everything But The Girl's Single in the soundtrack, I'm sold. "},{"Title":"innovation, but not entertainment","Date":"26 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" in 1948, Alfred Hitchcock released a film that had been created using 8 ten-minute continuous takes. The takes were then 'stitched' together using the camera moving toward a black background so that the film reel could be reloaded and shooting could commence. The result, ROPE, made for an 'interesting' film. i don't believe it did supergreat box-office-wise, but it was an interesting innovation. the film was a bit like a clever play, and it seemed a bit long for its 80 minutes. However, this was Alfred Hitchcock, and the plot line and much of the dialogue kept audiences interested. I mention this earlier film as a comparative to Timecode. Timecode's basic technique is innovative. it's clever, stylish and carries its urban ambiance quite well. However, the technique of dividing the screen into four quadrants, and having our attention (presumably) manipulated to focus on certain sections at certain times, comes off as annoying and gimmicky. it is annoying partly because when the one panel is being auditorally underlined, at least one other panel is still having something important going on, which creates distraction. also, sometimes, perhaps because of the real-time and improvisatory aspects of the film, there isn't always something that interesting going on in one of the panels. I became really tired of watching jeanne tripplehorn listen and smoke. this isn't acting; at least not in a truly cinematic way. it reminded me of off-off Broadway plays in the VIllage or some kind of Andy Warhol film-art-commentary piece. The acting on the whole was fairly good..not overwhelming...the only standouts really were Selma Hayek as Rose, and Stellan Skarsgaard was good as Alex. A lot of the other actors seemed to be playing quirky instead of compelling..it reminded me of some of the actors in SLACKER. of course, in that movie, you were fully able to hear what was going on, and it did move in a calmer linear fashion. also, i don't think Linklater was trying to take his characters half as seriously as Figgis does for this film. Still, i can say that this film is an improvement over The BLAIR WITCH PROJECT. the one common trait both films share is that Mr. Figgis wants us to truly believe and feel for his characters. that is a bit of a challenge in BLAIR where everyone seems overcome with hysteria in what was hyped as a 'real' film about witches. this kind of manipulation doesn't make the viewer trust the director when it comes to his intentions. Overall, an interesting technique. i would be curious to know if it has been used in other modern films. "}{"Title":"Tinseltown Memoirs","Date":"11 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Filmed in one long, unbroken take, with lots of improvised acting and dialogue, this highly experimental film by director Mike Figgis presents a screen that splits the action into four quadrants, formed by the intersection of the X and Y geometric axes. The quadruplicate visuals take some time, pardon the pun, to get use to. But gradually, we settle into the story, as characters move out of one screen and into another.Figgis manipulates the sound to highlight which of the four segments we are to focus on. But I found this approach doesn't always work, as sound from other segments bleed into the main action segment. Further, the film's score is too loud, which compounds the problem. Because of the complex nature of the visuals and sound, Timecode, obviously, is not a film for viewers who wish to turn off their brains.What I really liked about the four screen approach is that it conveys clearly the idea that an individual out of sight from others can have an impact on the overall trend of group thinking and behavior. Our words and actions thus affect others more than we realize. This impact doesn't come through as well in standard filming because the plot action takes place sequentially rather than concurrently.Although this is a technique film, it's the story and the characters that I reacted to most forcefully. The setting is Hollywood. The characters are all in the film business. The plot has people preparing for auditions, executives discussing scripts, people walking through offices carrying papers, and one character, Lauren (Jeanne Tripplehorn), spending most of the film sitting in a limousine, chain smoking, and listening to a Walkman.None of these people are appealing or sympathetic. They all come across as self-absorbed, desperate, two-faced, shallow, and pretentious. The irony here is that while the story is fictional, the plot and characters represent fairly accurately what does, in real-life, go on in Tinseltown.What would have been more compelling is a documentary approach, using real people in the film business, as they spend a typical afternoon doing business and interacting with others. The fictional nature of the Timecode story undercuts the visually experimental, real-time presentation.As a total cinematic package, Timecode doesn't work very well. But at least Figgis tried. We need more efforts like this that explore unusual ideas, both in technique and in story concept, to foster originality, creativity, uniqueness, and courage, in a contemporary Hollywood that has ossified into an assembly line of vacuous, copycat, cinematic trash. "},{"Title":"Chamber Music As Film","Date":"27 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" TIMECODE is a groundbreaking film by director, Mike Figgis. The movie consists of four interrelated stories which are viewed simultaneously on four different quadrants of the screen. What is most surprising about the experience is that it is much easier to absorb and understand than you might think. The focal point of this wry, black comedy centers on the offices of a film studio on Sunset Boulevard. A film is being cast, an executive meeting in underway, a limo is waiting just outside, and a montage of street activity is observed. Watching the film is similar to viewing a live performance of a string quartet. As with a musical performance, your attention shifts from one player to another without ever losing the feel or direction of the piece. The actors improvised characters and story lines, evolving and building as they went along, and Figgis's role was more of a conductor than a film director. Each of the four stories was shot in a single take beginning at 11am each day, and lasting for ninety minutes. All the four stories contain interesting performances from a stellar cast, and the soundtrack was especially inventive and supportive. TIMECODE is not a great film, but it succeeds in that it demonstrates the viability of an off-beat and creative presentation. "},{"Title":"Genius","Date":"25 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Man I am one that hates the modern day overuse of that word. But this ladies and gentleman is exactly that.Moreso than anything else this is on an entirely different level conceptually I've ever seen. This can be easily evidenced by the fact that there is no spawn of this movie. Someone's making blair witch project spawn right now as we speak.But its now 8 years later... no one's copying this for one reason. THEY COULDN'T IF THEY TRIED!!! Pick on Ms. Hayek all you want, but I enjoyed the acting. It just felt like I was watching people living their lives. Man that's all its about creating an reality on screen to tell your story. And this in fact wasn't that 3 act tale well all love, but equally brilliant. "},{"Title":"Timecode","Date":"1 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I have always wondered if there was a film where it is basically one long take with no written lines, no cuts and no editing at all, and this experimental film drama from director Mike Figgis (Leaving Las Vegas) is exactly what I was looking for, in terms of freshness. The film consists of four frames simultaneously showing four different stories in real time, and once or twice meeting each other, and to help you know which of the four frames to look at there is a good use of sound cuts and bridges, and a little bit of music (by Figgis). The action all seems to lead to or from a (TV/film) studio where many members of cast and crew are going/come from, and the actors of course improvise every single line, and when they are not talking you concentrate on the frame that has sound. Starring Terminator 2's Xander Berkeley as Evan Wantz, Pirates of the Caribbean's Stellan Skarsgård as Alex Green, Golden Brooks as Onyx Richardson, Saffron Burrows as Emma, Super Mario Bros' Richard Edson as Lester Moore, Salma Hayek as Rose, Holly Hunter as Renee Fishbine, Executive; Danny Huston (son of John, and half-brother of Angelica) as Randy, Kyle MacLachlan as Bunny Drysdale, George of the Jungle's Leslie Mann as Cherine, Jurassic Park III's Alessandro Nivola as Joey Z, Ana's Assistant; Basic Instinct's Jeanne Tripplehorn as Lauren Hathaway and Dracula Dead and Loving It's Steven Weber as Darren Fetzer. Apparently 15 takes of continuous filming were made over two weeks, the actors changed their clothes in each one so that they could not cheat in editing, and the actors were responsible for their own costume, hair and make-up. It may strain our eyes a little, and it may take you a few seconds to realise the frame you are supposed to be focusing at a particular time, but a very original and refreshing way of film-making. Very good! "},{"Title":"How many brains do you have?","Date":"21 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" When split-screen cinema first became possible in the 1960s, it also became fashionable, with movies such as the original 'Thomas Crowne Affair' using it to prove just quite how hip and cool they were. But non-one, surely, has ever constructed a film as boldly as Mike Figgis has 'Timecode', a movie in which the narrative is told in four separate panels at all times. And it's not enough to concentrate on just one either there's always something of note going on in at least two panels (and which two varies continuously), which kind of begs the question, just how much of your brain to do you use when watching a conventional movie? Or alternatively, how many brains do you have? Certainly, watching 'Timecode' is never a relaxing experience, but Figgis does some things to make our lives easier with the remarkable soundtrack, for example (the director even composed some of the songs on it) and the way that the aural focus shifts between the segments; or the fact that each segment is shot without any cutting. In some ways, this latter fact is the most surprising of the movie who can make a movie without cutting? and yet, in pulling this off, Figgis actually comes some way towards the justification of his wider structure. For telling four stories at once brings sufficient (OK, maybe excessive) busyness to allow each story to be told in real time, often a holy grail of drama but rarely achievable (unless you want Jack Bauer ridiculousness or 'Big Brother' tedium). But aside from the structure, is it worth watching? This is a harder question to answer, it's very hard to put the form of the movie out of your mind when watching it, but I was moved in the end. And while the film may have been simply too extraordinary to set any trends, it deserves much credit for its unique blend of audaciousness and skill. "},{"Title":"Not that great traditionally but successful on its own terms and worth seeing for its novelty value","Date":"30 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" While Alex is dodging the morning team meeting for his fledgling film production company, his team are complaining about his attitude and time keeping. Meanwhile on a cab drive, upcoming actress Rose is sharing a limo with lover Lauren, who is confronting her on her suspected infidelity. Meanwhile Alex's wife Emma sees her shrink to discuss dreams and issues within her life. Meanwhile the security guard and receptionist greet those coming to audition for parts and pitch scripts.Those looking for a night in to just veg out and half-watch a movie should probably bail out as the opening titles roll because this is not a film to provide you with the type of entertainment where you can just not pay attention for time. The film has a very disjointed narrative following a collection of characters and it is the type of story that would have been well delivered in a Short Cuts style approach. It isn't perfect but it is interesting enough and has plenty of stuff going on within the script. Ironically the split screen, real time approach (gimmick?) make it selective viewing but also worth a wide audience seeing. It takes a minute to get into the stride of the film and pick up the threads . Specific frames have their volume raised to be audible above the others and this tends to work very well while visually I was still following each frame. While it is fair to call it a gimmick it does make the film worth seeing simply because it is so original an idea (at least as far as I am aware). It does have boring patches and it is certainly not a brilliant film in the traditional sense (the dramatic resolution didn't convince or engage me) but the gimmick does make it worth seeing.Technically the film is impressive because of the long takes and the way the action moves between cameras/frames in a seamless and it comes off really well. The cast are pretty impressive on paper and you can see why they were all drawn to this challenging experiment. With the nature of the film nobody is really given the opportunity to dominate but considering the difficulty of keeping going with four cameras doing single takes it is impressive that nobody messes up. Burrows wasn't all I would have liked but main turns from Skarsgård, Tripplehorn and Hayek were all good in their characters. The support cast is also strong with solid work from Berkeley, Brooks, Hunter, Huston, MacLachlan, Sands and others.Overall then not a great film but one that is successful on its own terms. The story is engaging even if it becomes forced towards the end but the delivery is the main reason for seeing it. The cast work well with the challenge of working in one take but it is the direction that is more impressive as four cameras work really well together on the one take and it is hard not to be taken in by it on this level. Not great in the traditional sense but well worth seeing for what it does. "},{"Title":"cinema becomes video game","Date":"27 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Students of media should definitely take a look at Timecode.Is it great cinema according to conventional production values? Heck no. If you want a good story sumptuously told, go watch Gone with the Wind or something like that.Is it something new? Yes! It is a very interesting experiment that points to the future of movie-making / visual storytelling / video games with plots. I'm rating it 10 for this originality.There's a complex story -- many IMDb commentators have said there are four different stories, but I disagree -- that is performed and shot improvisationally. (The other big one-take real-time film, Russian Ark (2002), was not improvised, but carefully scripted.) There are four synchronized hand-held DV cameras following the characters around. We viewers get to see what all four camera operators saw, synchronized down to the frame, on a four-way split screen. We get to see all the nasty color-balance and focus glitches on the cameras as they move from indoors to out, and close shots to wide.We get to hear what the sound editor chose for us in post. However, the DVD has an extra feature letting the viewer choose which camera's sound to listen to.It points to the future of visual storytelling because it conceives of the film's story as unfolding continuously and unpredictably in a very large space in hard real time. The cameras roam around the space observing the story. They are very much like the over-the-shoulder viewpoint feature available in many first-person style video games. Both the camera shots and the actors' movements and speeches are improvised.It is all a bit self-referential, in the way that The Player (1992) was. Near the end of the movie the pretentious character called Ana does a pitch basically for this same movie. (Note that The Player itself begins with a very long take, rigorously scripted.) The film is named for the technology that permits the four-camera synchronization. In 50 years the name will seem as quaint as a film named Sprocket-hole might seem now.Timecode is worth watching for the amazing way it conceives of and presents its story. I know there will be more releases (with tighter stories about something other than the movie business) like this coming out, but I believe they will be packaged as video games rather than as cinema. "},{"Title":"Interesting Experiment in Opening Up Time and Space","Date":"8 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Time Code is an interesting experiment, kind of the World's Fair-type go-go movies as Purple Rose of Cairo done as an improv.With four related quadrants going at all times, I frequently was on sensory overload and had to tune out.While the improv aspects of goofing on the superficiality of what goes into making a movie were a bit precious, what was intriguing was the experiment with the opposite of opening up the fourth wall by in effect opening up the other three walls.In another step from the circular story-telling of Pulp Fiction and Go we literally see what happens before a character enters a room and where they go when they leave (whether or not that's interesting). It's one way to make a point that everyone in Hollywood is a hypocrite.(originally written 5/29/2000) "},{"Title":"Innovating but exhausting.","Date":"20 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I saw Timecode the other night on TV, it peaked my interest, I didn't know nothing about it and at first I thought it was a reality show and it that sense, as a reality show maybe it could have worked follow 4 interweaved story lines at the same time but the difference in reality TV and movies is unpredictabillity Vs quality & production, so what does that leave Timecode with? um... Salma Hayek!?? You have to give props to the director for the labor it must have been to shoot his stories in real time, with long continuous shots and still make them criss cross with each other, the preparations for this movie must have been done extensively, considering this, we can't really complain about lighting and camera movements. If we see it for a couple of minutes it can get intriguing, but more because of the gimmick, and since the format never changes, it gets tedious, this works on a music video level like with the Orbital video for The Saint or maybe Michel Gondry's twopanel puzzle for Cibo Mattos Sugar Water, now thats innovating and the look is much, much, much better. 24 employs the same gimmick, but doesn't stick to it the whole friggin' time and besides, that show is really well scripted to begin with.So in conclusion, I was intrigued for the first couple of minutes, got tired but tried to follow the story, but then it got unnecessary and got bored and even a little irritated.4 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Wow","Date":"10 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I am well aware that many people will hate this film. Many will switch off or walk out in the first half hour. Many more will dismiss it without seeing a single frame. But these people will be missing out on some of the most innovative and refreshing film-making I've seen in a long time. Granted it does regularly tread dangerously close to 'pretentious piece o' sh^t', but I felt that it still remained compelling and powerful. As with all good pieces of art it polarizes opinions all I'd like for anyone reading this to do is simply give it a chance. Who knows, you might actually love it.  "}{"Title":"Is it over yet?","Date":"27 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"        I think Timecode is a fraud.  The reaction, I imagine, I'm supposed to have is to applaud Mike Figgis for his daring to make something different than the usual Hollywood tripe and lightly criticize the film's all-too-inherent, all-too-obvious flaws.  In truth, I don't think he's done anything more significant than Andy Warhol or anyone else who owns a digicam.      As anyone who watches the men's NCAA basketball tournament will tell you, putting anything on split-screen or four-way simply doesn't work.  There's no way to focus on any particular aspect of what you're watching.  Figgis tries to navigate the problem by raising the volume of one quadrant above the others, but there's still a lot of audio interference and different sequences seem to be fighting each other for attention.        It's mostly ad-libbed, but Figgis doesn't give you a compelling story to keep you riveted.  It all just wanders; after 20 minutes, I couldn't pay attention anymore.  Then at that point, I start wondering about the show-biz aspects of this venture.  If Figgis had a worthwhile structure to work from, wouldn't he just film it straight?  Since the star of the film is obviously the gimmick of the four-way screen and there's no way to detect the subtlety or nuance of a well-crafted performance, why do you need high-priced actors like Holly Hunter or Jeanne Tripplehorn or Salma Hayek?  Does Salma Hayek need the picture?  Couldn't this have done with cheaper talent and maybe give a talented newcomer a break? (although it would be a laugh if anybody made it out of this mess) I was able to grab on to a few good moments (the videotaping of the bleeding man, the suggestion of a TV series called Time Toilet), but a few moments does not a motion picture make.      There's a bit of business toward the end where a young woman artist is put down for her pretentiousness, then complemented on her talent and intelligence.  I assume this is Figgis commenting on himself in a transparently self-serving way (the critic is later shot).  But Figgis is a tough nut to crack; he wants approval for being unconventional, but the approval itself is a display of conventionality.  Well, I think this movie stinks, and I know Figgis will respect me for MY unconventionality.  1 * out of 4     "},{"Title":"A unique and seminal film","Date":"22 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film deserves to stand alongside the great 'Man with the Movie Camera' in what it has done to the world of editing.  But this film is more than just a mind blowing film experiment where four separate stories were shot simultaneously and subsequently are shown in parrallel to each other through the use of split screen.  This is a gripping movie with each story proving to be as tense and suspenseful as the next.  The characters are all so rich in personality and their personal dramas.  And because Figgis doesn't skip on attention to detail, he provides the audience with a quality of film-making that rarely graces our screens and multiplies it by four.  The unsung hero is the sound.  The sexy jazz soundtrack is fantastic whilst Figgis uses the levels of sound to guide the audience towards the development of each story and so what may be complicated upon first impression becomes a logical and intense journey through the disturbed lives of the film's characters.This is brilliant film that all film lovers must see and definately not try to imitate.  Split screens isn't just fancy editing.  As Figgis has proved - it's another form of storytelling! "},{"Title":"Very Impressive Experiment","Date":"19 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film will not appeal to everyone.  It is very much an experimental film.  As you probably already know, this was shot on four digital video cameras, in unbroken ninety-minute takes, the actors mostly improvised their dialogue and each take is shown simultaneously on a screen divided into four quarters.  When I saw this film I have to say, I didn't expect it to be any good at all.  Mainly, I thought that the four-way split screen would be at best distracting.  In fact, I found the film to be fairly accessible.  The split screen is, at first, very confusing, but you soon get used to it (although, even then it can be a little overwhelming at times).The cast carry off their parts very well, and you can't help but admire the production, even though the storyline is so slim as to be virtually non-existent.A film more to be admired than enjoyed, but it is still worth seeing for anyone who likes independent or experimental cinema. "},{"Title":"its innovative and interesting well worth it","Date":"11 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I have to disagree with all the its boring comments on these pages, i thought this film was a fascinating and indeed the points where the frames intersected are genious. have the people who slated this film for being improvised really considered quite how difficult it would be to shoot 4 simultaneous 95 minute takes, which intersect at preset times, without the cameras crossing into each others field of vision and without the actors fluffing their lines. this is a technical feat which must be applauded.secondly i thought the story was brilliantly told, or rather i should say absorbed. a quick glance to the next frame invariably fills you in on whats going on in that story without so much as a word to explain it, thats skilfull. those who critiscise the lack of story are missing the point, how could you possibly follow four intricate plot lines at the same time, you should just sit back and absord the day in the life.When this movie is as its frenetic best it rivals even Altman's talent to create a clutter of chatter and activity and anyone who is familiar with this altman trademark will appreciate this film.The total lack of edits in this film  really brought it off the screen for me, despite the very visible static nature of the screen i felt involved and passionate, thats all anyone can ask.highly recomended "},{"Title":"cinema is not just about telling a story","Date":"25 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I just wanted to give some justice to this film, since the only review I found on this page starts from a misunderstanding of cinema in itself. cinema is not mainly about telling a story, otherwise it would be the same as theatre or literature. cinema is the way of representing it. I agree with the fact that the story, here, is almost absent, but focusing on this is, I'm sorry to say this, dull. cinema can be an art, and in order to do this it is allowed to challenge its own structure, that is precisely what mike figgis tries to do. he shoots the four films, with four 95 minutes takes. this was not possible at the time when hitchcok tried it, because the only way to do it is by using a specific kind of digital camera. claiming that someone else had this idea before in this way is like saying the the first man on the moon was nothing special, because verne had already written about it. anyway, figgis' interest was to show different perspectives of the same image, more than of the same story. he is also deliberately trying to do without the 3 acts structure. he is, to sum up with, trying to play with the language of cinema. it is time to stop thinking only about the narration of a story or in terms of who did it first?.   "},{"Title":"Sucks you in... shoots you out.","Date":"9 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is a film i've wanted to see for a very long time. I missed it in the theaters back in 99' and was heavily interested in seeing it after that but found a hard time finding it in my local video store. When IFC played it, I was pleased I was having an at-home night.Timecode is exactly what you expect it to be, four cameras all playing all at once. A four-way splitscreen with sound alternating between the different sequences. However, there is just enough action for you to switch over to the dialog screen or decide to stay with the facial expressions of the last audio screen. The film actually blew me away and Salma Hayek is amazing in this film. In fact, everyone is amazing in this film. They fit their parts perfectly.The film is essentially the story of making a film in hollywood. So there's coke, cigarettes, booze and sex. Its everything you'll expect it to be and more. The film's addictive and a great experience. It sucked me in and I stood with it the whole time. That to me is deserving of 10 stars. Great idea turned into a great film. So if you like concept films and indie films, see it, love it, and thats all i have to say about that.  "},{"Title":"Intelligent, subtle, ironic, scathing","Date":"28 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film is like a Shakespeare play, takes about 15 minutes before the language (in this case a filmic multi-screen syntax) is no longer an effort.  The sheer logistics of 90 minutes of improvised real time script, brilliantly executed by the entire cast, makes this one of most important major release avant garde efforts ever.  This is a film maker's film, relying on it's flawless technical innovation to carry the interweaving dramatic structures beyond puzzle solving and into dramatic urgency.  The subtleties of the conjured dialogs and their meshing into a woven whole are a tour de force of commentary as well as continuity, raking deep across the banal face of   of Hollywood's inherent existential predispositions, attitudinal leitmotivs and pop neuroses.Yah, we can walk and chew gum, and following 4 dramatic themes on 4 screens takes perception into the realm of conscious multi-processing, a  possibly necessary skill set in the age of simultaneous media feeds.  I think I'll put all the TV's in the house together and paddle out into the whitewater.Walter Alter "},{"Title":"Digital filming In movies soon celular film will be gone.","Date":"3 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Although it failed there have been Cops and some other things filmed in digital then sooner or later celar film will disapear and digital filming will be the only thing needed. Although it didn't make an Oscar at least it made something of it. I liked it enough that I bought it. It wasn't true reality but it did show that would have ben better to go two frame instead four frame screen then it might have better.  "},{"Title":"Must-see for any lover of films as an art","Date":"3 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  When I read how this film was shot, I couldn't believe it 4 continuous shots (no cuts), interacting between the shots, and this over 90 minutes (the length of the video cartridge). I wondered how this would be possible to manage It was only possible with a lot of impromptu acting and directing, and a almost perfect timing. I also wondered how the viewer should be able to follow. Follow each plot in each screen? At the same time? Is this possible?In this film it is. Be it on purpose or not, one flows through the movie, the plot is not of greater interest, one is led by movement in the screens or by the music and the voices of the actors that come into the foreground when the plot develops in one screen, or go into the background when the plot pauses. The Babylon of voices and the different plots create a very REAL athmosphere - one enjoys the film almost naturally.If there were not the last 20 minutes. Suddenly the developing drama comes into the focus, and the natural rhythm of the film vanishes - the perfect timing as well. At the same time the idea of producing this film is mirrored in it, which was a stupid idea in my eyes - the end is almost ridiculous. Nonetheless I can only recommend it. If you have the chance to see it on the big screen, watch it - video is a waste of time. "},{"Title":"Very Interesting","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I found that this film captured me and bored me at the same time. The idea of four continuous shots all going at the same time sounds head spinning, but I found that it wasn't all that bad. The fact that it is one continuous shot, however, makes the film seem like hours rather than a mere hour and a half. The most entertaining part about it, I thought, was the struggling director who only has a limited time to find a part for the main character of his erotic film. His utter frustration was enough to make me chuckle. All in all, Timecode is a swell movie. I think it's a good rent for a lazy Saturday afternoon. "}{"Title":"Not categorisable, just be prepared","Date":"25 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I saw this film at the Dendy, an arthouse cinema.  Arthouse it is film for film's sake, not made for dollars, pounds, deutschmarks or anything like that.  It was a rather original movie (even if the technique has been used since the 60s).The plot has an interesting web of characters.  There is film producer Alex (Stellan Skarsgard), his wife Emma (Saffron Burrows), his lover Rose (Salma Hayek) and her lesbian lover Lauren (Jeanne Tripplehorn) and many others. It is impossible to display them all on a single-screen movie and still be a nice regular length of time. Nor could the viewer get involved.So therefore, director Mike Figgis shot all four screens on a single take. And there is no way anybody could have possibly supplied a script for it as the screens are then synchronised (this is where the movie's title comes from--the Timecode is the time displayed on the tapes).  And no, the film isn't all that complex to watch--the dialogue moves from screen to screenAnd so it is rather incomparable to other films.  In it's own right, it is a good movie (although it could have been done better).However, I was rather prepared for what this movie was--through the articles and a film poster I had taken from a local theatre.  If you are unprepared, then you may not like it as much as I did. "},{"Title":"Clever concept, but weak execution","Date":"14 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The concept of having a movie take place in real time is not new, nor is the idea of showing simultaneous action via split screen.  Earlier reviewers have mentioned ROPE and A THOMAS CROWN AFFAIR as films which do these things.  The idea of doing the simultaneous shoots is new, however, and there are some ways in which it works.  The overall effect, however, gets very tiring; this might have worked better as a 60 minute project than a 97 minute one, though the former would be perhaps regarded as not giving audiences their money's worth.I think I would have liked the movie much better if it were produced somewhat more deliberately.  Stage theatrical performances run two hours and up without cuts or retakes, but are well-scripted and rehearsed.  Had the script been worked out in more detail, it would have been possible to have simultaneous interesting action in multiple panels without them distracting from each other (see the phone call scene in WHEN HARRY MET SALLY).  Even if the final production were done as four separate uninterrupted takes, the movie would have benefitted considerably from staging scenes separately initially and editing a working-print to tweak the timings for everything.There is much that's neat about this movie.  I think if there'd been a real script and inter-panel coordination beyond time for another pointless earthquake it might have really been excellent.  Unfortunately, having people do fifteen improvised run-throughs is no substitute for having a real screenplay, and the camera work was in many places just plain bad.  On the first version this would have been fully excusable, given that there would have been no opportunity to set up shots nor reshoot places that were out of focus, poorly lit, etc.  By number fifteen, though, the camera operators should have been able to do things better than they in fact did.BTW, on my Aiwa DVD player, changing audio panes is quirky changes to the audio selection don't take effect until one uses 2x forward or reverse and then resumes normal-speed playback.  Anyone who has trouble changing the audio should try that.  Also, in case the DVD is ever re-released there are two things I'd like to see improved (1) add subtitles, and (2) allow selection of the release soundtrack when in interactive mode. "},{"Title":"Lip Locks","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It was an interesting experiment, as well as entertaining.  I saw it on my tiny t.v. screen, where it was all scrunched together, so I wish I had seen it in the theater.  Mainly, any movie that has Salma Hayek and Jeanne Tripplehorn making out in the first 15 minutes gets my immediate recommendation.  "},{"Title":"The first - but certainly not the last - of a kind.","Date":"26 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The plot is incidental in this post-post-modern, post-new-media foray, which will score near the top of the scale for cineastes (and, perhaps in greater numbers, cineastes manqué) but may be too intellectual for spending Saturday night with a loved one in front of telly if cuddling's on your mind. Director Mike Figgis had a performance piece in mind when he envisioned using four high-definition video cameras to shoot four continuous component stories at the same time, that, unedited and projected simultaneously, comprise the movie's narrative. Literally and figuratively, he ended up in Hollywood, with a mix of actors, some known and some not, who collectively improvised the story and their parts, and then ran through the exercise on tape fifteen times, at which point Figgis cried 'hold, enough' and declared the film done. In addition to the theatrically released fifteenth run-through, the DVD contains the first version, as well as some other interactive tools that will help Timecode aficionados quench any thirst the film engenders in them. The first - but certainly not the last - of a kind.  "},{"Title":"So easy to miss and misinterpret","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Unlike others in this space who complain about Timecode's lack of plot, I felt there was a bit of an excess. After all, this is real-time. Just how many memorable things can occur in 90 or so minutes of any life? Like experiencing any other artistic endeavor, the solution to the puzzle is in trying to understand the vessel as much as its content.I find this DVD to be the most re-watchable in my collection. I'm sorry there were so many viewers who felt cheated, and hope they'll try again, because they were looking in the wrong places.There's an awful lot to be found, especially on the additional material provided on the DVD. And by all means, if you are the slightest bit musical, you'll really enjoy getting inside Figgis' head a bit. The differences in Take 1 and Take 15 are extraordinary and show how a fertile, organic process can cause a magnificent metamorphosis. I'd compare Figgis' method to the Dogme movement for its innovation and disruption of boundaries. Again, there's a lot to enjoy, but it just isn't plopped in your lap. Another one not for the feint of smart. "},{"Title":"pretentious crap.","Date":"19 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  When talking about a film such as Time Code there really are two distinct approaches.  The first being the basic did you like it?  For the most part, I did.  I found the format challenging and many of the scenes down right funny.  The patently self referential give and take between Mía Maestro and Xander Berkeley as her character pitches a film concept identical to the movie's structure is hysterical.  Yet this and a few other scenes do not elevate what is otherwise a mundane story.  Any chance the actors have to add depth to their characters is compromised by the format.  The split screen requires the audio to shift reducing the actors to pantomime throughout the film. After all, silent films fell by the wayside for a reason and while many of the emotions are fully communicated through body language and facial expressions they are done so in their most basic forms.  As a result, the film's characters can be described as little more than the drug addled producer, the jilted lover, the conniving femme fatal, the pretentious artist and so forth.  The second approach is the format itself.  What Figgis is able to do here is stuff a student project with talented actors rather than other grad students and the man off the street. Thus, I applaud Time Code more for the effort than the results.  It is refreshing to see a director of Figgis's status release such a film.  While many fall prey to bigger budget bombs and sacrifice their creativity to CGI, wardrobe, and the star de jour, Figgis goes the opposite direction.  The film is not pretty, nor does it challenge Renoir for innovation, yet I think it is safe to say that Figgis wasn't trying to.  What he accomplished was noble experiment that stands as something to be built upon. "},{"Title":"Very original and captivating!","Date":"13 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is one of those reasons why people go to the movies to begin with. It inspires me to be a moviemaker even though I am not as I was watching it; and that folks... says a lot about the movie.I gave it a very high mark on the basis on originality and technicality. The way that each quadrant fluidly moves with characters and the way it transitions from one quadrant to another... it's just classic and in addition to the fact that it was done without edit, it is a monumental achievement! "},{"Title":"Best movie I have ever seen...","Date":"11 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is excellent in so many ways. It is not only an original story line it is the most original form of film making, like, ever.It is a little confusing, but only when one character in one box is talking then you hear the talking from another box just so faintly because you're trying to hear both of them etc... but it was an excellent, great, marvellous film and should be seen by everyone. Trust me.(There may be tiny spoilers in the next paragraph)Not only is it a good film it has a great cast. Selma Heyak, Jeanne Tripplehorn, Saffron Burrows, Stellan Skarsgard, Holly Hunter and even Kyle McLachlan... just to name a few. Jeanne Tripplehorn spends 3/4 of the movie sitting in a limosine spying on Selma Heyak, crying and stuff because she just found out Selma's cheating on her with a man. So she doesn't do much, but when she is involved in the thrilling conclusion... she is great.And it's also in real time, with no scene cuts (or basically no editting) and it's all improvasion (sp?). All the actors are given the story line and the kind of stuff they have to say and do but they make up all the dialogue and actions and stuff. And then every now and then they throw an earthquake into it. And the earthquake scenes alone are brilliant!But yeah, this movie is the best movie I've ever seen and I advise you to see it.MY GRADE A+ "},{"Title":"Right here.  Right now","Date":"19 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Phew.  What a movie milestone.  The plot may be forgettable, but the technology, the logistics, were frightening!If Timecode is new to you let me explain that this film was shot in four simultaneous continuous takes and projected as four contemporary quadrants.  And it was breathtaking.  To watch a car leave the top left story line and appear in amongst the bottom right dialogue was riveting.  To worry as a character crosses the street and away from camera, only for them to come together again just in time for close shot lines was a feat worthy of spontaneous applause.  Brilliant.  You had to be there!Ron (Viewed 31Aug00) "},{"Title":"An awesome accomplishment","Date":"13 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  If someone said they wanted to try this shooting a film in one take with 4 simultaneous and removed yet synchronous scenes AND that the viewer would not only be able to watch but to understand as well,  well, it seems impossible. Yet, here it is, brilliantly executed. "}{"Title":"Pretentious, but then again...not really","Date":"5 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  When this film first started I was VERY worried that I would have a lot of trouble dealing with 4 cameras at the same time, although I did not when I went to rent it.  I think this is clearly an example of Figgis' skill as a director.  Whether you think it is a look what I can do film or not, one cannot take away from the accomplishment that it is.     This is not an easy task to take upon as a director, and I think the continuity of the film, and its everydayness is what makes it so intriguing.  By filming in the course of only one day, and allowing the actors to improvise, the realness of Timecode is quite evident, for the majority of the film.  One could argue that the end is cliched, but it is a film, and in it's own context it works.  Definitely not something for the mainstream film goer, and one that might be looked upon as pretentious by overly cynical and critical avant-garde film buffs.  But I think that there is NO WAY that anyone could undertake a project like this without receiving this label from critics (which is why I suspect they address it in the movie), and if you really think about it, would that be a fair assessment? "},{"Title":"More a Look What I Can Do Than a Cohesive Film","Date":"27 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Do Not See Timecode On Video. There's really no point. Seeing it on DVD may actually be a good idea and seeing it in the theatre is ideal, but trying to watch Mike Figgis's experimental splitscreen effort on a tiny TV (21 inches in my case) is like those artists who paint still lifes on a grain of rice Well, sure you can do it, but the big canvas makes a lot more sense. For art, I mean. And probably at its heart, Timecode is art. And I guess it had better be, because certainly nobody is going to see this film for the writing, acting, or plot.With Timecode, the medium basically is the message. If you pay attention to what's going on, there's a pretty simple Hollywood plot There's a lesbian couple (Selma Hayek and Jeanne Tripplehorn), a Hollywood producer (Stellan Skarsgarde), his girlfriend (Saffron Burrows), and a variety of hangers on. There are four earthquakes and any number of emotional revelations and if you're watching everything that's going on, you're probably missing what's really going on with the film.Timecode is about the experiment. It's about Mike Figgis shooting on digital video and shooting four different actions, nonstop, for 93 minutes. The cameras follow the characters, intertwine, swoop, and swivel, but they never cut away. It's all real time. The dialogue was apparently largely improvised out of extensive rehearsal.When the message of the film comes up, director Figgis makes sure that you get the point.  The two lower quadrants feature the same image -- a precocious filmmaker lecturing a group of genre-addicted producers on the New Cinema. It's every bit the creative manifesto. She mentions the cinema of Eisenstein and Vertov, a cinema in which the world was created through montage, through the associative and dialectic meanings of different images, edited together. Shooting on film mandated at least some measure of montage, of construction of the natural world. Her project is to basically do what Timecode does -- show the world with an unblinking eye. Film, by its very shuttered nature is always blinking, while digital video allows for an unwavering gaze.It's silly, then, that Figgis sacrifices the attempt to show a truthful world on a story composed entirely of artifice and convention. I suspect that he recognized this irony and played into it, but it still... The characters and situations are entirely stock. The film's sexual attitudes are regressive at best and its treatment of women is generally flawed. Figgis in general had always had troubles depicting women (even Elisabeth Shue's hooker-with-a-heart-of-whatever from Leaving Las Vegas is extremely problematic), though.So that just leaves one viewing Timecode as a way of saying old things in a new way. And as such it's fairly exciting. Sure, you could spent the entire 93 minutes wondering why nothing of any interest is happening in the upper right square. But why bother? Watching the pieces come together is amusing and watching Figgis develope themes of voyeurism that comment on the characters and on cinema itself is a theoretical hoot.But will Timecode appeal to anybody not thinking about advanced studies in film theory or technique? I'm not sure. The cast is filled with familiar faces but while Timecode will always look cool on their resumes, none of the actors really do their best work. There isn't a single performance that seems entirely comfortable and some are genuinely brittle. Some of the commentary on Hollywood is very funny and true, but none of it is on the level of The Player or even Swimming With Sharks, so that's not a total recommendation.For people who want to delve into film theory and process and history, Timecode is certainly worth a look. While on my TV the actors looked a little like dots, but on the big screen, the film probably has even more interest. In that spirit, I'd give this one a 7/10. "},{"Title":"forever!","Date":"25 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Viva Figgis!!!It wasn't until I got my hands on the DVD of Timecode that this extraordinary work truely came together (and stays with me). Not that I wasn't impressed on its theatrical release, however trapped it felt then by the confines of a traditional context of cinematic exhibition. No surprise no one much caught it. As Figgis himself discusses on the disc's commentary tracks this is an evolutionary process, progressing with changes, always different, in the moment, as jazz is, at the core an infinite opportunity for chance ... Too bad the ensemble had to stop at #15.  "},{"Title":"Fun Film Voyeurism 101","Date":"25 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I had a great deal of fun with this video. I rented in on VHS, and am now buying it (DVD for the soundtrack control). I watched the film twice over, and caught so many more things the second time than the first. The first part of the viewing you spend trying to figure out how all these characters connect to each other, and then you relax into the flow of them popping in and out of various corners of the screen. Amazing timing ...just Amazing timing for one-take. Julian Sands' entire purpose in the film seems to be to distract the other actors and see if they get lost. This makes his background-character entertaining. I found myself backing the film up several times in certain places because as I was paying attension one thing, I suddenly realized the scene was slowly changing in another corner and I was like wait a minute...what's happening over _there_..?. Over-all, the four simultanious corners of action are not that hard to follow. Mike Figgis uses sound to take you every place you need to go to figure out what is happening. I found the performances of Jeanne Tripplehorn and Saffron Burrows particulary well done. Both are on screen through most of the film and keep up character perfectly.   Not a film for people who do not like to use their mind while watching. Mike Figgis does not spoon-feed his viewers (thank you). All in all very inventive and well done !  "},{"Title":"This is the way forward for filmmaking..","Date":"18 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  One of the best, most innovative films of recent years. This takes cinema and filmmaking to a whole new level. It's what cinema was invented for. The experience of this film is unlike any other due to the flawless technique Mike Figgis uses of splitting the screen into four quadrants and using hand held digital cameras to film in continuous takes. It centres on a fictitious production company and is character driven as we watch the intertwining lives of Hollywood executives and would-be actresses. The script, being improvised, makes the actors work hard and it's a masterstroke of casting for each and everyone pulls it off seamlessly. Jeanne Tripplehorn has never been better, why doesn't someone give this woman a decent script? because this film proves she is an actress of high calibre. And Holly Hunter in a surprising detour from her usual screen persona, plays a timid emotionally wrought executive which is a definite career highlight.With great humour Mike Figgis never loses sight that this is an experimental film up against the popcorn fodder of today's multiplexes so pokes fun at his own innovation, and this probably saves the film from being too laden down with its own cleverness. All in all this is a cinema treat, and one which shouldn't be so quickly dismissed even if you aren't into experimental film. This is the way forward for filmmaking, it just might take a while for the rest of the world to catch up.  "},{"Title":"...the most innovative piece of film making to come out since the Blair Witch fiasco...","Date":"25 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Basic plot outline From the mastermind who bought us 'Leaving Las Vegas', four stories take place simultaneously on a screen which is divided into four parts. We follow several characters, whose tales are invariably entwined. Lauren is eavesdropping on her lesbian lover Rose, who is having a lurid affair with movie mogul Alex, whilst wanting to audition for a part in his new film. Alex's wife decides to leave him, and he is being bombarded with meetings for a new film during all of this.Review Albeit the plot line was thin to non-existant, the concept and execution of this film was so fantastically brilliantly done, that it is worth it just to see that. Four stories run simultaneously, uncut. Sometimes two of the cameras end up in the same room together as they switch from character to character. The soundtrack basically leads the audience to which screen to concentrate upon. It is brilliantly done, the most innovative piece of film making to come out since the Blair Witch fiasco (except this isn't a cheesy wannabe horror, and they actually manage to pull this one off!) "},{"Title":"An amazing film","Date":"18 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film is truly a revelation. It's like watching the same film but 4 different camera angles. Most people don't realize all the different camera angles that are used to shoot a film and how difficult it is to choose which one to show. This is a film buff's dream. The performances are so real because there are no cuts. The actors' performances cannot be manipulated. The actors cannt redo the take or cover up any weaknesses. Salma Hayek was amazing. She threw herself into this film with everything she's got. This was the best performance she's ever given. It's a great film to watch and a look at what films in the future might be like.  "},{"Title":"...Makes you wanna have sex...","Date":"9 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Again, Figgis shines through with a bit of a ground-breaking storytelling format, casting only the finest of actors.  Watch it alone, or with a lover...night or day. This film devours most of this year's boring tripe. Vote 9-10 "},{"Title":"good idea, bad movie","Date":"4 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I thought the idea for this film was really cool. The realtime and four different perspectives of the same action were really interesting.Unfortunately, the plot was absolutely horrible (almost nonexistent) and the acting wasn't too hot either. It seems like the filmmakers just had the idea for HOW to make them film and just threw an awful and uninteresting story together to do it. This is extra disappointing since another movie with the same form and a different plot could outstanding, but would be viewed as an imitation. Considering how horrible Timecode is, I think they could get away with it.Additionally, this film has one of the worst soundtracks I've ever heard. "},{"Title":"Your ears are superior to your eyes","Date":"18 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Four simultaneous movies on four screens with people interacting (e.g. by telephone) between the four plots - that sounds quite confusing. I saw the movie at the Locarno Film Festival this summer and I could follow the four stories without any problems. Why? Because Mike Figgis underlines only one story at a time - in most cases he guides you by simply turning up the sound of it. Even if the action on one screen is quite spectacular (but with lower sound) you concentrate on the louder plot (as visually dull it might be). This very impressive experiment teaches anybody who doesn't care much for the sound of his movie to think this over.  "}{"Title":"An experiment that worked out brillantly!","Date":"11 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  TIMECODE, like THE BLAIR WITCH PROJECT, is an experiment using digital cameras to see what they can do. Unlike, BLAIR WITCH, which was highly overrated, TIMECODE is an experiment that worked out brilliantly. Mike Figgis shot on four different cameras one continuous take of 93 minutes. All those takes are of one big interlocking story along the same lines as Altman's SHORT CUTS or Anderson's MAGNOLIA. The difference is Figgis leaves all four camera images on screen for the entire time- he simply ups the sound in one quadrant if he wants you to look there. The story is a little simplistic- low rent movie production company and they messed up people who come in and out- but it's also well done. The experiment in style worked out brilliantly creating the most accomplished work Mike Figgis has done since LEAVING LAS VEGAS. 9/10  "},{"Title":"Concentration required","Date":"2 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Mike Higgis' new film was never going to fill out a multiplex - but anybody who has more than a passing interest in film should check it out.Daring film-noir or foolish techno-prank ? its hard to say , but the truth is probably half way between the 2 . I found it easier to follow than expected ; due to the way in which the 4 different scenes never seem to clash with each other.Nevertheless, good concentration is required for the full 93 ? minutes plus the anticipation of discussing it with others that have seen it - and finding out they noticed things that you didn't. "},{"Title":"Timecode flies","Date":"24 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I was convinced that Mike Figgis had gone mad.  That perhaps his treatment by Hollywood studios had made him think that he would make the most un-Hollywood film ever. Timecode is made on digital video with four different cameras filming at exactly the same time and the screen is split four ways so you see all four stories unedited at the same time.  But there is method in his madness, Not only did I genuinely enjoy it but on second viewing it was even better.It might seem headache inducing watching four screens at the same time but the sound is muted on the quadrants you can safely ignore and turned up on the quadrant you're meant to concentrate on. So you can simply follow the quadrant with the higher sound level and ignore what's happening elsewhere. But where's the fun in that?The film works on two levels.  Firstly there is the astonishing technical achievement.  The manoeuvrability and quality of digital video on display has ramifications for the whole industry. The precise timing meaning earthquakes happen at the same time (well, one camera were half a second out once but that's perhaps being too picky). There is also the way characters can be in two quadrants at the same time, the changeover in the screening room being particular neat.The second level the film works is the story.  It has been said that the story is almost incidental but I have to disagree.  Although it is slight, there is a story with a beginning, middle and end.  What makes it successful for me are the connections and characterisations. That's what happens when the actors run through the whole movie 15 times - by the last time the characters are nailed and totally believable.  Although I want to, I'll resist singling out any actors. All 27 have to do an amazing job, improvising  *and* staying within rigid set parameters.  And this is accomplished with wit and aplomb.It rewards a second viewing at least.  Although it will surely come into its own on DVD when you can choose which picture to concentrate on rather than letting the director choose. While those expecting Time Cop will be disappointed, this is a must-see for anyone interested in cinema. "},{"Title":"Average Story, Excellent Techniques","Date":"19 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Timecode(2000) gets an A for effort because there was an attempt to make a non mainstream film with groundbreaking techniques.  What I loved about the movie was the use of digital video and a screen split into fours.  Its a shame that the film itself wasn't as impressive as its technical aspects for this had the making of a great film.  Timecode(2000) was shot on the first take and this lasted for two weeks.  It was done on one continous take with lots of improvisation done the actors & actresses.  The film takes place in a fictious Hollywood production office.  I can't wait when digital video is used to make the first great digital masterpiece of the modern cinema. "},{"Title":"QUADRUPLE VISION","Date":"29 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  You soon immerse yourself in the feel and flow of this film, and it works very well. In this multi-channel/Big Brother era, we're perfectly equipped to watch such a film. The 4 screens attract you, bore you and frustrate you. It becomes quite compelling.A very strong cast, with Hayek particularly good. Figgis always seems to produce something of interest, with his approach to direct, write and score always mixing well.This film will leave you exhausted at the end, and probably give you a headache too. It is worth it though. "},{"Title":"Interesting art film with decent story ...","Date":"23 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I've just come back from the Tyneside Cinema in Newcastle, UK where Mike Figgis himself was presenting his new film Timecode. The audience reaction was favourable and he seemed almost ill at ease.This film takes about 10 minutes to get used to. It requires a different technique to watch it. The sound moves from frame to frame to direct attention. It's possible to watch different frames than intended thus giving a different film. 10/10 for technical excellence Mike!The story was laid out by Figgis just before shooting and is surprisingly effective for something that was TOTALLY improvised by the actors involved (all of whom worked for NO pay). Once you realise that all the sequences were shot simultaneously and combined you realise what a good film this is.*** POTENTIAL SPOILER HERE ***This film seems to be mostly a satire on the American Film Industry. Mr. Figgis made the point after the film that it's a whole different mentality there and they discuss points of films for hours. So, listen to the dialogue and I challenge you not to laugh at it and the fact it's probably happening somewhere in Hollywood as I type.*** END OF SPOILER ***I seriously recommend that you watch the film and just keep track of the sound moving from frame to frame. You'll enjoy it more as Mike Figgis has done an excellent job of mixing the sound from the frames (and composing the music over the top too).My only real gripes with this film are basically -1) The starting titles could be a little friendlier in introducing the audience to the split screen format.2) The music seems a little overpowering in places.3) There doesn't seem to be a real conclusive ending to the film, although this is debatable.4) Some of the actors and actresses seem to be wasted in their roles. (e.g Saffron Burrows seems to be acting her heart out but we hear virtually none of it except where she's near any of the other main characters)and 5) In the last 20 minutes of the film, the bottom two frames are in the same room but in different angles. I was hoping for a little more variety.In short, excellent example of modern technology impacting film. This isn't the kind of film you kick back and relax to it demands your full attention. I came out of the cinema with as much popcorn as I had when I went in!8.5 out of 10. Nice one Mike! "},{"Title":"An Interesting, but Unsatisfying Experiment","Date":"17 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The past year (1999-2000) in movies has been pretty exciting on the experimentation front. Several films using unconventional techniques or creative storytelling methods have hit the mainstream and done pretty well. I have only to cite `The Blair Witch Project', `The Fight Club' or `Being John Malkovich' to remind anyone of the innovative and provocative movie-going experiences most us have recently had. Now in the midst of this lively period comes the latest Mike Figgis film to push acceptable viewing boundaries even further out. Where `Time Code' differs from the three aforementioned titles, however, is that its innovations are really only technical. There is a strong sense, gained twenty minutes in, that this movie exists to demonstrate its unusual approach to visual format.`Time Code' addresses several questions that have surely floated through every viewer's mind while watching movies. What might prompt an editor to cut away from, or return to a given scene? How might a character behave, if the camera is kept running after a scene has ended? What if the viewer, and not the filmmaker, were to choose which character or plotline to follow? To answer to these and other queries, the director chose a format utilizing four main cameras, each receiving one quarter of screen space. The viewer of `Time Code' is presented with four simultaneous viewpoints at once. On rare occasions, only one or two mini-screens are on view. And just as rarely is more than one interesting narrative occupying the attention. Watching `Time Code' is like seeing dailies shown all at once before editing. The viewer can choose which screen to watch, but Figgis directs attention to a given quadrant by bringing up the sound on it, while the other three remain silent. On a few occasions, dialogue on more than one screen may be heard, but never when both are important. There is at least one interesting sequence when two screens present differing angles of the same scene, and at these moments the film really seem alive with possibility.  But the use of this multi-screen method must be counted as a very interesting failure, since, in order to make a coherent film, Figgis has to direct attention by sound  level and by having three screens show nothing of interest to distract from the main narrative.   In the end, we are left with a rather conventional movie experience. The use of smaller, multiple screens is hardly new in 1968, `The Thomas Crown Affair' made colorful, if ultimately pointless, use of the technique. In neither film is montage, the great contribution of the editor, rendered superfluous.Had Figgis found more interesting narrative threads to follow, the film might have worked better. Not that the main plot thrust-an independent filmmaker trying to cast his latest project-- lacks potential. There just are not enough attention-grabbing moments. An audition scene, for instance, unintentionally involving an on-set masseur, never fulfills its comic implications.  Instead of showing the many aspects of such a project that would certainly fascinate most viewers, the film presents lengthy, static production team discussions. Subplots don't fare any better. In one, an executive is unhappily surprised by news from his wife and goes temporarily insane in a sequence that feels half-baked.  Another subplot involves an actress en route to her audition we witness a heated argument in the car with her female partner, then, later, we see the partner take up her own story line. The problem with these and other minor threads is that they all feel like excuses for the film at hand and its technique. A sudden melodramatic turn at the climax comes across as pure contrivance, and-as a result of the multiple screens-something the audience quite literally can see coming. In addition, there are not one, but two female on female make out scenes which also feel completely inserted for the benefit of a hetero male audience.The soundtrack of `Time Code' is also problematic, but in a less straightforward way. We hear several pieces composed by the director himself as well as segments of the Adagietto from the Fifth Symphony of Mahler. The music seems `placed' within the film, never functioning organically, to underscore a scene.  This abstract, objective use of music has the effect of a pretentious  hommage to Jean-Luc Godard  and not an integral part of the film at hand.A very good cast is used to little effect. While it is good to see Xander Berkeley is a major part, he and Holly Hunter, Stellan Skarsgard,  Kyle MacLachlan, Steven Weber, Julian Sands and Jeanne Tripplehorn are not given roles that add up to very much. Only Salma Hayek is memorable as a creatively ambitious aspiring actress.When `Time Code' comes to video it will certainly suffer in its four-screen set-up.  There is little doubt that the film has its greatest possible effect on the big screen. For all the above criticism, this movie is still worthy of a look by anyone interested in new storytelling solutions. Just don't expect any revelations. "},{"Title":"...and you say there's nothing good to watch","Date":"17 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It would be easy to dismiss Mike Figgis' latest as a stunt, given the seeming outlandishness of its concept the screen is split into four boxes, each showing its own line of action, the entire length of the film, including the beginning and end credits. How can that be? you ask. You mean it never cuts to full frame, if only briefly, just to give the audience a break? Nope. How am I supposed to keep track of everything? Try it--you may surprise yourself. Another way to answer this question would be to say you've already been doing it. Dramatic television shows and films are edited; they cut back and forth between different lines of action. You have no trouble keeping track of what's going on with the characters in this format, so why should four lines of action on the same screen be any different?Actually, it is different. At first, the four story lines happening simultaneously gives you a headache. You wonder how you're going to keep track of it for ninety-plus minutes. Eventually, though, you get the hang of it. Sometimes you get so involved in what's going on in one box, you lose track of a character for a while. But Figgis makes it so you don't really miss anything. This isn't much different than a stage production where there's lots of action going on and you have to pick which area of the stage to keep your eyes on. In both instances, there is one line of action that is more important than all the others, and you somehow always know which one you're supposed to be watching. Of course, you also have the choice of watching whatever you want.A live experience is just what Figgis had in mind when he created this thing. It all starts with four digital video cameras, all following different characters. Four cameras, four boxes. Figgis says action and the cameras roll, in sync with each other. What happens next is essentially four 97 minute-long tracking shots that are always intermingling with each other. The actors are given outlines of their characters and a sampling of what they're supposed to do and say in the scene. The rest is up to them (this works most, but not all, of the time). The spontaneous energy this creates is felt throughout.Thinking about how Figgis may have pulled this off blows my mind. It may be as much of a technical feat as any of the cinematic masterpieces of Hitchcock, Spielberg, or Kubrick. He's created an entirely new form of cinematic storytelling.Seeing as the movie takes place in real time, there isn't much character development. Admittedly, there isn't much of a story either. What you get is a wild ninety minute cross-section of the lives of several people who are involved one way or the other in the motion picture industry. Figgis aims his creative guns straight at its heart and is the best such film since Robert Altman's The Player. It portrays the behind-the-scenes people of Tinseltown as the eccentric, insecure, flamboyant cranks we imagine them to be. It's an industry in which people live their jobs and wear their hearts on their sleeves. The setting is in and around a Los Angeles production office during a casting call for the lead in a project called Bitch From Louisiana.The best sequence, which happens near the end, is a pitch meeting in which a beautiful eighteen-year-old artist/musician/filmmaker is pitching a high-concept film to the company's executives. To set the mood for the pitch, she's brought along a musician friend of hers who plays a synthesizer while she sings. She wants to film it with four digital video cameras simultaneously, in real time. Watching the pained expressions of the assorted executives is hilarious. Alex Green (Stellan Skarsgard), the company's founder, dismisses the girl's concept as pretentious crap. He'll make her film, but only if she agrees to make their crappy movies when she's done. This may be Figgis' way of painting the Biz as the devil and himself as the guy who refused to sell his soul.Timecode is brilliant. You've literally never seen anything like it. Don't be surprised to see other directors following in Mr. Figgis' footsteps, employing similar split-screen concepts-or maybe we'll get Timecode 2, with eight cameras this time instead of four. Talk about a headache.Grade A  "},{"Title":"This is not a summer movie, but I loved it.","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A great movie from beginning to end.  Extremely well crafted, creative and well scripted.  The Actors and Actresses are top shelf.  Salma Hayek and Jeanne Tripplehorn are both AMAZING. Stellan Skarsgård is just incredible as usual.  I last saw him in Ronin and he doesn't disappoint there either. The split screen is actually what really paces this film.  GO SEE IT! Take your brain along, because it is quite cerebral.  "},{"Title":"never before","Date":"12 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A movie has never been made like this before. I had been waiting for months for this movie to come out, and was excited to see how it worked on the screen. The four stories interwove beautifully. And it was pleasing to be able to decide which I wanted to watch. Plus, Stellan Skarsgård gives a great performance. Dramatic AND funny. Great ending. Mike Figgis is a definite innovator.  "}{"Title":"Thank goodness for Figgis","Date":"7 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Given Timecode's relatively recent release the sheer number of comments should tell you something. That and the fact that they tend to be either very positive or negative.It's not a perfect picture, but in the end I have to say thank goodness for Mike Figgis. Thank goodness that somebody at that level of the film industry has the guts to experiment and put an original innovation on screen. It makes me shake my head to hear and read comments about how pretentious that film is. Well, duh? Haven't you people considered that a director might choose to deliberately portray pretention on screen. But then, have you ever thought that there might be a few self-absorbed, pretentious people in Hollywood!If there's a limited appeal to this film it's not just because the technical format challenges many film goers. Maybe it's because the story is a relatively small - and short - affair, despite having four different perspectives. Essentially an alcoholic watches his life crack up one afternoon at the office and it effects the people around him. Let's face it, this isn't the heroic or happy stuff that people want to escape into either.But what an amazing jump Figgis has taken. Before hand I read somewhere that he had created a 3-D film and now I understand what that person meant, because Timecode works on several levels. If you live a two-dimensional life go see Gladiator or MI-2 (both good films in their own way), but if you ever wonder about the nature of subjective reality go see Timecode. This new millennium stuff is so arbitrary, but Figgis makes me think we really are heading into a new era of film-art.  "},{"Title":"a pleasant suprise...","Date":"4 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  i went to this movie with caution, seeing as how Mr.Figgis' last film was beautiful to look at, but slight, oh so slight. time code was a wonderful distraction from the usual crap that pollutes our cinemas today...while it's story was simple, it's presentation with showing the evolving action in four different quadrants was inspired. This device, and the inventive use of the sound had me in awe from beginning to end. i recommend this film to anyone who likes to be challenged as well as entertained by film, and dare i say, art? See it while it's in the theatre...  "},{"Title":"Good concept, badly executed","Date":"2 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a horrible film!  Unique idea, yes... but the execution is about as successful as Euro Disney.  It's obvious how much a script and good directing add to a film because this movie has neither.  Left up to the actors and the camera men the film fails to be at all provoking.  Two lesbian make-out scenes are but in for no real reason, except maybe to get sex-starved teens to shell out a couple bucks to watch it.  Again... good concept, this just isn't the way to do it. "},{"Title":"quite liked this one!","Date":"29 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It took me a while to adjust to the boundaries of this movie but little by little you make adjustments and are able to enjoy and appreciate this 4-screen movie within one screen. at times i thought to myself i can't keep up with this! or i can't follow this!.  Well, not to worry.....just hang in there and grab as much as you can. By the end of the movie i was spellbound in my chair waiting until the house lights came up before budging.   i saw this movie at an 1150 p.m. showing. I was the only person in attendance. I really liked this movie and recommend it wholeheartedly but at the same time knowing there would be many many people who for them this is not their cup of tea. i understand.  "},{"Title":"Four frames at once not confusing at all","Date":"29 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It's not confusing. It's kinda like watching security camera screens 4 frames at the same time -- and in TIME CODE, there is actually going's on in each of the 4 frames simultanously. If you appreciate film experimentation and graphic/visual satisfaction, and able to swallow Hollywood drama (menage a trois) easy, try TIME CODE. Mike Figgis' very much digitally generated 4-frame movie, delivered with the concerted effort of 4-camera individually manned yet simultaneously coordinated, is truly a technological fete. They must have had fun, including the spontaneous improvised acting by the team of actors. The storyline evolves around a day's event of a Hollywood production company. The cameras captured (top right frame) Saffron Burrows' activities; (top left frame) Jeanne Tripplehorn and Salma Hayak inside a limousine; (lower left frame) the street scenes and happenings outside of the production company office, shooting from the office reception area; (lower right frame) inside the office space's conference meeting room -- the lower left and right frames cycle through/forth and back to capture the going's on within the office space. Once you've established the sense of the settings and picked up the relationships of the multiple characters (include Stellan Skarsgard, Holly Hunter, Julian Sands, Leslie Mann, Steve Weber, Kyle MacLachlan), which are all somehow related in this Web of Hollywood saga, you'd be drawn into the drama of it all by the audio as much as the visual. You will feel at ease -- the activities within each frame will naturally be absorbed and the mind will get used to the 4-frame setup and be able to follow the event of things. The fact that the audio is monitored concurrently with the conversation/sound volume of each frame being choreographed to be louder or softer helps the audience's aural/visual reception of this techno-innovative filmic effort. Bravo to another Mike Figgis bold attempt!  "},{"Title":"Great Mike Figgis","Date":"28 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  who can do all this and play with four cameras shooting contemporary four different interconnected scenes, everyone in a single sequence for 1 hour and 33 min. Actors and cameramen never made a mistake, all together. Script and music come from the director,cinematographer,producer Mike Figgis (Made also Leaving Las Vegas- N,Cage & E.Sue). The story is nice but more interesting is the experiment, well done, technically perfect. Any case congratulations to the man. "},{"Title":"Want a movie that defies comparison? This is that movie.","Date":"26 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Almost every movie that comes out can be described by making comparisons to other movies.  For example, Gladiator is a cross between Spartacus, Bloodsport, and Mad Max Beyond Thunderdome.  We may disagree about the comparisons we make, but generally we yearn for a movie that defies comparison.This is that movie.You may start out saying, Timecode is a cross between The Blair Witch Project ... and Slacker ... and 200 Cigarettes ... and ... but you run out of movies.  The way this movie is pulled together is so original that you have to see it to understand the implications of the four-window approach. In fact, you probably have to see it 3 or 4 times.At any given point one window may produce the sound, another window will be advancing the plot, another window will provide the most visually appealing material, and you'll be staring inexplicably at the fourth window, wondering whether or not that guy across the street is picking his nose.I give it a 10/10 for originality -- the most interesting film I've seen all year. "},{"Title":"CinemaPortrait of the Future","Date":"25 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Timecode(1999) is an average film with an excellent use of digital video. The actors did a good job in the film considering all the improvisation that had to be done.  While the story was a little soap operish, the way the film was presented was impressive.  The earthquake in the film represents the explosive and destructive nature of the characters where everything builds up to a shocking and violent climax.  This film proves that Digital video still needs some improvement as a medium for film-making for this will only get better once people will know how to utilize film for this format. "},{"Title":"Innovative and experimental. Not for the brain dead","Date":"25 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A very innovative and experimental movie. No cuts!!! Continuous flood of information. This is the forefather of future styles to come. Much respect for this film for actually trying something new, instead of recycling.  "},{"Title":"Mostly artificial and tiring ...","Date":"25 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The split display proved to be very tiring to follow. It is definitely not an idea with a future. Although the cast was excellent, the whole project was obviously managed in a very amateur like style, Improvisation was apparent everywhere. The earthquakes idea looked out of place and really silly at moments, the Digital Video images were really sub par.Overall a great disappointment for a Mike Figgis film. "}{"Title":"Thought the 4 screen idea was very bad","Date":"5 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I felt I wasted 1 hour. Couldn't watch to conclusion. Gave me a headache. I couldn't keep up with everything that was going on. It was hard to follow the plot. I felt like I watched 30 minutes before I understood that the 4 screens were connected with each other. I will never watch another movie like this one.  "},{"Title":"A confidence trick.","Date":"21 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The cover of the video jacket said this film was innovative. I wonder whether this word was used to hide the fact that this was not a movie in the sense that we know what a movie is. This is a 'con'. A film showing a blank white screen with an occasional black frame with traffic noise would be just as innovative. But is this entertainment? Then to read that critics at some film festival considered it had merit adds to the conspiracy of extracting money illegitimately. It is plotless, incoherent, jerky and unwatchable. After giving the 'film' a period of time I could only endure it by fast forwarding and checking that the technique, if that's the terminology, was consistent. It was and I returned the tape to the video store rather than stomping on it(because I'm not normally a violent person). I gave the poor desk person a piece of my mind advising them that usually I would sue under wrongful advertising but given I chose it free of charge on a special two for one deal I was not going to press the point.To sum up I would advise anyone who is not a brain-dead critic enjoying split screen flashing as stimulation to avoid this excuse for film at all costs.  "},{"Title":"Don't waste your money","Date":"2 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It is really surprising that anyone could possibly enjoy this film.  Maybe they could do the world a favor and recycle the film for something worthwhile---something appropriate like plastic garbage cans. I can't believe that Holly Hunter would appear in such a piece of junk---it's below her!!! She's the only reason I went to see it---expecting her to be in a fairly good film.   "},{"Title":"Interesting concept, so-so story.","Date":"16 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Well shot, but what exactly is it that is worth watching? I love thewhole 'digital thing', and the split screen four ways- but there's notmuch substance behind the neat camera work. I hope this new digitalrevolution doesn't end up giving us even more shallow and empty stories,like the film-school nuts gave us in the 80's and 90's. Sure, the cameraswirls and moves and is really fun, but if there's not a good story orgood acting- what's the point? I might as well play a video game.Although the actors were all fine in this, I kept wishing there was agood story.. "},{"Title":"An unmitigated disaster","Date":"29 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I was really excited about seeing this film.  I truly love experimental work that pushes boundaries.  However, I have to say that it was one of the most horrible movies I've seen in a long time.The four quadrant's idea was very interesting, but that was the only remotely interesting thing here.  Otherwise this film fails on just about every level.The camera work is horrible.  It was all done with obviously cheap hand-held video cameras.  The lenses are so cheap you can see the radial distortions every time them moved.  They are not on steadycams, so they bounce around quite a bit.  And, they were in the hands of small children, I think.  All of the footage looked very amateur.  Focus would be lost and regained, cameras would point arbitrary directions, pans were fast enough to make you dizzy, and more than that I don't want to remember.  The only interesting thing is that they never showed any cameramen that I noticed, but I would have preferred to see some cameramen here and there in exchange for some decent cinematography.The sound was also awful.  I really think they miked this with the cheap microphones on home camcorders. What they were saying was often indecipherable.  Arbitrary, unrelated music gets dropped in very now and then just to annoy you.  Not that it made much difference.  The entire movie was ad libbed and it really showed.  The acting was not half bad when they had something to work with, but they rarely ever did. And, would someone tell Holly Hunter to QUIT CRYING!  We're really tired of it.  What was really sad what that I expected information overload and, instead, found entire sections of the film boring.  With four scenes running you would think there would be something going on all of the time, but there were lots of times when nothing was happening in any of them.  It was often quite dull.Keeping all of this in sync was very creative and the idea as innovative.  But, the execution stunk, so don't waste your time.  "},{"Title":"gag me","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  If you are about to watch this movie, STOP and shoot yourself in the head. It will be less painful.  You've read enough other comments to know what happens - or doesn't happen (like a story).  This can only interest film students, not real people who like to watch a movie and be entertained. Unless you really enjoy watching Jeanne Tripplehorn stare into space, chew gum and smoke cigarettes.  I'm not sure if this film or The Blair Witch Project was a bigger waste of time.  Neither film has dialogue or a plot. They were both made up as they went along, and it is more than obvious. Do yourself a favor and get something else. "},{"Title":"Timecode One of the best movies I've ever seen","Date":"6 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" People who don't like this film clearly don't get it, or are too lazy to pay attention (similar to those who don't like reading subtitles; their intellect just can't keep up). I saw it in the theatre upon its release in 2000 and found it an exhilarating experience. I wish more directors would be as bold as Figgis in their storytelling. The multiple-screen technique is a variation on traditional mise-en-scene, but instead of all the action being presented in one frame, there are 4. On-screen elements can not only move within each frame, but move among them. This really opens up stylistic and theoretical possibilities for the filmmaker. I understand that Figgis has used the technique in subsequent films but not to the degree that was used in 'Timecode. "},{"Title":"Strange","Date":"14 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I watched this in a theatre with over 100 people in it.75% of the people in the theatre left before the movie ended.I stayed through until the end.An interesting movie from an experimental/improvisational theatre point of view. It you're not into that kind of thing, then you'd best not waste your time with this movie.  "},{"Title":"Not for those with short or non-existent attention spans.","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Some spoilers included.I had never heard of this movie before. From what I read afterwards, apparently there was a lot of hype surrounding it, but somehow I managed to miss it all. But I was up late tonight, I saw the listing for it on HBO, read the quick review of it, and decided to give it a try. Experimental movies can sometimes take you by surprise, or they can be abysmal failures.Unlike a fair number of people who have left reviews here, I have to say I consider this movie to be a very pleasant surprise. Does it lack a very complex or original plot? Yes. However, if you think that matters, then you obviously missed the point of this movie. It wasn't about plot, it was about trying to find a new way to use film to more fully immerse the viewer into the fictional world being portrayed. And in that respect, I think it succeeded exceptionally well.I was glued to the screen from the moment it started. In addition to the obvious 4 screens, the thing that jumped out at me almost immediately was that the film was shot as a series of *very* long continuous takes. That is *extrememly* hard to do. To those people who have commented on the fact that the acting was bad, or that they thought a certain actor was a better actor, you have to understand what a *difficult* thing it is to do long continuous takes. It takes top notch actors to pull it off and make it look merely good.I quickly decided not to try to concentrate too hard on the details of any one screen, but just to sit back and kind of just experience the whole thing. You just have to let the art flow over you to quote William Hurt from _The Big Chill_.If you're looking for Die Hard or your attention span is only 5 minutes long, look for a different movie. But if you like movies that take chances, explore new ground, and ask for a bit of intelligence from their viewers, then I think you'll like this one.I gave this file an 8 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Strange but cool","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Just recieved the dvd through the post today, watched it straight away. Very challenging to get your head round @ first but if you watch the Digital Diary of Mike Figgis it'll get excited to watch it. Strange kinda setiment but it's true. It's such a new idea but one that could never be done again. The 4 screen thing is or should be a one off. If someone else does this it'll be a rip off, if Mr.Figgis does it again he'll be the guy who does the 4 screen films.In summary very unique way to make a film. Killer soundtrack! 5 Stars *****  "}{"Title":"Not boring","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Every so often, I see a film on cable and I've never heard of it and I try to guess the title.  In 1,000,000 years, I never would've come up with Time Code.  The four-way screen is done very effectively.  The film holds your interest . . . possibly even to see it again.  But it is marred by two big drawbacks.  The movie's themes are old and trite (Hollywood casting couch, etc.) and the earthquake scenes do not ring true.  People do not stop talking about an earthquake five seconds after it happens.  And they also seem very contrived, like the raining frogs scene in a disastrous film that we won't name.  Also, what happened to Jeanne Tripplehorn?  I thought she could act. "},{"Title":"Great style, no story","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A fascinating experiment in filmmaking, but I doubt those who aren't film afficionados will appreciate it.  The film kept my attention, and I really liked how the characters (and dialogue) went from one pane to the next, but the story was ad-libbed poorly and the plot pretty laughable (three earthquaked in LA within 90 minutes?!?).Even so, I hope that Mike Figgis (or another protege) watches this movie and gets an idea for another movie in this style.  I'd hate to see this as a one-time gimmick.   "},{"Title":"Ground-breaking film work with great cast and cool DVD extras.","Date":"3 March 2001","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  From the director of LEAVING LAS VEGAS and STORMY MONDAY comes a black comedy about life in Hollywood with a stellar cast and an amazing concept.Four continuous shots play themselves out on a screen split in quarters. The DVD comes with many great special features including a making-of diary from the director, a make your own audio mix - where you chose which screen to hear the audio from, and the full-length version #1. The theatrical release was version #15. Both are included on the DVD with the director's commentary. A must see for film students or any lover of original and daring cinema. "},{"Title":"Good but bloody boring 4 screen biz","Date":"16 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Seems good plot. However, the idea of showing the movie in real-time in four different quads ruined the whole thing. One can watch it for 15 or the worst for 30 minutes like that, but it is really too much to stand it for the entire movie. The directors or whoever decided to do this should have opted for different means. The same plot could have been made better in different ways - but this was more than annoying to watch all four quads at the same time and to come for a conclusion to judge the movie However, the story and the baseline of the plot are still interesting. Casting, music, coordination all are, in fact good. In summary, they could have avoided this 4-quad plan. "},{"Title":"Headache inducing gimmick runs out of time","Date":"27 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" TIME CODE (2000) ** Stellan Skarsgard, Salma Hayek, Saffron Burrows, Jeanne Tripplehorn, Holly Hunter, Xander Berkeley, Steven Weber, Kyle MacLachlan, Richard Edson, Leslie Mann, Julian Sands, Glenne Headly, Golden Brooks, Danny Huston, Suzy Nakamura, Viveka Davis, Patrick Kearney, Aimee Graham, Elizabeth Low, Mia Maestro, Alessandro Nivola, Zuleikha Robinson, Andrew Heckler, Daphna Kastner. Filmmaker Mike Figgis' latest experiment risks the audience's patience in pretentiousness with his use of digital video filmed in real time of 90 minutes and largely improvised sequences that offer the unique gimmick of a 4 way split screen throughout that only causes more headache than actual achievement in an arguably ideal premise. However give him an A for effort but at the very least he could have found some talent that can actually ad-lib in this soap opera-like storyline about a beleagured film production company and its day-in-the-life melodramatics. "}]