[{"Title":"For family","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is truly enjoyable. I can watch it may times. My wife and I are great fans of Winnie the Pooh and particularly Tigger. He can bounces and can talk really fast. The way that Tigger was looking for his family made it really fun!I recommend that movie to everybody that have babies and/or toddlers.  "},{"Title":"Cool movie.","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  But it should have been a bit longer. 77 minutes is not enough. I have always loved Disney's animation of the Winnie the Pooh TV show and I was way excited when I first learned of this movie. 100 acre wood looks as magical as it always has done and is presented very well in this feature.The story itself is a bit childish but still manages to have balls when it has Tigger FAIL to find his family. Although I would have liked him too I respect the ending they went for.Although this film isn't to everyone's tastes (I know it seems a little fruity a guy of 20 can like this film) I say you should see this movie, preferably with kids. It's perfect child fodder and good entertainment. Not just family entertainment. Should be longer though.  "},{"Title":"I've Been Waiting For Tigger to Have His Own Film, and A Tigger Movie Accomplished Its Goal...","Date":"12 December 2002","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"   In this film, Tigger (voiced by Jim Cummings -- one of the least known yet well deserved voice actors) basically thinks he has a family, and is elated when he hears they're coming to the Hundred Acre Woods. One knows everything that is going to happen in this film, but who didn't know Pooh would get out of Rabbit's hole in the classic Pooh film? I for one found that though predictable, The Tigger Movie is a film with a message, and it can be enjoyed by all ages. It isn't rated PG for brief language. It doesn't have small print. It's harmless family fun, and I praise the film on that account. Tigger swearing or aiming a gun at Roo's head just wouldn't do for me (though it would be funny to see on The Late Show, or something that can twiddle with the animation ) I give The Tigger Movie 3/5 stars -- it has the Disney magic in it.John Ulmer  "},{"Title":"Cute Movie","Date":"7 August 2001","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I thought that this movie was darling.  The characters were cute.  The story was very good.  Everyone who worked on this movie did a wonderful movie.  I highly recommend this movie for people of all ages to watch because it was so good.   "},{"Title":"Remember the fun....","Date":"15 February 2000","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"   If you liked Tigger and crew as a child, then go back and see them again.The kids will enjoy it, and the adults will, too.  One can't help but become involved with the characters, and eyes will become misty no matter how hard you fight it.The songs are original and funny, and even have subtle references that older viewers will catch (they are NOT inappropriate in any way) and younger ones will miss, which allows many age levels to enjoy it.You have to be quick, though, because Tigger sings faster than he bounces. "},{"Title":"Tigger rocks (or should I say bounces?)","Date":"12 February 2000","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Tigger Movie With everyone preparing for winter, Tigger (spell that T-I-double GRR) can't find anyone who will bounce with him.  He decides that what he needs to do is find the other Tiggers so he'll have someone to bounce with whenever he feels the urge.  But isn't, the wonderful thing about Tiggers is that Tigger's the only one?As you may have already guessed, unlike the previous Pooh adventures this is a Tigger vehicle (and it's about time I say).  It has been a long while since I watched the originals, and it felt strange to hear the characters voiced by different people, most notably Eeyore and Rabbit.  And did they have so many songs ?  I stopped counting at four.  Also, I found the inconsistent animation a bit distracting.  But whose kidding whom?  It was a fun movie, with humor, action, pathos, and resolution, and I bet more than a few people will leave this movie with a tear in their eye.Take the kids, or just tell them you're one at the wicket. "},{"Title":"A Fun Movie With A Great Message About Family","Date":"31 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Starting with a lament from Tigger that all the Winnie the Pooh movies are about - well - Winnie the Pooh, this movie goes on to meet his complaint and crafts a story about Tigger, who suddenly decides that being the only one isn't the most wonderful thing about Tiggers. Frustrated because he can't get any of his friends to go bouncing with him, Tigger becomes convinced that there must be a whole family of tiggers somewhere out there in the Hundred Acre woods, and he sets out to find them, leading to a series of adventures for all the gang and disappointment for Tigger, until he suddenly realizes that he didn't need to go looking for his family - they were right there all the time. Having adopted my daughter from China a few years ago (at 5, she loves this movie, by the way) I thought the message was so important Pooh and Eeyore and Roo and Kanga and Owl and Piglet and Rabbit were Tigger's family - because family doesn't have to look like you or even be the same as you. Family are the ones who care about you and love you, no matter what. The movie includes some nice songs and a few laughs (although it isn't really funny and also includes a few sad scenes as well.) It's fun for kids and pleasant viewing for adults, too. 9/10 "},{"Title":"***** a perfect 5 stars,the first great movie of the year.","Date":"29 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  CastJim cummings(Who framed roger rabbit),Kath Soucie(Rugrats),Peter Cullen(Transformers the movie),Ken sansom(Transformers),John Fielder(Fox and the hound)GenreAnimated,childrenMPAA rating G(although it had an intense avalanche scene in it)Star rating5 out of 5 stars(Excellent)SummaryIts kinda like Muppets from space it stars Tigger(Jim cummings) who is starting to get tired of his I'm the only one reputation. And then he tries to find his family while Pooh (Jim cummings) and piglet (John fielder) and kanga (Kath soucie) and roo (noptika hopkins in her 1st performance) and owl (andre stojka) and eeyore (Peter cullen) help tigger. While rabbit (ken sansom) isn't all that thrilled with that idea while he is preparing for winter.Well the cast is very good.The movie is very thrilling.This movie did the original one justice. (It almost surpassed the original)Its basically the finest animated film featuring Peter cullen ever since Transformers the movie (He was optimus prime and ironhide in Transformers the movie).The sight gags are truly a treat because with tiggerish parodies of art pictures like american gothic,venus de milo or even things like Jerry Springer. (Don't worry parents it is still a good kids movie anyways).Its a great treat for all those who remembered the first film & then some. I admit it was quite tear-jerking. It has very fine simplistic animation. And those are just some things I could say. Not too mention that this is one of the finest movies featuring Kenny Loggins music ever since Top Gun.And there are only 2 disappointments. While cummings did a great job as tigger it was kinda sad that the original voice of tigger (paul winchell) wasn't in the film. Because this could've surpassed the original. What happenend to gopher how come he wasn't in the film? I know its a small question but still.QuoteYes you bounced me many times-Pooh  "},{"Title":"A good film for kids.  Not as good as the one in the 70's","Date":"14 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Tigger Movie is a good movie for kids, but for people who expect the original film (The Classic The Many Adventures of Winnie the Pooh) should just stay home.  The film is worth seeing if you are a rabid Winnie the Pooh fan, a kid who likes it, or are just a movie buff.  The songs are not as creative as last time and the story line isn't as good as the last one(also, you may notice John Fiedler is the only original voice from the first film in this one), but if you are looking for similar characters, some of the same animation techniques, and some new surprises, this film is for you. "},{"Title":"A Childhood Favorite... what's changed?","Date":"1 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is the first movie I saw in theaters, when I was 2 years old. I loved anything Winnie the Pooh as a little girl, so the franchise is very near and dear to my heart. I watched this movie so many times during my childhood, but then kind of let it go. A few years ago, though, I was really sad that I wasn't a child anymore (teenage crisis), and so I remembered this movie and popped in the old VHS. I cried like a little wussy.The movie begins with Tigger telling us that he wants to hear a story about HIM for a change instead of that silly old bear. He then proceeds to bring us into his story. Tigger started to feel helpless and distraught at being the only Tigger. Thinking he must have come from somewhere, he sets out to find his family tree, and thus, the other Tiggers. All the while, his friends help him out, from writing a sweet-as-hell note from his family to dressing up as Tiggers to surprise him. When Tigger runs away in a snowstorm, the group, led by Roo, go after him to help, leading Tigger to discover that family is not always bound by blood, but by those who care the most.This movie, while not quite as good as the original Pooh film, is a dang good movie. The story is simple enough for children, and it is great fun for children to see where Tigger goes to find his family, but this may be the most intense Pooh film, in terms of action. Of course, it all ties up with a happy ending. To my knowledge, this was the first time Tigger was NOT voiced by Paul Winchell, but by Jim Cummings, who continues it to this day (as well as Pooh Bear). I was delighted to find out that the movie's narrator was wonderfully voiced by my favorite actor, John Hurt. The atmosphere is great, and you really feel for all of the characters.All nostalgic bias aside, this movie makes me feel now the way I did then. I couldn't put my finger on the one specific emotion that was constant throughout. There was happiness, sadness, anger, loneliness, but the prevailing emotion is love. No other way to describe it. Luckily the Tigger Movie is on Netflix, so check it out and see for yourself! "}{"Title":"Tiggers Are Such Adorable Fellows","Date":"12 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" If you like Tigger like I like Tigger, then you're sure to enjoy watching this fun, frolicking, little rascal starring (and bouncing) in his very own movie.Starting off in the Hundred-Acre Wood, Tigger (charged, as always, with bouncy good fun and energy) sets off on an amazing adventure, hoping to find fellow tiggers to bounce around and play with.With all of its charm, exuberance, and joy, The Tigger Movie is sure to bounce its way straight into your heart. This is one of those happy-go-lucky gems that can be enjoyed by all ages.Check it out. "},{"Title":"The Tigger Movie Blu-ray teaches children the value of friendship and family","Date":"10 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I've never been a big Winnie the Pooh fan. As a child who grew up in a household full of sic-fi nerds, the 1,000 Acre Woods really didn't hold any fascination for me. I was more interested in a future world where fully dressed apes spoke to each other and tortured humans the same way they had been. Who wants to hang out with a bunch of bears, kangaroos, and rabbits in the woods when you could fly around space with Luke Skywalker battling stormtroopers and Darth Vader in a galaxy far, far away? I may not feel an emotional tie to Winnie the way many children and their parents do, but I can enjoy one of their adventures every once in a while. Tigger longs for a family of his own kind. He searches high and low for any members of his orange and black striped breed but can't seem to locate any. Can his friends help him find his direct relatives while teaching him the real definition of friends and family? This movie has a message just like all Disney movies do. It concentrates on the importance of friends and shows viewers that your family isn't necessarily made up of people you're immediately connected to by blood. Families are made up of individuals who care for each other but don't share the same lineage. The world of Winnie the Pooh is timeless. Obviously, that's part of the attraction to the stories and movies. Everyone wants to escape to a fantasy world like Christopher Robin. They want to hang out with their childhood toys and forget about all the cares of the world for a while. The Tigger Movie is a great addition to the Disney library for fans of Winnie the Pooh. Even though it concentrates on the bouncy tiger, there's still plenty of the lovable bear in the movie to please enthusiasts. It's a wholesome movie that families can enjoy together over and over. "},{"Title":"best movie ever made","Date":"20 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" it is the best movie ever made you will enjoy watching this amazing family movie there is nothing like this you will enjoy this one of a kind movie this is a great movie you have to watch this amazing movie it is one of the best films ever you will say wow lets watch that again it is a classic there is nothing like this The Tigger Movie is a classic you will enjoy go see this is a sweet movie you just have to watch this amazing film go see this wonderful movie today you want be sorry this is a great film i never saw a movie like this it is a movie that i could watch more than once or twice that is how good this movie is you will not believe your eyes i did not believe my eyes it was that good go see this beautiful movie today there is nothing like this it is a big big big hit i never saw a movie like this "},{"Title":"Somewhat fun, fun, fun","Date":"12 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Tigger Movie is a first in the Winnie the Pooh franchise for being named after one character. Later we would get Piglet's Big Movie, but for now, Tigger takes the stage. What we get is an on-par children's film, but not enough fun, excitement, or laughs to be compared to the two previous Pooh films.Tigger has been curious about his family recently, and is now looking for his family tree (a real tree, he mistakes). He prances around with his buddy Roo in search of his family before he decides to write them a letter. Pooh, Piglet, Eeyore, Rabbit, Owl, and Kanga worry about Tigger being letdown by his family's no-show when they see he has thrown a party for them. So they all dress up like Tiggers to make Tigger feel loved.The bouncy, stripped character sure has enough energy to carry a mere seventy-five minute film, but when compared to the gentleness of the previous two films, Tigger's antics grow tiresome after a little while and then the rest of the cast joins him giving a likable performance.The animation, events, and the cheery nature brought from the three short stories in The Many Adventures of Winnie the Pooh, lacks here greatly because Tigger is such a rambunctious and silly character that a lot of the joy and easy-flow that occupied the stories is kind of neglected here. But I'm in no way trying to put down the beast, he is quite an uppity character, that has some high points in this film.Children will enjoy this because their is always something on screen that is either fast-paced or musical. Parents might enjoy bits and pieces, while at other points may be annoyed by Tigger's antics. The Tigger Movie packs a wallop, and the wonderful thing is that it's a semi-wonderful thing.Voiced by Jim Cummings, Nikita Hopkins, John Fiedler, Ken Sansom, Peter Cullen, Andre Stojka, Kath Soucie, and Tom Attenborough. Directed by Jun Falkenstein. "},{"Title":"A delightful animated film for the whole family","Date":"21 September 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Tigger Movie is just a delightful heartwarming film, and has a great message about family. Although it is primarily a kids movie, this is one of the few animated films of recent times, when an adult feels comfortable watching it. The animation is very colourful and crisp on the most part, and the songs aren't at all bad, in fact they are fun and on the most part memorable. And I also want to say, at 17 I still love Winnie the Pooh, and maybe I am being biased for really liking this movie, but Tigger is such a lovable and fun character, he truly deserved his own movie. Speaking of Tigger, as much as I love Paul Winchell, who IS the voice of Tigger as far as I'm concerned, Jim Cummings voices him marvellously, and his singing is beautiful. (Cummings is also a very underrated voice artist, he is just incredible, born to voice Darkwing Duck and Rasoul from the Aladdin movies is a great character mainly because of Cummings' vocal input) The story is a very heartwarming one, and there are some truly touching scenes like the ending, which made me cry when I first saw it. Winnie the Pooh, Piglet, Eeyore and Roo especially are great supporting characters. My only complaints for the Tigger Movie, are that it is too short at just over 75 minutes, and while the story is heartwarming, not very much happens in terms of action. However, despite these minor flaws, it is a hugely enjoyable animated film, that is really pleasant not only for kids but for adults too. A solid 8/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"HOO! HOO! HOO! I love Tigger's Movie","Date":"17 May 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" When I first saw The Tigger Movie in Febraury 2000 I was just blowing away with it and today I still am! The film was just wonderful and I finally got to see the Pooh characters on Screen! The plot was wonderful with Tigger searching for his family of Tiggers but realizing that Pooh and the others are his family even though they're different. The music is wonderful! Thanks to the song Your Heart Will Lead you Home I am now a big fan of singer KENNY LOGGINS! Filled with great animation and the wonderful Pooh characters and great storyline The Tigger Movie is a movie you can enjoy forever! I know I'll enjoy it forever! 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Tigger in search of other tiggers.","Date":"5 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Irresistible and enchanting Disney animated adventure. Winnie the Pooh fans will not have any trouble with letting Eeyore and Tigger share in the limelight. Winnie and the gang, Piglet, Roo, Owl, Kanga, Rabbit and the bouncy Tigger gather to fix up a comfortable winter home for the motived challenged donkey Eeyore. The rambunctious Tigger is absolutely too active to be any help; Rabbit makes the suggestion that he go out and look for some other tiggers to play with. That is so silly, more tiggers in the Hundred Acre Wood? Merrily goes the striped bundle of energy on a journey to find his...family. Lively songs and a charming story; a delightful movie for the whole family. Keeping up with Tigger is like playing with a rubber ball in a big basement. THE TIGGER MOVIE features the voices of Jim Cummings, John Fielder, Peter Cullen, Tom Attenborough, Nikita Hopkins, Ken Sansom and narrated by John Hurt. "},{"Title":"Tigger's going to bounce, pounce, flounce and trounce critics of this movie.","Date":"18 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The people who have been posting that this movie is too depressing are missing the point. You can't make a full-length movie about anything, even the mighty Tigger, and just have two hours of life is wonderful hoo-has without making it terminally boring. So, this movie decides to expand on one of the staple features of the great Tigger... He is the only Tigger alive, as far as he can tell. He wants to meet his long lost family. Since nobody in the Hundred Acre Wood knows where he came from, they all decide to dress up in Tigger costumes. Tigger figures it out, is hurt and upset, and vows to leave the Hundred Acre Wood, forever I might add, during a blinding nor'easter. When he's almost died of hypothermia, he gets rescued by the Hundre Acre folks and realizes that they are all the family He needs. First of all, this movie is no more depressing than Bambi, Lady and the Tramp or any Charlie Brown movie, all of which are geared toward kids. If you cried when Tigger got upset and left in a snowstorm, then this movie did its job. Second, the movie is well done and keeps you enthralled throughout. I actually saw this with an ex-girlfriend and she said it was one of the best movies anyone had taken her to see. This gets a 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Bouncy fun!!!!!","Date":"7 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Disney made a very good and very nice film in 2000 with animation included called The Tigger Movie. Here, Pooh isn't the only one taking center stage in his works!!!!! No, this is the first time someone other than that HUNNY lovin' bear became the star of his own movie!!!!! He's Tigger, everyone's favorite spring tail-bouncin', word-mispronouncin', lovable, huggable tiger that grrrrowls!!!!!I've never seen it, though I have caught a little bit of it; my little brothers, about 3 or 4 at the time, was watching a rental tape of this and thought it was interesting. And since this can be considered an extended experience of Tigger, hearing his mispronounced words (like Avalanchee near the end, for example) made me laugh so hard I had to leave the room!!!!! LOLThe Tigger Movie is perfect for those who love Pooh AND Tigger too!!!!!TTFN - Ta Ta For Now!!!!!10 stars "},{"Title":"Just what Tigger fans wanted","Date":"28 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Hey, don't hate me, but I don't like Tigger. (How come no one likes Rabbit, anyway??) If you are a fan of Tigger, however, you will LOVE this movie. Tigger is the focus as he figures out he MUST have a family (I mean, Roo has a mother, why shouldn't Tigger?) So, enjoy following Tigger on his search for his family tree. He is bouncy, trouncy, flouncy, pouncy, fun fun fun fun fun in his own movie. Lyrics are added to his song in the beginning, so those of us who love to sing the song will learn more lyrics to sing to our kids. We learn to appreciate the family/friends we have, as most Pooh shows and movies tend to make us do. No one will be surprised by this one, since most Pooh plots are pretty much the same, but kids will love bouncing along with Tigger and enjoy all of his enthusiasm and charisma. I didn't like it, but that doesn't mean much when my whole family disagrees with me! "}{"Title":"Not much to it but enjoyable","Date":"28 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  After causing more trouble than good with all his bouncing, Tigger realises that he is different from the rest of his friends and gets depressed. When overhearing about Owl's family tree, Tigger realises that he needs to find his family tree to be able to have people to bounce around with.  He sets out to try and find his family's tree in the forest.Having seen the pretty poor movie featuring Piglet I didn't hold out much hope for this film even if Tigger is one of the more fun characters of the series.  However the plot is a little better than that film and the whole thing has a lot more energy to it.  The basic plot is reasonable enough but it will be no surprise to anyone that lessons are there to be learned. The film moves along easy enough and is light enough to enjoy without being hard to watch.The songs are OK and aren't overdone to the point that their averageness becomes a major drag.  The animation is pretty basic though and this is matched by the voice work, which doesn't really do anything and actually sounds quite bland.  The film isn't great though - it's just passable enough to watch.  Kids should enjoy it but even for them it may be all a bit bland and `nice' to compete with sharper cartoons.  As for adults, it is unlikely that they will take much from it apart from having the kids distracted for an hour or so.Overall, fans of Pooh and all will probably enjoy this film, I liked it because it was undemanding and quite a pleasant little story.  The animation is OK even if the voice work is poor and the humour of the film couldn't compete with the much sharper kids animations that are out there. "},{"Title":"Kids Entertainment Disney Style (5/10)","Date":"5 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  So, yes this is a kids movie. But I like Tigger, so I saw this one. There is a bit of a story-line (although it lacks in comparison to some of the BIG Disney's) and there is singing.The German translation doesn't seem to be good (especially the singing) but I cannot compare this to the english original.If you have small kids (say up to 8 years) this might be good entertainment with a good moral at the end of the story. If you don't then you should go for some of the bigger Disney Movies which are better in both song and story.I gave it a entertaining 5/10 "},{"Title":"Amazingly Interesting","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Well my father rented the DVD of The Tigger Movie for my sister who loves Winnie The Pooh and as they watched it together, i was on my computer, slightly watching it time to time.  I kinda got into the movie, and I never real cared about Winnie The Pooh.  I found myself laughing at some of the kiddy jokes and stuff.  It is very strange for a 15 year old guy who likes such movies as American Pie, Bedazzled, Austin Powers, and Chill Factor, to be interested in watching it.  I mean this movie isn't one that I would rent, buy, or even watch again, but at the time I was interested in this movie. "},{"Title":"Cute but Disappointing.","Date":"21 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I have been a fan of Winnie The Pooh since....God knows when, and I was expecting The Tigger Movie to be one of the cutest flicks ever. I was sure right, it was cute, but it didn't get up to the high standards of the other Pooh movies. The story moves just a tad too fast, and the screenplay could of been improved.The Tigger Movie is a fun, worthy watch for all Pooh fans, but for the rest, I don't really recommend it.Rating 6 "},{"Title":"It's a kids' movie","Date":"28 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The story of this movie is as simple as can be... (I've no intent to be spoiler, so I won't go into it). But it's its simplicity that makes this film so good for little children. Even so the most important feature in this film is the complete inexistence of a sexual content. ( And by this I mean there are no women who look like Lara Croft, and no filthy old man grabbing some barbies!! Like in Toy story!) I do think that this is a good movie for children, and I'm glad to see that Disney could still make movies FOR CHILDREN! "},{"Title":"Tigger in 2000","Date":"19 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Well, I really adore Tigger, I really do, and I was sadly disappointed with this movie. It is not as funny or great as I expected it to be.The film rushes to the point too quickly for my liking, Tigger bouncing through the forest with Roo and then Roo mentioning his family. Then quick as a zip Tigger goes looking for his stripy mates.It's not really bad, it's just alright, but not one I would see again.My rating  7/10. "},{"Title":"Tiggerific!","Date":"3 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Completely fun!  The Tigger Movie is great!  Pooh, Piglet, Tigger, Rabbit, Kanga, Roo, Eeyore, Owl...every character is wonderful.  And it's great to see Roo more centerstage.  He's such a cute character.  And it's wonderful to see them on the big screen.  Tigger's very own movie...what could be better. "},{"Title":"Rating 4/10 (Weak)","Date":"26 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I'm glad that I took my two-year-old son to see The Tigger Movie, since he clearly enjoyed watching Tigger bounce all over the screen.Unfortunately, there was little to keep the attention of anyone with a mental age above five. Disney have somehow contrived to belabour one family tree gag for over an hour, with neither sub-plot nor character development to distract us from this banal and incessant pretext. Visual style is also lacking, with fairly standard drawings providing little appeal to animation fans.American voice-overs are likely to irk British Milne followers as they grate over the plain, uninspiring dialogue. The songs are equally unmemorable.Such a low standard is all the more disappointing in light of Disney's joint ventures with Pixar (Toy Story, A Bug's Life, etc.) which have consistently provided entertainment for all ages. Maybe the excuse that it's only a kids' movie just doesn't fit anymore.  "},{"Title":"A nice addition to the Pooh films","Date":"12 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The gang from the Hundred Acre Wood is back on the big screen, and it is nice to see them there again.  Writer/director Jun Falkenstein has fashioned a nice story that keeps the spirit of the characters intact, and art director Toby Bluth has created some gorgeous visuals.  After the disappointing video The Mighty Kong, it's nice to see the Shermans back on track with the songs.  (Then again, this is not exactly unfamiliar territory to them.)  While the original cast will be missed (only John Fiedler returns--good luck trying to find a replacement voice for Piglet after he's gone!), the new cast does a fine job.	But this is not called The Tigger Movie for nothing, and indeed the film belongs to Jim Cummings.  He may not be Paul Winchell, but he brings a lot of energy to Tigger that comes through the speakers.  I imagine it is not very easy to play the lively Tigger and then do a complete 180 and voice the laid-back Pooh, but Cummings pulls it off nicely.  Praise must also go to Nikita Hopkins, whose wonderfully sincere performance as Roo will melt your heart like butter--just listen in the winter scene where Roo asks for Pooh's help in finding Tigger because it is his fault Tigger's gone.	Oh, yes, about the hauntingly beautiful Your Heart Will Lead You Home, co-written and performed by Kenny Loggins--that song deserves to win every award it can. "},{"Title":"Perfect Rainy Afternoon Viewing","Date":"10 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Those of us who grew up with the wonderful inhabitants of the Hundred Acre Wood were pleased as punch to see Winnie the Pooh and friends get a full-length animated movie. Still, while Pooh has always gotten the lead role in most of the Pooh cartoons, it always seemed to be Tigger who was the most popular character. So, logically, it seemed the right idea to make him the star. While the movie enjoys the songcraft of Richard and Robert Sherman (the team responsible for most of the great Disney songs of years gone by), it sorely misses the vocal talents of Paul Winchell and Sterling Holloway (although the ageless John Fiedler soldiers on). The Tigger Movie makes wonderful rainy afternoon viewing both for restless tykes and nostalgic Disneyholic adults. But be warned; bouncing can be habit-forming!!! "}{"Title":"Without Paul Winchell, Tigger isn't","Date":"28 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Paul Winchell, Sterling Holloway, and Sebastian Cabot.  They are the reason why Winnie the Pooh was so endearing.  Jim Cummings and John Hurt just don't have the magic.Call me sentimental, but I did not like the Tigger Movie.  The main reason is that the voices are not the same.  While the animation was essentially the same as every pooh cartoon I have ever seen, I couldn't get past the fact that Tigger just didn't have the same spirit and exuberance.  Even Eeyor had a noticeably different voice (much deeper than the Eeyor of old).Besides the different voices, the story was very slow.  In fact, the movie put me to sleep.I admit that the kids will like this movie, but I'm not sure how those of us who grew up with Pooh will feel.  "},{"Title":"Wonderful","Date":"23 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This was truly good old-fashioned fun for all ages.  The animation was crisp and clear, but still retained a gentle, golden quality.  The story was sweet.  The songs were cute.  And, of course, Tigger was wonderful. "},{"Title":"a wonderful first movie for my two year old daughter","Date":"22 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The animals in the Hundred Acre Wood have been my favorite characters to read stories of to my little girl.  My wife and I told her all about movie theaters, popcorn, etc.,  and we bought her the Tigger Movie book to prepare her for this great event, her first movie at a theater.  We were not disappointed.  The animation was outstanding, the story meaningful and insightful, and I particularly enjoyed the songs, especially the end title song, which was performed by Kenny Loggins.  My little girl screamed with delight and shouted often to the characters and our little eight month old, who also accompanied us, tried several times to reach out and grab Tigger and friends off the screen.  A great movie and a truly fun day for us. Tiggerificent!!!     "},{"Title":"A movie with bounce!","Date":"22 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I thought a movie with Tigger as the main character might be a bit grating, but I have to admit I ended up liking The Tigger Movie more than I expected (even with a squirming four-year-old on my lap).  The songs are good, the performances excellent, and there are some wonderful visuals (watch for the Tiggerized art masterpieces in Tigger's fantasy sequence!). There's enough to keep both kids and adults entertained, and the lesson Tigger learns about the true meaning of family is sweet and touching and well-developed.  A movie with laughter, tears, not to mention a lot of bounce! "},{"Title":"Cute for Winnie-the-Pooh fans","Date":"20 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This was a cute movie for kids and fans of the cartoon character. I could actually watch it without becoming bored which is a plus.The story line was pretty good, yet not too original. It made you feel warm inside which is what all Disney movies do.The songs were good, and everyone loves The Tigger Song especially. A good movie for the family. "},{"Title":"Good for what it is...","Date":"16 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Sure, Disney put out Winnie the Pooh Seasons of Giving just to put the preview of this film on there...but my two year old loved this.  It is good enough to keep the kids occupied, and the story is interesting enough to keep adults from falling asleep.  I give it a 7. "},{"Title":"TiGgErIfIc!!!","Date":"14 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A gentle metaphor about modern family structure and what really makes a family, THE TIGGER MOVIE is a heartfelt, beautiful film well in the tradition of Walt Disney.  It marks a return of The Sherman Brothers to Disney.  This is their first feature film with the company in nearly 30 years.  BEDKNOBS AND BROOMSTICKS (1971) starred Angela Lansbury and won the Shermans two Oscar Nominations for Best Song and Best Song Score.  There is already Oscar talk about three songs  The Whope-Dee-Dooper Bounce Tigger's Family Tree and the haunting end title piece Your Heart Will Lead You Home which was sung and co-composed by Kenny Loggins.  Jim Cummings provided the voices of both Tigger and Winnie The Pooh.  The film was produced by Cheryl Abood and directed by Jun Falkenstein.  "},{"Title":"Exceeded my expectations","Date":"12 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Our family has always enjoyed The Many Adventures of Winnie the Pooh (A compilation of the first Winnie the Pooh shorts), and have enjoyed the simple, easygoing stories. The more recent Winnie the Pooh offerings by Disney have been disappointing, often relying on Indiana Jones-ish action sequences, forgettable songs, and poor animation.I was expecting about the same from this film. Thankfully, the creators of this film have gone back (almost) to the style of the first shorts. This film relies more on the relationships of the characters rather than using a fast-paced action-based method of storytelling. The animation is quite good, and the songs fit well with the story.However, the songs aren't woven too tightly into the story (you can always see one coming). There is one song in the tradition of the past Disney films where all the visual references go way over the kids' heads; then there is the finale which really did not need to use a major action sequence to make its point.Despite these things, The Tigger Movie is very well done and is an enjoyable film for the whole family. "},{"Title":"T I DOUBLE GER FUN!!","Date":"22 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This was a wonderful movie, not only for children but for adults.  It shows what families are all about - love.  If you love Winnie the Pooh, you'll love this Tigger movie.  All the guys are in it.  And nobody is loved as much as Tigger is! "},{"Title":"Inappropriately Depressing","Date":"23 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Wow, am I ever glad we screened this one! We started this movie expecting a somewhat modernized (read hyperactive) take on the classic Winnie the Pooh shorts. What we got was a ludicrously depressing, down-beat tale that shows the once bouncy-trouncy-fun-fun-fun Tigger crying and moping for 77 minutes. What the heck happened here? The plot takes a line from Tigger's original song The most wonderful thing about Tiggers is that I'm the only one! and runs with it. The conclusion Being the only one is not, in fact, wonderful, and Tigger is secretly depressed and lonely. His friends (Pooh and co.) try to cheer him up, but to no avail. Only after an hour of non-stop tear-jerking and an over-the-top action sequence does Tigger reach the obvious conclusion that he had a family all along.But by then it's too late for the viewer Tigger's character has essentially been ruined.The whole thing is pretty much a corruption the childlike purity that defines A.A. Milnes universe; the man must be turning in his grave! In case you can't tell we hated it. I wouldn't let my kid anywhere near this movie. "}{"Title":"Good try!!","Date":"10 November 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Tigger Movie With everyone preparing for winter, Tigger (spell that T-I-double GRR) can't find anyone who will bounce with him. He decides that what he needs to do is find the other Tiggers so he'll have someone to bounce with whenever he feels the urge. But isn't, the wonderful thing about Tiggers is that Tigger's the only one?As you may have already guessed, unlike the previous Pooh adventures this is a Tigger vehicle (and it's about time I say). It has been a long while since I watched the originals, and it felt strange to hear the characters voiced by different people, most notably Eeyore and Rabbit. And did they have so many songs ? I stopped counting at four. Also, I found the inconsistent animation a bit distracting. But whose kidding whom? It was a fun movie, with humor, action, pathos, and resolution, and I bet more than a few people will leave this movie with a tear in their eye.Take the kids, or just tell them you're one at the wicket. "},{"Title":"You Need a Stamp to Mail His Letter.","Date":"9 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Tigger Movie (2000) Dir Jun Falkenstein / Voices Jim Cummings, John Fiedler, Ken Sansom, Peter Cullen, John Hurt Does Tigger not realize that it is useless to mail a letter if you don't know the address? Based on the Disney animation about a boy's stuffed toys that live in a world of their own. Winnie the Pooh riles the others together in a plan to help Tigger experience family. It doesn't occur to him that he is the only species of tiger that bounces on his tail. Examination of Tigger is a good concept but he lacks the sense that he is mentally challenged tiger. The conclusion also solves little. Other characters are a bit better drawn as individuals with the exception of the fact that they all band together to deceive this imbecilic tiger. Winnie the Pooh seems to lead the animals as a lovable bear who craves honey. Roo seems to be the one who understands Tigger the best although that may come from being young. Then there is Piglet who is constantly shivering. Perhaps he should move to some place tropical. John Hurt is a decent actor but somehow had his schedule clear to narrate this film. One would think that this would be beneath him. This is certainly better than Muppets From Space, which examined Gonzo's heritage but its main appeal will be children. Director Jun Falkenstein does a fine job at following the cartoon with its simple colourful world but it also drives a theme of individuality. Score 6 / 10 "},{"Title":"Tigger Family Values.","Date":"29 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" No one ages in the world that is Walt Disney's, not even in the 100-Acre Wood. The ever-youthful Christopher Robin, and his imaginary friends such as Winnie the Pooh, Piglet, Eeyore, Roo, Kanga, Rabbit, Owl and yes, the infamous Tigger are all here, they never leave.The Winnie the Pooh brand name, had been produced once more by The Walt Disney Company, this was to become The Tigger Movie. Without, sadly, the original voice that was Paul Winchell (1922 &#x96; 2005), who for many years had given us all fun and frolics with his ever lovable, or annoying, what ever your perspective may be, character Tigger, via a voice of lovable believability and honesty. Here we have the new voice, for a new generation, Jim Cummings (b.1953), not entirely a new comer, as he had voiced Tigger during the 1988 shows The New Adventures of Winnie the Pooh. While listening to the new voice, I'm afraid, for me, it just does not make it; with the comparison to listening to an elderly gentleman who quite simply had forgotten to put his false teeth back in. While the Americanisation of the associating voices are just bearable, the only English voice here is the narration of John Hurt. The animation here is your same old same old character profiling, as expected with historical characters and their evolution into the modern technical age, but as with this movie in particular, it is clean, sharp, colourful, and ordinary. It isn't about the quality of the messenger, but the importance of the message that The Tigger Movie portrays.In typical Walt Disney fashion, we have the moral standings of family values and friendships that can overcome doubt and loneliness, wherever and whoever the sufferer may be; friends and family are always near to give the boost back to the land of smiles, happiness and championship, they never disappoint.This is really a movie that can be blessed by children from all around the world, with its Tigger silliness, the half a dozen or so songs that accompany any Disney production such as this, and the heart-warming all rounder of a story that will have them happy to have been part of the Tigger family movie. "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"26 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Tigger Movie is much more like the Winnie-the-Pooh television series than the original Disney Movies.  The story is weak, although some of the dialog is clever. The obviously computer-generated falling leaves in many scenes were very distracting and you could often see flaws in the way they superimposed on the scene. In a word - disappointing. "},{"Title":"a charm that only the characters from the 100 acre wood can give...","Date":"23 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  1st watched 3/4/2000 - 6 out of 10(Dir-Jun Falkenstein) Despite the fact that this Disney effort copies from many of it's predecessors including the made-for-video Pooh movie(Grand Adventure) it has a charm that only the characters from the 100 acre wood can give it.The theme of all-for-one and one-for-all probably will never die as a heart-catcher.  "},{"Title":"Tigger is back, and the only difference is that he is now OFFICIALLY stealing the show.","Date":"28 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Okay, it's been 23 years since there has been a full length Winnie the Pooh film released, and the original fans have all grown up by now. But if you have ever been a fan of the Pooh gang, check out this movie. Take me, for example, I'm a 21 year old horror movie fanatic, and I loved The Tigger Movie. The whole gang is back in the 100 Acre Woods, and this time Tigger is making an effort to find his family, to no longer be the onliest one. The songs are original and amusing, the characters are still their same old lovable selves, and Tigger's play on words is just as hilarious as always (Sorry Piglet, but you're on the smallish side of tiny and a little bit lacking in verticality!). In the end, the message that the film delivers is much more important and heartwarming than it seems it will be at the beginning. It stresses the importance of a different kind of family than the traditional kind, and it ends up providing a message that can be appreciated by a much larger group of people. The Tigger Movie is a movie for people of all ages, it is very enjoyable and lots of fun. "},{"Title":"Good for Pooh beginners","Date":"20 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  My friend is a Winnie the Pooh fan, and she took me and another friend of ours to go see it. Don't get me wrong, I loved the Pooh movies as a child, and I had all of the originals on video. That was then, this is now. Now, my friends and I go into a movie theater overrun with 2-6 year olds and we know we won't be able to hear a single thing. Unfortunately, in the end, I didn't find much worth hearing in the movie. It really hit its young target audience well, but for the older audience, it really, really dragged. The dream sequence with all the Tigger celebrity cameos was a clever touch, but other than that, the movie didn't really leave me feeling much of anything.  "},{"Title":"The characters are cute but the movie's boring","Date":"6 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I saw the Tigger Movie with two friends and their two small kids. We were all bored during the movie. The characters are adorable but the plot isn't (though I got a few chuckles from Eeyore and Roo). I think the people who made this movie stole the plot from Muppets From Space!All in all, it's a harmless animated film that is suitable for children, and anything's better than Barney! I give it a 4/10. "},{"Title":"Poor Poor script","Date":"22 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I usually don't write much comments. This is definately not similar to the 'New Adventure of Winnie The Pooh', or the recently viewed 1977 classic 'The Many Adventures of Winnie The Pooh'. In comparison the script is extremely lame. My daughter who is going to be 2 soon, is bored and didn't care much for it. There is no Go-Fur. Winnie the Pooh looked too dull yet intelligent. The rest of the cast look 'animated' or 'zombies'. There is no charm in this flick, it is yet another work from Amateurs who work for Disney. Skip it and watch 'The New Adventures of Winnie The Pooh' on Disney Channel.thats my 2 cents "},{"Title":"A disturbing mix of terror and tedium","Date":"26 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  When we took my 2-year old to see the Tigger movie, maybe our expectations were a little high. A.A.Milne's stories have been stretched a little too thin by Disney over the years, but that doesn't keep us from putting on our Tigger golf shirts and heading to the multiplex to give it a try.I knew we were in for a long evening when the first ad was our first exposure to Dinosaur. My 2-year old was, shall we say, less than pleased with the T-Rex scene. The theater was filled with scattered, muffled cries.The Tigger movie itself was down-right dull. It start off with a little of the bouncy wackiness we'd come to expect, then the rest of the movie Tigger seems to just drag his tail around and mope. All through the movie, my daughter taps me in the side and says Daddy, why is Tigger sad? Daddy, why is Tigger sad? Daddy, why is Tigger sad? Thank goodness my watch has a backlight on it.Disney has come out with some real gems lately (Mulan, Toy Story 2, and Tarzan are both 9's in my ballot), but the Tigger movie seems like little more than Disney's declaration that mopes like me will continue to shell out $18 to have the family bored to tears.  "}{"Title":"Don't waste your money, this isn't the Tigger you know and love.","Date":"1 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Don't waste your money.  This isn't the Tigger you know and love.  My whole family was so bored, we walked out halfway through.While Winnie the Pooh and Tigger, Too may not have all the charm and sensitivity of the original books by A.A. Milne, this film has all the warmth and love of a corporate executive squeezing the last cent out of a beloved, but deceased, author of delightful books for children.  I usually enjoy Disney movies, as do my children, but everything you've heard about Disney ruining a children's classic is true in this case.The whole plot is laid out in the first five minutes of a movie that has all the dramatic pacing of The Land Before Time.  The flat characters sing incredibly dull musical numbers while bouncing randomly around the screen with animation that would look amateurish from anyone, let alone Disney.In Winnie the Pooh and Tigger, Too, Tigger was brash but lovable.  Now he's just rude, condescending, and obnoxious - if he were a neighbor, you wouldn't let your kids play with him.Skip the movie, and don't bother with the video.  Instead, walk across the street, buy a good book, and read it with your kids. You'll be glad you did. "},{"Title":"Tigger's Truly Tearjerking Tale!","Date":"14 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Whenever I even think of this lovely movie, I cry. It is such a sad story with a very moving ending. Adults as well as children need this - it's about family and how important any family should be to anybody! All I want to do, apart from cry my heart out, is give poor, forlorn Tigger a big, big hug and let him know that his family are right there with him. All of them; Pooh, Piglet, Owl, Eeyore, Kanga, Roo and even Rabbit they all love him. You see this is what I love about Disney's Winnie the Pooh movies; every single one of those beloved characters love and care for each other, there's never any hate and the messages to them all make me feel very humble.I've always been a fan of Pooh and all his friends and won't ever stop doing. "},{"Title":"Cute, and instantly forgettable.","Date":"10 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Well, this movie is amusing for a while, and I guess little kids would enjoy it, but it's so *LONG*!  It wears out it's welcome rather early on.  I like Pooh and his friends, but in smaller doses.  These characters work much better in shorter stories.  That said, this was a cute movie but I don't know if I'll ever want to see it again. "}]