[{"Title":"Loud, crass, pointless - an insult to the viewer","Date":"26 October 2002","Score":"76 out of 98 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" What can I say? If I've seen a film worse than this, it certainly doesn't spring to mind right now. I managed to get to the first screening in the local area and, even though the audience was fairly small, I still counted eleven people who walked out at various points in the movie and never came back. Now either Michael Myers slashed them up on their way to the lavatories or, like me, they were bored stiff by this absolute CLUNKER of a flick.The plot, or what little semblance there is of one, is simple yet completely ludicrous. An organisation called Dangertainment, headed by the entrepreneurial Freddie Harris (Busta Rhymes), gets together a group of six students (!) to spend the night in serial killer Michael Myers' childhood home, in the hope that they will find clues as to what drove Myers to kill and kill again. Quite why, 25 years on from the murders, they think they will achieve anything by sending a group of teenagers into a house that, in the real world, would probably have long been demolished, is beyond me. Surely it is the job of police psychologists to dissect the minds of serial killers anyway? The film conveniently forgets the previous five sequels (with the exception of H20; this gets an irrelevant reference in the gratuitous opening scenes which serve merely as an excuse to waste Jamie Lee Curtis' talents in some customary 'running around' antics) and throws us almost immediately into the environment of the house, where each of the six kids are given a little handy-cam to strap to their heads and told to go searching for clues... You with me so far? Well, that's pretty much all there is to it. Needless to say, Myers himself shows up at the house about 10 minutes into the movie (how? why?) and decides he wants to kill everybody one by one, in the style we've now become accustomed to.This paper-thin tale is told so badly, it's almost hard to believe what you're seeing on screen and that anyone was dumb enough to spend time and money filming it. I suppose you could almost see it like a series of noisy soundbites strung together randomly. It keeps things simplistic to the point of being nonsensical, presumably to avoid confusing its target audience of dribbling inbreds. I think I could've written a better, more entertaining and reasonable script myself on the back of a beermat. Nothing is ever explained or justified, no matter how implausible and ridiculous things get, and yet, bogglingly, the film still seems to take itself fairly seriously. It tries desperately to shock with a series of boring but bloody knife murders (nothing we haven't seen ad nauseam in any of the previous films) and innumerable 'false' scares with flashlights and toys falling out of cupboards. It's all so by-the-books and done-to-death that you'd have to have never seen a single horror film in your life to find it even remotely tense or scary.I think what bugs me the most about the film is just how terribly made it is. Even forgetting the GAPING plot holes, there are loads of obvious continuity errors and a sad, desperate style of direction that seems to drag every scene to the point of agony in a desperate attempt to pad out the already-short running time of the film. The cast do nothing to help things - all the characters are cardboard stereotypes and the ugly, plastic teens seem to be having a battle to see who can be the most skin-crawlingly irritating. I think it ends up as a tie between Katee Sachoff's hyperactive, squeaky airhead and Bianca Kajlich's jitterbug 'heroine', who spends the entire movie simpering and screaming loudly every time someone drops a pin. Oh, for the record, Busta Rhymes is absolutely ATROCIOUS in this. His entire purpose in this movie seems to be to deliver the worst examples of wisecrack-by-numbers dialogue I've ever heard (ie Trick or treat, motherf**ker?) and he plays his role as a cross between Eddie Murphy and Vin Diesel, but without the charm or charisma of either.I'd like to say John Carpenter would be ASHAMED to see such a horrible mess made out of his characters, but when you consider the maestro himself is making films almost as bad as this these days, he probably couldn't give a toss so long as the money keeps rolling in. I think this fact in itself proves just how much horror movies have changed since the first Halloween was made and, to its credit, Halloween Resurrection would be a perfect example of an of its time product you could stick in an 'early 21st century' time capsule for future generations to balk at. It is every bit as throwaway and pointless as the culture that spawned it. It is loud, crass and in-your-face constantly, despite having absolutely nothing to say when it gets there - it's like the movie equivalent of an annoying little brat screaming at you, desperate for attention. Look at me! Look at me! I'm being noisy and irritating!... I would highly advise, for your sanity's sake, that you don't look since, like that annoying child, you'll only encourage it and I, for one, don't think I could cope with another sequel this bad... This film is utter garbage and I fail to think of a single way in which they could've made it any worse. A resounding 0 out of 10. "},{"Title":"If This Is Merely Entertainment (Then Make It So!)","Date":"5 May 2003","Score":"60 out of 79 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  They don't make 'em like that anymore, friends of the horror genre often remark on their web sites in reference to killer films from the late 1970s and 1980s era. They are right.It's not just that sentiments of nostalgia have turned those films into little treasures in our memories. It's because current horror films stink. Not all of them, but plenty or more anyway.Ever since Dwight H. Little last captured the right Halloween spirit and atmosphere in 1988's Halloween 4, the series deteriorated into a ridiculous, messy and pathetic show. I don't care how many fans of the series curse part 3, it was a pleasant watch compared to what came after part 4. Halloween 5 was a complete prank and lacked any sense of storytelling (compliments to Danielle Harris, who managed to perform extremely well under the circumstances). Part 6, well, let's not waste any words on that one. H20 had its moments and decent acting by Jamie Lee Curtis, but a Southern California private school seemed like a poor replacement for Haddonfield. The producers dedicated it to Donald Pleasance, ignoring the fact that his last name was Pleasence (with an E) and had been spelled correctly on all earlier installments that involved his acting. So much for Moustapha Akkad's commitment to the project!Halloween Resurrection had a nice opening scene. A 1960s home movie at the Myers house, with the sounds of Johnny Angel performed by Shelley Fabares. It was cut. Of course, the Akkads in their infinite wisdom must have thought, why bother young people with an old song from someone they have never even heard of! Let's keep the film simple (and let's take a popular hip hop artist as the lead actor).But, thank God, Rick Rosenthal filmed one other decent scene. It involves Jamie Lee Curtis's character hospitalized in a mental institution. This actually is quite a nice scene, with the actress performing wonderfully. It provides a satisfactory and surprisingly original bridge between the events at the end of H20 and the current state of affairs in Resurrection, with Laurie Strode at the end of her wits and a killer still on the loose.And after this? We might as well have left. After the promising Jamie Lee Curtis opening scene there seemed no budget, and more important no inspiration left to come up with something, anything. It's a bore. It's a drag. The prospect of a replica of the original Myers house showing up is a joke. We're allowed one glimpse, and even on that one occasion it is very unsatisfactory a big car is parked in front and taking the view, as the camera briefly glances up from a low, moving position. It beats me why they even bothered rebuilding it. The interior scenes can be ignored in this sense it may have been any old house that Busta Rhymes's character Freddie Harris decided to do his online reality show in. And about these characters have they ever been this flat in ANY Halloween sequel? NO! The characters in Halloween 5 or 6 were drawn brilliantly compared to what is presented to us here! Okay I realize this is actually pretty much of an achievement. Credit to Larry Brand and Sean Hood. It's amazing. The unimpressive cast (I'm not counting Curtis) is highlighted by 'stars' Busta Rhymes (pop artist who is kindly given the chance to act) and Tyra Banks (model who is kindly given the chance to act). Let's suffice by saying that in this case the actors have been given the roles they deserve.Enough said. Or... We often are told one should not apply the same criteria to a horror film as the ones that apply to drama or classics. But why on earth not? I admire more than one horror movie, but that does not mean I feel I should appreciate the crappy ones by the grace of the good ones. I can see when a film is made with no heart, no spirit and Resurrection is the key example of that. Furthermore, if these films -as we are told so often by people like Moustapha Akkad- are made for entertainment (read cashing in) purposes only and not for quality acting, complex storytelling or great photography then why, why, why do they so vigorously renounce that one basic goal, the goal of being entertaining??? "},{"Title":"Shame on you Rick Rosenthal!!!","Date":"28 November 2003","Score":"42 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" What the heck was this? Seriously, Halloween H20 was a perfect ending to the Halloween franchise and so help me God if this was their final sequel this was the worst way to end it. I remember seeing this in the theater and afterwards just everyone saying how much they hated this movie. First off they have Jamie Lee Curtis all crazed looking and drugged up and then&#x85; they kill her off! Oh, my, God! How could they?! Shame on these stupid people, this is a pathetic attempt of the MTV generation trying to add technology to the Halloween series. What did the very first Halloween present to us? A killer who stalks babysitters and wanted to kill his family off, nothing else, that's it. Very simple, why do they try to crap up the story? How could you make a Halloween movie bad? Apparently this stupid director must have been drinking or doing some illegal substance because this was just a shamed attempt at giving us a few scares.Beginning three years after the events of Halloween H20, Laurie Strode, has been confined to a psychiatric care facility. The Summer Glen paramedic located the body of Michael Myers in the dining hall of Laurie's school, Hillcrest Academy High School. When attempting to seemingly do away with the terror from her brother once and for all, she had killed an innocent man. Unable to deal with the crime and the fear of her brother, Lauire was later confined to a sanitarium. Myers had earlier attacked the paramedic and forcefully switched clothing and his mask. The paramedic was rendered a mute from a crushed larynx. On the night of October 31, 1998, Myers cleverly escaped once again. When Michael finally appears, Laurie lures him into a trap, but before she can kill him for good, he turns the tables on her. In a confrontation on the sanitarium's rooftop, she reaches over to pull off his mask to make certain it is actually her brother. He suddenly grabs her and pulls her over the edge with him, stabbing her deep in the back. She gives him a kiss on the lips of his mask, lastly telling him, I'll see you in Hell. Michael releases the knife from his sister and she falls many stories below to her death. Myers finally accomplished killing his sister, a pursuit twenty-three years in the making. He then makes his way back home to Haddonfield, Illinois. One year later on Wednesday October 30th, six college students win a competition to appear on an Internet reality show in which they are to spend Halloween night in the childhood home of Michael Myers. Their mission is to find out what led him to kill. On the actual date of October 31, the investigation is done in a style reminiscent of the MTV reality show, Fear. On this night, through the entrepreneurial broadcast business Dangertainment, it is shot live on the internet. Of course who is going to be there to ruin it? You guessed it, Big Bird, Happy Halloween.This is just a stupid sequel, Halloween Resurrection makes the other sequels look like masterpieces. Halloween 2 started off terrific, we slumped just a little, nothing major, things picked up majorly with Halloween H20, so how in the heck did this movie get messed up? Because the director and writer were looking to relate to today's audience, which are a bunch of ignorant teens and this was just a waste of my time and it will be a waste of yours' as well, I promise you, you're not missing out on anything, don't watch this movie. Let's just forget about it and think that H20 was the way the Halloween franchise ended, oh, Michael, please don't ever do this again, either that or kill the director, or I will! Where's my butcher knife? Happy Halloween.1/10 "},{"Title":"Whats next?...HalloweenThe Resurrection H20","Date":"24 February 2003","Score":"41 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  There are just some times when a good movie franchise is abused and milked for all it's worth.  The first of the series is great and sets the mark ,the 2 occasionally 3 sequels that follow are mediocre and anything after that is just trying to make money of an audience that has no other place to spend their money.  I, unfortuantely was a member of that audience, as I paid money to watch HALLOWEEN RESURRECTION, the 8th installment of the once classic HALLOWEEN franchise.I don't even no where to start; bad cast, bad acting, boring death scenes (not to sound wierd, but why else do you go see a movie like this), need I go on.If you noticed that this movie is mostly made up of celebrities, it is no mistake.  This is all the movie has going for it, and yet it fails in that department.  The biggest mistake a horror movie can make is when it spends most of its time setting up the big death scenes and then knocks off its characters one right after another.  That is exactly what happens in RESSURECTION.  Every character w/the exception of 2 die in a consecutive chain that takes up about 20 minutes of the movie and the other hour is spent trying to gather of what little plot exists.The horror doesn't stop there.  This HALLOWEEN installment doesn't have the style that made the first two so good.  With the exception of a somewhat unexpected opening, the movie is poorly put together.Clearly an attempt to make some fast cash off a dying series, HALLOWEEN RESURRECTION  hopefully is the last time Micheal Myers takes the screen.  Yet, I am sure there will find some way to bring back the masked killer.  There always is a chance that the executives in charge of this franchise will make a good decision and hang up the white mask and throw away the knife.  HALLOWEEN RESURRECTION rates as just a 2/10. "},{"Title":"Gives a new dimension to the word tiresome","Date":"11 October 2002","Score":"34 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  ANOTHER slasher pick? Yes, it's the new Halloween, the 7th or 8th in the series, lost count. No 7th or 8th film in a series is any good, the 4th, 5th and 6th usually aren't neither, but that's ok. Actually, I had some hopes for this film, walking in the theater.  The original Halloween was one of the best in the genre, with never-dying Michael Myers entering the big-screen in spectacular fashion. But the second in the series was already far beyond par, and the rest was pure formula (haven't seen any of em though). Then came H20 20 YEARS LATER, which benefited again from Jamie Lee Curtis' presence. Not a good film, far from being a stand-out in the genre, but at least it had SCREAM-writer Kevin Williamson on the credits, and was actually pretty enjoyable too. So I thought well, maybe this new Halloween will have some suspense too, maybe some surprises (I'm a sucker for surprises). But what I saw...well, I'm still speechless. This film was even worse than most stupid entries in this genre.First of all, we get a stupid explanation for the fact that Michael is STILL alive (unbelievable if you saw the previous one). Then we get Jamie Lee Curtis in the mental hospital. What happens next, might show her attitude towards the series by now. The beginning has actually nothing to do with the rest of the film, it isn't even a good opening to this film, unlike the SCREAM-intros. Then we get to see the actual film, which is pretty much, like one of the characters puts it, Halloween meets the Osbournes, or Big Brother, or the German movie DAS EXPERIMENT, or whatever. You put the usual bunch of irritating high-school friends in one house, put some cameras on top and let Mike (umm...Michael) Myers do his thing. Is it thrilling? Nope, it just seems Myers is doing a routine slashing in here. There's no suspense at all, just people getting killed like you knew they would. Not hard to guess that the smartest will survive. Is it funny? Yeah, if you can laugh at lame dialogue and the aforementioned irritating characters. If that's your thing, fine, shows why all these dumb-headed high-school comedies nowadays are such a success. Oh, and it's so dumb-minded that you can't even stop shouting at the screen Oh, come on! As if...But what could you expect from a movie that was directed by the same man that directed Halloween II? It's so formula that you cannot only predict everything from the first til the last minute, but it's so bad that the last-minute surprise is even more irritating than usual. It's so obvious by now that, indeed, Evil never dies , that it's even boring to see these people trying to put M.M. to rest, without being ultimately successful. How long will they go on with this and what's the point of making another movie like this if nothing works out in the end. I'm sure Michael must be pretty tired by now. But maybe we get a Halloween 60 years later, in x years time, where Michael is a geriatric patient, killing off his fellow patients. Maybe that would be a thriller! As far as this one is concerned it's more of a thrill finding ways to stay awake while Michael is doing his thing than watching this bore. 1/10 "},{"Title":"AAAAAAAAHHHHHHHHHHwfull.....","Date":"12 November 2002","Score":"16 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  AAWWFFUULLLL doesn't even begin to describe it. I went in expecting something else. But in the Big Brother era, sooner or later there would come a movie about it.Listing all thte things that bothered me would be too boring, but the main thing is the predicability. The movie's end is known beforehand halfway in the movie. You could guess thousands of things before they happened.The casting is really, really, really bad. The only ones that emerge are Luke Kirby, Tyra Banks and the eternal Jamie Lee Curtis. The scary scenes aren't scary; the setting is ridiculous and the screenplay tedious. The only scenes that had potential were Jamie Lee Curtis's cameo and the girls death chase in the basement, not for director's talent, but for John Carpenter's. For his truly fantastic and everlasting Halloween theme.Keep out. "},{"Title":"I'm just going to pretend this movie never existed","Date":"22 February 2007","Score":"15 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Halloween is the best in the series. Halloween H20 is the 2nd best. Halloween 2 is the 3rd best. Halloween 4 the Return of Michael Myers is the 4th best. Halloween the Curse of Michael Myers is the 4th worst. Halloween 3 Season of the Witch is the 3rd worst. Halloween 5 is the 2nd worst. And Halloween Resurrection is the worst in the series. I don't know why this movie was even made. Michael Myers was decapitated at the end of Halloween H20. The acting was terrible. there wasn't one original death. And since Laurie Strode died at the beginning of this movie, there are none of the original characters remaining other than Michael Myers himself. And there are so many things that could've been better. 1. the title would've made more sense if Laurie had succeeded in killing Michael. Then he really would've resurrected for the rest of the film. 2. They should've kept the original opening with the home video of the Myers family before Michael killed Judith. 3. They should've gotten a better cast. Even Jamie Lee Curtis was bad in this one. This movie is just plain stupid. Anyway, I'll be reviewing the Friday the 13th movies next. A couple of them were actually dumber than this movie as hard as it is to believe. "},{"Title":"This is terrible,Stay away from this film!!!","Date":"10 February 2006","Score":"19 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Seen it on the pictures and i couldn't wait for it to end,thought id give it another go on DVD with my folks and i was yet again subjected to 86 minutes of pure trash,my parents fell asleep even before it ended! The acting is terrible,Busta rhymes is a joke,there is nothing and i mean nothing new about this entry.It seems the director didn't give a monkey's behind about this film,i would be embarrassed to have my name on the credits.Definitely the worst Halloween film by far!!! I'd rather watch paint dry,at least that would be more interesting... Michael myers R.I.P (if only) some genius is going to bring out Halloween 9... "},{"Title":"The Night He Shouldn't Have Come Home!","Date":"21 November 2002","Score":"13 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Well, the strange thing is that this is part of an odd Halloween set of films the Jamie Lloyd series follows 1,2,4,5,6 and the Laurie Strode saga is 1,2,7,8.. They say in number 8 that Halloween 2 did happen. So Michael's hands as well as his body should be burned and scarred..... This movie contradicts it's self with many, many details. The movie had no redeeming features. College students that you really didn't care for thrown into a MTV's Fear kind of setting that is the Myers House.Tyra Banks by far was the worst actress in this film, she played an idiotic role and was no need for her in it. The whole Internet thing takes the confined spaces that the other films offered and puts it on display like a freakshow for all to see. The Halloween series is supposed to be dark, scary, and extremely shocking. This entry is boring, lackluster, and just plain dull.*spoiler* And why did they have kill off Laurie Strode? She survived all of Michael's attacks, shouldn't she have been given a reprive?This movie sucked tho, and that is thanks to Mostapha Akkad, in any interview he does, he jerks his thumb at the statue of Michael that is behind him and says 'As Long As This Guy Is Around, We'll make money.' Sadly, the production, and scripts suffer due to this. Akkad won't let Michael die...and then the films will become a joke.Rick Rosenthal was ripping off his previous halloween 2 directing days. Michael appears out of the shadows, a character slipping in blood, and 'Dr. Mixer' a character out of H2.... *sigh*  Rosenthal should stick with directing TV episodes, which he's done for the past 10+ years. Don't direct a bad movie.John Carpenter or Kevin Williamson has to come back and write a decent script for this series! If you want to understand what really drove Michael to kill his sister, read the Halloween novel by 'Curtis Richards'. It is much, much better that any of the sequels and ranks up there with the first film.I thought Halloween 6 was bad, 6 is actually one of the better films in the series compared to this. this is the worst in the series!!!!If I gave this film any stars, I'd be kidding myself. "},{"Title":"Halloween 8 misses the mark big time","Date":"11 January 2006","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Halloween 8 Resurrection should really entitled Halloween 8 destruction of a franchise or how to kill a franchise in 90 minutes. Halloween 8 is an awful movie that is devoided of any orginality or redeeming qualties (Trya Banks is smoking hot, but is little more than an extra with a line or two). Halloween 8 spits on everything that previous movies have worked hard to preserve since John Carpenters genre inventing original, the worst Halloween 8 actually think's it has the goods.H8 had an impressive budget (due to the healthy box office of the last film) but squanders it on actors that add nothing to the movie but prolong their own dismial carrers. Busta Rhymes actually proves a good leading man until becoming undone by his own ego, most of the other actors have tongue firmly pressed in their check and most phone it in. Jamie Lee Curtis deserves special mention as she almost displays hate for her iconic cult character and cant wait to put to the whole franchise in the past.As a fan of the franchise the biggest problem I had was an arrogance to acknowledge previous movies in the series and tries to forge it's own path that leaves Michael Myers holding his dick in his hand. Halloween 8 Resurrection come across as a scream hybrid that wont satisfy casual fans or die hards and as the final reel fades out everyone will be thinking That would never happen. "}{"Title":"Godawful","Date":"10 August 2003","Score":"14 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Where to start?  Hilariously bad acting?  False scares? Plot ripped off from My Little Eye? More false scares? Shameless rewrite of the ending of H20?  Yet more false scares?  Tyra Banks? Busta Rhymes? BUSTA RYHMES???!?!You won't believe what you are seeing. "},{"Title":"Crap in its purest form","Date":"16 June 2006","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" So, let's start with the story. It's simply an excuse for us to see Michael kill people. I mean, what was that all about? A cop guy having his larynx crushed and mistaken for Michael? I mean, he didn't even try to remove his mask or something. It sounded more of a joke rather than a serious story. Plus, how could they kill Laurie in the first 10 minutes? (which was the best part of the whole movie) Story rating - 0/3Let's turn to the acting. Well, there isn't much to say. It's simply BAD! Busta was a complete joke. He was reading rather than acting and couldn't even say two lines with the word mother****er. And the heroine was a stupid, obedient girl who's afraid of her own reflection - 0/3Not a single death was original. That guy having his head crushed was so Jason-y. And how can a knife like Michael's cut through someones head with just a swing? If it was Jasons knife, maybe. But Michael's knife is simply a big kitchen knife. The only scene which I liked was when the Julianne Moore clone got pushed on that spike. I think that was one of the deaths I never saw before. - 1/4So, STAY AWAY from this movie. Especially if you've seen all the Halloween sequels (excluding 4-6). It turns Michael Myers' movies into teen slasher movies. Trust me, DON'T rent it!! "},{"Title":"by far the worst Halloween film","Date":"24 March 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Whoever wrote this must really hate John Carpenter and all the Halloween fans why would someone like Busta Rhymes be in this film and why why one earth have him kung-fu fight Michael Myers. I fell bad for Jamie Lee for being in this film and had to actually die. Have Busta Rhymes die not Laurie Strode. My God if the next movie hadn't been a remake we might have ended up seeing Mr. T and Hulk Hogan Boxing a Wrestling Michael Myers. I am disgusted with Rick Rosenthal and still hate him for letting a rapper Kung-fu fight Michael Myers. Dimension Films Should be Ashamed of themselves for making this movie. Halloween movies are supposed to be good!!! "},{"Title":"The worst movie, in an otherwise fantastic series...","Date":"6 May 2005","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I recently purchased an 8 Disc box set of all the Halloween movies. The only one, I hadn't seen, was Resurrection. I had to see it, to see how the writers would get round the oops, we decapitated him at the end of the last one....... and I couldn't stop laughing. Michael Myers switched places with a Paramedic... I'd love to know where he keeps his spare masks? You'd think, that when he woke up in the van, he would have ripped his mask off, so Laurie would know that she had the wrong guy? Oh no...And thus, is the beginning of a truly terrible addition to an otherwise successful franchise. We finally get closure between Laurie and Michael right at the beginning... but after all Laurie has been through, I didn't think she would be stupid enough to double check she had the right guy, especially when he was stalking her with a knife anyway..Weak direction. Weak script. Weak cast. Busta Rhymes is obnoxious as Freddie Price, an entrepreneur of an internet web cast called Dangertainment, who selects 6 high school clichés to spend a night in Myers childhood home. OF course, Myers trashes the party, and offs people in a way that doesn't go with the Halloween movies. In earlier movies, the violence and the gore was kept to our imagination. We would see the events leading to it, the flash of a knife, and then we would imagine the rest. Resurrection has blood and gore like there's no tomorrow, and it felt like I was watching some tacked on slasher movie, not one of the many sequels to Halloween.The Halloween movies were a rare franchise, that was intelligent, and always had the ability to shock, and entertain. The first movie sets the standards for all of todays slasher flicks. Halloween II was slightly dodgy with its story, and the pace was slow, but it was entertaining. Things dipped a bit in the late 80's, early 90's, but by H20, new life has been breathed into the series, and I thought things could only get better. How wrong I was.I almost feel ashamed for watching it all the way to the end. Saying that, I will watch it again. It's Halloween after all, and every movie franchise has a bad turkey (Phanton Menace, Freddy Vs Jason, Any hellraiser movie after the third...) All in all, as long as your pi$$ed as a fart, you wont care, and will gladly cheer on Micheal as he slashes his way through 90 minutes of total torture. "},{"Title":"Can I give this a 0?","Date":"27 October 2005","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Not only is this the worst movie of the series(as well as the most unnecessary), it's one of the worst I've ever seen(out of thousands). Why Jamie Lee Curtis ever agreed to do this cameo, I have no idea. The plot is absurd. The idea behind how Meyers is not dead after H2O is mind-numbingly stupid. And from there, it gets worse. A live broadcast from the Meyer house on Halloween night with the great actor, Busta Rhymes? Oh, lord, why did I keep watching. Further taking the viewer into the depths of idiocy we get to see secrets in the Meyers' house and lots of neat places for a serial killer to hide. I'm still stunned this movie was ever made, after a fitting end in H2O, but it proves Hollywood will do anything for money. This movie is so bad at least six of the Friday the 13th movies are better. "},{"Title":"blah","Date":"2 October 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Halloween Resurrection starts off on the wrong foot and it's all downhill from there. Sure they found a clever way to undo the closure of Halloween H2O and make it possible to bring Mike up to his old shenanigans, unfortunately that whole segment is hasty and the rest of the movie's garbage. The what really happened explanation is just a loophole for making a movie that's neither necessary nor any good, and so I present to you Halloween Resurrection.I'm not going to write any spoilers about what happens to Laurie, but I think anyone who loves the original Halloween and its characters will think what they did with her in this movie is crap and only put her in here for the sake of having Laurie in it.The characters are plastic. Even by the end of the movie when you get to know all of them a little bit, you don't care enough about them to want to see them escape the wrath of Mike Myers. In fact, you'll probably look forward to their demise at his hands. That's how flat and/or despicable these characters are. Even the lead role doesn't have much personality. She's nice and smart and decent, just like Laurie was in fact, but somehow she doesn't have much personality. I don't think her character was developed enough, otherwise she could have made a good heroine. The rest of the characters are people you pretty much hope get killed off, especially the tech lady played by Tyra Banks and most of the kids that tour the haunted house. Obnoxious people, hastily made characters. And Busta Rhymes plays the typical black dude with a boisterous personality. Not a bad acting job, but what a typical cliché character.The technology is another factor. Another case of fusing horror with the fancy gimmick of modern technology (or what was modern in 2002 anyways). Just because we have things like reality shows and phone-texting nowadays does not mean it will make a horror movie any scarier, or realistic, or better at all. Having people emailing and playing on their phones and all in the movie takes away from the good old-fashioned terror you get from something as simple as a lurking shadow or the gleam of a butcher knife.There's a couple of notably cool things in the movie, like when Freddy dresses up like Mike Myers while Mike is there in the flesh and you see two Mikes walking one behind the other. Well that was more funny than anything. The scene with the bong was funny too. And the murder scenes are alright and in typical Mike Myers fashion, but otherwise Resurrection bombs as a horror film and leaves you yet again with no closure, except this time you wouldn't really want to see another sequel. "},{"Title":"Busta a NO NO!!!!","Date":"30 March 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was horrible. What is up with Busta rhymes doing the karate kicks with the sound effects. I couldn't believe they would put him in a myers movie. It was hilarious seeing Busta karate kicking and wahhing. What the! They couldn't pick a better person? It is ridiculous how bad these movies get. If a person has their head chopped off (Mike Myers in H20) then how are they going to come back. If the creators were smart they would just leave the series alone and stop continuing it. It is only getting worse. When i was 4 and saw the first one i was freaked out. But if a 4 year old saw this one they would start cracking up. Come on. Can it get any worse? Should i have even of asked. If anyone liked this they must have been on serious meds. "},{"Title":"The Worst Of The Worst!","Date":"16 January 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This was the worst of the series by far, I'd rather have watched Halloween 3 again! If Busta Rhymes character was'nt in this it definately would've got a better rating from me! This character was a total ignorant,annoying as hell,I could'nt wait for him to get killed,now that would've made my day! I give this one a 1,only rent if you really want to lose 90 min. of your life.I have no idea what they were thinking when they made this garbage, that's right...they was'nt! "},{"Title":"What an awful movie!!","Date":"20 February 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I just can't stop trashing this crappy movie.  Those pompous annoying teenagers were no more then cardboard character with too many lines.  But what really sunk this movie was Busta Rhymes and the lousy performance by Tyra Banks.  They could have found better actors at a community college. Spoiler!!  That scene where Busta takes on Michael Myers then karate chops him thru the window.  Please.  Finnaly Michael comes back in his house and stab Busta until he collaspses dead -the highlight of the movie. I rejoiced thinking that boring ass clown was gone forever.  But no, he gets to live again, his menacing attempts to act have been resurrected. He's up and around jumping and functioning as though nothing happened to him. Predictably he gets to kill Michael Meyers then calls him a motherf*cker for about the tenth time.  Naturally his lines are all seasoned with that charming phrase whenever possible.  The very final scene was also painfully predictable and quite dismal.  After complety trashing the Michael Meyers series these idiots have the gall to suggest a sequel.  Which washed up rap singer will they recruit for the next flop?  M&M?  Another thing is that mask.  Busta must have stoled the original because Michael's mask looked terrible. Something was wrong it didn't fit right.  This whole movie went wrong. Iam sorry I saw it. "},{"Title":"Halloween In 'Da Hood!!!","Date":"20 September 2008","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" As a hard-core HALLOWEEN fan, I feel like I'm the only one who truly loves this awesome sequel! My title is called HALLOWEEN In 'Da Hood because it has Busta Rhymes, Tyra Banks, and Sean Patrick Thomas. I love the plot, the setting, and the mood in the film! Michael finally finishes off his sister, Laurie Strode, which kinda sucked. One year has passed and Freddie Harris starts a new website called DangerTainment and six lucky people win a chance to be in it, and the location is Michael Myers' childhood home. I love that the house looks just like the original house. Sara, Rudy, Jen, Bill, Donna, and Jim are the winners, and they meet Freddie and Nora for their interviews. Meanwhile, across town, Myles 'Deckard' Barton is watching Sara do her interview, because he is interested in her and has been helping her with internet stuff. on HALLOWEEN, they all go to the Myers house, and broadcast live on the Internet for millions of people to watch. No one can leave until the show is over, so they are all locked in. Little do they know, Michael is back and doesn't like uninvited guests. At a college HALLOWEEN party, Myles 'Deckard' is watching the show, and when Michael shows up, Myles believes that the people are actually being killed, but no one else at the party does until Sara is the last one alive and calls Myles for help to tell her where Michael is at. Freddie finds Sara and realizes what is happening. Most people hate that Busta Rhymes karate-chops Michael, but I have no problem at all with it! Later, in the garage, Sara has been knocked on the ground with some heavy equipment on her, and Michael is coming to kill her, then Freddie knocks the door down, and says Trick or treat, motherfu#*er! to Michael because he thought he killed Freddie. If you love sequels, horror, the internet, and the HALLOWEEN series, you'll love HALLOWEEN RESURRECTION!!! "}{"Title":"Terrible! Garbabe! A disgrace and disappointment to fans!","Date":"29 October 2004","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" When I watched this, I was hoping it was a dream. I wish they would have ended the whole series after H20. The opening sequence with Jaime Lee was fun to watch - she is great in everything she does, we know that, but the rest of it was truly pathetic! Sadly, we no longer have Donald Pleasance who practically kept the films going. Jaime Lee is done with them. So what do we do? We cast a bunch of sorry unknowns who we don't have to pay much, plus a supermodel named Tyra Banks who has only a few lines, plus we put an Oscar worthy rapper (NOT!) in it that loves using the F-word every 2 seconds. The whole idea of using the cameras and a group of stupid, drunk kids at a Halloween party watching the whole thing on a pda/computer screen was so cheesy. And what I enjoyed about the Hallowen films up to this point was that they were cheese-free. The Blair Witch Craze is over - find something fresh guys! And the head chopping scene with the butcher knife was really ridiculous. I loved all the films up to this one. I like the direction they took with H4 and H5. H6 was OK. I hated that they cast another lame unknown in the role of Jaime Lloyd and then killed her off - another dumb idea! Danielle Harris should have been paid what she wanted. Anyway, John Carpenter is probably ashamed and disgusted by what they have done with this series if he watched H8 and I'm sure Donald Pleasance is rolling over in his grave. I hope H9 will be decent, but if they expect to do anything like they did in 8, I will not watch it and the series will be dead. Please let them have a decent plot and some real star-power with decent acting. Whoever came up with the idiotic ideas for this film really needs a hearty slap in the face for stupidity. Give us a break. "},{"Title":"A sad disgrace","Date":"20 February 2003","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Having been a huge fan of the Halloween series I was sadly let down by the terrible acting, the screenplay, and the constant reference to the internet. The main star is a rap singer who can't act, and the rest of cast are annoying teenagers that are completely uninteresting.  The ten minute introduction was acceptable, but the rest of the movie started and I was left wondering what the hell is this crap.  Why did they make this movie? Instead of feeling scared I felt mad, and betrayed. Before long there all in his old house, and its one boring scene after another of long mindless chatter.  When the hell is he going to kill all these little friggin snots. Finally the first ones gone. Good. Go get the next one.  This was nothing like the original movie where you actually cared about Jamie Lee Curtis getting hurt let alone the sad chance of her dying.  This movie bugs.  Its almost impossible to watch. "},{"Title":"Often stupid, sometimes clever, and completely unnecessary (SPOILERS ahead)","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I fought the annoying crowd on opening night solely for Jamie Lee Curtis.  The few trailers I'd seen led me to believe she was returning yet again as the heroine.  Wrong.  Instead, she has fifteen minutes (if that) of amazing screen time before being offed....  It seems the only reason she showed up was to set up why Michael was still alive (and their reasoning was less than satisfactory - it was asinine).  It would have been interesting if, as I was led to believe, her neurotic character was like Linda Hamilton in T2, escaping from the asylum to hunt down her brother...but no.  Instead, we're fed a Blair-Witch-Project-meets-Halloween setup, complete with dizzying, often annoying camerawork, a lot of bad jokes, tit-shots, and an assortment of one-dimensional characters who you never really care about as they're being sliced and diced by the maniac in the (now more detailed) William Shatner mask.  H20 should have been the end.  The previous entry was made with loving care by people who obviously had respect for the original film - and more than a typical bloody sequel, they were looking for a clever way to end the series.  There was a plot, strong characters, and a purpose.  The new incarnation follows the typical bloody sequel trend, pitting the bad-guy against a bunch of unsuspecting kids.  Yet again, tons of bloodshed ensues.  And then we're left with that typical ending, standard from &#145;80s films (particularly Friday the 13th) where  they leave it wide open for another sequel with the corpse's eyes opening.  Yawn.  I'm a huge horror (and Halloween) fan, but I've already seen this movie a billion times under a billion different titles with a billion different casts.I will admit that it's not all bad, though the cons far outweigh the pros.   There is some clever dialogue (You have nice legs, when do they open?) as well as an amusing on-camera bong scene.  The effects are generally good.  And the guy playing Michael this time did a good job mimicking Nick Castle's mannerisms.  If this were made prior to H20, I might have liked it more.  But enough's enough already!  Finally, what's up with the constantly evolving mask?  Not since part 2 has it even remotely looked like it did in the original.  And by the way, after wasting $8, I'D like to personally stab Curtis for being involved in this one.... "},{"Title":"Unoriginal, and not in the style of the prequels","Date":"28 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This movie was released in 2003, trust them to take a good franchise and make some reality show style garbage as a squeal! Halloween was a classic, this is just like any other Big Brother style horror that was going around in the early 2000s. Had none of the atmosphere of the prequels, Myers himself didn't even seem that scary! The only thing I was glad about in this movie was that Myers wasn't finally killed off by this band of idiots. They tried to kid us at the end though he died in a fire. We've already seen that and it DOESN'T work, so why try to fool the viewer? If you like the early Halloween movies, I do not recommend this as you will be really disappointed. It might scare the tweens of today, but going by other reviews you can tell it is hated by Halloween fans. "},{"Title":"The Worst Film of the Series.","Date":"3 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Halloween Resurrection begins where H20 ends, but it lacks the greatness of its predecessor. Halloween Resurrection seems like one of the only films in the series that was made just for the sake of making money. There is nothing good about this installment at all. The story is definitely bad, but the acting is even worse. Could anything be worse than Busta Rhymes trying to survive being hunted by Myers? Out of all film franchises, this takes the cake as worst sequel. This movie is not worthy of a rating beyond 1. Watch if you want to see the entire series, but do not expect the brilliance of the first film or the entertainment value of its sequels. "},{"Title":"Even Myers is getting tired...","Date":"20 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" If you've made it this far, you know what you're in for!By this point, your mind is already sore. Halloween Resurrection is, yet, another sequel on the Halloween franchise.It's pretty much the same as its predecessor Halloween H20 20 Years Later, though it managed to be worse.Plot is mediocre, just another excuse to put Michael Myers on-screen again.Also, some huge flaws throughout the movie. Those familiar with the series will notice.Overall, if you're in for watching all the Halloween series out of curiosity, go for it! It's kinda funny to see how things changed through each sequel released.If you're looking for some great slasher flick, I'd say stay away!. This movie is only for those fond with Michael Myers franchise, those seeking to watch all the movie series. "},{"Title":"Halloween Resurrection  4/10","Date":"21 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" How did Resurrection get the green light? Halloween H20 would have been the absolute best ending to the franchise but it's pretty established the only thing that will kill Michael Myers is the box-office. The writers somehow threw together an explanation to the H20 ending that saved Michael from his apparent death. I'm not a fan at all of the beginning scenes with Laurie Strode and its quite said that it ended this way with a hack installment. The movie went in the direction of a hood MTV real-world type feel which I guess was aimed to attract young audiences instead of true horror fans. The film takes place in Michael's old house which oddly changes a lot in each movie. The majority of the cast stunk, especially Busta Rhymes, it was only Bianca Kajlich who was likable. When the ending rolled along I felt even more duped and to this day it's a pity that this is the last film in Carpenter's franchise. "},{"Title":"Pretty Good","Date":"3 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Halloween 8 (Resurrection) is a continuation of Halloween 7 (H20). It is the sibling rivalry between Laurie Strode and Michael Myers - but will Halloween 8 be the end of it? Halloween 7 took an upturn with the series by bringing Laurie back into the storyline and the upturn flowed to Halloween 8. Part 8 is almost as good as part 7. I really feel that the creators went back to the real roots of the story in parts 7 & 8. (See the first Halloween movie).Okay. Really the only good Halloween stories are parts 1 and 2. Leave out part 3 - it's a separate film. Parts 4, 5, and 6 hit a lull and are for fans and entertainment value only. Parts 7 and 8 takes an upturn towards 1 and 2 but not quite as good.8/10 "},{"Title":"Garbage.","Date":"24 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" You killed off Laurie Strode. (Really think about that sentence and tell me your blood doesn't boil in rage.) You know, Laurie Strode? One of the greatest leading ladies of a horror franchise like ever? I know it's difficult to comprehend. That should be a golden rule in the unwritten book of what not to do in a horror movie. This movie is an insult to the once great Halloween franchise. Heck, it's an insult to horror movies in general. Shame on you. And how the hell do you kill off Laurie Strode. Wow, that is so depressing. I'm surprised no one who was involved with this movie needed therapy afterwards. And was another sequel even necessary? To me, H20 is the last film of the series, that one had the perfect finish for the Halloween series. This is just garbage and a pure crime against horror movies. "},{"Title":"An absolute travesty....","Date":"26 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" To say this is is the worst Halloween movie in the series is way too much praise. This is, I believe, one of the very worst movies of all time. It is purely and simply... awful. From start to finish, top to bottom, up the hill and down, this is a huge load of toxic waste on an old soggy cracker. Spits in the face of the fans in too many ways to count. Completely derails the tremendous steam the series regained with H20 purely by existing, let alone the actual puke inducing events that take place within the film. Busta Rhymes? Karate kicking one-liners through a major role in a Halloween film? I really don't need to say too much more after that. I consider this film fantasy land. If this is the modern Halloween movie, the original might as well have been made in the 20's. Thats how far removed it is from Carpenters (or even Rosenthalls!) film. Its not a real Halloween movie. It almost doesn't qualify as a movie at all. It looks a joke made by fans to spoof the series on you tube. Sets look like sets, nothing is believable from the acting to the lighting. Greed spawned this little bastard. And it is, I believe, one of the worst things ever captured on film. "}{"Title":"Resurrection becomes the trend instead of setting it.","Date":"20 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" A group of students win a competition to spend a night in the house of killer Michael Myers while it's broadcast on an Internet. However, Michael is living in a below his childhood house and the killings begin.Continuing the continuity of H20, Resurrection takes the viewer back to Haddonfield. Halloween II director Rick Rosenthal returns with a run of the mill horror affair. It looks good and is slickly edited but disappointingly suffers from the horror trend of the day. In the vein of Scream, it has smart talking characters, packed witty quips and answers it also borrows from ogles of video feed footage horror films.Busta Rhymes puts in a surprisingly entertaining performance as Freddie Harris who goes head to head with Michael, this time played by stuntman Brad Loree. Tyra Banks character Nora is a copycat Courtney Cox's Gale Weathers and gets little screen time. Like H20 the rest of the cast are just characters cut out from countless other films and meat for Michael to dispose of. The strong dark opening with Jamie Lee Curtis' cameo is probably the most interesting and satisfying part of the film.While trying to appeal to the teen film goers, it becomes the trend instead of setting it, this dilutes the scare horror factor that made Halloween successful.As a plain slasher it's an adequate ride, but lacks any of the previous Halloween magic including horror and fear. "},{"Title":"How could they!","Date":"3 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" What an awful film. I love Halloween 1 and 2. Part 4 is pretty good and H20 was okay. As for this atrocity. I am ashamed to say I watched it. From beginning to end it was nothing like any Halloween that I have ever seen. Even that Rob Zombie crap was better. Michael's mask was goofy and didn't look right. He floated around and sometimes speed walked! What the f**k. We're not at the mall with grandma. After the years of this wonderful marvel of a movie. You would think they could get the facts straight. The time line doesn't make sense. Plus after all of what Michael has been through, do you really think Busta Rhymes, with his yo,yo,yo crap would have any effect on him. Come on people. Why even waste your time. I recommend any of them, but this one. "},{"Title":"well I didn't love or hate it","Date":"20 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This entry was OK at best. Too me I think it was good mainly for entertainment. The idea was good some of the carry out was as well but overall it just some of the scenes I liked a lot is where that one guy is trying to fight Michael with a couple knives himself. well its been a good while since I watched my DVD of this film but I recall a couple characters trying to fight back and thats one thing I like cause they don't go down without a fight but they go down anyway. Things I didn't like about this film is scenes that felt unnecessary one example is Trya Banks' character making a cappuccino. all in all the movie OK far from the best but I think my least favorite maybe part 6 because the whole thorn idea but thats a review for later. "},{"Title":"Next up P. Diddy battles Michael Myers in a steel cage?","Date":"23 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" After the pointless mess that was Halloween H20, I was obviously not all that excited to witness the Resurrection. However, once I've invested my time in 7 films in a franchise, it's pretty much a given that I'm going to see the 8th, if only to hold on to the vain hope that maybe someday I will get a Halloween sequel that comes anywhere close to matching the original.Resurrection isn't necessarily a good movie, but by utilizing a fresh concept and doing some interesting things with it, the film at least manages to be entertaining. At this point in the franchise, offering a Michael Myers tale that doesn't make you want to turn off the movie midway through is a genuine accomplishment.Perhaps the most rewarding thing about this 8th Halloween installment is how much it catches the viewer off guard. After all, with both Busta Rhymes and Tyra Banks in the cast, we're almost assured that this will be the penultimate awful Halloween sequel. But, when the end result is a modestly entertaining 90 minutes, we have to concede that Resurrection manages something that some of the other entries in the franchise haven't done.Don't get me wrong; there's still stupidity galore here.The opening scene with the return of Laurie Strode has nothing to do with the film that follows, and we get the sense that Jamie Lee Curtis only agreed to appear in Resurrection so that she could be killed off, thus sparing herself the indignity of ever having to appear in a Halloween movie again. While we should probably feel some sort of dramatic impact after seeing her finally fall prey to the bogeyman who has pursued her through three films before this one, the entire sequence is so devoid of suspense or purpose that any sense of climax is negated, and it's hard to feel much sympathy for our former protagonist when she essentially walks into the knife herself.Busta Rhymes is one of the main characters here, which is asinine enough in itself, but this idiocy is compounded by the series of lame one-liners he has throughout the film. In a franchise that has set new standards of dumb, there's no debating that the single worst line to ever grace a Halloween film is delivered from Busta's lips here trick or treat, motherf****r. Did I mention he also does karate in this movie? Unfortunately, I'm totally serious.Battlestar Galactica fans may be excited at the prospect of an early appearance by Katee Sackhoff. But don't be; she's the single most irritating and unlikable character in a cast full of them, and the dialogue our beloved Starbuck is forced to deliver is a frakking embarrassment.Then there's the slight problem of Michael Myers being decapitated at the conclusion of Halloween H2O, which could be viewed as a considerable hindrance to his being able to slash his way through his roster of victims here. Though the explanation used to solve this problem is iffy at best, it's worth noting that if you watch the finale of H2O, there isn't a single element that betrays the unlikely scenario described here. At least they thought it through a bit, we have to give them that.Elsewhere in the film, there is other evidence of a brain being involved somewhere in the creative process. The concept itself is strong and timely, and the execution is well realized. The alternation between different cameras to give us first-person views from our doomed characters that augment the standard film format sets up some nice images, particularly since we're dealing with dark and grainy video that heightens the tension on its own. Michael Myers hasn't looked scarier in years than he does lurking in the shadows of his dilapidated house, as seen through the POV cameras of his future victims.We alternate between the happenings inside the house and the view of the voyeuristic internet users watching the events from the safety of the outside world, and the reactions of the viewers are particularly smart. As Michael slices his way though the cast, the online audience is engrossed in the story, but unwilling to believe that what they are seeing is real. This is a fine commentary on how our media culture has learned to distrust how genuine the elements of reality TV are, and how we've adapted to accepting the most loathsome activities of the stars of these shows as part of the entertainment. Whether or not the film-makers realized they were making this observation, it remains a keen piece of media criticism.Though the door is clearly left open for yet another Halloween sequel, the franchise has splintered now, and Rob Zombie's reboot pushed the series in another direction. It's sort of too bad, since there is enough promise in Halloween Resurrection to suggest that capable hands could have gotten the saga of Michael Myers back on track. Whatever film-maker ultimately decides to pick up the thread of this story where it left off, they would be wise to note the things that Resurrection does right, since it assuredly outshines the two film that preceded it. Not a difficult thing to do, granted, but a distinction nonetheless. "},{"Title":"Michael Myers on Fear Factor","Date":"12 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This movie is a good time waster, no more. The first mistake was the ridiculous explanation of how Michael is STILL alive, but OK I'll go with it. The next and for me unforgivable mistake is killing off Jamie Lee Curtis' character of Laurie Strode. She is as much to credit with the success of the HALLOWEEN series as is Michael if not more so. Her presence in the lead role in H20 lifted that film above mediocre status. To kill her off in the first 10 minutes was inexcusable. She is the only one who can properly end the series hopefully with an assist from son John. Of course she IS the sister of the unkillable one. Maybe it runs in the family? The casting of Busta Rhymes is yet another screw up. He is nothing but irritating and his constant stream of M.F.s is tiresome and offensive. This is good dialogue?! They throw in a girl whose emotional extremes make things go haywire in the auditions, then do nothing with it. That at least could have been something different, but maybe they were afraid it would look like a ripoff of F13TH THE NEW BLOOD'S Tina. On the plus side it was good to see a reasonable facsimile of the Myers'house, not the more traditionally haunted house looking one used in H4 and H5. They got that right. What made the house frightening was its ordinariness. Also it was funny when the real Michael came mask to mask with the pretend Michael. A little more should have been done with that for comic relief. A time waster--nothing more. "},{"Title":"...scary...pfft...i think not.","Date":"18 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I'll make This Review Short And Sweet The Movie starts off great falls apart in at least the first 10 minutes...boooring...almost as bad halloween 3...in fact i'd probably rather watch Halloween 3 than this.Michael Killed Laurie and then goes home and randomly kills off people in his house did he somehow forget about other remaining family members john strode, Kerri strode, Danny strode and Jamie's son Steven.This Halloween film was not scary and i was quite disappointed It was boring and the acting was dumb and corny...really i think they are making the series begin to go downhill i just hope Halloween Bloodline is good.This Halloween is my seventh favorite Halloween film "},{"Title":"Loose Ends","Date":"9 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This film isn't awful, it's just pointless. They only made it so they could kill off Jamie Lee's character!! I was surprised to see familiar faces as well since it is the eighth installment. Another thing I also didn't like was director Rick Rosenthal doing this film because as we all know he is notorious from Halloween 2 for killing characters off screen. Bad approach this late in the series.Anyway I gave it a 4 out of 10 because it still is a guilty pleasure in the tradition of the rest of the eighties and nineties horror films that we have all come to enjoy(or at least accept). I'm also interested to see which direction the ninth installment approaches because there are a lot of loose ends in this series EX Josh Hartnet's character, Danielle Harris' baby, and now Bianca Kalich! They should work on those elements before opening up more and more boggling plots! I liked the Reality TV spin-off though. "},{"Title":"Not the best, but not the worst, either.","Date":"11 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Halloween Resurrection is one of those movies that is hard to recommend, but also hard to dis as well. It has some hits and misses, obviously inconsistent, but bearable none-the-less. As a real sequel, it follows H20 several years later when Laurie Strode (Jamie Lee Curtis) is now in a mental institution. She has gone permanently crazy. Michael Myers, as to no surprise, shows up to finally do her in. At this point, it seems Halloween Resurrection could have stopped. Not so fast. A crazy reality television producer wants a new reality show. He has several people spend the night in the home of Michael Myers in Haddonfield, Illinois. This is to the chagrin of the town, as well as the resident. After all, this is Michael's home. In any case, the bleached William Shatner mask makes its return to take-out the unwanted guests. There are a few tense moments that give us a little scare, and a little suspense. Still, this is not true to the Halloween myth. Even looking at Halloween 4, 5, and 6, as well as the official trilogy of 1, 2, and 7, Michael Myers has a vendetta against relatives. Once they are eliminated, the rage should be gone. As for this one, there is no reaching out to the person trapped inside the pathological, methodological madness. That is what really brings this movie down to the real slasher level. There is no depth of character the Shape offers in previous roles. Worse, there is no protagonist with the relationship. We had Laurie for one set, and Dr. Loomis and Jamie in the other. In other words, there is no real hero. Finally, just as in H20 (and the remake), there is no guts in release date. This movie is called Halloween. So why is it released in the summer? Apparently, producers had no confidence in the king of Halloween. In any case, this one was not a total washout. But it's not the top of the heap either. So for a mediocre, horror movie, this is it. If you want the true Halloween mythos, look elsewhere. "},{"Title":"Worst Halloween movie ever.","Date":"20 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was completely terrible from beginning to end. I don't know what was more irritating the terrible acting of Busta Rhymes or the mindless dialog of the other no-talents. What really p*ssed me off was that the movie was never scary, not even once. After a few minutes into the movie I could tell right away it was going to be boring and predictable and man was it ever. This is real proof that a movie can still be made without talented writers or actors. If you want to rent this movie because you enjoyed the first movie don't waste your time. This crappy movie was made for a very young audience and not for the older fans of this series. I should have never rented this movie. I made a huge mistake, oh man never mind. Iam mad at myself for watching all of it. Why? why?  "},{"Title":"Wow...","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  And I thought it couldn't get worse after Jason X. I was more wrong than I ever imagined. Jason X was at least funny as hell if you were drunk and saw it as a comedy. I figured I'd do the same for this, and what a waste of a good Tuesday evening. The entire prologue was boring and incredibly laughable. And it was a shame to see Jamie Lee Curtis in this Hollywood trash. And what a waste of the only character in this film that was interesting. But in the eventual sequel (unless this flops worse than Jason X) we'll see another contrived prologue explaining how Laurie Strode cloned herself and sent the clone after Michael. Busta Rhymes is 100x more times laughable than he is on MTV. The other actors and actresses aren't even worth mentioning, considering that they all must've been paid in kilos of cocaine to do this trash heap. Go see a good movie instead of this.  "}{"Title":"This movie sucks","Date":"28 September 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is definitely not a movie I want to waste any more time or money on. It is totally dissapointing compared to the rest of the Halloween series. There are only three good movies that came from the Halloween seriesHalloween, Halloween 2, and Halloween H20. This installment is a disgrace, almost as bad as Halloween 3 Season of the Witch. If you have to see this movie, wait for T.V. if ever. "},{"Title":"The sequel that ruined the franchise","Date":"26 February 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I have always been a huge Halloween and Michael Myers fan. I have enjoyed every one except the most recent installment, Halloween Resurrection. The Halloween, movies have always been suspenseful and well scripted and they did not need all the typical blood and gore like so many other horror movies. That's what made Halloween, different. It had a good story going. I admit the opening sequence with Jaime Lee Curtis was good, as she always is, but the rest of the movie is nothing but a waste of time. The acting is horrible. Michael even gets to chop a head off with his butcher knife. How fake is that? Bascially, it's about a bunch of college kids spending the night inside the famous Myers house trying the find the reasoning behind Michael's madness. Something I thought we had already covered in Halloween 6. But as it turns out, it was all just a set up. The use of all the camera's (an obvious Blair-Witch rip off) is enough to make you want to vomit. This movie is a disgrace to the Halloween, franchise and to the fans. Without Donald Pleasence or Jaime Lee Curtis, this franchise is as good as dead.  "},{"Title":"Booorrrrrrring","Date":"20 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The latest in a long line of superfluous sequels that nobody asked for concerns Michael Myers returning....again.  And killing a bunch of teenage dummies.....again.  Eighth HALLOWEEN entry has nothing new whatsoever to offer.  The kill scenes aren't even vivid or imaginative.  The brief topless scene is the only thing this trite slasher flick has going for it.  Skip it and rent the original and number four.* out of **** "},{"Title":"Worst movie of 2002","Date":"31 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  What in the blue hell were they thinking when this piece of garbage was made? One of the worst movies of 2002, if not of alltime. My main gripe with the movie was that they killed off Jamie Lee. Plus her scenes did not fit into the rest of the movie. If you know what's good for you you'll stay away from this crap. * out of 5. "},{"Title":"HALLOWEEN WHATEVER","Date":"27 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Enough of this Michael Myers Bull****!Yes, as uttered by a character in one of the later sequels (I think it was either 5 or 6, probably 6 The Curse of Michael Myers).BEFORE YOU READ ON, BE WARNED THIS REVIEW CONTAINS SPOILERS AND WILL REVEAL THINGS YOU MAY NOT WANT TO KNOW IF YOU HAVEN'T YET SEEN H8.Ripping of The Blair Witch Project, Big Brother, and the recent and genuinely unsettling My Little Eye, this belated sequel finds a group of teens entering the Myers house (which strangely has not been torn down) on a live webcast.And - you guessed it - MM shows up and starts some slaughter!As a direct sequel to H20, it too ignores the events of 3, 4, 5, & 6 (no bad thing ...), following only the stories of 1, 2, & 7, a.k.a H20. In fact the opening scene even shows flashbacks to H20 and explains the story of how Jamie Lee Curtis chopped MM's head off at the end and hem managed to survive. The explanation is frankly ridiculous and completely gratuitous. Who cares how he survived? Throughout several (8 now!) Halloween movies, MM has been ripped/slashed/stabbed/thrown off buildings/lit on fire/ploughed into by vehicles/etc. etc. Wouldn't it have been more honest just to have his head sewn back on??!!Anyhow, we see Jamie Lee Curtis in the opening scene, which is slightly disturbing - but marred by being overtly melodramatic. She kisses him on the lips and whispers See you in hell before falling off a roof...And again, no explanation on why now - why this Halloween? Why MM waits until Hollywood decides to RESURRECT him for a particular Halloween... 1998, 2002, etc.It does attempt to explain that he's been hiding under his house all this time, but then it never follows through with this story, just one of many loose-ends in the movie.It also attempts to blame his psychotic tendancies on a childhood of abuse... although it is hinted that this may just have been set up my the webcast producers. Again, this isn't clarified. Was he abused as a child? Or were the producers of the webcast (entitled Dangertainment ... reminding me of a cartoon) attempting to add some spice to the story? Who knows, who even cares.The whole webcast thing has been done before, as I mentioned above, and even though all the different camera views and angles are directed expertly by Rosenthal, it's very much Been There Done That.The bodycount is much higher than H20, but the characters are so underdeveloped, that the death scenes create little impact.There are some good and even suspenseful (very few and far between... like a few amusing laughs/smiles in a really bad sitcom) moments, most notably towards the end when the main female character (the virginal one who survives) is running through the house, while gripping a hand-held messenger buddy; her online friend keeps buzzing her - rather than running to the house to save her? what's happened to the white knight and damsel in distress? now the white knight just watches the poor damsel online and emails her! - with instant messages telling her where MM is.At the end, MM is burned and electrocuted again (like this has happened before??... most notably at the end of H2 where MM burns slowly while Mr Sandman plays...), and the whole thing has a decidedly 80's feel to it. And when the final girl wields the chainsaw at MM and screams This is for ... (so and so he's killed in the movie), it's one of the best bad moments of over-the-top melodramatic and extremely awful acting ever displayed on celluoid.Even the very sequel-tempting (Halloween 9 anyone?) end is very lacklustre, lacking any real punch.This movie went through numerous title changes from HALLOWEEN 8 to HALLOWEEN THE HOMECOMING to HALLOWEEN H2K to HALLOWEEN EVIL NEVER DIES, and so on and so forth. These undecisive plodding changes are also clear in the script and direction.The eight Halloween movies probably cost less than 40 million in total to make and have taken God-knows how much (at least 10 times that figure) at the box office.And in fact, I'm a slasher fan and was quite looking forward to this movie. I was left virtually unimpressed... maybe it should be retitled (again!) to HALLOWEEN WHATEVER.  "},{"Title":"THE WORST HORROR MOVIE EVER","Date":"10 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"      I have seen good horror movies and I have seen bad horror movies,this movie was awful!After my huge disappointment with Jason X I saw this and I would really like my money back.Jamie Lee Curtis did so well in H20,now she has a small part in this one,and her being such a great actress,I was really disappointed with her performance.For one thing I think they made too many sequels,each getting worse and worse.The worst thing about this movie was the plot,winning a contest to spend the night in Michael Myer's house?For heaven's sake give me a break!!!!!The least they could do is choose a decent plot.I hated this movie,and hope to god they don't make another one.A stupid plot,bad death scenes,this movie was pitiful.Michael was cool in the first six or seven films then he loses his charm.If you have'nt seen this movie you would be doing yourself a huge favor by not seeing it,TRUST ME.                                                            Jacob Young "},{"Title":"Despicable, repulsive, abominable..and the list goes on and on!","Date":"28 July 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" There was this documentary on last night, under the heading of Rappers in Horror. Of course as the title suggested,it dealt with a truly nauseating theme, the long ago(I'm so sorry to say!!)realized possibility of letting spastic, hard-ass-mothafucking simpletons actually venture into the sacred territory that is horror. A horrible experiment gone absolutely wrong(As if the mere idea of it should evoke any kind of hope. Yeah, right!), and as we all know, in ultra commercial Follywood they simply love to hold on for dear life to anything that is slick, superficial, vomit-inducing, and ergo anything that makes sure the cardboard figures working there gets their hard earned millions. Anyway, back to this sad, sad, show I was talking about. Of course the best thing would have been not to spend one single iota of energy on it, but I figured that I might get some good, unintentional comedy, so why not? And sure as hell, what unfolded itself before my very eyes was a lesson in learning how to phrase a sentence like all good illiterates do; think long and hard before uttering the most simple thought, speak like a lazy drunkard, get your words(or letters for that matter) mixed up, and wait for it....here it comes...Wait...act like this is the way to go, act like you're real tough, when you actually have the vocabulary of a mentally challenged 3-year old!! And that finally brings me to the matter at hand, this turd that is actually smeared inside a DVD-case, lying there, silently waiting, and hoping that some poor fellow will actually get confused, and will alas pass the feces off for a actual film. And if a turd is actually going to look like a proper one, everyone behind, and in front of camera must contribute, and of course here is the catch, without anyone having any knowledge what so ever about it. Now they stand there, thinking they have made a brilliant horror-film, immensely proud, and none the wiser. And of course my reason for bringing up the documentary, is for the sole reason that it featured Busta Rhymes(Hrmmm...really great name, he,he..) in connection with the crap I'm currently reviewing. And I'm so sorry to inform you all that he was the one that contributed the most to the rancid stench that oozes out of each and every pour of the celluloid. Acting is undoubtedly a foreign word for this gangsta, but yeaaayh, he brings all his long practiced skills within the rap-genre with him, just to make up for the fact that it would have been more enjoyable having your fingernails torn out, being slowly flayed alive or even to attend a Christian get together, than to watch this oh so tough actor ever again!! Maybe the FBI should have considered having a rapper on their payroll the next time they want to catch a serial killer, everyone knows now that a few pathetic karate-kicks, and lots and lots of verbal profanity is the way to go when faced with evil. To sum up, appalling acting, appalling script, appalling everything, really. I hear something flushing.... "},{"Title":"The most stupid Halloween","Date":"2 November 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" As if the other sequels weren't bad enough, this one ranks with the worst movies of all time. A warning to everyone....if you see an idiotic no talent rapper in the opening credits - quickly hit the stop and eject buttons on the VCR-DVD. I'm serious. I'm not even going to name the rapper, he ruined the whole thing. He must've had some kind of influence in the writing because he got to yell put downs at Michael Myers in one scene without getting his throat cut, and in the last pathetic scenes he gets to karate-kick Myers and shock him to death while getting some verbal thrashings in. This alone should make most people want to throw up. The camera work throughout the house was incredibly lame. If you dislike stupid camera effects as much as I do, stay away from this. It was giving me a headache. Jamie Lee was killed off at the beginning, the most likely reason is she wanted this to happen so she wouldn't have to be in any more sequels. Her final kiss goodbye accompanied by the line see you in hell was terrible. This movie ranks way down there with Charlies Angels Full Throttle as my all time worst. If I could give it a ZERO I would, but I had to settle for a 1 out of 10. The reviewers who actually liked this movie show how pathetic and simple minded movie goers have become. Don't waste 2 hours of your life, you have been warned. "},{"Title":"An amazing achievement manages to be the VERY WORST of all the Halloween sequels","Date":"16 October 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Let me state from the get-go that I'm a fan of the Halloween series. Only the first film can objectively be considered great, although I've extracted enjoyment from all the sequels up till now. In truth, most of the sequels are pretty bad, but all, I think, have interesting aspects to them and offer at least a degree of entertainment value. Halloween II is a cold, dark and bloody slasher pic, much more violent than the original. Halloween III is a bold attempt to take the series in a new direction. Halloween 5 has a terrific visual style. The Curse of Michael Myers is (as released in its theatrical version) a butchered near-masterpiece. H20 brings quality back to the franchise. And so on and so forth. With the Halloweens, I take 'em all for what they are, and like 'em all. Except for Resurrection, since all it is is an unmitigated disaster. It's a movie so awesomely inept as to make, I don't know, The Return of Michael Myers look like The Exorcist. **SPOILERS** The explanation for how a beheaded Michael survived H20 is laughable. There's a nauseating couple of scenes at the beginning in which the myth of Michael Myers is tied in to the stories of real life serial killers (which must make fun viewing for their victims' relatives and friends, hey?). Busta Rhymes makes just about the worst lead imaginable for a Halloween movie. Michael isn't remotely frightening. The film boasts not a single shock, and not a single moment of suspense (this is a picture in which the heroine is alerted to Michael's presence behind her by an e-mail message on her palm pilot, sent by a dorky kid at a Halloween party who's dressed as Vincent Vega from Pulp Fiction, *yawn*, how clever, how very, very far we've come from Haddonfield, 1978, and how very, very not worth it it all is). Michael getting his butt kicked (even if only temporarily) by a young martial arts enthusiast, and being on the receiving end of supposedly audience-pleasing quips like Happy Halloween, m**********r! just trashes everything the Halloween movies ever stood for, which admittedly wasn't very much - but at least parts 1 - 7 tried to scare ya. Resurrection at times almost seems like merely the pilot for a franchise starring Busta Rhymes as a businessman cum rapper cum kung fu guru who walks the earth to fight evil. Great. I hope at least that Resurrection will inspire people to check out Carpenter's original. I also have a happy image of Carpenter receiving royalty cheques for Resurrection and watching a cable screening of the film with some buddies, all of them wetting themselves with contemptuous laughter at this absolutely pathetic, bottom-of-the-barrel dreck. "},{"Title":"Should have called this, Screw Up the Halloween Series Project.","Date":"4 January 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Boy, was I scared when I watched this movie!  Yeah.scared that I would have to sit through the entire.uh, film.  Well since I was watching it with two others I did have to sit through it, although I had to tape my eyelids open with duck tape and have myself tied to the chair to do it.Michael Myers is submerged by this terrible, stinking entry in this series. I really like the Halloween series, but this one should have never been made the way it was made.  The acting is absolutely horrible, the filming is atrocious, and the entertainment value is non-existent.Jamie Lee Curtis is featured in the very beginning, but is only in the film for a very short time(lucky for her), and after this the title comes up. Then it is nothing but downhill all the way to rock bottom.A group of young people (it must be tough being a 35 year old teen-ager) is stuck in the old Myers' house doing something.  One can never be sure just what they are supposed to be doing except perhaps showing how they cannot act.  ALL of these characters are very unlikable, two-dimensional parodies of human beings.  One never gets involved with any of them because there is no character development what so ever and no plot to boot!  The most obnoxious of the characters is the black guy with the long hair extensions, whose favorite word is, motherfu@#a, and he mouths it through huge lips (that seemed to have been over-inflated with collagen injections) through the whole mish-mash.This movie is NOT scary at all, has no tension, no excitement, and ALL the special effects are ruined by the constant (very irritating) injections of the view through the characters mini-cams they have attached to their heads (or whatever).What were the makers of this film thinking when they made this piece of crap?  I would like to know that, because it seems like they must have been on crack, or maybe sitting on their cracks when they put this drivel together.  Man, it just plain sucks!  It is no wonder that this films release was delayed so long, went through so many name changes (this always happens when the makers know they have a loser), and finally emerged only to be stillborn at the box-office.Maybe if they make another one of these movies for the Halloween series, the makers will pick some plain, regular people off the street to star in it, because there is no doubt ANYONE chosen off the street would be better at acting than the..uh.actors who appear in this bomb. The absolute BEST part of this entire movie was when I was rewinding the tape!!! "}{"Title":"Poor Script, Rosenthal ruin another Halloween","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Between a very poorly thought out and executed script, numerous plot and continuity errors and another poor directing job from Rick Rosenthal, Halloween Resurrection is a horrifically bad movie that had no business being made.Had they left the first 10 minutes, concerning Laurie Strode (a noble Jamie Lee Curtis) by itself, or even used that story as the film's basis (doing something about the amazingly hamfisted plot twist that got Laurie in the sanitarium to begin with) they may have had a decent film, but rather the plotline concerns a troop of college students at Haddonfield University (a small town in Illinois has its own college?  My how its changed) that sign up and are chosen for a reality internet show.  Of course, Michael is there, and decides to turn their Dangervision outing into a truly life changing experience.Acting was so low caliber Im just going to ignore it and say once again that they really should have left the initial 10 minutes, rolled the credits and called it a series.  Worst performances by any group I've ever seen, and there is not a one of them that should be allowed to continue acting.  The world needs burger flippers too, and each of them would do admirably at that task.Clearly Moustapha Akkad and Dimension Films wanted to rush another sequel out, so they halfway threw together a story, that didnt even flow continually with the rest of the films, left plot holes you could drive a Nimitz class aircraft carrier through, hired a director that failed in his last effort at the series and called it a day.  This movie is so bad it makes Jason X look like a horror classic.Inevitably, and sadly, there will no doubt be another Halloween film, given the ending of this one.  I never say the following words, but I feel this film deserves it......dont rent this, dont buy this, forget this exists and when we do get that next film..they will put time, effort and concern into it...and it might actually be enjoyable.0 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Worst movie.. EVER","Date":"23 March 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" H20 had good direction, decent acting from most actors and Jamie Lee Curtis did a very good job. It was all a good package with a good story line to end the series. Then what is this? Another Halloween movie. Well go ahead if it's a good sequel but of course it's not. It's a crap movie that cripples the whole series. Everything you could think of is just wrong in this movie. The direction sucks, everyones acting sucks (Even the acting of Jamie Lee Curtis) and it uses stupid and terrible hand camera shots. In H20 the characters behaved in a sensible way but in this lame excuse for a movie nobody does. First they kill off Laurie Strode (Jamie Lees character) which takes away 50% of the interest in this movie. The beginning setting of the movie doesn't make sense at all. Also in the beginning sequence when Laurie could kill Michael she does something that doesn't make sense at all which results in her death in the hands of Michael. Then there is the character of Busta Rhymes. First of all he can't act and his character is lame. Then he goes to kick Michaels ass twice and win which is apparently something that Laurie couldn't do. There are other lame things in this movie like all the kills that Michael does. This is clearly just an attempt to make money with the Halloween series name. Jamie Lee wanted to get out of the series by getting her character killed. I wish they would have at least done it with style or rather NEVER made this trash. H20 was a great and proper ending to the series.I'm just going to pretend this movie doesn't exist. Maybe the worst movie I have ever seen. "},{"Title":"Halloween and Michael should have died with H2O","Date":"5 October 2005","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Why was this movie even made? Hasn't this story been beaten to death? Did we really need another ridiculous installment in the series? Of course the answer to all of these questions is money. Apparently and inexplicably there is still cash to be mined from the Halloween franchise. Too bad. Halloween H2O provided what I thought was the perfect end to Michael Myers.There are so many negative things I could say about Halloween Resurrection that I really don't know where to begin. I suppose I'll start with what I found to be the biggest problem &#150; Busta Rhymes. Has there ever been a more annoying person to appear in a horror film? What a horrible performance! And then there's the whole idea that Michael has been living in a tunnel system under his old house that the police never thought to search. Yeah, right. The whole notion is an insult to the intelligence of any thinking person.Don't you think that an event like investigating the Myers' house on Halloween night would draw a crowd of onlookers (or at least nut-jobs) from near and far? There's no way Michael should have been able to enter and exit the house unseen. The crowds of the curious, security, or police would have surely noticed something going on. Again, this whole notion is an insult to the intelligence of any thinking person.Honestly, I could write paragraph after paragraph of what I found wrong with Halloween Resurrection, but what's the point. It's too easy. I will give the movie credit for one thing &#150; the actors wearing cameras was a nice touch. It's too bad they didn't have anything worth filming. "},{"Title":"Terrible","Date":"5 January 2003","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Unless you're a 13 year old boy who's never seen a slasher film, I can't understand why anyone would like this terrible piece of trash. Cliched ridden, stock one-dimensional characters, bad acting, awful writing and plot holes amuck fill this poorly done movie. Some of the lines uttered in this film had me cringing, not just because they were tired old lines but because someone, somewhere down the line of movie execs, read the script and said yeah, this is great. This is greenlighted, I love this script. It's amazing that there are hundreds of great, unproduced scripts out there and this one gets made.To me, it's just insulting that the writers would think this premise would fly. The college kids are going to spend a night (or more, it's hard to determine since they refer to it as the first episode, yet no one brings clothes or anything to suggest staying more than one night there) in Michael Myer's old house to supposedly find clues as to why he went bad. As if the police during the initial murders wouldn't have attempted this. That anyone in the world would be interested in watching some idiots hang out in an old house is just stupid. Yet, in this movie, people are not only fascinated by the great show, they're glued to the monitor as the events unfold. The Shape walks freely around the camera filled house, yet it's not until the third act that anyone watching the stupid show realizes it.  A computer geek is able to send email to the heroine's palm pilot despite having no visible email on his screen, only the show he's watching. My favorite plot hole in the entire film, was during the prologue. If Laurie Strode wanted to make sure the Shape wasn't another paramedic or someone just wearing the clothes and mask, why doesn't she just ASK him to take his mask off? I have no doubt John Carpenter never saw this film and if he attempted to watch it, he wouldn't have gotten past the first ten minutes, which is what I wish I had done. Stay away. "},{"Title":"Sad But True","Date":"26 February 2003","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  After over 20 years of satisfying horror flicks, the Halloween franchise came up with their 8th installment in the series. Halloween Resurrection sees Michael Myers back again in his very own home to do a bit of the old slicing and dicing with his kitchen knife just one more time. This time with 6 college students, who are spending the night in the house where it all began, broadcasting a live interactive show over the Internet. The good points of the film sees the franchise moving ahead with a semi-reality style which in someway is portrayed through the whole `Big Brother' thing with the whole camera's in every corner. Its certainly spices things up a bit, and just like every Halloween movie, there's plenty of Mike. But what I couldn't help notice was how much the film tried to give something new to a franchise that was simply satisfying the way it was before. Why change it?? The cast was filled with a bunch of nobody's that made there acting debuts in low down cheesy teenage movies. What is the franchise coming too!!! Halloween H20 delivered a loyal more than satisfying ending to the films by visiting the old cast and not getting sloppy where a few of the other films had in the past. It ended perfectly with intensity and mind, and this film is sadly a low attempt to revive a series that was triumphantly put to rest years ago. My say is this, if the Halloween movies provided you with years of classic horror entertainment and you feel as a loyal fan of the series that you absolutely `MUST SEE MIKE MYERS' just one more time, then get down to your local video rental store. But sadly I have to inform you that after you watch this one, your going to be telling others like you that the once great slasher flicks of the Halloween series, has sadly gone down the toilet and been flushed for the crap this film is. To give the fans what they really deserve it's going to take a hell of a lot more than a corny plot and cute camera tricks to resurrect the series. "},{"Title":"You are the voyeur that is watching you","Date":"31 July 2007","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" John Carpenter is always just as good as good can be because he knows his trade and he knows how to pull the strings that are going to frighten us, terrorize us or just gross us out, and there are many strings that must not get entangled. And they don't. The main point with Carpenter is that he manages to produce and set up some crucial moments when we don't know who is who and where we are, in reality or in virtuality, in a real murder or in a fake hoax. And that is when we get over the limit and manage to believe the unbelievable. Carpenter is also extremely good at keeping the film in dark shadowy half lights that are necessary for him to play on the depth of the picture and to hide what is going to come out of the dark without any due process of announcing itself. You must not look for any deeper or wider meaning, because there is none, except that we accept to be the eye of the camera, or we accept the camera to be our eye, hence we accept to be voyeurs inside a film that is itself a voyeuristic adventure since we capture the action through cameras and TV screen relayed onto the internet and a portable telephone. We are confronted to at least two if not three levels of voyeurism with the organizers of the first level becoming the direct victims of the adventure, and then the guinea pigs of these becoming the victims of the voyeuristic and exhibitionistic game they had accepted to get into. And even further the audience of these two levels on the Internet becoming themselves victims of the game because they believe it is a game even when it turns more than sour. It is the use of a portable telephone via an instant messenger that will enable this voyeuristic audience to become compassionate. And we, the voyeurs of Carpenter's film, are like innocent angels victimized by Carpenter and his tricks and what's more we enjoy it and would like to see some more, so that we even know, accept, desire and enjoy the very last punch line that closes this film without closing Michael Myers' eyes he is eternal because after all this is reality TV and not any virtual fable told by some perverse deranged greedy film director.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University Paris Dauphine & University Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne "},{"Title":"what the heck?!...","Date":"24 April 2003","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  o.k. for those of you who don't know, the halloween trillogy goes like this halloween, halloween II, and H2O. that's it. period.we all agree that # 3 never existed. and although 4&5 were an interesting character study of michael, they didn't really fit in anywhere.this last attempt at coercing hard earned money out of unsuspecting horror fans (and distraught michael fans going through withdrawls) was just plain rude.resurrecting michael the way that they did, and offing lori the way they did, and the reality-tv scinerio... it was just emberassing! what an awful way to remember one of THE greatest horror legends in modern horror(1960s - 1980s)this was the real world does horror - poorly! "},{"Title":"Kill me please.","Date":"30 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This movie is a car crash the type where your not watching it and are like cool the type where your the one in the car. This film should not have been made it should have ended at H20 and this film is easily the worst of the franchise like what happened. I guess because of the popularity of Blair witch they thought why not make our film part found footage which made it feel cheap since the entire franchise before wasn't found footage. The best thing about this film and i mean it when I say best thing is Busta Rhymes. He so shouldn't have been in this film well this film should not of happened so i guess have some fun with it right and since everyone in the film sucked Busta was the best because he so shouldn't have been there which made it awesome. Now the script you can tell was rushed and the director who directed Halloween 2 made this crap what happened.So the film starts with Micheal killing Laurie well credits roll nope we still got another hour and twenty odd minutes to spare so we are introduced to some of the worst and vile humans alive the main characters who gave me Ebola. Well they try out for this online thing and they get it but a big sub plot in this film is some guy the main character talks to online who is probably fifty but no he is a Pulp Fiction cos player and his friend likes to dress as a brother. So they go to try out and pass then go to the Myers house and they starts to get killed off while Busta is dressed as Micheal the real Micheal is in the house which is quiet funny in all honesty because Micheal just walks away when he sees him probably ashamed he has to do this film. So the film ends with Micheal getting beat by Busta Rhymes then taken to hospital where he wakes up gladly there was no more sequels until Rob Zombie happened.I would want anyone watching this film it should be used as a torture device to get information for the CIA or something and if you do decide to watch it for what ever reason have some bleach prepared to drink for your impending death. "},{"Title":"Jamie Lee Curtis returns for the pay in fifteen minute opening","Date":"16 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Laurie Strode (Jamie Lee Curtis) is catatonic locked in an asylum after the last encounter with Michael Myers. She is faking it and he is still after her. He stabs her in the back and sends her off the roof. Sara Moyer (Bianca Kajlich), Rudy Grimes (Sean Patrick Thomas) and Jen Danzig (Katee Sackhoff) are friends studying in Haddonfield University. Jen signs them up for a reality show at the Myers house. They are joined by Bill Woodlake (Thomas Ian Nicholas), Donna Chang, and Jim Morgan in the show run by Freddie Harris (Busta Rhymes) and Nora Winston (Tyra Banks). Myles Barton is in a chatroom relationship with Sara. Unknown to them, the six reality TV guests are locked in the house with Michael Myers.Despite any possible retcon, the first fifteen minutes are still the best part of this movie. Jamie Lee Curtis is Halloween every bit as much as Michael Myers. The rest is something else. Whatever it is, it's not Halloween. The reality TV idea is annoying and it gets worst with the intermittent reality TV camera work. I like a few of the actors, but Tyra Banks and Busta Rhymes really lower the likability factor. It's so bad that I am more interested in everybody getting killed. I don't care if any of them survive. "},{"Title":"Lazy, slipshod, dumb entry in the franchise","Date":"21 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Don't get me started on the disaster that is Halloween Resurrection. It's a halloween movie for the MTV crowd, and I mean that in the worst way possible. I've only seen it once, and don't remember much except being appalled, but here's what I do recall A reality TV production crew heads out to the Myers house a decade after the last recorded murders there, to film a documentary. Murder ensues, as it seems to in these movies. Jamie Lee Curtis briefly returns for a prologue set in a mental institution, probably the only nostalgic bone in the film's body. The rest is a silly bunch of nonsense. And get this, someone in Hollywood left Busta Rhymes's and Tyra Banks's kennels open, and they managed to sneak their way in too. It occurs to me I've never ever written single negative, bashing review in my blog work so far as it's just not something I like to do. I'm a dude who writes about movies, I'm not a critic. So this is a milestone of sorts. Allow me to take full advantage It's a stinker, a dud, a lazy cash grab unworthy of the name. But me being the franchise completist that I am felt compelled to include it in thus series of posts anyway. Go figure. "}{"Title":"A disappointing fellow up to Halloween H20","Date":"11 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This is the eighth Halloween movie and it is very disappointing. The original Halloween film 1978 is a great film. The 1981 version of Halloween II is a great horror film. Halloween 4 the return of Micheal Myers is a great film. Halloween 5 the revenge of Michael Myers is a great film. The sixth Halloween movie Halloween is the cures of Micheal Myers is a great horror film. The seventh Halloween movie Halloween H20 is a great horror film. The Halloween remake from 2007 is a great horror movie. The Halloween II remake from 2009 is great horror film. And this on is disappointing. The story line is not very good. And the ending is awful. "},{"Title":"Hey guys, how can we ruin Halloween?  Release this god awful mess..","Date":"22 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Oh Lord I can never watch this mess again! Never ever again, this movie was nothing more than an attempt to make more money. They never wanted to make another good Halloween movie, no this was a way to make money, NOTHING MORE!! I loved Halloween H20, that in my opinion was THE BEST halloween film period! Laurie survived, killed Michael, and lived happily ever after, that's the way they should have ended the entire series, but no they went and screwed it up with this atrocity!!! This should never ever have been made, period!!! Terrible writing, boring, awful acting. I wanted to turn it off within the first 10 minutes, because they killed off Laurie!!!! I loved Laurie, she never should've died dangit!! They should have ended it with HALLOWEEN H20. That was the way to do it, not release some awful stupid and pointless final installment!! "},{"Title":"I loved this movie!","Date":"19 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" The first time I watched it, I was only 13 years old. My sister took my nephew and I to watch it when we spent a couple weeks of the summer with her. It scared me for a while, but I loved it! My favorite person in the movie was Busta Rhymes' character Freddie. His performance was so funny. Especially when he tried the kung fu on Michael. I also enjoyed Ryan Merriman's character in the movie. I love being scared and this movie series is definitely scary. When the ending came up and Michael opened his eyes, I jumped in my seat. It was a fun experience for me and I can't wait to see what future Halloween films they come out with. "},{"Title":"this is bad, but fun","Date":"28 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" SPOILER FOR PREVIOUS FILM, DO NOT READ IF YOU HAVEN'T SEEN HALLOWEEN H20.Halloween 8 is a bad film and sucks at huge levels, I really HATE the opening with the impossible switch that Michael did which is implausible and impossible that it damages the movie from the jump, it would have been better if it had been a story before H20 because H20 gave such a great closure to the series. Besides that the movie is a great popcorn flick if you don't feel like doing anything and is not as bad as everyone says it is, besides busta rhymes and the ridiculous kung-fu , this movie is actually a fun movie. "},{"Title":"Ignore the First 15 Minutes, Think Of It As A Prequel To H20, Then It Will Become A Guilty Pleasure.","Date":"29 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" They really should have left the series at H20. It wrapped everything up and ended on a high note. It was also a legitimately good movie. Then they make this. A spoiler Laurie kills the wrong man at the end of H20, not Michael, so she ends up in a mental institution where he returns and kills her. That sucked!!!! Later on, a group of college students are gathered to partake in a reality show where they have to survive in Michael's house. They have no idea he will show up. Aside from the bad beginning, the whole movie really wasn't bad. I guess you could say it is like when somebody likes Hanson's song MMMBop. The acting is mostly bad and the people are dumb. However, the death scenes and suspense are good. Combine good deaths with bad acting and you will laugh. You wait and hope Michael will kill everybody and are happy when he does. He is really cool in this. Also, I found the house and general filming to be pretty good. I was very impressed to see how spooky the house looked and how good the filming techniques worked. But I could not deny any flaw this movie has, which is a lot. But people should see why this is a guilty pleasure. "},{"Title":"What Makes You So Sure It Is Over?","Date":"25 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" The Following review will contain spoilers.Halloween Resurrection is a widely hated movie amongst the Halloween faithful. Some, like myself, do consider it to be an above average film, and not one of the worst of the series. While the film has it's faults, the storyline in this film is frankly better than those used in Halloween 5 and Halloween 6. The problem with this film mainly was that it was ahead of it's time. If Halloween Resurrection was released within the past five years(of writing this review) it would have been better received, I have little doubt about that. The following is my review of Halloween Resurrection.The film was written by Sean Hood and Larry Brand. The story on this film is pretty straight forward. It takes place about 3 years after the events of Halloween H20. Laurie is now in a mental hospital as she went crazy after she found out that Michael didn't really die at the end of H20. Michael actually killed one of the paramedics on scene and crushed his larynx so he couldn't say anything. Laurie then killed this paramedic by accident. She is haunted by this and is now in a mental hospital waiting for her real brother to come and kill her. We are then shown the night Michael Returns, but Laurie is ready this time. She has a trap for him on the roof of the building, but it backfires when she needs to remove his mask to make sure it is him. Michael then is able to turn the tables and finally kill his sister. Michael then goes back to his home in Haddonfield. He comes home to realize that an internet reality show is filming in his childhood home, and of course he will murder everyone in his house. As I mentioned above this story was ahead of it's time in regard to the reality programing. So many of us are use to seeing many horror type shows in famous houses that is first person based trying to find hauntings. Which is why I believe if this film were released in say 2012 instead of 2002, the film would have been a bigger hit and been more well received. I personally believe the story is not that bad. It is certainly not the worst of the franchise, and it moves nicely. Hood and Brand get a thumbs up in my opinion.The film was directed by Halloween 2 director Rick Rosenthal. If you have read my Halloween 2 review you already know I hold the opinion that that is the best sequel in this franchise. Rosenthal brought a more scare based approach to this film, which is what the franchise needed. Sure, there are still some over the top kills in this film that I could do without, but it wasn't as bad the previous film in this series(HalloweenH20). The acting is another big talking point about this film. Busta Rhymes is basically the star if you will. Many believe this was an awful casting decision, and I do agree. However, three years prior to this film another rapper(LL Cool J) starred in a Halloween film. The outrage against him is basically slim to none. The decision to cast Rhymes is a bigger role was not wise, but it certainly wasn't the worst thing in the world. However, I will admit that this is probably one of the worst acted films of the series. Jamie Lee Curtis phones in this very short part and acting legend Donald Pleasence had already passed about seven years before this film was released. Rosenthal delivers some nice scares that are a throwback to the original film more so than some of the slasher type sequels this franchise has turned out. I enjoy that and I think Rosenthal deserves credit for this outing.Danny Lux was the composer of this film, and he is mostly doing television shows these days. The score for this film has a John Carpenter feel to it, whereas some of the other sequels tried to change too much. That means the originality is at a low, but the film goes by nicely hearing that fantastic score we are so use to hearing in this series. Lux doesn't knock it out of the ballpark or create anything original, but he brings us that great classic Carpenter score that we all love.This film also marked the final effort from longtime series Producer, Moustapha Akkad. He was sadly murdered about three years after the release of this film in a terrorist bombing. Those hardcore fans of the series know him, and know his thoughts and opinions on the entire franchise very well. He didn't want Michael to die in any of the films, and just like Donald Pleasence, he wanted the series to continue as long as possible. He didn't want it to end. I love Moustapha for holding that for many decades as I myself never want to see the series end.Overall, it is not the best nor the worst film in the Halloween franchise. Sure it probably receives the most hate, but I can think of one or two films in this series that are worse. While it may not be the perfect way to have continued on the franchise, that really didn't matter as the series was rebooted entirely in 2007. The original franchise ended with this film, and while even I admit it wasn't the best way to end the amazing run, it was still an enjoyable way to end it's original run.7/10 "},{"Title":"Halloween The Disappointment","Date":"5 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Alright, so the review title isn't too original, but neither is this movie. I really couldn't find an antonym for Resurrection, so I'll just say how I felt disappointment. This is the eighth installment in the prolonging series and by the time you see Jamie Lee Curtis, you're already getting tired of the same shtick. Cue Michael Myers hiding behind a bush outside. Cue Jamie Lee Curtis fighting Michael. Cue generic Boo! scares. But surprisingly enough, just like with Curse, I actually didn't find this movie abysmal, and here's why The beginning and the ending are just horrendous and it sets up this movie like a C- level horror flick. But the middle portion is kind of entertaining to watch. Now don't get me wrong, I'm not talking about John Carpenter's level of entertaining, but more so the entertainment you get out of watching a train wreck. But let's get to our characters.We have Tyra Banks and Busta Rhymes. Alright, saying that alone is enough to make someone scratch their head, and you should. They're abominable. Now onto the other fresh faces, sans Katee Sackhoff who is just annoying to no end, and Jamie Lee Curtis, who is fine but she wares out her welcome. As for the others? Brain-dead and not appealing in any sense. But I did like Miles and Sara's characters and how they played a role in this movie. Dare I say, I would've liked their characters a little bit more fleshed out?As for the script, well... horrendous. Whenever Busta Rhymes speaks, I just wanted him to get impaled right off the bat, but I did like some of Curtis' lines and the asylum opening had some potential. But let's talk about what makes this movie suck The slow motion. Oh my GOD, and I'm sorry to sound like a 14 year old girl when I say that, but Rick Rosenthal needs to stop slowing down every scene or cutting to a kill abruptly. He was just not a competent director. The pacing was fine I guess. I mean the film never dragged so to speak, and if it was in the beginning, the middle portion of it packed enough cheap thrills to get your attention going. Well if the script/acting/thrills are pretty cheap, why the generous (yet horrid) 4? For what the filmmakers were trying to do, and please don't kill me, I think it might've worked somewhat. I mean they wanted to make this movie like a haunted-house Blair-Witch style project, and it gave the movie a different angle, albeit a still formulaic one. I think incorporating the cameras, and having people watch them made the film a little different. But even that can't save the film really. And how about the kills? I mean, some were brutal, but nothing too out of the ordinary with your Halloween franchise. I just wish that there were no cut-aways. This is Michael Myers. He's vicious! Show that. All in all, Halloween Resurrection isn't probably as horrible as everyone is making it out to be, yet look at my score, a 4! A 4 out of 10! There's no side-skirting how bad of a score that is for any movie to receive. I would really only recommend this movie for a drunk night with friends or if you have a Halloween marathon to finish. I mean you COULD do worse (just look at Rob Zombie's Halloween II), but you could also do better. I would recommend Season of the Witch, H20, or the original Halloween II. Better sequels, with better kills, and better story lines. You might get some cheap thrills here and there, but you won't miss Busta Rhymes' cringe-worthy dialogue and Tyra Banks' unfortunately horrid-acting. "},{"Title":"Like some chicken-fried muthaf...","Date":"5 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Halloween H20 was as natural a conclusion as the series could ask for. It, also, made lots of money. Naturally, another sequel had to made, even if it meant undoing a satisfying ending. The public demanded more Michael Myers, they got more Michael Myers.Halloween Resurrection spends its opening minutes undoing that satisfying ending. Which isn't easy. Michael was super-dead at the end of H20. In order to get around that, the screenwriters cooked up an absurd solution. Michael Myers has always been a thoughtless force of nature. The opening retcons the previous ending by having Myers suddenly develop a sense of cunning. He switches places with a paramedic, making sure to crush the guy's larynx so he can't scream, and walks off, leaving Laurie to murder an innocent man. This contradicts 24 years of history. The manslaughter causes Laurie to crack, placing her in the loony bin. This is conveniently explained by two nurses. After three years of twiddling his thumbs I guess, Mikey tracks his sis down. The final-final confrontation between brother and sister is underwhelming. Laurie ensnares the Shape with a remote-control pulley she set-up at some point. Once again defying characterization, Michael tricks Laurie into (stupidly) stepping into his kill radius, ending their sibling rivalry forever. Because the movie hadn't trampled over his personality enough all ready, Myers makes friends with a fellow inmate before walking off. Jaime Lee Curtis only returned so she could die, insuring no involvement with future sequels. This is very obvious. She sleepwalks through her five minutes of screen time.Despite conceiving an ending even more final then the previous final ending, Halloween Resurrection continues onward. Two internet reality television moguls dream up an event, a group of photogenic college students left in the abandoned Myers house with camera's strapped to their heads. Their experiences are streamed over the internet, despite this being 2002, when high-speed internet wasn't widely used. Michael shows up, of course, slashing his way through the generic slasher bait. He spends most of the movie standing in the shadows, waiting for his queue. The life of a slasher must be so ho-hum&#x85; When I say generic, I mean it. The characters of Halloween Resurrection are by-far its worse attribute. Bianca Kajilch's Sara is the virginal final girl, shy, reserved, and an attentive student. Best friend Jen, played by pre-fame Katee Sackoff, is her bubble-headed best friend. If this had been made in the eighties, we definitely would have seen her boobs. Speaking of boobs, redhead Donna pretends to be smart but is your typical slasher movie slut. She bangs a guy she's known a few hours and thinks a dusty basement is an ideal romantic spot. Jim, who has no further development beyond the horny guy, goes for it. Bill fills the obnoxious prankster role and, thankfully, dies early. Token black guy Rudy seems reasonable but even he lights up a bong for no reason. You'd think a post-Scream film wouldn't partake in clichés. Such blatant throwbacks might have been charming if it had been intentional. No, Halloween Resurrection is just badly written.Those characters are thin and terrible. They're not the worse. Busta Rhymes plays Freddie Harris, the man behind Dangertainment. Rhyme is obviously not a trained actor. He mugs furiously and it gets worse the longer on camera he is. He shouts all his dialogue in a macho brogue. Early on, he watches a kung-fu movie in his hotel room. This is meant to set up a later scene where he ninja-kicks Michael Myers through a window. As big as an indignity as that would be for a once-feared horror villain, Resurrection goes lower. Freddie returns to save the day and puts the monster down. How? He shocks him in the balls with a live-wire. Rhymes destroys every scene he's in. I hope he ad-libbed lines likes Trick or treat, muthaf**ka! or Like some chicken-fried motherf**ker! No screenwriter deserves the indignity of writing dialogue like that. Terrible human being Tyra Banks plays another terrible human being, one who ignores someone being murdered on camera twice. At least the movie has the good sense to kill her.The movie can't even get Myers right. Yeah, he looks okay. The mask is a better sequel example, though the hair is still off. However, the killer's behavior is completely wrong. He puts a knife down in the heat of the moment to kill a dude with his hands. After stabbing someone, he gets more knives just to decorate the corpse. Most egregiously, he lets Busta boss him around in a scene that recalls Abbott and Costello Meet the Mummy. At this point, I can only assume that Michael truly did die at the end of H20 and this character is an impostor. That makes more sense.The high-tech angle rarely comes into play but still ends up being one of the movie's better attributes. A group of partiers watching the live feed recreate slasher movie audience. They yell at the people on-screen and cheer at the death scenes. Sara's internet boyfriend texts her helpful hints. These might have been comments on slasher movie formula. If they were, any further commentary is lost amidst the sea of clichés.Part 2's Rick Rosenthal returns to the director's chair. Any talent Rosenthal might have is over edited, as Resurrection features grainy flashbacks and flashing white lights. Danny Lux's score is generic though makes good use of Carpenter's original theme. John earned his musical royalty check on this one. The movie is packed full of lame jump scares and unintentional hilarity. For these reasons and more, it is the worse Halloween film, outpacing even part six. Six was a mess but its badness was ambitious and audacious. Resurrection is boring, lazy, stupid, and pointless. "},{"Title":"Just Bad","Date":"16 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Why am I giving this movie a 2 and not a 1? The first fifteen minutes or so are actually good. We get to see Laurie Strode battle it out with Michael Myers one last time.The story of Michael Myers should have ended with H20, which while not great, at least added something to the story. So what do we get with Resurrection? Well, as with Halloween 5, Michael's death is retold to show that he didn't really die; that he in fact traded places with a medic, going so far as putting his mask on the guy after crushing his larynx...because, obviously Michael knew that Laurie would steal the ambulance and decapitate the body.So Resurrection gives us the last battle between Laurie and Michael and ends with Laurie's death. Apparently, Jamie Lee Curtis would only reprise her role as Laurie if they killed her off...a rather smart move on her part because she could see where the franchise was headed. After this 15 minutes, the movie has no point. Busta Rhymes and Tara Banks (I really don't care enough to look up their character names) are looking for a pay day and decide to host a live ghost hunter show at the Myers house on Halloween night. They get a bunch of college kids to enter the house and explore it all night. Predictably, they all split up and are murdered by Myers. Here's the thing the Myers house isn't that big...it's not like you could just spend hours exploring a relatively empty house. How do several people wander around getting lost in a house this small?Oh and Busta Rhymes is in this movie...he's the next biggest star after Jamie Lee Curtis. There is no Dr. Loomis equivalent here; no real talent. I failed to mention that Busta Rhymes is - in this film - a karate fan, and he fights Michael Myers using his Bruce Lee moves...yeah, that's actually in this movie.Probably the most cringe-worthy part was the ending, after the two survivors have burned down the garage with Myers inside. Busta Rhymes and the girl that survived are interviewed by the media and it was just so terrible. Then there is the part with Rhymes mocking the burnt corpse of Myers.I don't know what else there is to say about this film. It shouldn't have been made. It didn't need to be made. Even if there was a poll of fans who wanted Myers to return, you don't necessarily have to do what fans want. Certainly, fans didn't like this movie, and no one else did either. "},{"Title":"Terrible follow up to a fantastic previous installment","Date":"11 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Halloween H20 was without a doubt the best horror sequel of all time. It was slick, fast paced and actually scary. It did not dumb down the characters too much. It had a purpose in bringing back the savior of the franchise (Jamie Lee Curtis). Most importantly it tied the story up all the way and there was no need for another one.Enther Halloween Resurrection in 2002. Originally slated to be released in 2001, rewrites and re-shoots caused a delay which was not for the better. The idea was to bring Michael back and explain he was not the one who got his head chopped off in 1998. Well, nobody ever said horror films had to be taken seriously but as the events unfolded in Resurrection none of it could be understood or explained.Laurie Strode was a vital character to the franchise. Every I repeat every horror film franchise needs one survivor from the previous installment to come back, kick butt and get out. During her short 10 minute appearance, we see how badly the producers wanted to make it work. Yes, we see a stronger Laurie. Yes, we see a passable explanation for what has happened and the spook factor is at an all time high.Reportedly, Jamie Lee wanted out and did not want to see Laurie alive because that would mean another return down the line. Smart girl. Badly written exit. Here she is about to kill Michael Myers and she thinks he has somehow pulled a fast one on her again? Please. This guy WANTED to kill her. He chased her around the building. Tore in her bedroom. And she thought she needs to make sure? 10 minutes and we are out people. No more Laurie. No more excuse to witness the tragedy about to happen to out eyes and ears.Nothing can save the viewer from this badly written script and one dimensional idiot characters. The camera idea did not work. The jokes were funny for all the wrong reasons and Tyra Banks along with Busta Rhymes need to be reminded they are not actors. While some parts entertained me, the fact that I felt less smart coming out of the theater is a red flag people. Should have waited for the DVD. Oh well.*/4 "}{"Title":"I Hate Halloween Resurrection","Date":"17 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Only vital if you wanna know about michael myers. bad actors, bad characters, and terrible ending. i hope you don't puke when you watch it. because i about did, i rate this as the least satisfying movie ever in the halloween movie franchise. I highly suggest watching it for the story not for the details. it has a good story, OK facts about the killer michael myers. The secrets behind the story and the like 5th death of laurie strode and the last one. she dies in the first 10 minutes so i didn't spoil anything. i suggest a puke bag while watching this shitty movie. i hope you use it. "},{"Title":"A complete waste.","Date":"24 March 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I saw this movie in the theater right when it came out and I was so disappointed. The other Halloweens terrorized me when I was younger and I was hoping this movie wouldn't disappoint. Man was I wrong. I fell asleep in my seat watching this movie. I'm not going to write some long review, for if I start up, I don't think I'll be able to stop complaining about everything wrong with it.Basically, if they were going to kill off Jamie Lee Curtis, they should have came up with a way better plot line for the rest of the movie, obviously. They should have brought Hartnett back and had Myers go after him, since that is his only family member left alive. I don't know. Just never watch this movie. "},{"Title":"surprisingly a really fun movie to watch","Date":"16 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" well i wasn't expecting anything special from this movie, but i was actually surprised, the story seemed somewhat thrown together but still half-ways interesting, the acting was good for saying that the only actors i recognized were Jamie Lee Curtis, Busta Rhymes, and Ryan Merriman.. the music was still good, and the whole idea though not a great one, was fun, i also thoroughly enjoyed the way they did the cameras, that was a genius idea.. i recommend this movie to anyone, and i don't understand why so many people don't like this movie, because its loads of fun to watch.. the movie may not have a great story or award winning actors, but its still surprising and fun, thus concludes my review of Halloween Resurrection "},{"Title":"It's not all bad, but pretty bad...","Date":"2 November 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Well, OK, I'm not a fan of the Halloween series, the only one I've seen other than this, is the first one. I'll say the flaws I noticed, while watching. 1) At the beginning, Laurie, is going to kill Michael. Now, is she stupid or something...? She has him hanging over a roof and thinks he will die when he hits the ground, when she 20 years ago expirienced stabbing him twice, seeing him get shot several times, falling off a balcony, and still be alive. 2) The acting was bad. 3) Sara, the maincharacter, screams at one time so loud that a glass breaks. This never happens again later in the film, which makes the scene useless. 4) It was predictable, and you didn't really care if anyone died.I bought this movie, and wanted to see a horror movie, and that was what I got. The only good things were that you got scared sometimes, the beginning with the great acting of Jamie Lee Curtis (even though she was stupid at the end of her scene), and I also liked the ending. It showes that Michael is not a usual psycho, he is the Boogey Man, something that is forever. "},{"Title":"Should have ended after H20","Date":"24 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" OK, I first got into Horror movies after seeing the remake of Rob Zombie's Halloween. I then got into the original Halloween franchise after the first one, which wasn't bloody, but we don't need blood to scare us. I then found out there were a bunch of sequels, and Saw Jamie-Lee came back in H20, and was in HR which I saw got terrible reviews, which I found out why after watching the whole franchise, and especially after seeing how H20 ended. This film completely ruins the entire Halloween series. H20 ended the best way ever, and was even better because the main Halloween character (Jamie-Lee Curtis) ended it (at first). I feel like I'm Jamie-Lee from H20 after what happened 20 years ago, she couldn't get the horrible incident of her head. I can't get it out of my head knowing they made something like this unnecessary to keep it going. The remake of the first one should have been the only continuation. This movie has bad acting, bad story, and bad intro. This movie should be rated T for Terrible. I even prefer Batman & Robin over this crap! WHY RICK WHY?!? Did you have to do this? 1/10 (should be 0/10) "},{"Title":"What a Waste","Date":"17 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This is the only Halloween movie I've ever seen and most likely I'll never watch another Halloween movie after this one. Luckily I didn't rent this movie and it was on TV on Friday night so my money wasn't wasted on this movie. What I didn't like about this movie was the poor acting on some of the characters, the acting didn't convince me enough, it made me laugh a little. But most of all, I found Bianca Kajlich the actress who played Sara Moyer a weak screamer, she screams most of the time in the movie and every time she screams it just wasn't powerful, it wasn't convincing to me. It was just weak. Bottom Line, The Halloween Franchise is just a Waste of Time, even if the past movies might be better then Halloween Resurrection you won't be finding me watching them. 1/10 "},{"Title":"Wrong man...","Date":"15 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" More like wrong movie. I mean how could there possibly been the wrong guy? He came after her, she hit him with a car, crushed him, he was still alive, he wasn't screaming, wasn't wiggling around, she took the shovel, looked him into eyes and took his head off &#x96; that WAS Michael Myers and by saying it wasn't movie fails as much as it's possible to fail. Anyways, if he wasn't ever killed, why this movie is called resurrection ? Is it like resurrection of the series? What's up with the crap in the beginning about doors to heaven/hell then? The main plot about teens investigating the Myers house however has nothing to do with this and, despite horrible acting, works pretty well, if you'll ignore the fact that this movie is ripping off too many horror flicks to count, that is. Watch it if you have nothing better to do, it's not really horrible, just stupid at most part, I wouldn't recommend it though. "},{"Title":"Its passable....and i guess they had to move on at some point..","Date":"31 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" After watching Halloween Resurrection I have decided to write a review which I don't normally do.Where do I start? Well the first and most obvious point is how can there be another Halloween movie when Michael thought to of died in the previous one?! The answer to that is money... Yet again these film makers were speaking for the fans and thought they would want another Halloween movie and thought that this one would make big money. Well for the first part yes. I would imagine that the majority of the Halloween fan base would of liked another one but not actually see another one made! As for the second part.....No... This movie did poorly and thus the reason there hasn't been another sequel made since. You can now see why they thought it would be a good idea to revitalise the series by Re-Making the first one but this isn't about that so lets talk about the movie itself.The first point I am going to make is what I made at the start of this review. How can Michael Myers still be alive after we presumed it was him that got his head cut off. This was the worst thing that put me off this movie when watching it. I do agree that the idea of which it was executed in order for Michael to still be alive was passable but there are so many reasons to explain why the paramedic, who was dressed by Michael, didn't just take the mask off and run away but I guess this is a movie and that does not count.....The second part is the demise of beloved Halloween star Laurie Strode(Jamie Lee Curtis). When first looking at the DVD cover which shows the actors and of course Jame Lee Curtis, I presumed that Jamie would have a larger role in this movie. The idea of killing of the most important character in the franchise right slap bang at the start was a terrible move. This not only wasted peoples anticipation to see how she and Michael would unfold in the movie but also wasted peoples money who actually bought a ticket to see this on the big screen(who i feel sorry for). Why didn't they just have her in the whole movie and then died at the end because at least this way it shows that she put up a last ditch effort..does it not it?! Also I am led to believe that somewhere along the line the franchise has to move on. We cant and couldn't have the same protagonist always escaping until Halloween H30 because that would and did get very old. From H20 to Halloween(1978) and Halloween 2(1981) she had a good run but it was time to move on because after time the audience would start to question Michaels ability to kill just one primary person after chasing her for a long damn time (Story time) In my closing I would give this movie a 4 out of 10 because I am generous and didn't think this movie was that bad, it was just not everyones liking and I wouldn't recommend watching it more than 2 times.Thanks for reading! ) "},{"Title":"Below average","Date":"2 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Mike Myers gets his own reality TV show in this 8th movie of a Halloween series rapidly running out of steam.Well, it's not actually Micheal's show it's just taking a bunch of people and putting them in his old house where The Shape picks them off one by one.Good use is made of the catch everything on camera plot device and there are some nice hand-held camera shots of murders and chases. Like H20 this isn't really a Halloween movie. It seems completely out of place in the rest of the series and the viewer is better off viewing it as a separate film.Some of the fanboys will be unhappy, Laurie Strode (Jamie Lee Curtis) is dispatched in the opening minutes of the film.Not much of a story, not really much of an ending either. Some nice scares and creative kills though. Does the job I guess, and at least makes its own kind of sense. "},{"Title":"Halloween Re$urrection","Date":"31 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Halloween Resurrection is so rife with unoriginality (even the title is a rip-off of dozens of other bad horror sequels) and ineptitude -- from the acting to the storyline to the cinematography -- that I don't even know where to begin. It is an absolute mystery how Moustapha Akkad allowed the series to go from H20 to this mess, which isn't even up to par with a Sci-Fi Channel Original Movie. True, Akkad, rest his soul, was transparently in the Halloween series for the money, but even he had his standards -- or so I thought.Director Rosenthal, no longer under the tutelage of John Carpenter and Debra Hill like he was when he helmed the decent Halloween II, can't even get the opening title sequence right (is that Arial Black I see?) and relies on a tepid John Wayne Gacy knockoff and an oh-so- convincing decapitation with a kitchen knife for scares. Even back in 2002, he was way late with all the reality TV/webcam gobbledygook. The film's premise plays out like your Great Aunt Gladys trying to sound hip and with the technological age because she managed to buy a tea cozy on eBay all by herself.It is best not to talk about Jamie Lee Curtis' involvement in this, so as not to exacerbate matters. After giving us the perfect ending to the series in H20, she was shackled to this project due to contractual obligations. Her character's undignified opening fifteen minutes are even more of a disgrace to the series than that awful Druid storyline in Part 6.What a disaster. "}{"Title":"No No No No No","Date":"9 September 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" What an awful movie directed by Rick Rosenthal who directed Halloween 2 which i thought was awesome. I guess some directors lose there touch. I mean it was good with Michael dying in H20 but they have to go and make it a paramedic and keep Myers alive and then they changes deaths in h20 Laurie kills Myers this one Myers kills Laurie. This means there probably gonna make a sequel soon because i heard Tyler Mane signed for another Halloween so after he does that one they may do a sequel but what storyline do they have i wonder probably that it was a Laurie Strode look alike and shes still alive (dont laugh thats basically what they did with this one).I give this piece of junk a 3 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Avoid!","Date":"5 September 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Halloween Resurrection should not have been made. The series would have ended on a high note, if only it had been left with Halloween H20 Twenty Years Later. You would've had Laurie Strode coming out on top after finally putting a stop to her brother, Michael Myers.Instead, her character meets her demise in about the first ten minutes of the film. After having Laurie escape death after numerous encounters over a twenty some odd year span it was quite heartbreaking to see her character meet her end, and such an unceremonious one at that.Once its established Laurie is dead and she's not coming back, there's really no reason to continue watching the film. The rest of the movie focuses on a group of teenagers who after winning a contest must spend the night in Michael Myers' childhood home while being broadcast on the Internet for the entire world to see.Among the weakest entries in the series, the only films worse than this are Rob Zombie's new remake and Halloween III Season of the Witch. Unless you're a die hard fan, I'd say stay away from this one. "},{"Title":"What was once a great franchise starts to show it's age","Date":"6 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Halloween Resurrection is by far one of the worst boring and uncreative Halloween sequel ever created. The series should have ended with Halloween H20 since the series would have had closure with Laurie Strode finally facing her fear of her brother Michael Myers and finally killing him for good. Instead the filmmakers attempt to cash out the franchise for all it's worth and doesn't even attempt to at least create an interesting story and characters that the fans care about like Halloween 4 did with Jamie Lloyd and Rachel Carruthers who were excellently played by Danielle Harris and Ellie Cornell. The Story follows three years after H20 in which Laurie is now in Smithsgrove sanitarium for killing a paramedic in which she though was Michael. Michael returns and eventually kills off his sister, one year later a company called Dangertainment plans to have a internet live show in the Myers house which Michael returns to Haddonfield to kill off the unwanted guests. the acting in this film is horrible, and the character are a bunch of dumb pot heads, who are completely clueless of who Michael Myers is. Despite a well famous cast like Tyra Banks, Sean Patrick Thomas, Busta Rhymes, Jamie Lee Curtis, and Thomas Ian Nicholas the films suffers from many plot holes. The only good things about the film is Michael Myers's mask, the house, and Jamie's performance of Laurie Strode who is clearly tired of fighting Michael and is very beaten down and worn out. "},{"Title":"Good concept but failed","Date":"21 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Halloween Resurrection (2002, Dir. Rick Rosenthal) Serial Killer Michael Myers is not finished with Laurie Strode, and their rivalry finally comes to an end. But is this the last we see of Myers? Freddie Harris and Nora Winston are reality programmers at DangerTainment, and are planning to send a group of 6 thrill-seeking teenagers into the childhood home of Myers. Cameras are placed all over the house and no one can get out of the house... and then Michael arrives home!When i first heard about this, i thought the concept was brilliant. Each character given a video game and sent into Michael Myers. Unfortunately, the idea didn't turn out too well. The film started off fantastic with the Halloween theme leading into the death of Laurie Strode, and then after that, the film just died. I actually found the acting in this film quite bad. The stars just could not fit in with the story and it's concept. Busta Rhymes character for me was the worst individual in this film. His acting came across very poor and seemed to best fit in a cheap, rip-off, straight to DVD movie. Once they entered the house, they should have really kept the film to the hand held cameras. The film would have been a lot more scary and more interesting if it didn't switch to an actual camera for the death scenes. If your a Halloween fan, you might as well watch this, to complete this series. If you don't fancy watching it, at least watch the first quarter, as this is how the series should have really ended.Kick his a$$! Kick his a$$! Kick his a$$! Who's better than Wat Chun Lee? Whoopin' everybody a$$ while he's smokin' a cigarette. Oh, $hit. Who's knockin' on my door this late? Whoever this is is distracting me from seeing Wat Chun Lee whoop some a$$. - Freddie Harris (Busta Rhymes) "},{"Title":"You have got to be kidding me!","Date":"20 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Being a major Horror movie geek, naturally I was a big fan of the first two Halloween movies. Even the third could have my appreciations. Buth after that, it made me real sad.The first minutes of this movie got my expectations up. But unfortunately these are the only nice minutes of this movie. The branche has become nothing more than a teenage scary movie. Even the acting had relegated itself to second hand actors and rappers. Shameful in my opinion.Let's hope this will be the last movie in the Halloween branche. The only 'new' Halloween movie that might be interesting would be a prequel about the youth of Michael and his sister! Pity "},{"Title":"No wonder the series was rebooted, this was the crash in the system","Date":"8 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" A lot of people may think that Halloween 5 is the least effective film in the whole series, but Halloween Resurrection is a close second to that. Putting Busta Rhymes and Tyra Banks in this film...fail. Busta Rhymes brings two aspects to this film that do not belong in a Halloween film...hip hop arrogance and kung-fu. I like hip hop music, and I sure as hell love to see kung-fu. However, I do NOT want to see kung-fu in a Halloween film. I don't want to see Busta Rhymes making his stupid @$$ comments in a Halloween film. Tyra Banks a role model to many. Personally, I just think she's annoying, now. She certainly has no place in a Halloween film. What else about this film shoots itself in the foot? Sean Patrick Thomas is a good actor. He was great in movies like The Barber Shop and a lot of teen movies during the '90s. Where he does not fit in is a Halloween film. Just, no. I can't explain it. Thomas Ian Nicholas is a similar situation. I thought he was hilarious in the American Pie films (and I love the original three American Pies), and he was good in Rookie of the Year. Does he belong in a Halloween film? No. He just didn't fit into the whole equation. I think one shining performance, which isn't saying a whole lot, because the acting in this film is not convincing, comes from Bianca Kajlich. She's good at being absolutely petrified and running from Michael. However, who the hell decided that it was a good idea to hire an actress for a leading female role in a Halloween film when she can't scream? That's right. She can't scream. So they had to ADR screams into the film for her in post production. In retrospect this film should never have been made. Halloween H20 was where it should have ended. Laurie beheaded Michael, and that was that. However, they just had to go back and use the holes in the time line between Michael falling through the table after being stabbed repeatedly by Laurie and the time that he gets tagged, bagged and put into the meat wagon as a means to come up with a very shaky situation to explain how Michael had survived that night. It's all bull$hit. Apparently an EMT went into the school, got his larynx crushed by Michael, and Michael switched clothes with him. So in all the confusion, Michael walks away, free to kill again, and a helpless EMT gets beheaded by Laurie. She gets institutionalized, and ultimately gets killed by Michael after a botched attempt to kill him when he finally decides to come after her. Horrible, just horrible. You know when the PC freezes because Windows f-cking sucks, and then finally it just crashes? Well, that's what this movie is, pretty much. However, there is one cool thing about this film. The use of webcams adds an interesting aspect to this film. Rick Rosenthal directed this, and he also directed the original Halloween II. So, he recycles some gags and features that he utilized in Halloween II. The webcams are very reminiscent of the security cameras and monitors in the hospital in Halloween II. Bianca Kajlich (Sarah) slips and falls on a huge puddle of blood, much like Lance Guest did in Halloween II. There are others in the film, but I thought I'd just mention the two most prominent ones. Overall, this film is very ineffective and weak when compared to many of the other Halloween films. I give it a 3 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Even better than the original (or all others). *Spoilers*","Date":"5 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" *Spoilers* Glorious. The acting, the editing, the humor, all completely original. The first Halloween doesn't even begin to compare with this. Halloween Resurrection is by far the most superior Halloween movie ever made. No story line, just people being slashed to death on live feed over the internet. Completely original horror scenes, such as one where this girl goes looking around even though she doesn't want to be there at all, and gets slaughtered because she did something dumb. Brilliant writing. I couldn't have planned it better.How about the acting, and BUSTA RHYMES!!! WOW!!! Who cares about the previous movies, this one is all about the hip hop and the shiz niz on the diz wiz! SHANIZZLE! What a wonderful touch to the movie. Something the original writers wouldn't have ever done (what with the time they spent trying to create a plot and all that stuff).There are other scenes where people get killed, and act with only the up most skill and ability they possess. The acting is simply something of true wonder when you watch it, and you'll be saying to yourself Oh My GOD, What the- because its that good. The same goes with the unpredictable plot, MAN was it something...Yes, Halloween Resurrection should be viewed by anyone who wants a new Halloween movie. "},{"Title":"Halloween Resurrection","Date":"29 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This movie was just made for more money i think Laurie Strode should not of being killed because she is the main star. I think H20 should of ended it by killing her brother BUT NO it wasn't her brother. And NOW their making HALLOWEEN 9 just for money if you watch the deleted scenes on HALLOWEEN RESURRECTION they whack a Axe in his head and he's dead, People need money don't they. Some Think Michael Myers should of stopped in HALLOWEEN 2 but others say no way. I think H20 and Halloween 5 The Revenge of Michael Myers are the best. Laurie Strode is Michael Myers 57th victim out of 62. This movie is alright. When they find the head it looks different it's just the head not the head and neck. The mask is different but still looks cool. "},{"Title":"Halloween has come and gone","Date":"9 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This piece of junk was designed to remove money from our wallets and place it firmly in Lady Jamie Lee Curtis Guest's pocket. She deserved it. There is no reason on earth this should have been made. It was a very dull script to begin with and the director Rick R. populated it with even duller, vapid performers. Outside of Curtis, I knew no one, and frankly believe they'll never amount to anything anyway. Though I understand the first 10 minutes were there to establish a link between this piece of trash and H20 -- I disliked it tremendously. The set up -- a bunch of mindless students share Micheal Myer's house on Halloween with cameras in every room, and no one on the outside sees anything weird until well into the third reel. It is sad that such a great franchise has finally -- and again -- scrapped the creative bottom of the peanut butter jar. I rented this for a buck, along with some good movies. I suggest you do the same. Halloween has come and gone and Laurie killed Micheal once and for all (of us) in H20. "},{"Title":"So bad it's hilarious.","Date":"31 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I really enjoyed this movie. It reminded me a lot of the Scary Movies that the Wayans brothers put out, except with the genuine Halloween theme music playing. It's a complete parody of itself, made all the more hilarious by the fact that the film makers didn't seem to realize it. Whenever that rapper appears on screen, I was just in stitches. Is it possible that they didn't realize this guy can't even spell the word act? This goes WAY over the top of anything the Wayans put in their movies. The only problem was that these folks couldn't write characters that were half as likable or interesting as those in the Scary Movies, yet those characters were intentionally paper thin clichés. Oh well, it's not like anyone cares anyhow. "}{"Title":"what was this?","Date":"28 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" First of all I'm a huge fan of the Halloween series i love scary movies especially the Halloween series. thats why i cant stand this movie first of all I've seen them all Halloween,2,3(dont watch it),Return of Michel Myers,5,6 and H2o and i love them all except this one because A.its dumb what installment of Halloween would have a concept like staying in Micheal myers old house as a OnLiNe reality show especially one with a name like dangertainment and whats with Busta rhymes character doing all that weird Karate crap in fact only one thing added to the story anyway and thats that Laurie Strood finally got killed but that was within the first thirty minutes(i would of saved it to the end)and that crazy phsyco patient forget all about Halloween 4,5and 6 he was listing off the kills and only talked about 1,2 and h20 as if the other movies didn't count and there's been a lot of times they killed Mike over the and he always lives but being Electrocuted come on he cant be alive anyway overall the movie was the worst in the series even worse than Halloween 3 that had nothing to do with the rest of the movies and as a die hard Halloween fan i admit i despise this movie and hope the next one is way better. "},{"Title":"The worst in the series before the remakes.","Date":"18 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I remember when this movie came out a lot of people including me were excited but wondered how it could even be possible. Considering the events of H20 with Michael Myers getting killed due to decapitation. I thought this would be very confusing and would need to be explained. I was glad that the Laurie Strode character was braught back and they explained the whole story that it wasn't Michael Myers but a paramedic that Michael switched places with. And Laurie Strode was put into a insane asylum. But then when she was killed off too easily by Michael Myers in the beginning of the film no sooner did the film go downhill.The opening story goes like this. Some teenage kids are picked in some contest to spend the night in the Myers house where Michael Myers once lived. It was some goofball reality show decided to hosts the contest and pick teenagers to go into the house. Needless to say this was a early silly plot. While the Myers house did look slightly dark and would fit almost with Michael Myers being a killer, I just couldn't see the logic of this story. This film has way too many downsides to it.1. Weak plot. I never could understand why Michael Myers killing Laurie Strode was at the start of the film. In H20 Michael had to break into someones home and find the info on where she was located and living. In this film he just shows up at the hospital where she was. No explanation as to how he did this. And Laurie Strode got killed way too easily. I think she should had been more active in the film considering she was traced back to the very first film. And to kill her off that easily and that quick just didn't do it for me. And while the back story to Michaels survival was interested and it did show Michael wasn't just a killer in a mask but very smart and cunning, why didn't the guy who he switched places with just take off the Michael Myers mask and reveal himself to Laurie before she killed him? Yeah he couldn't talk but he still could remove his mask. Couldn't he? 2. I never saw the logic how Haddonfield would let some reality show let kids into a killers house like that. And there were no police officers there to keep things safe. I thought with a well known killers past, their would have been tons of police outside the Myers house. And did you notice house the house was so easily axcessable? People could just walk into the house. 3. I didn't like Michael Myers in this film. He didn't have the dark creepy presence he did in previous films. He was just a guy in a mask. That's it. It didn't have the same feel. 4. Busta Rhymes. Up until this film I didn't even know who the hell this guy was. But I found his character really annoying. The whole using kung fu on Michael was so stupid and pointless and made Michael look very stupid. This was a attempt by the film maker to add comedy to Michael Myers. In other words it made fun of him. This is a rule you never break in a series because it makes the killer look very weak and foolish. This is why Paramount Pictures said to the director of Friday the 13th part 6 Jason Lives. The director was told do not make fun of Jason by putting him into situations of comedy and corniness. And that's what the director of Halloween Resurrection did with Michael. 5. And during the scenes where people were watching the whole thing in the Myers house go down and people getting killed why didn't anyone try to call the police? Or how no one in the neighborhood even heard what was going on.This movie just didn't do it for me. I thought with Jammie Lee Curtis in the film it would be more exciting and have a Halloween feel to it. But to kill her off and mislead the fans was just insulting. This movie didn't have the Halloween feel to it. They could have done a better job with this film but failed. I don't know if this film is worse then the Rob Zombie remakes but overall it wasn't a good film. Pass on it "},{"Title":"I don't know if people know when to hang it up....","Date":"13 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I'm not going to be too harsh on this movie. It's not the absolute worst sequel in a horror movie series I've ever seen, but eh... they should have stopped a long time ago. =\ The majority of long-standing horror movie series (Elm Street, Friday the 13th, etc.), all typically fell along the same lines with the sequels. The famous villain would come back, cause hell, and when you think they'll finally put an end to it, they choose to hint at the end that It isn't over yet. 24 years after the reign of terror began, they chose to keep the legend alive.Don't let Michael Myers wind up like poor IL' Freddy. Put him to rest. He's already a legend. His day's done.4/10. "},{"Title":"There needs to be a Remake of this Film","Date":"14 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I did not like that Laurie strode had to be killed in Halloween ResuRRedtion after being the main character i think that when this film was made they should have not killed her instead keep her in the whole movie this movie really reminded me a lot of Halloween 6 and how Jamie loyd from H4 and H5 was killed it really did not fit at all it needed to be Redone just like Halloween 6 Needed to be Redone they both were the not so good Films in all of the Halloween series if it were to be Remade it would need to have Jamie lee cuRtis in it before it would Really be a Fantastic film to me Really i thought of how they killed Jamie loyd from Halloween 6 and introduced Brand New characters why would they do this to a Really horrific horror film series why should they mess with it when it already a good series to view on video and DVD for the first time................... "},{"Title":"Now that's dangertainment!","Date":"16 October 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" H20 was a good way to end the series, but they wanted more money! So they threw this one in and....Well, ya wanna see dangertainment? It's great! Onw would think they would really mess up on this one, but it's all good. The whole Dangertainment thing is just like reality TV. Michael's mask is a little overdone here, but it does look cool. As usual, there's some people who take The Shape head on. This time, however both of them get somewhere. The two backs dudes in the film keep their pimp hands strong with a couple of smacks to Mikey. The Dangertainment producer really gets into the swing of things with kung-fu action. (Happy Halloween Motherf___er!). This does take away from Michael a little though. Isn't he supposed to get ALL the carnage?Actually there is a problem. This movie follows along the curse Scream (despite it's glory) brought to use in the nineties and still today in b-movies like Dark Harvest and Bloody Murder). There's no serious scare to the movie. It's too...fun! Halloween 6 was hardly a fun movie, it was darker than hell! One can't help but wonder if the formula of this movie will carry on the next one, which they are planning as I write this. If so, it's possible, almost certain in fact, that the Halloween films will be reduced to silly and campy horror cheese. Of course, maybe I'm fretting too much. Get the latest Halloween, get yerself some popcorn and get nice and cozy. This little romp will keep you warm.Here's to debauchery with knives! "},{"Title":"It's OK","Date":"6 October 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is definitely not the best one in the series but it's not the worst. All of the Halloween films without Jamie Lee Curtis sucked. SPOILERS! SPOILERS!Alright, I knew that Jamie Lee would probably get killed in this one but why did they have to have the whole kids in the house thing. It was completely ridiculous. After, Jamie Lee dies what more is there to say, Michael wins. Well I heard that they're making a part 9 and I really think in this one that Jamie Lee should surprise every one and come back and kill Michael once and for all. I mean seriously everyone wants to see Laurie Strode kill Michael. Grade- C-  "},{"Title":"Michael's back and slacks!!!","Date":"17 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Michael Myers, one of the original boogeymen of our time is back for more in this pointless and disgusting sequel, which is the ninth one in the series. Many will agree with me that this series should have stopped after H20. H20 showed a whole new side of Laurie Strode, played by Jamie Lee Curtis, as she stands up to her brother after 20 years of running away from him. The movie ends with her giving up, what is believed to be her brother at first, and chops his head off, eliminating the terror and overcoming her fear. Halloween Resurrection completely kills that psychology as it is explained that it wasn't Michael Myers' head that was chopped but one of the paramedics, whom Michael put his mask on. Michael comes back after Laurie, after she was put in a mental institution.The first ten minutes of the movie are good, full with suspense and tension, as Laurie runs away from Michael again. The reason why H20 was unique is because it was one of those rare movies (the Alien franchise, just to name a few), where the women is not represented as the sensitive damsel in distress, and she is the protagonist in the movie. Halloween Resurrection brings back that mentality as Laurie goes to take off Michael's mask to make sure that it was him, as she cries and shakes with terror. Michael then grabs her and pushes her off the building, where our hero dies. All these movies where there are more than three sequels grow worse as the movies go on. They are riddled with sex, drugs, alcohol and grown men and women playing teenagers, who can't act for s**t. They are pointless and are not worth $10 for a movie ticket or more than $20 on DVD.  "},{"Title":"Average sequel to a good film, which was itself a sequel to a great film- make sense?","Date":"1 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This entry follows the events in H20, which is a sequel to Halloween 1 and 2. This is interesting for the fact that Rick Rosenthal directed this, and he was also the director of the original sequel, Halloween II. After that film, his feature debut, he received a lot of criticism for supposedly not being up-to-snuff, and having to have his work finished up by the original film's director, John Carpenter (this rumor was actually substantiated by Carpenter in a recent interview). So it was going to be interesting, going into Resurrection, to see if Rosenthal would go all out to show what he's learned directing TV and films for the last 20 years.The result is an entertaining entry, but an overall average movie. The plot revolves around a group of college students being locked in the Myers house for a live internet webcast. Bianca Kajlich is the reluctant protagonist and Busta Rhymes is the web entrepreneur behind the whole thing. They are surrounded by the typical assortment of slasher fodder obnoxious teens. Inevitable, Michael Myers starts methodically killing people, and there are the tired slasher clichés of a person being pulled through a bathroom mirror and a decapitated head in the clothes dryer.There are some redeeming qualities, including a subplot involving a group of kids at a high school party watching the webcast, who sort-of mirror the theatrical audience and provide comic relief. Also there is a funny scene where Rhymes, dressed as Michael Myers, encounters the real Myers and mistakes him for somebody else in a costume. Also they finally got the Myers mask to look like it did in the original (how did this take 7 sequels to get right?).The most redeeming quality about this movie, however, is the attempt to use shadows and light to create atmosphere. This was what made the original Halloween so great- it was all about lighting along with atmosphere, slow ominous pacing and, of course, music. Carpenter has said over and over again that Halloween was an Expressionist film. Unfortunately, contemporary Hollywood does not know how or is not willing to support this format. It does not gel with the young, raised-on-MTV audiences that are accustomed to stereotypical, wisecracking characters, break-neck fast editing and contrived, predictable plots.The result is a series that, since Halloween 4, feels uninspired. Where is the suspense? Halloween H20 was the exception, thanks to Jamie Lee Curtis's participation, and Resurrection is worth it, if for no other reason, than to see her cameo. Her character is given a dignified swan song, and Curtis plays it very well. I just wish the music during her scene didn't felt so un-Carpenter-like. But really, after her scene, there is no reason for the series to continue. It just seems pointless... Unless Myers goes after Josh Hartnett.  "},{"Title":"We all Make Mistakes","Date":"11 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  (Written 7/16/02) **CONTAINS SPOILERS** Personally, I am a die hard horror fanatic..anyone who knows me should know this by now. They should also know that before I go see a sequel, I see all the movies prior to just to make sure they actually make sense in the connection. This 8th installment in the Halloween series does do a pretty okay job of picking up where the last one left off and explaining how he came back after he was supposedly decapitated in the last one (MUCH better continuity than Jason X had), but it was a crappy way of having Michael Myers just appear out of nowhere 3 years later.As far as scariness goes, this movie only proves that to get the TRUE effect of scary movies, you have to see it in a theater..widescreen, surround sound, all that stuff. Because if you see such a movie on video or DVD (or worse, cable), you're getting SOME of the great effects, but not the best. Anyhoo, I say this because its great to hear the footsteps behind you, the creepy breathing on your right, and of course the famous Halloween Theme (thank you John Carpenter for such brilliance!). Other sounds that can be heard around you are the sounds of dogs barking, crickets, and other night creatures that were added for effect. But as far as the scariness of the movie...I personally think it lacked individuality. It was obviously a cross between The Blair Witch Project and House on Haunted Hill. There was even a scene where the girl puts her camera up to her face and goes on about how scared she is (JUST LIKE IN BLAIR WITCH!). That must've been intentional..I can only hope and assume. And the whole 'staying the night in a haunted house' deal was done in House On Haunted Hill...twice. And this movie did give in to its classic serial killing based movies..killer jumps out of closets, appears out of nowhere, is standing behind an unsuspecting victim, etc. No surprise there, but due to the fact that the volume was so loud, everytime something or someone did jump out, the sound of the shrieking and whatnot would pierce my eardrums..maybe that was the theater screwing up or maybe just another way to give the movie extra pizazz in the scariness department..it wasn't scary..it was annoying and painful..but if it makes you happy, I will admit that I did jump because of such events.And now of course, we move on to blood, gore, killings, nudity, and all that great stuff that makes a horror movie great. Well, there was REALLY nothing more outside of the classic stabbing. Obviously, Michael Myers is not as creative as Jason Vorhees when it comes to murdering his victims. Stab here, stab there...maybe a hanging over here..a body crushing over there...more stabbing..in fact, it got really old..but then again, after seeing all 7 of the Halloween movies (even the ones that didn't have Michael Myers in it), stabbing is pretty much all you got (except in the second one where Michael burned the skin off of a nurse in a hot tub..that was pretty good). As for the blood and gore...eh, not too much of it, which I think is a good thing. Its a bad idea to overdue with the blood and stuff because then it doesn't look that real. However, there is only so much blood that can come out of a person's eyes, nose, and mouth...I guess. Not like I've ever seen anyone get murdered in such a manner before, so I don't know..it just didn't look believable anyway. As far as nudity goes..thankfully, it was kept at a minimal. There wasn't really any at all. This is good because I think that nudity and sex in horror movies is part of what makes a horror movie a horror movie, but its not necessary at all. Lets just stick to the basic goal of scaring people, not arousing them (but if sex and naked women do scare you, then I guess there is no problem then).AND NOW, THE ENDING...now, anyone who watches horror movies should know that they can get pretty ridiculous with the endings as well as leaving leeway for a sequel. Example In Jason Goes to Hell..Jason basically, well, went to hell. That was SUPPOSEDLY the end of the 'Friday the 13th' saga...of course he came back in Jason X, but they did a very CRAPPY job of picking up where the last one left off. They didn't even bother to explain how the crap Jason got from underground to a confinement prison! I guess that was the best move to make though considering that they were taking a chance by making another sequel to something that was supposedly over anyway. They would've gotten ridiculous with the explanation of how he mysteriously returned from the dead. Now, as far as Halloween Resurrection goes with its ending..I'd say 'been there, done that'. I don't want to spoil it, but I have to if I want to get my point across. In order to 'destroy' Michael Myers for the umpteenth time, the victims who managed to survive burned him alive..doesn't that sound a little cliched? Well, it is. IN FACT, thats the EXACT same way Michael was killed in Halloween 2...they poured gas on him and burned him..did he die? NO! SO WHY ARE YOU GOING TO TRY AND DO THE EXACT SAME THING AGAIN? Maybe the writers forgot about that or didn't care. I guess they figured, who actually pays attention to stuff like that? Well, news flash, its one of MY many passions of life to criticize horror movies. So, like I was saying..the ending was really redundant. As far as leaving room for a sequel, they did do that. Of course, we all know that Michael isn't REALLY dead (and I still am not sure why the people of Haddonfield haven't figured it out either that he ain't gonna die!). The last scene of the movie shows him in a body bag in a morgue..the coroner unzips the bag (ever so slowly for suspense reasons) of the supposedly dead serial killer (and guess what, I think they actually show his face..or maybe thats just the charred remains of the infamous mask). After a few seconds of the camera focusing on his face...BAM! His eyes snap open, and then the screen goes blank signaling the end of the movie and possibly the beggining of the 9th installment in the Halloween series. The whole eye snapping thing has been overworked in horror movies, but it actually seemed to fit in this one. Though the morgue scene made the movie go on longer than it needed to (it just seemed like they were trying to kill time by having it), it did make for a better ending.All and all, this movie was alright for a film that is doomed to bare a part 8 at the end of its title. It had its bad points, as well as some good. It had its points where you can tell whats going to happen next without a doubt...seriously, in one scene I thought to myself she is going to open the door and he is going to jump out with the knife and stab her and behold, I was right. I had to chuckle at myself for that. And also as predicted, there were 3 black people (or African Americans to be politically correct, but why should I be when its my own race I'm talking about?) in the movie. Its been said and joked about many a time how black people never survive in such movies. Well, that was proven wrong in House on Haunted Hill when Taye Diggs character survived in the end (along with his white female entorage). And just as Halloween Resurrection stole House on Haunted Hill's plot..it stole its ending. One black guy survives (Busta Rhymes's character), along with the white female lead whom which the little subplot there is focuses on. I did, however, catch myself doing something that I know shouldn't be done in a horror movie...I yawned during this movie. Maybe it was because I didn't get enough sleep, or maybe it was because it felt like the movie was just dragging along..it didn't have a real good pace to it...nor a real good plot, but thats automatically forgiven in the horror genre. I predict that if there is a Halloween Part 9, NONE of the surviving characters that were in this one will be in it. I've noticed that trend with horror movies. Example In Halloween H20, Jamie Lee Curtis's character, Laurie Strode, had a son (Josh Hartnett's character). Well, we hear NOTHING about this son at all in this movie. We assumed hes moved on and doesn't care that his mother was murdered in the insane asylum she was sent to for 3 years. This also brings back the fact that in Halloween 4, Laurie Strode had a daughter and not a son. I'm not sure what they did with that whole situation, but I've read somewhere that the producers wanted to forget that the movies Halloween 3-6 ever happened in order to focus on the Laurie Strode aspect of the story. That is understandable..we all make mistakes. "},{"Title":"Great horror flick","Date":"16 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  SPOILERSAfter Laurie chopped off Micheal's head from h20, it turned out to be a past victim who was a paramedic. Micheal got away from the scene unseen by wearing the paramedic suit. Now Laurie is in a institution where Micheal finds her and eventually kills her. This all happened in the first 10 minutes. Okay, 6 friends have won a contest to spend a night in the childhood home of Micheal Myers where they will have webcams so people can watch it on the internet. Unfortently, things start going wrong when Busta and Tyra lose Bill's(Thomas Ian Nicolas) camera on the computers. Soon, the myers house is turning into a bloodbath of decapitation, impaling, cracking skulls, hanging, and stabbing. In the end, Freddy and Sara electricute Micheal in the garage and the house burns down on him. After that when the coroner is about to take Micheals burned maske off, his eyes open..........Classic lineFreddy- Trick or Treat, motherf*cker!My MPAA rating, Rated R for Strong Violence,some sexuality/brief nudity, and Language  "}{"Title":"'ey Mikey! Happy f***in' Halloween!","Date":"10 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Well, I'm not really a hardcore Halloween-fan, as I've only seen the first, but I actually pretty much enjoyed HR.I have to admit, I get a morbid sense of satisfaction out of plot devices used to prolong Slasher Mythos with endless sequels and the further unearthing of Killer Background Info to send 'em back to hell (but not too deep!); ie, Freddy's mother, Jason's parasite, Michael's Cult/Family thing. Not having seen the other Halloweens I don't know what this Thorn thing is all about, but having read on a fanpage that H20 dropped the concept of the Thorn and ignoring everything since 2, I was kinda disappointed. The only thing that was good for was luring Dawson's Creek-fed teenagers into the theatres to watch a nice not-too-far-from-the-Scream-formula slasher movie they could all enjoy. Is that selling out or what?If I went in to watch H20 and I didn't get Michael's origin or whatnot, I would actually have rented the other movies to find out what I didn't get! Bad business, you say? Well, it's number 7 of a slasher-serial! Let's keep this in the B-movie realm where it belongs (note in this I do not include 1, which is a classic)! So I actually didn't see that because it denied it's own B-movie roots. How hypocrite!But then I found out about Halloween Resurrection. What do you say? Reality-tv? Busta Rhymes? Why, this sounds like pure exploitative schlock to me! Off to the video store! And by golly, I got what I (minimally) paid for! From it's great opening in the sanitarium to Michael opening his eyes on the morgue table, this is a beautiful walk through B-Park.I'll admit it, Busta is a crappy actor. But who cares? How many buxom blondes in so many slasher films were? I, for one, think his performance was hilarious. It was his one-liners in the memorable quotes section of the HR page on imdb that got me renting this video. I didn't see Freddie Jones on screen, I saw Busta Rhymes. Freddie's over-enthusiastic personality is actually Busta's shouting out Oh my God! I landed a major role in an A-list flick! This could mean a significant increase in bank account size!. Well, funk that up a bit and you might have an idea of his train of thought.Bianca Kajlich was an ok actress, I guess (at the very least she was a super funkin hot one!) and she played an unnoticeably written part unnoticeably (if you catch my drift.The kills were cool, *SPOILER* though the One Who Showed Her Breasts might have a tad dull one *END SPOILER*. Also, my sister wished Jen (The Slutty One) would die by decapitation and *SPOILER* 30 seconds later, she does. *END SPOILER* We all had a larf.The ending, *SPOILER* where Busta barged in and did the kung fu and the one-liners and the genital-frying *END SPOILER* were gut-wrenchingly funny (and gut-wrenchingly agonizing for true Halloween fans, who want these films to be still scary, like the first one, probably). Welcome to prime time, Busta!Also, loved those two guys at that Halloween party, dressed as Jules and Vincent from Pulp Fiction, great nod there!The only cons of this movie (well, for me) are the ones flowing forth from H20. There's no Killer Mythos, Michael still seems to kill for no reason except for that half-asked speculation by The One With The Breasts. All that stuff they find all over the house that turns out to be fake stuff placed there by Freddie and Nora (I don't count this as a spoiler as it pretty much leads to nothing) works really anticlimactic.If you go to alternate versions on HR's imdb page, you'll find that an intro was shot but discarded showing a Myers home video in which the Dad's filming everyone on a summer's day, but Michael keeps turning away his face. At the end of the intro, we finally get to see it and it turns out that Michael's eyes are completely black. That would at least have been SOME Killer Mythos!But ah well, I digress. If you want two hours of pure, unadulterated schlock and have nothing against loud-mouthed rappers, rent Halloween Resurrection.You want horror, rent Halloween Period. ;)  "},{"Title":"my comments explain how GREAT this movie was.","Date":"29 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This was a great movie. i specifically DID NOT like how Jamie (Laurie Strode) had to die. she is like the main character in the movie. i mean look at scream. Neve (sidney) didn't die. If they make any other halloween movies..they NEED to bring jamie BACK. as if she survives from the fall and the stab. becuase hey it can happen. so if i were making the movie and i wanted it to be famous. i would bring jamie back in the next one. ( if they make it ))  "},{"Title":"Lousy","Date":"7 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Can ANYONE explain to me how Michael Myers is still alive?  The movie did a LOUSY job of explaining it.  I mean, the man had his head CUT CLEAN OFF in H20!  Now they're saying it was somebody else?!  And the only question that was asked was - why didn't the guy say something?  Because Michael crushed his larynx!  That's it?  Here's a follow-up question - if it wasn't Michael under that mask, why didn't the INNOCENT man take off the mask before he was killed?!  I would - but then again I'm smart.  Halloweens 2 - (whatever # we're on) completely ruin the mystique and brilliance of the first film! "},{"Title":"Suck fast... (spoilers)","Date":"19 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Halloween Resurrection is a very, very, VERY bad movie. Blame it on what you want, I blame it all solely on the director. The script was elevated from a few clever ideas, but most of it didn't have anything fresh, and the treatment was bleak and ugly, but not scary; most likely they didn't have a screenplay at all. Add in some cardboard-character teenagers who are portrayed by some twentysomethings who can't act (I blame the director who doesn't give them even a chance!) and could have well been cast in the last minute from some shopping mall. Halloween 2 was watchable, how can director Rosenthal go downhill?? Shouldn't he have gained some experience on directing? How come Resurrection looks so... well, bleak and ugly. Low-key, low-budget. Reminds me of Blair witch 2.Things Rosenthal should have done 1) Bailed out. We really didn't want another Halloween. Not after H20. In my opinion, the only reason Curtis was in this was that SHE at least could finally bail out of the series.or 2) Even so much as try! A couple of re-writes and especially re-casting! Busta has one hilarious moment and one cool one-liner to Michael and that's it! The rest of the movie, he just sucks. And that blonde who gets her head chopped off was esPECIALLY annoying! The rest of the cast is, as I said before, just your basic gore fodder. Weren't we supposed to care for these people...?Sadly, I could have done this better. So could have YOU. "},{"Title":"Evil should find its way to the grave - may I be the one to show the way?","Date":"17 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Those people who find these stupid slasher movies scary should see a shrink and start watching quality movies like The Ring. All these Halloween and Jason movies are for brainless people who like watching pure garbage and teens getting killed. Yes, I did rent Halloween Part I-can´t-even-remember, but I could watch only the first 15 minutes or so. Now someone thinks I was scared... Hmmm, in a way I was scared scared of what this kind of crap could to my mental health. Halloween Part One was good, Part Two was okay and H20 was surprisingly good. I have no interest what-so-ever to see Parts 3-6. Once I actually saw some parts of Halloween 6 on the German RTL and I must say it was pretty awful. So, as Halloween Resurrection begins we are told that it wasn´t Michael Myers who lost his head in the end of H20. Oh really? What an original plot twist. Now Michael´s back for Laurie who (finally?) gets butchered. I feel sorry for Jamie Lee Curtis whom I´ve always found a decent actress, to say the least. But to see her in a crappy film like this shows that she´s really in need of (good) movie roles. Why did you do this, Jamie?Michael Myers isn´t scary. Jason Voorhees isn´t scary. Freddy isn´t scary. Those people who saw this movie in a theater, now those guys are scary! And guess what, Michael´s still alive! I can imagine the screenwriters trying to come up with a surprising ending Hey guys, I have an idea... What if Michael didn´t die in the end? Now wouldn´t that be cool and spooky? And one one saw it coming, honest! I just came up with an idea... We could put all the people responsible for stupid brainless scary movies in a house, lock the doors and put all the lights out. Then we could give knives to folks who like quality stuff and let them butcher every single horror freak in the house. That would be so much fun and we would be praised by the following generations who were saved from having to watch horrible movies. I´m willing to pay for all the knives. I really hope that all those who were involved in Halloween Resurrection never get to work again, unless they manage to do something well. Which is very unlikely, judging from the work I just witnessed. I guess they are all like Michael... You can run, but you can´t hide from them. Oh crap. "},{"Title":"Why are they still making these??!!","Date":"8 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  It was just simply because it was titled 'Halloween' that I decided to show respect for John Carpenter's excellent opening 2 films. Boy, was I dissapointed. For a start I wondered how the hell they were gonna make serial killer Michael Myers come back for another killing spree when he was decapitated in H20.I thought that they actually would have had him walking around with a bit of glue stuck on his neck to signify him sticking his own head back on!. That probably would have been more plausible than the explanation of his come back. He dressed up in a paramedic's outfit, then just so happened to crush the innocent man's larynx?!. Gimme a break!. Bit of a coincidence then that the innocent paramedic dressed up in myers' clothes and mask would answer to the name 'Michael' when Laurie Strode speaks to him near the end of H20.What mainly lets the film down are the terrible actors. They are just so typical of a horror flick nowadays. In the Myers house we get the usual1. Doing drugs - means they are gonna die2. Sex scene - means they are gonna die3. A typical hero (Busta Rhymes) who just happens to be a Bruce Leeand down right stupidity for going back there.Busta Rhymes is an absolute joke in the movie, every other word that he says is a swear word, what is the need?. As for him doing a Jackie Chan and kickin' Myers' ass, well as I watched it with my brother, we both erupted in laughter. It's hilarious.I've already voted for this film and yes, you've guessed it, gave it a 1 rating. I am a die hard fan of the 'Halloween' series but could simply could not rate this film at all. Why Jamie Lee Curtis wasted her time doing this is beyond me, she must be buying a new house in real life or something and needs a bit of extra cash.Hopefully this is the last we see of Busta Rhymes (except if it's in a comedy, which, after all, is the way I look at this film, as a joke)Rating 1/10. Trash. "},{"Title":"Let the Shape rest in peace already.","Date":"7 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  'Halloween Resurrection' is the one film in this series that I honestly wish was never made. I am a huge fan of the Halloween series; the first one has been my favorite movie, ever since I saw it at the age of 11 and I appreciate all of the sequels on a certain level. However, this movie is just stupid. There is absolutely no point. It is the first Halloween film without a plot! After 'Halloween H20' they should have just ended it. Although I didn't think it was the best ending (or even an outstanding movie) it was a nice way to wrap up the series and end things on a high note. So many horror franchises go out on tasteless notes and end up returning again ('Jason Goes To Hell,' 'Freddy's Dead'), I was at least hoping Halloween could go out with some dignity. Except for the conclusion of the Laurie Strode character and the inclusion of Mikey, this has no connections to previous films. We follow a bunch of cliches around the Myers' house and watch as they slowly, but surely die in predictable ways. This is like something that would have been made in the 80's. It's just sub-par stalk n' slash fare. Nothing interesting or original here. The whole reality thing is about 2 years past it's expiration date. The cast is full of some big names, but they all die anyways. If you are a fan of the series, check it out, but in my opinion, they need to just put it to rest. Things are getting too complicated (We have two different ways the storyline of the series goes now) and Michael is pushing into his mid-50's. I hope Halloween 9 manages to lay this legacy to rest once and for-all. This is the only Halloween movie I don't like, and I LOVE these movies.3/10 "},{"Title":"The Night HE Came home...Not that there's anyone left alive to would know anymore...","Date":"17 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Halloween H2K What do I say.. where to begin?If the movie had been flipped and the opening scene had been the climax, I would have really enjoyed it.. but as it was.. I was thrilled with the opening, firstly Jamie Lee had returned, secondly the movie was continuing the H20 storyline and doing so with credibility, tying up all the loose ends (with exception to where the hell is her son!??) and opening with the perfect setting for a new movie.. a sanitarium.When Laurie Strode has Michael up on the roof, and has so perfectly planned his demise almost to the smallest detail I thought it was brilliant, but I knew something was up, when something this brilliant has happened in the first ten minutes of the film.. If the film had ended at the the sanitarium perhaps because Laurie was'nt at home in Haddonfield as Michael may have expected where a web cam debarcle was taking place after slicing and dicing all the twits at the Myers house, he may have tracked her to the sanitarium where a showdown could have been staged... For someone who has been living in fear for twenty three years of their brother..it was a rather quiet ending for Laurie Strode.... As it was for Jamie LLoyd in H6.Apart from the opening scene of this movie.overall the movie lacked substance.. Why did Michael go home? If the movie is at all trying to follow through with the THORN storyline from H6, when in actual fact Michael Myers has no living blood relatives any more and should be able to rest in peace.. if it's not.. which obviously is'nt considering only murders from H1, H2, and H20 were mentioned then what now???Miramax are going to have to think long and hard for a new Halloween concept to reenagae the fans.. we're not idiots..and we're not all fifteen year olds who would find it credible for yet another adopted relative to pop up in Haddonfield.This movie was good..but considering Laurie died earlier.. it could have been better.. I look forward to H9 to see what Michael is going to do now.. hopefully not live under his old house for another three years eating rats.. "},{"Title":"Shame!!!","Date":"5 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  First I would like to that this movie is a piece of crap.  I am not into studying movies but I know a piece of crap when I see it.  There was no need for this movie to be written.  It puts John Carpenter's Halloween to shame. Was there really a need to go on after Michael's only living relative is dead (Lori Strode)?  I mean come on he was only Michael Myers only had issues with Lori, so why the need to take this any further unless Resurrection has a new character that is somehow related to Michael. Michael Myers is dead, he can't go on anymore. Sweetmis75 "},{"Title":"The resurrection was a bit premature","Date":"2 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Not to be immodest, but I would consider myself somewhat of a large fan of the Halloween series (well three anyway).  The very first was (and is) a landmark to the horror genre that has been scarcely surpassed to date, save for two of it's sequel.  Halloween 2 did every thing a sequel should, including succeeding where the previous had failed.  Then, John Carpenter made a gross error and misjudjement that resulted in, not one, not two, but four, yes four even more brutal mistakes and death-nails to the series. Then, a saving grace.  I go to the theatre one evening to see I-don't-remember, and a preview comes on with the scream queen doing what she does best and pronouncing the name of that oh-so-wonderful knife wielding mute, Michael!  Halloween H20, breathed new life to a series of movies which had run aground in the mid '80s.  It also reaffirmed Mr. Carpenter as one of the pivitol names in horror.  The storyline offers a credible response to the three prequels by forgetting them.  And the ending, the perfect cap on the trilogy.  Needless to say, I was a happy camper. Then, like any good horror fan, I sat in a darkened theatre expecting to see Jason Vorhees hacking up the usual trollops and teens with their pants to their ankles.  What I got, however, was a preview I would not soon forget. It began as a fairly typical late nineties teen horror flick about some kids trapped in a haunted house, until a figure flashed before the screen toting the aptly named butcher's knife.  After being shushed for a rather girlish scream, I found that they were in fact releasing another film and I was pleased as punch to see Michael back in his blue jumpsuit.  After seeing the actual film, I was somewhat less impressed with how it had related to it's prequels.  I didn't feel the story was as developed as it could have been. That being said, the rest of the film was amazing!  I loved the camera work (a theory I had considered).  I myself have always been a Rick Rosenthal fan and this is not one of his works to be taken in stride.  "}{"Title":"Enough already!  *SPOILERS*","Date":"21 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Why do I keep watching slasher movies?  For nearly twenty years now I've been seeing basically the same movie.  Sure, the wardrobes change, but they're almost always filled with the same characters making the same stupid mistakes that are accompanied by the same scare tactics we've all seen a million times.  I'm beginning to curse that day in my twelfth year I bought a ticket to FRIDAY THE 13TH PART VI - that was my first slasher, and I've been hooked ever since.  Sure, I may not see these in the theatre any more, but I still rent them all the time.  Hopefully, HALLOWEEN RESURRECTION will perhaps break this genre's hold on me; I'm getting tired of constantly questioning what I'm supposed to just accept in these movies.H20, the previous chapter in this series, was a wee bit better than average, with a satisfying ending; in my IMDb comments about it I wrote, I couldn't ask for a better conclusion; very chilling and appropriate (and it means they'll be no more sequels, I hope).  Well, I didn't get what I wanted, but I guess I deserve what I got.Let me understand how HR picks up after H20.  That was a medic whom Jamie Lee decapitated at the end of H20?  His larynx was crushed, so he couldn't save himself?  Riiight.  Do EMTs usually zip victims up in body bags before checking for a heartbeat?  Why didn't the medic just remove the mask before Jamie Lee separated him from himself?Besides the opportunity to shoehorn Jamie Lee into HR, I cannot see the reason for the prologue with her character in the hospital.  No mention is made of her son, or where this hospital is.  Is it in California (where H20 was set) or Illinois (where HR takes place)?  Or is Haddonfield now like the Simpsons' Springfield, existing wherever the plot needs it to?  Cut out the pre-title sequence, and the movie improves.And I don't get Jamie Lee's final line - one that's got so many whiskers on it that I thought it'd been retired.  She says to Michael, See you in hell!  Why would her character, Laurie Strode, believe she's going to hell? This exit line is the lamest I've ever heard for such a long-running icon, and the writers should be ashamed of offing her in such a routine, blasé and unceremonious way.  It was very disrespectful to both Jamie Lee and fans of the HALLOWEEN series.Moving on.  The plot of a horror sequel is of no consequence, so I'll ignore it for the most part in these comments; I'll just make note of other questions I pondered throughout this movie.  For example, I noticed that the email address of the heroine was Sara@HaddonU.org.  Just Sara?  Should we assume she's the only student at her school with that name?  Lucky her.Is the Myers house public property?  Who okayed this dangertainment to be webcasted from this house?  And wouldn't the police raise objections?Yeah, what about the police force in Haddonfield?  With all that's happened in this town over the years, one would think that the PD would be on extreme high alert every October 31, but they don't arrive at the Myers house until long after a 911 call; it took a deadly inferno that burned a building to the ground for them to respond.  If I lived in this town, I'd demand to know how my tax dollars were being spent.I'm also wondering why there was no reaction from the peanut gallery at the costume party to Henry Rowengartner's death.  It was clearly on camera; did the partiers take a mass bathroom break at that moment?I know, I know  I shouldn't ask questions like this during these types of movies.  I was occasionally able to put my complaints aside and enjoy some of HR.  Some of the suspense was actually pretty creative; I dug the idea of placing p.o.v. cameras on the actors, which produced some interesting shots.  The premise of the movie, unlikely as it may be, worked for the most part, as long as I didn't think too much about the logistics of it.As for the acting, the cast, with one exception, was adequate.  The one exception is, of course, Busta Rhymes. Why did the Razzies snub him?  Not since that bitch with the pearls in F13 PART VII have a wanted a horror movie character to die.  But did I get my wish?  Of course not.  Why, like LL Cool J in H20, does the has-been rapper survive?  When did B-level hip hop artists become our slasher saviors?  Weren't they usually the cute guys the heroines wanted to make out with?Maybe this was done intentionally, since HR sometimes seems to mean HALLOWEEN REVUE.  Although Parts 3-6 are ignored again, parts of this movie are lifted from the other sequels.  Besides the rapper/hero surviving Michael's wrath to reappear at a crucial point in the final showdown, we've got Michael burning up like he did in Part II.  Is this homage, self-plagiarism, coincidence or laziness?I hope that if they must make another sequel, they go back to PART 5 and explain what happened after that man in black broke Michael out of jail. Bring back Danielle Harris' character, and pick up the series from there. Or, hell, make a HALLOWEEN III PART II, detailing the aftermath of all those kids' bug-infested noggins.  HR, while not the worst of the series (that dubious distinction goes to Part 6, THE CURSE OF MICHAEL MYERS), has led it down a dead end.  It's time to again reimagine the franchise. And time for me to quit renting these movies.3/10 "},{"Title":"Actually... possible spoiler","Date":"16 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" A long time ago I wrote a post about this film, saying it was the worst movie ever. And for a while i strongly felt that way. But the other day, it was snowy, i was bored and this film was on demand, for free, so i said what the hell. Actually, this isn't that bad. I mean, the acting sucks, the plot sucks, and its pretty dry, but its entertaining. And the ending which i felt was the worst ever actually made more sense then the other, excluding the original two. Not bad. Helluva a lot better than 5 or 7. As for Busta Rhymes, well... he rocked! I thought he was funny, and an all around good character... But, one stands out in my mind. I mentioned this in my previous review.. What about John Tate, Lori's son? "},{"Title":"What's your problem with this film?","Date":"12 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I payed the price of the ticket for some cheap thrills and I got exactly what I paid for. I have the Halloween Ultimate Collection Boxset at home and I will be happy to add this film to my collection of DVDs. The first twenty minutes alone make the film one of the best sequels to the original. The acting has always been wooden and the plot thin, but  that is what we have grown to love. We always get the edge of your seat entertainment. 9 stars out of 10 "},{"Title":"EDGE OF SEAT HORROR","Date":"8 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I went to the cinema to see HALLOWEEN RESSURECTION with 4 friends. None of us had seen a single HALLOWEEN film but found this film really easy to understand! It is terrifying and had grown men and women screaming in the cinema! I found that this film managed to be simple yet original at the same time which is a pretty good acomplishment from the Director.I reccomend this film to anyone who is ready to be scared and amazed at the same time. "},{"Title":"What can I Say???","Date":"23 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I just saw this film for the first time today, and as much as I was looking forward to it, I was kind of disappointed. There really isn't any hope for the series. Its just more evidence that the genre is dead and it doesn't look like it will ever be the same again. I mean, I know a sequel never, or sometimes very rarely, will live up to its original. This one lived up to the 6th installment in the series, because I didn't find there to be much different from eachother. I mean, the characters were just awful, as well as the acting. And I have to wonder why Tyra Banks would EVER be cast in a horror movie, especially a Halloween film. Her character had almost no point, I mean all she did was sit there in front of the camera setup. But I was kind of relieved to see the end of Laurie Strode, but kind of sad in a way. I personally think she was an important part of the series. I don't think the rest o the sequels will be the same without the chance of her being there. She kinda made the films she was in complete. But, anyways, I don't have much more to say about this movie. Reccommended for Halloween fans. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Sucks!","Date":"18 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie (after seeing that Jason X was pretty good) I expected was the horror movie of the year. Instead you get a movie with an okay plot, acceptional acting, and end up wasting 5 bucks renting it. The only reason I could watch the whole thing was the kills were really neat. Michael Myers has gone from the top of the charts to the very bottom. I was expecting Jason X to be dumb but I think they've blow the whole Haloween theme out of the water. "},{"Title":"i felt sorry for michael, having to deal with those snobby teens","Date":"13 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  SPOILERS!!!! Laurie Strode, now a mother in hiding for the past 20 years in a California suburb from michael, lives under the assume name-keri tate. not to mention, now she's a teacher at her son's school, thought she finally killed Michael, by chopping his head off. But Michael has played a sinister, but clever Halloween prank on her. After stabbing Michael repeadedly, a not so lucky paramedic finds Michael. Michael awakens, and grabs the paramedic by the throat. Michael shatters the Paramedics voice box, or 'larinx' switches clothes, and slaps a mask on the paramedic. Michael puts on the paramedic clothes, and then walks out of the school, right past all the cop cars and paramedics, and into the woods. When cops find who they thought was michael, they loaded him into a van. Laurie steals the van, and kills the wrong person. Three years later, we find Laurie in a mental hospital, as a beaten down disturbed woman, Michael comes back. But a contest to spend he night in Myers original home, brings ina group of loud mouth collegians who must broadcast there documentary over the internet. When Michael returns, he has his hands full, with these teens, who soon discover Michaels been hiding, which are the sewers of Haddonfield, where he survived by eating, RATS! he really is a psycho. I can't say this movie was very good, because of the annoying teens, and the plot, as well as the acting, AND michaels getting his ass kicked karate style. This movie is basically house on haunted hill in Michaels old home. I have heard news of the ninth Halloween, intitled Escape From Haddonfield "},{"Title":"Human consciousness is pure freedom","Date":"11 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Sultry coeds, an unstoppable killer, and a series of murders whose true horror remains mostly in your imagination.  What more could you ask  for? With Halloween Resurrection, producer Moustapha Akkad has taken the most celebrated series of its genre and upped the ante.Warning SPOILERSLike many viewers, I concluded at the end of Halloween H20 that Michael Myers was finally gone.  How could he possibly survive decapitation?  At the beginning of Resurrection we see the shocking explanation, and discover that he really is still alive.  In retrospect, how could it be otherwise? Mind and body are inseparable.And when one of the young women quotes Sartre for her boyfriend (Existence precedes essence), I knew I was in for a philosophical thriller of unimaginable depth. According to Sartre, human consciousness is pure freedom, but with freedom comes anguish.  It is in this role that Michael Myers is at his most terrifying.When a group of college students explores the childhood home of Michael Myers, we're not just inside his house; we are inside his mind.  The students are outfitted with miniature cameras, and the information age allows them to broadcast whatever they see over the Internet.  Anyone on the planet can tune in.  This is universal consciousness.  Michael Myers is everywhere; he is in all of us.Earlier in the film, a psychology professor lecturing on Jung tells his students that everyone has a dark side, or shadow.  Now, in what is perhaps the most chilling scene in the history of cinema, we see a man dressed as Michael Myers, walking slowly through a dark corridor, stalked by the real Michael Myers.  He turns to face him, innocently believing it's one of his friends in costume. Michael Myers is confronted, for the first time ever, with himself.  And he turns away!Sartre explains  The possibility of falling from the precipice can no more produce the fall than my horror of the fall can determine me to avoid it. It is this counter-anguish which generally puts an end to anguish by transmuting it into indecision.  Indecision in its turn calls for decision. I abruptly put myself at a distance from the edge of the precipice and resume my way.And so, after hesitating, Michael Myers turns and looks for another victim.Then we receive a shocking twist One of the camera-toting adventurers (Sean Patrick Thomas) discovers that the house has been artificially stocked with various props, designed purely to elicit fear.  The youths confront the organizer (Busta Rhymes), saying, None of this is real! You set us all up! But he explains, America doesn't like reality.  Nobody wants to see you running around an empty house.Is all of our anguish self-induced?  Look closely enough inside the conscious self and you find... nothing!In addition to the mind-bending philosophy, this film brings a taut construction and a welcome modernization of lighting and color composition. And with an outstanding -- I would say Oscar-worthy -- performance by Busta Rhymes, Resurrection is a tour de force all the way up to its spine-tingling and unpredictable finale.  "},{"Title":"taking away from a classic","Date":"8 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  halloweenresurrection is a joke of the halloween series,  busta rhymes should have nothing at all to do with michael myers, i mean what the hell is up with busta rhymes karate kicking him through a window, its a joke, it shows that halloween has gotten to be so dead that they need modern rappers to sell it, and it screws it up more...now jamie lee curtis died in the movie, she sucked anyway, but still the original person he stalked is good to have in movies,  i wonder how the michael myers could be real in resurrection since he doesnt have the burn marks on his hands from the 2nd movie,  another disappointed to me is the mask,  nothing can beat the original mask, these new ones are a joke, they bitched up a classic movie...i give it 4/10 "},{"Title":"Man!  Do I Miss Donald Pleasance!","Date":"29 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Halloween Resurrection is a decent film and better than H20, but I think many people agree that these present day horror films don't compare to the originals back in the 1980's and early 1990's.  This film was pretty predictable since it flows the standard rules of the horror film genre.  Since Rick Rosenthal directed this one, it felt very similar to watching Halloween II.     There are only a few moments where the film is scary, not because of Michael Myers but because of Busta Rhymes!  What a mistake it was to have him in the film.  He is a fine rapper and actor in some other films but he was terrible in this film.  The Kung Fu stuff he did was pretty cheesy, it laughed pretty hard and had to rewind the move a couple times to laugh at it.  If I want real Kung Fu action, I'll watch, Bruce Lee or Jet Li.  The important point is this; when Busta Rhymes is scarier than Michael Myers, it is time to end the franchise!  I really miss Donald Pleasance, he was awesome, and he did a much better job of being Michael's foil than Busta.  There should be an ending when Donald rises out of his grave and pulls Busta underground, akin to Freddy's claws dragging Jason's mask underground in The Final Friday.  As for Michael Myers himself, his look in this film is the worst of all the films.  The mask seems to get worse with every movie.  However, he made up for his look with some good scenes, like the scene with the mental clown man in the hospital, the scenes with Jamie Lee Curtis, and his running around the house.  I think he himself was in disbelief of Busta's acting because sometimes I swear his face mask transformed and made the What the heck? facial expression.  The killing were done nicely, a fair amount of blood, but some more would have been better.  As for the other players, Bianca Kajlich did a good job with the lead role.  She's sexy yet innocent, reminding me of Jamie Lee Curtis in the first two Halloween films.  I could watch this film just for her and the other female leads aren't too bad either.  It was nice having Jamie Lee Curtis again although I will admit, I do not like how H20 started a whole new direction, skipping Halloween 4-6.  Personally, I'm glad they finally got rid of her, but you never know, they could always bring her back somehow.  As for Tyra Banks, all she really did was shake her bum for the camera like she did in Coyote Ugly, which takes a ton on talent.  Other than that, she didn't add anything to the film. 	 Like I said, this is a decent film, it could be better and it could be worse.  I recommend watching the first six Halloween films, much more enjoyable, and most of them have Donald Pleasance!  As for the future, I don't know where they can go with this series now, so maybe this will be the last one.  However, with the horror genre, we never really know.  I wouldn't mind seeing Michael Myers again though because he is a legend of horror, he just needs a better story to work with than the last two entries. 	 On a final note, the music was great.  I love that classic Halloween theme!  Can't get enough of it!   "}{"Title":"Average at best","Date":"27 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  After watching HalloweenH20 some time ago I didn't expect very much of Resurrection, but since I'm a fan of the horror/slasher genre I watched it anyway. After all the Hellraiser series is also reviving with the releases of both H5 Inferno and H6 Hellseeker so there's no reason why the Halloween series couldn't take a turn for the better.The start of the movie actually got me excited but after the first 20 minutes or so the quality of the plot dropped rapidly. Resurrection's plots exploits 2 completely different ideas. On the one hand it tries to make some sort of ethical statement about reality-TV and the TV-stations who are exploiting people for pure profit, on the other hand Rick Rosenthal just tried to put in as much gore as possible to keep the fans happy. The plot stays very superficial throughout the movie and for those who have watched their fair share of slasher movies it isn't hard to predict the outcome of the movie when you're not even halfway trough it.The man with the white mask has a lot of screentime in this one which isn't bad at all. Without his regular appearance you wouldn't be able to know if you were watching Resurrection,Scream 4 or I still,still know what you did last summer ! The whole movie is just an average teenage horror movie. Scream was exciting but after all the ripoffs and spinoffs we have seen it all. Teenage horror is just as dead as it was before Scream's release and the fans are desperately waiting for some fresh ideas.The cast is young,enthusiastic and trying to make the best of it except for Busta Rhymes, who is the perfect example that not all rappers are also good actors. His performance is an absolute joke; was it that hard to find somebody with at least some talent ?Those who are looking for some easy entertainment can't go wrong with this movie. There are body-parts,enough blood and a few twists to keep those who are new to the genre on the edge of their seat. The diehard fan will be disappointed however and it's once more the proof that legends like Michael Myers and Jason Voorhees have become pure cash-cows for Hollywood. I can only advise the people who plan to spent cash on this one to look around carefully if they can't find any of the true slasher-classics (from the 80's) before you take Resurrection to the checkout-counter. "},{"Title":"Watchable,  but nowhere near what it was hyped up to be.","Date":"15 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"       Michael Myers is back.   Being a huge fan of the Halloween series I couldn't wait to see this one.  I liked it because, hey it was another installment, but overall, I was  disappointed.  I'll tell ya, you like Myers going around building up the body count then you'll enjoy it for what it is.  There are some genuinely funny moments with Busta Rhymes and it was good to see Jamie Lee Curtis reprise her role as Laurie. I'll tell you what disappointed me the most,  the ending.  I feel that every good horror movie has to have a good ending.  In case you didn't know, director Rick Rosenthal delayed the movie for almost a whole year because he wanted to re-shoot the ending.  He said that once filming was complete and went into post-production, and idea for a better ending hit him and it was so good that he had to call back cast and crew to redo it.  Upon writing this,  all I can say is, what the hell was he thinking? Ive seen this ending in so many other movies, there was nothing original about it.  Major let down.  I have seen Halloween 6The Curse of Michael Myers and Ive also seen the unreleased Producer's cut of the movie and Im one of the true believers of the fact that it was better than what was released.  I have a gut feeling that Mr. Rosenthal should have kept his original ending for it probably would have made for a better movie. "},{"Title":"Not a great sequel.","Date":"13 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Things I liked about this movie. Rick Rosenthol as the director. He did a great job with Halloween II and he did a great job with this movie. The Plot. It was a good idea. It tries to bring the Halloween genre into the new age. And it does farly well.Things I didn't like about this movie.BUSTA. I just couldn't stand to watch the way he acted. I have nothing against him as an actor. But he should really stay out of horror films. Every line he said had Mutha in it and well it just stunk. If the line itself didn't stink then his delivery ruined all hope of it making sense. Script. The dialogue stunk most of the time. It seemed forced. Also the characters didn't seem nervous enough about the things they found in the house. I know I'd have been jumping at any sound if I was in the house of a murderer. Overall I give the movie a 6/10. A must see for horror fans. But a sickening display of artistic license for Halloween fans. "},{"Title":"The weakest link. (Spoilers! YEEHAW!)","Date":"9 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Wow, just when I thought the Halloween franchise had reached it's lowest depths with Curse of Michael Myers & H20, Halloween Resurrection comes along and sets the record. Wow, this film is a mess. First, I'll talk about the good points of the flick. For starters, Rick Rosenthal, director of Halloween II returns as director for this film and gives the movie a visual flair, which the film would have been a complete turd without. He handles the transition between reality and web-cams beautifully and the film is the best looking since the first. Also, Busta Rhymes was not only hilarious, but added a great dose of comedy that this movie really needed. You can say what you want about him, but not only is he a talented rapper, he was pretty much the only thing that kept me awake. Two more good points Gore and T&A. New horror films are seriously lacking in these departments and Resurrection delivers just enough to keep you satisfied without going all Friday the 13th on your arse. With all this, you might be asking yourself Why didn't he like this film? Well, I think this film finishes what H20 started by destroying the whole purpose of the series. I grew up on Donald Pleasance chasing Myers around and when he passed on, the series suffered a loss. Through thick and thin, he brought out the best in a bad situation. With him gone and Jamie Lee Curtis' character (Laurie Strode) and contract dead, there is simply no story to tell. Michael Myers takes a long journey home just to slaughter a bunch of insignificant American Pie rejects. The movie has no purpose. The heroine has little or no relevance to the story, seeing how it could have been anyone who survived the events. Also, this film continues to ignore parts 4-6. Big no-no. A real fan won't stand for this. Moustapha Akkad should learn not to bite the hand that feeds. Also, this film is severely lacking in the suspense department. Maybe I've seen too many movies, but to me, this film did not contain one minute of tension. I knew what would happen every step of the way. I think they should have just left the series alone after H20. It wasn't a very good film, but at least it ended things on a somewhat high-note. I love Michael Myers and the Halloween franchise to death, but if this is how he is going to be spending his senior years, I'd rather see him killed off. Look out for Halloween 22, aptly named Halloween Retirement. "},{"Title":"Is Laurie Really Dead?","Date":"27 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  From watching this movie, I can't help but wonder if Michael Myer's little sister might not follow in his shoes.  Perhaps Laurie survived her fall to 'death'.  After all, we only saw her lying on the ground.  We never saw her body removed to a morgue or buried.  If Michael can survive death like this, why not Laurie?  Plus, if there is another movie, which the ending of this movie suggests there will be, why couldn't Laurie show up in the end to finally dispose of Michael?  I think it would bring everything full circle if this happened.  I know, many were upset about Laurie's death at the beginning of the movie, but I can't see the producers killing her that easily.  Oh well, one can hope, right? "},{"Title":"not horrible..not great either","Date":"15 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I was really bummed when I didn't get the chance to see this in the theatre because I had always wanted to see a Halloween movie on the big screen being a huge fan of the series since I was a kid. Well I can actually say I wasn't missing much. I had heard alot of bad comments , read alot of bad reviews , but shrugged them off because I am the type that can sit and watch anything..I even loved Jason X which got the same treatment.HalloweenResurrection however is just too difficult to really get into. I sorta enjoyed H20 ..wasnt my favorite but it was tolerable , this one is like a horrible unfunny parody on the internet and reality tv. I don't think the writers were intending on a parody on these because this is after all a slasher movie so the writing is never expected to be that deep and clever , so what we get it is an exploitation of the internet and reality tv.*Spoilers* What really got annoying was how the modern world and technology is the key role in Resurrection. The previous Halloweens and slasher movies in general rely on the tired but very pleasing formula of nudity & sex , gore , and creative murders. Thats all folks...thats all it takes to make a Halloween movie and it works. Now props for them wanting to do something different , but it's just annoying..I mean c'mon the finale where Sarah is receiving help from text messaging?..How bad have people and movies gotten when you can't even survive a slasher movie without help from a computer.Also the death scenes seemed tired and boring , no real excitement in the murders. Halloween has just become a boring series of which was once a great one. It's still ok but I don't think i'll add it to my series collection 5.5/10 "},{"Title":"Halloween won't go past ten.","Date":"15 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I seen this and i'll tell you, When are we ever going to see his face and will they ever explain why he is the way he is??? Oh and do you really think that micheal's sister lori is dead??? They revealed The true ending of part 7 in part 8. They can bring her back, maybe she survived the fall. So when Micheal tries to kill John, she'll show up and save the day. Then in part 10. they will reveal everything about micheal and his familly then they will truelly kill him, but please show his face!!!! And then that will be it. Not too many slasher flicks make it to ten, so do it right people. I love the sound of that.  (Halloween X) deosn't it have a nice ring to it??? Dimensions out. "},{"Title":"Don't Fret, Laurie May Not Be Gone...","Date":"10 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Not a bad sequel, better than I expected. I noticed a lot of people were upset that Laurie Strode was killed off. You should know better than that!!! For one thing, they never mentioned her demise during the rest of the film, which can mean she may have survived. She may have fallen and knocked herself out! Michael didn't get good leverage hanging upside down. A little blood transfusion and recovery time and she may be back for the next sequel (dare I say it). Anyway, alot of Busta Rhymes' dialogue should've been cut, it affected the mood of the film, I for one wanted to see Michael shut him up for good. The acting was fair and the 'Blair Witch home-video camera' touch made for some interesting suspense along with the new facts about Michaels' whereabouts when he ain't slicing and dicing. "},{"Title":"does Michael Myers never die?","Date":"14 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  at some time we will know the true Michael identity?, did I think that in this new movie we would see the Myers face, but it was not this way.will there be Halloween 9?, will we be witness of the murderous death of this great one in a next movie?.............. "},{"Title":"halloween lives forever","Date":"8 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  since i saw the movie, i knew that Michael myers won't be dead till Laurie Strode son is dead and so is laurie Strode's grandson too.it true, watch all of the Halloween series ( except part 3 ) and listen well. some of the producers or director's probably missed the whole story about other Halloween series that are related.if the production is making  Halloween 9   they should watch the all the Halloween series and listen carefully. they should write this down and use an idea's how to fit all this in  Halloween 9  movie. plus if the production is making  Halloween 9  they should make a last movie of it. this is probably the last movie they are making. they should called it Halloween 9  Michael's last trick or treatingwhat do you think ?  "}{"Title":"I wanted to love it...I really did!","Date":"6 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  When I heard this film was being made back in 2001 I was over the moon. The death of Michael in H20 was brilliantly done, but deep down I think all Halloween fans just wanted to see Michael back on the big screen! Who cared about plot I thought, they can bring Michael back anyway they liked for all I cared!!This was my first Halloween at the cinema so when the music began I was ecstatic! But 90 minutes later I was just so so dissapointed. I'd seen Michael back again, but that alone was not enough I realised, and wished this had never been made.**(Spoilers ahead)** There were 3 main things wrong with this film-1) Busta Rhymes (Freddie Harris)...for me this guy alone ruined this film. His character was so fake, his dialogue was pathetic, and his overall acting was atrocious. How could they allow a character like this in a Halloween film, ok if they want to kill him off quick to raise the death toll, fair enough...but as a main character!!!!2) The death of Jamie- I knew this was coming and I dont think its a secret to anyone, but its the way they did it, making Jamie look like a complete idiot. Ok she wanted to make sure, but who else was she expecting, he'd obviously killed alot of guards to reach her, so even if she did kill him- who cared!!! And her final words- 'see you in hell', call me crazy but don't we want to hear after all her suffering, she's finally being able to rest in the place upstairs, not down below!!3) All the characters were just truly annoying, you was just cheering Michael on wanting him to kill this irritating character in the goriest way! And when a film gets like this like the Nightmare on Elm Street films did, aren't they just pretty pointless?I thought they did the 'bringing back Micheal' without too much stupidity, but when you watch H20 you realise how daft it is. In that the poor ambulance driver survived a broken layrnx, going through a glass window, being hit by a van, and finally being crushed. And to top it off after being hit by the van, he did the classic Myers sit up. There were however cool deaths in this and Michael was truly brilliant and looked great. One bit where the director obviously went mad for a while was the scene where Busta Rhymes screams at Micheal. I was enjoying this moment thinking this is it, he's gonna really make him suffer now, and I waited...and waited, before Micheal obeys him! What the hell was that all about!! Overall the whole camera thing works quite well, a little daft but its a different approach. It's obvious 'innocent' Sara will survive but the whole Deckland thing was so lame!  When no-one believes the killings are real, the film got stupid, I know special effects are great these days but this was meant to be live, so how the hell would they do it!As I said before the main reason why I hate this movie is Busta Rhymes, he wasn't funny at all. You knew when Michael stabs him he'll still be alive. But I thought this was building upto a big kill between the two at the end, but I couldnt believe my eyes when it was Michael on the recieving end, not only did we have to watch Busta's awful martial arts, but listen to his pathetic one liners (Trick or treat mother fuc*er), these corny lines should not be in Halloween films!My only wish is please, please, please kill Busta Rhymes character straight away in the next Halloween, and my faith in the series will be re-stored! Overall I gave this 5/10 coz of the cool deaths, and quite simply Michael's back!!  "},{"Title":"Stupid fun","Date":"5 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is not a classic horror movie to say the least, but at the same time it's fun to see Michael Myers stalking teenagers again. There are a few hot girls, some creative deaths and Jamie Lee Curtis. It's much superior to the last installation of the Halloween movies(H2O) and much more recommended. The first ten minutes were creative and fun making the movie.  However, Resurrection is still obviously inferior to the first two. So if you want to have some fun and watch some teens get sliced and diced, rent it. If you want a more modern classic horror movie, rent Ginger Snaps, Session 9, umm... Dog Soldiers or even Jason X. "},{"Title":"great job with the music","Date":"4 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I think you can tell the director´sinclination for a TV like thriller. The flow and the rithm of the movie is OK, but it´s like you are watching a TV series. The music and the sound effects are very helpful, nothing shocking about the images. it could be better. "},{"Title":"Michael Myers is very alive and here to stay","Date":"31 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  As a big fan of the series, I'm not disappointed after watching HALLOWEENRESURRECTION. It's Michael Myers introduction to this century. HALLOWEEN has taken a new dimension and Michael is ready for it. This is a good slasher/horror movie compared with other movies from the genre in the last 3 years. The HALLOWEEN series needed a new plot after HALOWEEN 4  THE RETURN OF MICHAEL MYERS.   The stupid explanation of his origin damaged his image. Until part 4, Michael was an unstoppable killing machine; he was scary, he had his own style, he wasn't just a brutal killer with no common sense, in fact he was clever. If you are a fan of the series read. If it's the first HALLOWEEN movie you've watch then you can't say something bad about this one.THE BEGINNING          -SPOILERS- The first 15 minutes of HRESURRECTION have the feeling of the previous HALLOWEEN films. The first death scenes show that Michael is really MAD, and he is blood thirsty.  Then, the confrontation between Michael and Laurie opens the chance for a sequel... The point is that the first minutes of the movie pay tribute to the old HALLOWEEN style, introducing Michael Myers as the main character of the movie. This has to be the best opening sequence in the HALLOWEEN series just after the original. The explanation of how Michael survived works very well...MICHAEL MYERS Michael returns bigger, bader, and meaner than ever. Michael's brutality when committing murders is something to be scared of. I can't remember other HALLOWEEN movie where Michael stabs his victims with such anger. Brad Loree gives a personality to Michael in this film, and that makes him scary. This is Michael's movie, let him have fun.DIRECTION Rick Rossental proves to be one of the best directors in the genre. Now, this movie has a great direction. It can't be compared with the Blair Witch movies! The moving camera shots are great, and work perfectly for some scares. Rossental did a great job in HALLOWEEN II and he returns to make a better job in this movie. You can't complain with the good direction. HRESURRECTION looks impressive.ACTING/CHARACTERS Well, this time we didn't get Jaime Lee or Donald Pleasence but the main characters are not that bad. I know, Busta Rhymes has zero experience in acting, but his character is likeable. Maybe his kung-fu imitation sucks, but he beat the hell out of Michael -something that just Donald Pleasence done. Talking about Dr. Loomis, he has really missed this time. Specially when it is mentioned that Michael has been living in his house without being noticed. Even if parts 4, 5, and 6 are ignored we know that Michael's been around every Halloween night, and now it's explained where he's been hiding. Dr. Loomis' character is severely missed, and it's a lack of respect that he's not even mentioned in this one. The main characters in the HALLOWEEN MOVIES are Michael, Dr. Loomis, and Lauire Strode. As it's impossible to bring Loomis back, at least his obsession, and research about Michael should be considered.  Talking about the characters here  their acting is regular. There's something that the HALLOWEEN movies need and it's character development. Seems like we get the Friday the 13th camp counselors, because if the die or not doesn't matter. A new character linked to Myers needs to be introduced.-BIG SPOILERS- **************** STUFF TO THINK ABOUT... -Do you REALLY think Laurie died? -Will Michael return for a sequel? -Was it Michael the villian in this movie? Now, what's Michael's purpose?? Is he trying to be like Jason Voorhees just killing because he wants to?   "},{"Title":"The night we wished he'd just stay away!!","Date":"28 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  PLOT SPOILERS AHEAD!!!Ouch this film was terrible!! The director Rick Rosenthal did the worst and killed off arguably the most important character in the Halloween series Laurie Strode!!! What was he thinking?!!! wasn't she the driving force for Michael's Killing?! I'm sure the director was looking for a gripping opening in explaining how MM survived H20 (yeah, because no-one would see an infamous brutal killer removing his mask and swapping clothes with a paramedic....)but he failed miserably!! Killing Laurie just put the nail in the coffin of this already tired series - and this was just the opening twenty minutes!! I had to laugh when the students participated in a Dangertainment (catchy name...really) production.  If you think about this for a second This is a psychopath killer who is feared by everyone, he is as real to them as a killer in reality is real to us.  This production company wants to glorify the past of such a killer as Michael Myers- yeah and nobody blinks an eye - they just walk into a house, and then die (deservedly of course!) Anyway thats enough of that (and hopefully the series!) For Halloween 9 True Evil Never Dies The Night HE Came Home To Kill A Few College Students all they need is Laurie to wake up and say Wow, i had the weirdest dream that i was in a mental asylum and Michael killed me...hmmm how silly!! "},{"Title":"How to kill a serial killer...","Date":"27 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Apparently the new way to kill a movie serial killer is to get some dodgy rap artist (in this case Busta Rhymes) to add some tension destroying quips and then perform some karate on the b****rd. But this is Michael Myers for gods sake...he's a movie legend. Come on, out of all the 70's generation slasher movies Halloween was the first and most powerful, mostly because of how *serious* Myres was about going about his business - he was the freaking BOOGYMAN! Resurrection follows on from the O.K.ish H20 (which managed to totally forget the other 4 sequels to the franchise after Halloween 2 (not forgetting the Michael-less III)) with a diabolical opening scene starring Jamie Lee Curtis. She gets the hell out of dodge and things go downhill rapidly. The excellent John Carpenter score is used in a completely cursory way once again - no one seems to understand how exactly it managed to add to the awesome tension in the first films closing sequence.Look, basically, it's a waste of a great movie serial killer legend. At the age of 14 Halloween scared the hell out of me, since then most Halloween movies (good, average or bad) have still chilled me when that blank masked freak hits the screen - Resurrection left me bored and oh so disappointed. Busta Rhymes versus Michael Myres...oh we all know damn well the rapper would get rapped.4/10 "},{"Title":"The HAlloween Chainsaw Project","Date":"27 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is not a masterpiece like H20, but it's pretty fun, it has all the ingredients of a slasher pic, and it has new gimmicks. All the high tec and reality show stuff is really interesting, it makes the film more exciting. The acting is not so good.  The killings are kind of dull. I did not like watching Laurie go, she was the best character, she should have been the next Dr. Loomis. Her being killed only shows JAmie Lee Curtis doesn't want to keep acting in these films. Now I don't know how can they make the next installment interesting... they should bring the plots from part 4, 5 and 6... that would make a great sequel... we should know more about Tommy Doyle, and about the dark man, and all the cult sect stuff again. "},{"Title":"kool","Date":"26 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  i snuk in about 20mins. after it started what i saw was good  it was about even with parts 4,5,and6 like them it was good but not perfect. but no movies perfect  except scarface! "},{"Title":"Busta Rhymes? Why!!!!! (Contains spoilers)","Date":"26 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I was really looking forward to this film, the trailer was amazing and I had high hopes. The opening sequence in the sanitarium was brilliant, but sadly marked the end of Jamie Lee Curtis' involvement in the series. The internet gimmick was alright, but the film seemed to be missing that ingredient that makes most of the Halloween movies enjoyable. This installment was probably one of the goriest, with decapitations, slashed throats and knives through heads. The characters were average, with a few funny lines of dialogue. I have one major complaint however-Busta Rhymes. He ruined the film with his martial arts sequence. Why didn't Micheal kill him and put us all out of our misery?! The ending was pretty good with Micheal going up in flames spectacularly, but yet again he is alive at the end. H20 would have been a great end to the series, and they were really pushing it by making this one, but if Halloween 9 comes out then this series will lose the credibility it has taken so long to get. Even though I'm a huge fan, they should kill Micheal off and leave it at that. Overall I would give this movie 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Dodgy (**SPOILERS TO THIS, AND REFERENCES TO H20**)","Date":"26 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is a loose follow-up to H20 from 1998, a spin-off for want of a better word. It's not terrible, but it is fairly cheesy. As a fan of the Halloween series, I must say that this is an unnecessary addition to the series- not unWELCOME, but there just doesn't seem to be any reason why it was made. 1,2 & H20 focused on Michael vs Laurie, and 4,5 &6 focused on Michael vs Jamie. This is Michael vs bunch of disposable teens. Greed obviously led to the making of this film (duh!), but I'll get off my soapbox and review the damn thing.The opening scene with Laurie (Jamie Lee Curtis) felt very short, and it was OK. Her death cheapens H20, but I liked the fact that Myers was built up as more menacing in this film, as opposed to the watered down H20 version (no pun intended). Good throat-slash w/ the guard and a rather strange angle as Myers frames a mental patient for Laurie's killing. Why? 2 things bugged me early onA) no mention of John (Josh Hartnett)- a passing reference would have done.B) the explanation for how Myers isn't dead was ludicrous (even for a fan who suspends disbelief for most of these films!) So Myers switched clothes with a paramedic and Laurie killed the medic- how could the medic NOT be dead after (1) having his larynx crushed, (2) being hit by the coroner's van and sitting up immediately after- H20 and (3) being crushed by the van after it rolls down the hill!! Bloody hell!Besides this, the rest of the film is very average. The kills are very good (knife through skull, impalement on spike a la H6, the rip-off/homage to 'Peeping Tom'- the tripod leg through the throat, etc.) and, like Valentine, is almost the best part of the film. The characters are criminally underdeveloped, even lead girl Sara (Bianca Kajlich- Boston Public).This may sound unbelievable, but Busta Rhymes saved this film from being TOTALLY crap. His jive-talkin' face-to-face w/ Myers was just ridiculous, but also amusing at the same time. He delivered the two best lines of the film 1- Trick or treat...LOOKS MYERS UP AND DOWN.. Mothaf**ka! and 2- Hey Mikey, Happy f**kin' Halloween!! The fact that they had to resort to the comedy speaks volumes, but it was very funny.Michael makes his obligatory return from the grave at the end (of course) opening the door for Halloween 9. (If they cast Nelly in that I swear to god..!) They should only make a ninth if Josh Hartnett returns.I liked the opening credits (it was cool to hear the theme for the first time in a cinema) and the theme was done very well.CONCLUSION Laurie's exit isn't memorable, the teens aren't written well and the number of jump moments was a bit OTT, but the kills were good and the Sara-'Deckard' thing was done well from a tension point of view, and Busta Rhymes was hilarious. 6 or 7 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Boring...","Date":"14 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I was disappointed in this film, and I also thought that it was boring, and it wasn't at all scary.  It was also cheap in my opinion.  I almost forgot about it.  I thought H20 was way better.  To be honest, the only reason I went to go see this film was to see Tyra Banks.  I give this movie a D+, and on a scale from 1-10, a 3. "},{"Title":"Good directing, bad acting! (...and a few SPOILERS from the movie)","Date":"23 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is an average sequel of the Halloween! Not so bad... but the script has a little bug. Michael Myers (the Boogieman) is not dead. He is still live in the end of H20 and he is still live in the end of Resurrection. I am not happy, because there are too many bad actors in the movie like Busta Rhymes etc... and he just kicked Michael's butt away from the movie. Really.. I am not lieing.. there was a fight episode in the movie between the two person. 6 out of 10!I hope that the next episode will be better than this one, and please... make a good script for the best horror series ever! "},{"Title":"H2O fans rejoice! The rest of us on the other hand...","Date":"13 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Sadly, I fear that the franchise will never produce another bearable, let alone enjoyable movie. For some reason, there seem to be people who sincerely enjoyed H2O, and it must be because of them that this hi-tech, reality infused, ultra hip version of a horror film was created. The cast is seriously deprived of talent. Busta on screen for more than 10 minutes? Please! And did Tyra Banks serve a purpose other than being eye candy to help you forget how awful this movie was? Even Rick Rosenthal, who directed the often over-looked Halloween II, could not help this paper thin, thoughtless, meaningless, pile of tripe. (He can only direct what's written.) Even the cast seemed to be uninterested, if not just plain bored by the story. It's always hard to resurrect a character for a sequel, especially the sixth (Halloween III not included), but the explanation they give is just insulting. If not for Jamie Lee Curtis and a mask that actually resembles the original, I probably would have gotten up and left the theater. The horror genre is dead!!! "},{"Title":"first ten minutes....great......!","Date":"3 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  spoilers.......ok, i must say, the first ten minutes of this movie is GREAT!  the part with jamie lee curtis in the hospital is what halloween is.  scary and just...well...scary.  but after jamie (SPOILER!!!!!!!!!) lee dies, the movies has no where to go but DOWNHILL, and it does.  lame lame lame.  i never laughed so hard in all my life.  and i don't think i was supposed to. the stupid catchy lines, the horrible acting....it was funnier then any comedy i have ever seen.  my friends kept looking at eachother and saying 'what IS she laughing at'.....but thats all it was.  you know when you laugh at someone when they do something really stupid, but its not supposed to be funny.  thats what this whole movie is after jamie lee dies.  HORRIBLE horror movie.  man, i was disapointed in busta rhymes and sean patrick thomas, cause i like them both.  they were horrid.  maybe the acting was the most horror thing in this HORROR (???) film......if you want my advice, if you buy tickets for this movie, sneak into the theatre next door......its probably better! "},{"Title":"the fans get screwed again","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I'm really starting to think Moustapha Akkad is losing it in his old age. First he gives us HALLOWEEN H20, a sequel that insults us by asking us to ignore the events of HALLOWEENs 4-6 and is more like SCREAM 4 than HALLOWEEN. Then he gives us HALLOWEEN RESURRECTION, which seems more concerned at being BLAIR WITCH 3 than HALLOWEEN. Thanks to screenwriter Larry Brandt, gone are the intriguing characters and any attempt at continuity. Films 4-6 steadily built up a solid story that was continued and built upon further by each subsequent film, something not every horror series can claim. There were characters intent on discovering the secret of Michael Myers and how to (if at all) stop him, and there were characters you cared about and found yourself rooting for. Here, we're given a bunch of characters who just want to make some quick bucks by staying the night in Myers' house.The characters are all paper-thin, whereas even in the previous films (except for H20) we had strong characters. Here, everyone just hangs around waiting to get hacked, in death scenes that seem more like FRIDAY THE 13TH than HALLOWEEN. For the most part, the actors are unknowns in stock roles--they're able to scream and shout on cue--but that's about it. Busta Rhymes wasn't quite as bad as I was expecting him to be, but he seems to have been cast more because of his own popularity than anything else. Tyra Banks, also, is cast simply to draw a crowd, and she really does nothing but sit in front of a bank of computer monitors and drink coffee for most of the film.There are some minor highlights, but not many. Brad Loree does an excellent job of playing Michael Myers the way he should be, making up for the awful Chris Durand interpretation in H20. The mask is about as close to the original as we're likely to get, but still has some problems with it, mostly a little too much hair and the fact we can see his eyes, a part of him that was very rarely seen in the previous films and helped generate a lot of mystery. But he has the menacing walk down perfect. Danny Lux's musical score returns to what made the previous films' scores work, by underlining the on-screen events instead of highlighting, like with John Ottman's overblown H20 score. And the atmosphere is terrific. As he did with HALLOWEEN 2 twenty-one years ago, director Rick Rosenthal brings a great sense of atmosphere to the film that menacingly exploits pools of light and shadow, and several shots of Myers hiding in the dark are truely creepy images. The sequence involving the one girl finding Michael's lair in the sewer underneath the house is very nicely filmed. So the film at least looks nice, which is not something that can be said about H20. And the Myers house itself, from the outside, has been recreated very much like the original, though the interior is (to fans) noticeably messed up.But for the most part, it was another failed attempt. I fear the glory days of the HALLOWEEN series--when they had characters you liked and stories that were simple yet helped the films develop more than other horror series--is over, having ended with HALLOWEEN 6, and now the films are turning into just pail SCREAM wannabes. The rights should be taken away from the Weinstein brothers and given to an independent company, like some of the previous ones, a company that will respect the fans and the previous films in the series. "},{"Title":"Not A Very Happy Homecoming","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Having been a movie fan or should i say horror film fan for more years than i can remember, i had never seen a Halloween movie in the cinema, until the seventh installment H20 came around, regardless of how well the film came across it was pretty interesting to see how the people invovlved tried to reinvent the wheel, allbeit with the spectre of scream lurking in the background, trying to give the movie some street cred with those young hip and trendy types unfamiliar with a movie that tries to scare as well as try to tell a half decent story.However just when you thought it was safe to light up that Jack o Lantern, Here comes Michael Myers back again in the aptly titled Homecoming. Like the makers of Jason X, The creative force behind this latest frightfest have tried rock the boat by bringing the Myers saga into the twenty-first century by putting him into Reality Television, does it work? Hmmm, herein lies my bug bear, you see i'm the kinda guy who'll go to see a movie, if it's written by a certain someone or likewise directed.Homecoming was written,including the original story by Larry Brand, Now he was the man, who in a former life, who remade the Roger Corman remake of the Masque of The Red Death starring if memory serves Adrian(Highlander & Highlander Endgame) Paul plus the Miles O'Keefe psycho thriller The Drifter now both the film's linger in the mind for the one simple fact that both were made with a snail's eye view to pacing and storytelling.This however cannot be said to be the same of the eighth incarnation of terror, a lightning fast paced story, which if i was to be honest, when you watch the opening, you feel like you were watching the ending, which brings back Jamie Lee Curtis if only briefly, Plus it also allows time for those who might have forgotten how H20 ended, with a brief recap, although within that brief interlude the writer somehow as he does manages to tell us the viewer that Jamie Lee did not infact decapitate her brother Michael, but some other poor unfortunate.This for me had me groaning as indeed was the fact that the Tick Rosenthal, than man behind part two had returned to the director's chair for this one. If anyone out there remembers the opening credits of the second one, the old time song Mr Sandman played at the beginning, it also turned up likewise at the start of H20.It has become apparent that with Rosenthal, that what you see is what you get, just like Halloween 2, Halloween 8 is a rehash of the do's and don't that should not apply to the horror film, specifically Rosenthal's film. Although in fairness he didn't write the film. However anyone thinking that putting this writer and director together on this particular film, should only take a quick glance at their respective filmographies, not a single winner between them.But hey! This is a horror film with an already established franchise, and yes thei idea of reality t.v. is a winner, the execution is very tiresome. Incase i forget, for fans of Italian Horror, In Particular Dario Argento, listen out for periodical outbursts of the child like theme that was present in Argento's Deep RedP.S Should i rate this film something out of ten, Hhhmm, 7/10 for the story but -0/10 for the execution. "},{"Title":"Derivative, but better than H20","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  *Contains Spoilers!* Who would have thought they would make another michael myers movie. I thought he was permanently gone after h20, but what was i thinking. They would find some non-clever way to keep the halloween movies going, it won't ever end. But to be honest the movie was somewhat fair. It had a few scares and chills, and every shallowly-written teenager had their turn to die , but it's not what i expected. A lot of the content is copied from other films and some of the plot holes and jokes are so corny that it's not even funny. This movie may be better than h20, but it's not certainly as good as Scream and even IKWYDLS. As far as a rating goes, i give it a 4/10 at most.  "},{"Title":"Horror? Only if you watched it....","Date":"2 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This was probably one of the worst movies I have ever seen. To think that the producers, directors, and everyone associated with the Halloween series would even attempt another movie after H20 boggles the mind. I assumed that the Laurie Strode/Michael Myers conflict was resolved, and that Laurie would get on with her life, which has been put on hold for long enough. The acting - a term I apply VERY loosely - was deplorable. The plot - if there was one - was ridiculous. In the quest to cash in on reality entertainment which only reminds us that our TV networks don't think that actually hiring writers, producers, directors, and actors is important, this movie ranks down there with Fear Factor or The Real World.... The ONLY saving grace of this movie was over in the first twenty minutes. To FINALLY bring closure to Laurie Strode's life was a very welcome event. Unless, there will be some Halloween Part 25 where she actually is still alive and simply dreamed up the whole thing.... who knows? Thumb's down.... WAY down.  "},{"Title":"Seems like a good movie, BUT WHY WONT HE JUST DIE!!","Date":"2 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Okay, in the first one, he gets shot and then disappears.  Then hes back in the 2nd one.  In HalloweenH20, Jamie-lee Curtis hunts Michael Myers down and while he appears to be dead Jamie-lee chops off his head.  So he has to be dead now, right?  I dont know how Michael Myers could come back, but I think they should burn him at the steak and get it over with! "},{"Title":"The Best Possible Result For The 8th Film In A Horror Series...(spoilers)...","Date":"2 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This was a crazy movie..as I said in the summary this was the best possible result for the 8th film in a horror series. It came out great and I think that this ranks up there w/ the other Halloween greats. The kills are excellent, and there are even some new and innovative ideas to advance the horror genre such as the two way communication between the girl and Deckard as well as the two Mike Myers in the house at once. The movie isn't stale, its actually quite fresh and really brings a lot to the series. Any Michael Myers or horror fan will love this movie!! "}{"Title":"freeky","Date":"1 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  (CONTAINS SPOILERS FOR THOSE WHO PAY ATTENTION TO DETAIL) Resurrection was freeky, no doubt about it.  but in my opinion the movie and was over in the first 20 minutes.  in order to keep the actual Halloween saga going John (Laurie's son) will have to face Micheal on his own in Halloween 9 "},{"Title":"Check it out, if you REALLY ARE A HALLOWEEN FAN","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I am a TRUE Halloween fan. I own all of the original video releases, as well as the laserdisc, video and DVD rereleases. I own all of the soundtracks and movie novels. I own the Don Post mask as well as the Cinema Secrets mask, neither of which compare to the actual Captain Kirk mask I own and am currently in the process of converting to look like the mask used in the original Halloween. I even own the crappy teen novels. Clothing, posters, bootlegs of all of the different cuts Halloween is ingrained into my life. The way I feel about Hallwoeen Resurrection is that it is one of the legitimite sequels. The only legitimite films are those which contain Jamie Lee Curtis portraying the character of Laurie Strode. Halloween 4, 5 and The Curse of Michael Myers were all discredited upon Jamie Lee's return to the series with H20. Come to terms with it 4-6 are basically rumors of what COULD have happened, but aren't what ACTUALLY happened. The only films that count are  Halloween, Halloween II, Halloween H20 and Halloween Resurrection.On to the critiquing Halloween Resurrection should have stuck with its original title of Halloween Homecoming. A lot of people who have posted their opinions are conveniently ignorant of the fact that this film is MAKING FUN OF reality-based TV shows (i.e. - MTV's Fear, which was a horrible idea SEMI-ripped off of Blair Witch. Resurrection has no direct correlation with Blair Witch and should not be compared). Rick Rosenthal's direction was a nice touch, but the actors were not really up-to-par (except for Jamie Lee, who, let's face it, only did this film due to the fact she was contractually bound - upon viewing the film, you'll see why she wanted to end. H20, for her, was meant to be the ending of it all). The way Michael is desribed to have made it into this sequel is laughable, but at least they TRIED (unlike the last two Friday the 13th entries which give no explaination of how Jason returned - but who cares? Jason's a blatant rip-off of Michael to begin with). Yes, the first 15 minutes of this film are the best. However, the Danny Lux's version of the Halloween theme deserves commendation - it's the best reworking of the theme since Halloween II! The score itself could have used redone versions of Laurie's Theme and The Shape Stalks/Lurks, all of which Alan Howarth included in his score contributions. It was nice to see the Myers house again, even though it was NOT the same one used in the original and part 2. The landing was too long; Judith's room was on the right at the top of the stairs, not the left; the entire counter in the kitchen was different, and there was no pseudo pantry or spice rack; there very well may have been a basement, but there wasn't a way to get to it from the kitchen. The mask could have been better, but that can be said about all the masks from Halloween 2 on. At least the actor portraying Michael in this one ATTEMPTED to get the walk and killing style, UNLIKE the Chris Durand in H20. The Halloween party and internet additions were hokey, but seemed to fit within the story-line, so why not? Why is there this sudden trend of adding bad rappers into the Halloween mix? Last time we were forced to put up with LL Cool J, now it's Busta Rhymes. Some of his stuff was interesting, but he could have been done without. Tyra Banks had a bit part, and she wasn't really annoying, so she was tolerable. The neck-slitting was WAY over-the-top in this film - the original had little to no blood in it at all. There's no reason to resort to excessive gore (the blood looked like melted Jello - way too irridescent and slimy). Anyway, if you really are a TRUE FAN of the series, you'll give this film credit where it deserves it, namely Jamie Lee, Rick Rosenthal directing, Danny Lux's rendition of the theme and the basic re-institution of the Myers house (although what happens to it leaves much to be desired). Check it out, if you really are a Myers fan. If not, this film is not meant for you - don't go to see it for Busta Rhymes of Tyra Banks or that kid from American Pie - they're insignificant. 8 1/2 ............................................................................ ........ "},{"Title":"At least the movie theater was cool...and there's some suspense.","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This film was not given out in time for the critics to review.  Having gone to see it, I can now see why.  The first twenty minutes are great, but that is as close to the original Halloween that the film gets.   Now before I go off here, I'll admit that there are moderately suspenseful moments in the movie, and a bunch of red herrings, most of which can be spotted but some that can't.  It's not that this movie is short, even though it is a short feature.  It's that there are too many characters.  Actors with some name value such as Tyra Banks and Thomas Ian Nicholas (American Pie, Little Big League) are left to do nothing but smirk.  Oh, I'm sorry, Tyra Banks gets to shake her groove thing for a few seconds.  Thomas Ian Nicholas just stands there, well, smirking.  They must have five lines combined.  And meaningless lines at that.  They just serve as more prey for Michael Myers.  The screenwriters appear to have been very uninspired for this script that they had to meld different horror movies into one.  The hand held camera gimmick is straight out of The Blair Witch Project or a couple of reality shows that have aired at some point on MTV and Fox.  Than there's the show within a show and the killer shows up at the place where the show is being made. This has been done in Scream 3, and in Robert Bloch's novel Psycho 3.  In any case it's a used plot device.  Busta Rhymes is alright although it started sounding like he was using the f-word for comical effect, like he thought he was in some buddy comedy with Martin Lawrence.  Busta Rhymes even gave away his fate in the movie while making an appearance on World Wrestling Entertainment's Smackdown.  I won't tell you what he said but that was the worst thing about the movie. Come to think of it Busta has the acting skills of a professional wrestler. The dialogue isn't too bad, but it can't help but be stilted at times.  And there's the gang of kids who can't wait to get it on with each other, all except for the virginal one.  I have one question.  People do really brainless things in horror movies, but if you were spending time in a mass murderers home, I would thing that sex would be the last thing on your mind.  But that's just me.  Is Michael Myers really this indestructible?  In the first one, it worked because  he hadn't cheated death so many times yet.  They're turning him into the undead. Overall Jamie Lee Curtis has turned this series into her own, by appearing in four of it's movies, like Sigourney Weaver did with Alien.  It might as well have just been four movies in the series, Halloween 1,2,7, and now 8. And like Alien 4, Jamie Lee's fourth installment is the the least worthy of the bunch.  But let's face it, if Jamie Lee Curtis finds herself still doing phone commercials in four years, Halloween 9 won't be far away. "},{"Title":"It's official, this series needs to be buried.","Date":"28 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I have always stuck by this series through thick and thin but the last two sequels to this horror classic have made me realize that the time has come to put it to death.  It's now reached a point of desperation where the concept of the first film has been thrown out the window.  When you see Michael walk through a thick concrete door, as if the door was made of tissue paper you'll see what I mean.  Michael Myers is a human being, catatonic and psychotic.  He is made of flesh and blood and other systems that make up the body and can be shut down like anyone else.  He was not suppose to be inhuman and have superhuman strength.  The concept of him being a normal person made the series work.  They only mention two parts in the series in this film and use an ending that is very reminiscent of  a sequel that was not mentioned.  That's sad.  The movie is not scary, it's not funny and not very gory.  The webcast is a bad idea and makes it look very grainy and jumpy and difficult to watch.  All in all I have to make a plea to anyone involved in this project to not make another sequel.  It's been exploited enough and it's time to call it quits and leave the memory of the first film intact rather than drag it through the mud with another atrocious, unmemorable sequel.  Stop the pain. "},{"Title":"Mediocrity at its finest.","Date":"28 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is not the worst movie in the Halloween series.  It is not the best either.  Almost every horror cliché is used.  The film might be of interest to horror fans who want to try and guess which parts of the movie were stolen from other films (and not just the original Halloween).  Many large plot holes (including a scene where Michael Myers inexplicably spares someone's life when given the perfect opportunity to kill them), but does have a few good moments and can be fun, if you're in the right frame of mind.  This sequel is neither an endorsement to continue the series, nor an excuse finish it off.  It's just there. "},{"Title":"Crucifixion is more like it","Date":"26 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  With all the corporate force behind the HALLOWEEN franchise,how did they come up with a script that's a lame hash of BLAIRWITCH 2 and MTV's FEAR? What's the connection between theinitial impulse behind John Carpenter's HALLOWEEN--a steady,solemn, almost abstract kill-crazy horror picture--and this blur oftoo-old-to-be-a-teenybopper faces, digital video, and spasticallyrhythmed murders? Do Bob Weinstein's minions just not care?And what did Miramaxians think of the horrible scene in whichBusta Rhymes, also in a Michael Myers mask, bitches out the realMichael Myers, who slinks away with his tail between his legs?Was that supposed to be...funny? Scary? Surprising? And wasn'tanybody the least bit shocked that Tyra Banks proved she couldn'tact even in a role that had no words? "},{"Title":"Better than H20!","Date":"26 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This Halloween seems alot more dramatic than the rest of the films. It takes a positive turn in the right direction. The first 15 minutes of the movie are the best ( with Michael Myers and Jamie Lee Curtis facing off again). The rest of the movie is set in Haddonfield with Busta Rhymes entering the Myers home on Halloween, with a little help. His part is a little bit too hyped with way too much cursing on his end. But Bianca Kajlich, Katee Sackhoff, Thomas Ian Nicholas, and Ryan Merriman give the most layer preformances of all. This seems to do wonders for the series in general. Very cool, sharp, and scary. FINAL GRADEB- "},{"Title":"what a waste","Date":"26 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** This evening (July 26th) I saw Halloween Resurrection...I would now like that 90 minutes or so back please, since the movie was such a waste of time and money.Busta Rhymes played an angry role in this movie, as do most rappers turned actors, and the movie was just totally pointless to me. It actually reminded me of many a slasher flick from the late 80's and early 90's, even a few memories of the Scream movies came back to me while watching this movie...how sad this series has become when it must copy old and tired themes over and over again....Was this the last movie starring the character of Michael Myers?I hope so.**************POSSIBLE SPOILER**************What I thought was odd was that since Michael Myers had his head chopped of in the last installment of Halloween (H20), so why then was he back in Halloween Resurrection? And, why is the mask never taken off? This seems to be a reoccurring event in all of the Halloween movies...My opinion, and that of my fellow movie goes was that it was a copycat killer, especially since Jamie Lee Curtis played such a small part in this movie.However, we will not know until the next installment (involuntary shudder), but perhaps in the next installment there will be no Jamie Lee Curtis, and perhaps Michael Myers WILL FINALLY die...if that is the case, then I hope Mike's final appearance is better then Freddy's... "},{"Title":"It si Halloween","Date":"26 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  After Halloween 2 the story got bad. Four, five, and six should have never been made, and H2O picks up where part two left off, now this one picks up where H2O left off. The only thing missing from this film is director John Carpenter.I did like however that after Myers was killed in the 2nd film that Carpenter took the film a different direction with Season of the Witch. It is too bad that it did not stay that way. I mean if a person was on fire so badly that they can't even carry it away, and that Dr.Loomis is blown to bits, how can they make the return of the shape? But as in the days of old, Frankinstiens Monster, Dracula, and the Wolfman all kept coming back. That is all Freddy, Jason, and Micheal are, just modern day monsters that keep coming back.So my question is, where are Boris Karloff, Lon Channey jr., and Bele Lugosi when we need them. "},{"Title":"The worst Halloween movie","Date":"26 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  OK, I am a big fan of the older Halloween movies (part 1, 2, 4, & 5) I knew this movie would be terrible, but I wanted to give it a chance. The first 10 -15 minutes of the movie were great!! I think if they kept the film in the hospital, and had some decent actors, not the terrible cast that was selected (Tyra Banks, Busta and everyone else), it could have been a great movie!  I thought this movie absolutely SUCKED!!  I didn't like the whole internet, palm pilot crap that was thrown into this movie, and the cast walking around with cameras reminded me of the cheezy MTV show fear.  I was sitting in the theater thinking, I can't believe I wasted $9.50 on this crap.  The acting was the worst I have seen since Blair Witch 2...and that was pretty bad!! terrible one liners, tons of over acting, and for god's sake Busta ends up being a hero???...give me a break! I know movies like these are not intended to be brilliant oscar winning films, but I think it could have been a lot scarier. They should have stopped making these films after part 5, there was a lot of holes in this film and they didn't do a very good job of tying all of the films together.  In my opinion, don't go see this movie!!!...if you really want to see it...wait for cable. "}{"Title":"The Next Thrilling Installment","Date":"25 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Halloween 8. We all wondered how they were going to get away with it. Jamie Lee saying she wouldn't do any more, Michael being killed outright (finally) at the end of H20. But, here we are. Jamie Lee's fourth Halloween movie, and Michael is up and well again. It`s all explained at the beginning of the film in the old style fob us off with 10 seconds of implausible plot explanations just to get back at the box office and for us not to think you`re a bunch of wankers for bringing him back to life. And they NEARLY got away with it. Personally, I don't buy the explanation of how Michael is alive, (did you see the way the ambulance flattened him against the tree at the end of H20? Did you see the way she belted into him, knocking him down the bank?) The replacement Michael, if he still had his head, would apparently be as indestructible as the man he was disguised as!This film is OK on the whole. Personally, I do love the series; and, as always there are hits and there are misses. Part 6 was an unqualified pile of poo, and let`s not even mention part 3. But 8 is in between. Not a bad entry, with a good degree of violence and THANK GOD we had Jamie Lee, if only for a bit. After the beginning, it slows down a great deal, and when it does pick up it's OK, just not wonderful. And do we believe he's dead? The freakin` ambulance driver who got decapitated could have survived Michael's fate at the end of this film! It`s not very often that a series of movies can get better after a naff and embarrassing entry (part 6). But when H2O hit our screens, it picked up the whole Halloween series, and that film SHONE. If I had a choice of make Resurrection, or leave well enough alone, I`d have been happy to end my Halloween collection with Part 7.  "},{"Title":"Garbage...Go see The Signs instead...","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I thought this might be decent, but it fell far below average.  Bad plot, bad acting, and not even scary ruined this movie.  Maybe releasing Halloween in the middle of the summer was also a bad idea. Everything about this movie went bad.  Watching contestants on TV has only been done like 1000 times. I dont even like those reality shows.  Stay away from this one.  The Signs was much scarier and alot better than this! "},{"Title":"Never should have been made....","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Halloweens 4, 5, and 6 stand head and shoulders above this crap. How can you call yourself a REAL Halloween fan and not applaud the movies that starred Donald Pleasance taking Michael on directly. Sorry but I prefer Dr Loomis beating the crap out of Michael with a 2x4 than Busta Rymes cussing him out and eletrocuting his crotch! H4-6 gave us lines like i prayed that he would burn in hell but in my heart i knew that hell would not have him to your fried like chicken! this is ridiculous! the people who liked this trash are NOT Halloween fans they are Busta Ryhmes fans who enjoyed watching Tyra Banks shake her groove thing. What was her point in the movie anyway? Someone said Halloween IS Jamie Lee Curtis?! Oh really?!!! She did a good job in part one, was pretty much forgettable in part two, was NOT even in 4-6, did ok in part 7 but she just went on and ego trip and made laurie strode and her mental illness the focus rather than michael myers! Halloween really comes down to Michael Myers desire to kill his FAMILY not a rapper and a hooker, and Dr Loomis's equal insane determination to stop Michael. Now for God sakes quit encouraging people to see this crap! The true fans give me a shout out and pay tribute to the REAL star of the Halloween Series Donald Pleasance! "},{"Title":"Michael (Busta) Myers","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this movie the first week that is came out, and I left with a sense of disappointment.  I can honestly say that I am a true Halloween fan, and that I was hoping for more in the 8th episode in the series.  I thought that the movie started strong and came at the viewer with a furious pace.  They tried to make sense, the best way they could, as to how Michael Myers could possibly still be alive.  I guess there is always a way.  After that there seemed to be a series of agitating happenings as the movie progressed.  For instance, I didn't like the fact that the entire Myers house escapade was broadcast over the internet.   Obviously there is going to be an IM buddy to help save the day, right?  The most annoying though, has got to be that PDA that she was holding throughout the movie.  She even spoke to it once and the message got through to Dekkard.  I guess voice recognition on PDA's is fairly common nowadays.  I will stop here because I don't want to discuss the fact that they have a rapper as one of the main characters.....trick or treat busta.I had to walk away from this movie for what it was worth.  It was a sequel that I had to see because I call myself a Halloween and a horror movie fan. I was excited to see more slicing and dicing.  But next time, do all of us a favor.  Get back to the basics.  People come to horror movies to be scared and possibly to see the characters that have become horror icons.  A solid plot and a few decent actors are all you need to make a sequel in which the storyline is basically already set.  Michael is bad, Michael will kill people and Michael will never die.  We all know this.  After all this complaining I am going to do something that will offend many people.  I will recommend this movie if you are a fan of the series or of the genre because, well, I have to.   "},{"Title":"One of the best sequels.","Date":"22 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie greatly surprised me.  I was thinking it would be a ripoff of survivor combined with a scream clone. Well, I was wrong. The webcast setting provided some truly tense moments and really heightened the atmosphere at some points.  What I really liked about this movie was how good the Michael Myer's mask looked.  Gone are the masks of parts 4 and 5, this mask is totally remodeled and looks pretty menacing.  The acting does suffer at times, but rappers and models were never meant to act, right?  It seemed like most of the gore was intact as well, so thats also a plus.  Well after Jason X, this movie renewed my faith in the horror genre. "},{"Title":"Great fun","Date":"22 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Halloween Resurrection, the new installment in the classic horror movies series that started with John Carpenter's Halloween, one of the spawning gems of the slasher craze, is excellent entertainment. Brad Loree did a very swell job here. And the mask was excellent. Rick Rosenthal made the first sequel, Halloween II, and handles the movie with excellent atmosphere. Atmosphere, is an important aspect of horror films. I went into the film hoping for something special, and I personally came away with something special. I don't like it as much as Halloween 1&2, but it's still an awesome slasher flick. "},{"Title":"One of the Best Comedies of the Year","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  And no, thats not a joke.  This was an awful movie, with a script so bad that it honestly was laughable at times.  Some lines were intended to produce laughs from the audience, however, many were not but came up with the same result.  The plot has been done before, not in the Halloween series, but through countless other movies and TV Shows... try Blair Witch Project, Big Brother, and MTV's Fear (Fear was probably ripped off the most in this movie, it was almost a replica of the show) all mixed together. Although the movie has its frightening moments, such as sudden appearances by Michael Meyers or dead bodies, knifes, etc, showing up on the screen and scaring the characters, the overall fright factor is next to zero.I would definitely not waste my 9 bucks on this movie, if you long to see it that bad, try to constrain yourself until its out on video... trust me, you'll be glad you did. "},{"Title":"Movie person","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I went to see halloween on the first night it was out which was a friday and it was great,scarery and everything that halloween is.the fisrt show was sold out and when i left the second show and sold out too. the directer out did themselfs this time. everyone in the theather was jumping and screaming. i hope they make another one which i think they will. "},{"Title":"Disappointing.","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I have followed the Halloween series from the very first movie, and I can SAFELY say this was the worst one.  I didn't even flinch.  I didn't even jump!  Not once!!  I just stared at the movie screen and shook my head in disgust through most of the movie.  It was predictable, and even boring. Not to mention the entire Halloween series has now been butchered by 'resurrection', since they unwittingly decided to make this movie into another brainless modern day Teen Flick where a bunch of ditsy Britney Spears look-alikes and boy band wannabes run around like sheep getting slaughtered.  I am sorry to be so critical about this movie, but I am a big time horror flick guy... and this movie was just flat out disappointing.  A horror movie should give you chills more than it gives you laughs. "},{"Title":"I want my money back!","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Ouch! This turkey has to be the worst entry in the seemingly endless Halloween film series.I don't even know where to begin. Aside from a few creepy moments in the beginning of the film, I can't write anything kind about it.The characters were annoying and completely unlikeable. The writers appeared to go out of their way to make them so unappealing, that the audience can't help but root for the psychotic killer. Note to the writers of future installments If you allow the viewers to care about the protagonists, the next sequel may regain some of the tension and suspense that made the first movie a classic.The direction was awful. A good portion of the film is seen through state-of-the-art camera equipment mounted on the heads of our witless heroes. The image quality of these cameras is terrible and the actors jerk around so much it's often impossible to tell what's going on.A horror film doesn't have to be gory to be frightening (i.e. The Sixth Sense, The Blair Witch Project, etc.). But when you're making a slasher film, the fans expect to the special effects make-up artists to pile on the blood and guts. Fans of classic slasher films like the original Halloween, The Burning, and Friday the 13th will be disappointed. There's hardly any gore in this crap-fest. Most the special effects shots are destroyed by poor lighting and/or shoddy camera work.Horror films, in general, have been in a state of decline since the early 1990's. But the slasher film sub-genre died in the mid-1980's, when the MPAA finally squeezed most of the gore out of them. Halloween Resurrection does nothing to bring it back from the dead.  "}{"Title":"Absolutely horryfying! Very cool and the best film in the series!","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  OMG! This movie was so kewl! I watchd this movie and throught the whole film i wazz trembling. Michael Myers was at his best! I loved the plot about the teens winning a trip to go to the Myers' house! It wazz wonderful! I loved the performance given by Bianca Kaylich! Perfect! I give this movie a 15 out of 10! lol   Feel free to email me if u have different opinions! "},{"Title":"Great Sequel","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  SPOILER ALERT!! One part I didn't get is how Michael Myers survived I know In H2O he got his head cut right off but in Resurrection it shows that Jamie Lee Curtis cuts his head off and the guy who was in Myers' mask and he doesn't say anything when he's crushed against that tree before she cuts his head off? how come he couldn't have been like NO NO! don't then take the mask off, or when he was in that body bag in the ambulance he came out trying to kill Jamie lee? But still this movie was a great sequel I liked it a lot and hope to buy it on DVD.  "},{"Title":"THE WORST HORROR MOVIE EVER!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  You would have to be a complete moron to give an ounce of credit to this worthless excuse of a (so-called) horror movie. First thing is there is nothing remotely scary. Not ONE good scare in the whole, entire movie. It is one endless false scare after another.Second thing is the acting. Note to Busta- You can't act and you sure ain't funny. The rest of the cast may not be that bad but what can you do with writing this bad. There is sooooo much more to say about this piece of crap that I don't even know where to begin. I will say that the idea intrigued me when I first heard about the whole reality show concept but really it went nowhere fast. I can't believe that Jamie Lee Curtis had the nerve to express her disgust with the other Halloween movies(4-6)and then does this to her career. May you get what you deserve. You may think I am being harsh, but Michael Myers was the BOOGEYMAN that scared me when I was young. I remember watching the first two Halloween movies every Halloween. It was such a great experience to be curled up on your sofa in the living room, everyone else was asleep or out. The fear was so incredible, and so great at the same time. You just knew Michael was waiting in your kitchen. I hate to see that destroyed just to make a quick buck. I will never watch another new Halloween movie again. Thanks for nothing, Rick. "},{"Title":"Truly Awesome, Best Sequel Yet","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was really awesome. After seeing it, I thought that itwas the best sequel of the Halloween series. The movie had thefamiliar and frightening theme music that we all know and love. While I admit that it seemed kind of wierd with Busta Rhymes andTyra Banks in the movie, they were both awesome, espesciallyBusta. In one particular scene, Busta dresses up like MichaelMyers and starts yelling at the real Michael, although he doesn'tknow it, and it is a really funny scene. A great film 10 stars out of 5.One bad thing when I went to see the film, was I was lookingaround in the theater, and there were these parents that had theselittle babies and 2 or 3 year old kids with them. This movie is toographic and stuff for people that young. "},{"Title":"Michael's Back","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I recently saw Halloween Resurrection and I was blown away.  It was way better then H2O. It blew H2O away.  This is the creepiest Halloween since Halloween 6, (theatrical and producer's cut) They went back to the basics and did it right for once.  You take half of Halloween 1, both of Halloween 6, and just a drop of H2O and you have Halloween 8.  (note just a bit of H2O, don't want to ruin the film.) So, in my opinion, go out and see it.  It renewed my faith in the Halloween franchise. "},{"Title":"have we all gone mad......??????","Date":"20 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I've already submitted my comments about this, uh...movie, I just can't believe IMDB users are saying this is a good movie, it's just unbelievable...This movie SUCKS, it sucks bad man...Don't waste your time and money... "},{"Title":"Another Horrible Film","Date":"20 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I always wonder, why do people go see horrible films?I had to see this one, because this friend of mine dragged me.All this movie is about is a horrible script with so many illogical holes, few absurd funny scenes, typical scary scenes that have been made trite by every other horror film. "},{"Title":"Michael Myers still rules!","Date":"19 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  First off I will state the I love the original Halloween. It's a classic. Second I am not a huge horror fan, but there is just something about Michael Myers that gets me. The mask most likely. With the latest installment of the series which I thought ended with H2O and I would have been OK with, we find ourselves back in Haddonfield for another night of carnage. The idea is quite good if not acted all that well. Still horror films don't tend to get the most credible actors in them to start off with. The idea of everyone being locked in Michael's childhood home is rather cool. The clues that were left in the house which I think were all planted because you don't see them in the first film. The house is almost completely empty in that film. One thing I would have loved to seen would have been for Michael to take one of the houseguest's cameras so that even the internet people watching would see his point of view. That would have been quite cool in my opinion. One thing I loved and it was just about the only thing that reminded me why I like the first film so much is the way Michael admired his work after killing someone. In the 1st film he takes a step back and tilts his head from one side to the other. while we see it in a side view shot. In this film he kills someone and because they are wearing a camera on their head you see the shot head on. It looks great. The mask is altered a bit in this film and it looks great. There were also lots of shots of MM that were excellent too. Overall this movie didn't really scare all too much . It was enjoyable though and wasn't all that bad. One of the better sequels. Mind you don't expect any Oscar worthy performances. "},{"Title":"shouldn't even be called halloween if it werent for mike myers","Date":"19 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  As mentioned earlier this movie shouldn't even be wearing the title Halloween if it weren't for the Michael character.  I couldn't agree more with what one of the users commented by saying its a clash of House on Haunted Hill and Blair Witch Project.  This movie really messed up with the bad performance of the teen actors and they made Busta Rhymes way over his head with all that bruce lee yelling and karate kicks...could they make it any worse?  This movie should only be viewed by die hard halloween fans that haven't missed a single sequel and want to continue it that way.  Too many coincidences in the movie, almost too predictable, you can also tell who will be the last survivor(s) right off the start of the movieall in all it's just another horror movie but in addition to that it wasn't scary whatsoever.  (i had no sympathy for those who were killed either, which is very rare, perhaps its because of the short running time so you can't get to know the characters all too well) "},{"Title":"John Carpenter Please Come Back!","Date":"19 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  SPOILERS IN THIS REVIEW!At the end of H20 Michael Myers had his head cut off by his sister Laurie Strode(Jamie Lee) to finally put an end to his reign of terror.But wait in Halloween Resurrection we find out that Michael switched clothes with a Paramedic, and that Laurie cut off the wrong guys head.When i first heard of that i felt it was dumb and seeing it happen wasn't any better. H20 ended the series perfectly but no Moustapha Akkad once again got greedy and well ruined the Halloween series.Jamie Lee Curtis is totally wasted she gets killed off in the first 15min, and after that the movie just went downhill.We now return to Haddonfield where a group of college students win a contest to spend a night in Michael Myers childhood home.And all that happens will be broadcast live over the Internet. once everyone gets inside the doors will be locked and the windows are boarded up so there is no way out of the house.little does everyone know Michael is in the house. Myers roams around the house killing everyone he comes across. But for me he didn't kill them fast enough.Brad Loree who played Michael was so not scary, and what the hell was with Busta Rhymes? at every turn he Layed the Smackdown on Michael with these really bad karate moves.since when did Myers become such a sissy?Bianca Kajlich gave the best performance she can give, she was stuck with a really lousy script.Director Rick Rosenthal was just bad! Was he even paying attention? Or was he too busy counting his money to direct? He did a good job on Halloween 2 what the hell happened here? Then again we all know John Carpenter re-shot some of Halloween 2 maybe that's why it came out good.i am a die hard fan of the Halloween series i love them all not counting pt 3. I like some more then others but i enjoy them all, but i really can't think of one good thing to say about Halloween Resurrection.Of all the Halloween movies with Michael in it, this one is by far the worst.back in the 80's when i was a kid my mom would take me to see the Halloween films the Friday The 13th movies and the Elm Street movies. At the end of the movie she would always say oh no not another one, well at the end of Halloween Resurrection i found myself saying the same thing oh no not another one.John Carpenter please come back to the series i am begging you. Save us from the hell that was Halloween Resurrection.Maybe on a second viewing i won't hate Resurrection as much.But as of now i give Halloween Resurrection 2/10should have ended the series with H20 "}{"Title":"I gave it a 3 cuz it made me laugh","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I know this might be sacreligious to some horror movie buffs, but Michael Myers really needs to die now. Once you have to throw Busta Rhymes into a movie, its just really sad. I did enjoy the twist it gave following the ending of H20, but other than that, it was a total waste of time.  "},{"Title":"*SPOILER* If you enjoy the series, stay away from this one","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  If any of you enjoy the old Halloween movies as much as I do, I hope that you stay away from this one.  This was a joke and an embarrassment to everything the old movies were.  Right of the bat, the 'explanation' for how Michael Myers survived H2O made me want to leave.  I guess it wasn't him, it was a paramedic who had his throat crushed by Michael Myers, so he couldn't talk, and Myers just dressed him up to look like him.  Absolutely brilliant. Never mind the fact at the end of H20, 'Michael Myers', oh yeah I mean 'the paramedic' was trying to kill Laurie Strode.  I guess the paramedic decided at the end of H20 to act like Myers and try to kill Laurie for the heck of it.  The writers of this movie must've forgotten about that.  Let alone the fact that Laurie was dead within the first 10 minutes; forgetting the fact that the woman survived every single attack by Myers in the other movies, and we are to believe she just gets killed like that?  Not likely.  Even more so, any fan of Halloween knows that burning Michael Myers alive, will not kill him.  It didn't work twice before, and watching this movie I knew it would not be over, when he was 'dead'.  I guess the writers figured that if a capable guy like Dr. Loomis couldn't kill him, a shot in the testicles by Busta Rhymes would definitely take care of him.  Anybody that enjoyed this pile, is a testament to how easily amused people are these days. What used to be an original series of movies, turned into a mockery, and a prime example of how bad horror movies have gotten.  Gone is the intelligence, and good storylines, and in are really bad lines, a plot full of holes, and really bad camera work (it was horrible as well).  Whoever OK'ed this movie, should be fired, and what's even worse is there has to be another one, Myers is still alive.  It's like Laurie tells Michael Myers before she dies, I'll see you in Hell.  I know what that's like, I just sat through it.  "},{"Title":"Nothing new, but a clever idea that could have been much better.","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Not Another  A) Reality Show   B) Teen Movie   C) Halloween SequelAnswer D) All of the aboveThe scarriest thing about this movie is the possibility of a sequel because there aren't any surprises in this latest attempt to update the series by including students wired with cameras and sound, spending the night in the house Michael Myers grew up in, a la MTV's `Fear!'.As if the lack of surprises isn't bad enough, we get to see the words HE'S STILL ALIVE! (another non-surprise) on a palm pilot, after one of the many places in the film we are supposed to think he is dead.This is a potentially clever updating idea that might have actually amounted to something with the right treatment.1.5 stars for the real star of this feature - the DTS digital sound track that gives new, creepy, life to John Carpenter's original Halloween score and allows you to hear and feel every creak of the floorboards in the house as well as the sound of Michael's knife slashing against bone.Although Michael looks like he's found a great plastic surgeon for this go around, with a sleeker, smoother, mask, you can only do so much plastic surgery on something, including a film series, before it's better to leave it alone.Good for late night, date hugging, screams and jumps but don't expect to be scared out of your wits.  "},{"Title":"It depends on your taste in the horror genre","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  First of all I liked this film. It impressed me. It wasn't anything like Jason X. (I'm glad none of my family members were lack toast and tolerant because Jason X was a lot of cheese.) Busta Rhymes was really funny and the leading role was played out very well. I think that Michael should be dead, though. They cut his head off at the end of Halloween H20 and Halloween The Curse of Michael Myers, but H20 completely forgets 4-6. It really depends if you like the Halloween movies. Any Michael Myers fan would like this film. But a person who doesn't like the Halloween films more than likely would not like this installment. One question How could Michael Myers have cut that girl's head off with a knife? "},{"Title":"Crap!!!","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  As a fan of the Halloween series, I was very disappointed in this movie. The plot was ridiculous (Blair Witch meets Big Brother...oh please!), the acting was bad (Busta Rhymes chews scenery like no other), and I thought the cinematography was awful (it's hard to get into a movie when you can't see anything).  It's sad to see that the Greatest Horror Film ever made is now content to release stupid sequels that imitate all the crappy copycats that came after it.  Very disappointing.  "},{"Title":"The Night HE Sold Out.","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The following contains SPOILERS, so beware.I can't say too much here about Halloween Resurrection that hasn't already been said, but I certainly can reveal a TRUE Halloween fan's reaction to what I consider the worst installment of this franchise.  It should be said that the original Halloween is my favorite movie of all time, so perhaps I am a bit biased here.  Yet Halloween 8 stands as a prime example of a studio (shame on you, Dimension) catering to the largest audience possible to maximize profits.  The filmmakers have clearly lost the heart and soul that made the original so effective.  What worked for the first Halloween was SIMPLICITY.  Realistic characters, the setting of the small town (go back and watch again and see how deserted, how HAUNTED Haddonfield feels in the first one), and a simple story.   Now, all of a sudden we have heroines attacking with chainsaws and Busta Rhymes doing karate on what was once a no-nonsense killer.  Please!  Back in 1978 Michael NEVER would have put up with this guy!The movie starts off fairly mediocre.  Having a remix of John Carpenter's classic theme over the Dimension logo got me pumped, and putting Laurie in the same mental state as her brother (loved how she stares out that window) was a nice touch.  I'm mixed on Laurie being killed off.  On the one hand, at least her torment is over for good (or so we think).  But on the flip side, a legendary character of the horror genre has been disposed of.  Wow, all those years of happily seeing Laurie survive so much torment just went down the drain.  Kinda feels like a waste of time rooting for her knowing that in the end she falls victim to the knife.  I'm still not quite sure how she thought hanging Michael and dropping him a few feet over the roof would finally kill this guy once and for all.  I mean, let's face it the guy's a monster.  He's survived God knows how many beatings, and this is gonna be his ultimate demise?  Come on, Laurie, you're smarter than that.The rest of the film I could really care less about in terms of story.  For me, the Halloween series ended when Laurie falls off that roof (actually, I previously thought it ended with the exciting finale of H20, but so much for that conclusion.  Thanks again, Dimension).  It's obvious that the producers are taking the films in a different direction now, and that's fine.  I can accept the fact that these movies will never be what they once were.  But goodness, can us die-hard fans please get a little respect?  Comedy has NO PLACE in a Halloween film.  If so, it should NOT come at what is regarded as the `climax.'  That's what separates the Halloween films from other milked horror franchises- Michael Myers is one of the few killers left we aren't yet rooting for.  Self-parody belongs in movies like Jason X and Bride of Chucky, NOT Halloween!  Can you imagine, in 1978 at the climax of Halloween, Laurie Strode dancing around Michael, poking him with that coat hanger while making Mr. Miyagi noises?  Sheesh.  I will admit that the scene with Busta Rhymes in costume mouthing off at the real Michael had me in stitches. There's just something about picturing Michael, with all his inner rage bottled up over the years, finally getting it all off his chest that puts a smile on my face.  But that's AS FAR as the humor should go.  When the comedy is PART of the scene, not the RESULT of it.There were a few things about Halloween Resurrection that I liked.   Aside from the atrocious script, bad one-liners (oh God, make it stop), and bland characters, much of the technical side of the film was impressive.  Danny Lux's score, while unfortunately not including many of the themes made popular in the original, was certainly a step-up from H20's overdone mix and Halloween 6's grating guitar rifts.  I appreciated the minimum use of locations as well, and for the Myers house being such a tight set, the cinematography and lighting were effective.Rick Rosenthal was an interesting choice as director, and as long as he didn't linger on Busta too long he did a good job.  While he handled the mix of the actual film with the Dangertainment footage appropriately, I still couldn't help but be let down with the lack of a Halloween night vibe to the movie.  Halloween II is a pretty mediocre sequel, but the one thing Rosenthal effectively captured in that film was a sense of doom threatening the entire town on an otherwise quiet evening.  Watching that movie, you start to believe that Michael truly could be in your backyard, staring at you through a window.  Here, the town of Haddonfield does not at all seem like the character it has been in previous installments.  As an audience, we're hardly ever pulled into the dark history surrounding this town's past, and for me that definitely took away from the movie.  And the film LOOKS like it was shot in the spring or summer, which proved to be quite distracting.There is one small sequence where Rosenthal brought me back to that unnerving feeling of 1978.  The camera booms down from a tree branch fluttering in the wind to a group of trick-or-treaters running down the street, as they place a jack-o-lantern on the front porch of the Myers house.  There's just an eerie combination of the way this sequence was shot, the innocence of the children against the evildoings inside the house, and Lux's ominous music that, for me, was the most effective part in the movie (albeit a small one).  That one tiny moment was enough to take me back to when Halloween was about atmosphere and the shadows of the night.  THAT is the Halloween I grew up with, not the rest of this horror-inept, audience-pleasing sell-out.  "},{"Title":"They almost did it","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I have seen them all. All the resurrections. For a good while I found the movie very interesting, even though the basic theme remained unchanged. Jamie Lee Curtis was good in the opening (resurrection) moments. I accepted the rebirth as plausible. The acting was much more realistic than in prior movies given the surrealistic base with which we start in all of the Halloween blood line (pardon the pun).Just after the victim group knows they are in real danger the story just falls apart and reverts to the mindless, totally absurd tripe that has haunted most of the sequels. The acting becomes comical, there are huge gaps in the sequencing logic and the final weapon chosen by the writers is a joke. Three stars is a bit high. I will vote 5 on the 1-click. "},{"Title":"H20 should've been it","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  How can anyone say this was a good sequel? They killed off Laurie Strode, who we all know to be the basis of any horror heroine of any movie that has come after the original Halloween - she's survived evading Michael, as well as fighting him, for over 20 years and now all of a sudden to just be subjected to the opening death sequence of the movie?  Give me a break... the ending to H20 was a great way to end it, with Laurie finally facing him and killing him offShame on the studio for pulling this one... "},{"Title":"Halloween","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I think the halloween movies are great, except for the 3rd one because that completely  sucked and i dont know why they made it, but the newest halloween was alright, the actors sucked and they shouldnt be in horror movies, but for the rest of the movie, i liked it..the next film should have better actors that can actually scream halloween movies arent dead, there still going strong and i hope they make 3 more films about mike myers, the nightmare series is good, but i'm glad they killed off jason, about time! and for you people thaT DONT LIKE HALLOWEEN;RESSURECTION, TO BAD, THERES NOT GONNA BE A BETTER HORROR MOVIE COMING OUT ANYTIME SOON, NOW A DAYS, THIS IS THE BEST YOUR GONNA GET. "},{"Title":"Blair Witch meets MTV's Fear","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  First and foremost I was kinda disappointed in this movie.  Granted, it is the 8th installment and it is a horror movie, but come on, the whole video/reality cam thing is getting a bit old.  There were some pretty good jumpers in the movie, but beyond that it totally falls flat.  Kudos to Jamie Lee Curtis resurrecting the role of Laurie Strode.  Her performance in the first 10 minutes of the movie actually saved the last 80.   "}{"Title":"Absolutely Awful","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was so bad, it's no wonder Jamie Lee gave such a bad performance. She was contractually obligated to do this film, and one can't help but sense that she purposely did a bad job - knowing this film would suck big time. Also, who's idiotic idea was it to cast that no talent wannabee actor/rap guy anyway? Tyra Banks is just a waste of space in this incrediby putred film. I wanted to puke when they tried to make Rap Guy into a super hero. What was even worse was the fact that this film could have been somewhat good considering it's concept. But these days the head honcho's feel we need rap stars with no talent to make movies. Final word - YUCK!!!! "},{"Title":"Why do they write such scripts?","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The movie starts off, plainly.  There's few ideas in the opening scenes and we've seen them all before, and we'll even see them AGAIN in this movie. As it progresses it does at least start off with the action and continue it well.  The death scenes are nothing compared to the recent Jason X, and seeing as this movie only has its death scenes going for it, quite disappointing.  Many points in the movie I found myself saying Did they actually just put that in the movie?.  The only thing that stopped me from walking out was Busta Rhymes, and only because I had the inclination he knew the movie was a joke too.  It added some very needed but very unintended laughs at the end.  4/10, stay away and go rent Halloween 1 or 2. "},{"Title":"Low expectations = Fun Time at the Movies","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  So, my friends and I decided to go see Halloween Resurrection at midnight on opening weekend. I was actually surprised to see that many people there. On the way there we couldn't stop making jokes about how bad this movie was going to be. I guess when you expect utter crap and then see something that is slightly above crap you become pleasently surprised.I actually walked away from this movie entertained, which I did not expect. *Possible Spolier* Yes the dialogue was silly, yes the plot was thin, yes the explanation of how Myers survived was weak but think about it .... It's Halloween's 8th installment what did you really expect? Were you expecting the Excorcist or The Shining? No, you get what you expect from a movie like this, silly entertainment. I just don't know if silly entertainment is worth $13.50, I would recommend this as a rental.  "},{"Title":"I got what I deserved!","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  SPOILERS!!!I ignored all the warnings on this flop. Luckily the ticket guy screwed up and thought I gave him a $20 instead of a $10, so I actually got paid $2.50 to see this piece of crap. It wasn't worth it. The weak attempt to explain away the decapitation of Myers in H20 had more plot holes than O.J.'s alibi. Wasn't this so called imposter trying to kill Jamie Lee in that whole end sequence that lead to her axe swing? Does a crushed larynx suddenly turn one into a crazed copycat killer? The gore was as minimal as all post scream horror. Since when do people die the very second their throat is cut? I would like to have seen some twitching at least. The nudity was also as minimal. The girl who briefly loses her top never even faces the camera! Is this a slasher flick or an after school special? If you're going to make a suck horror film at least give us lots of gore and gratuitous nudity. I couldn't get anyone to see this with me, so I went alone. And alone I was, the ONLY person in the theater to be exact. That should tell you something considering it opened two days ago. If you're dead set on seeing this film you'd better hit the bar first, and hit it hard. This film was scary for all the wrong reasons.  "},{"Title":"Well, it had some good parts","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The beginning starts with a way too easy way of bringing Michael back, showing a lack of effort. It then concludes with a not bad death scene. Now with this type of beginning you expect something big. You hope to see Michael continue on as he always does to rid the world of his blood line. Does that happen? No. Instead he stalks and murders a group of college students who represent a modern version of both the Breakfast Club and the original Halloween cast. The whole movie has no point and seems to completely give up within the last half hour of the movie. Not too different from Jason X (but not as bad). The lead is likable but they write her as if she has some hidden dark past. As if maybe she's met Michael before or possibly had something traumatic happen to her. But of course nothing comes of it. Now Michael is less PG - 13 returning to his bloody roots as is previous movies (head crushing, head stabbing, etc.) Unfortunately the writer didn't fully understand how to write the character of Myers and ruins it. The movie also continues to ignore pt 4 - 6 but making it more noticeable this time. On the ups the movie is nicely directed and has a good scene of suspense, dealing with the main character and her on-line chum. Letter grade C + at best.     "},{"Title":"pretty good flick","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  First off, I liked this film...it was tons better than I thought it would be (and I did like H20)...why.  How would I react if an internet company took my house over to make millions on a webshow about me?  Why I'd hack'em all away (that is if i was Michael).  Busta is the comic relief and everyone else is slaughterfood for michael.  Good Flick! "},{"Title":"What was Moustapha thinking?","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Moustapha Akkad, trying in vain to cure boredom after killing off Michael Myers in H20, came up with the brilliant idea of making yet another Halloween movie.  This would be fine had they not killed off the freakin main character in the last movie.  Resurrection attempts to explain what really happened at the end of H20, kills off Laurie Strode (who they will probably bring back in the next movie with another ridiculous explanation), and insults the entire series all with the help of Busta Rhymes, that kid from Save the Last Dance, and that other kid from American Pie. This film is a degrading and insulting movie not only to the Halloween series, but to the horror genre as a whole. Everyone involved in this movie should be ashamed of themselves, and may God have mercy on your souls.   "},{"Title":"Total Garbage, Total Sell-Out","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I thought 3, 5, and 6 were awful but this is BY FAR the WORST of the series. This one taints the Halloween series beyond repair. I would never watch another sequel after this one. SPOILERSFirst of all, the original Halloween knows that it is a horror movie not an idiotic rapper vehicle like H8. I don't mind a little humor mixed in with a horror movie but we go to get scared. Every line that Busta Rhymes spoke made we want to projectile vomit onto the screen. He was absurd and had no business in this movie. The producers just sold this series out to the teenagers because they know they don't have an original idea left in their puny brains.Busta Rhymes made an a$$ out of Michael Meyers (and himself). He makes Kung Fu noises when confronted by Michael, he has the worst dialogue of the movie Trick Or Treat Mother Fu....., You fried like a chicken, Hey Mikey. I did everything I could to keep from throwing up when he spoke. I got a stomach ache every time Busta Rhymes entered a scene. Then Busta Rhymes scolds Michael and Michael cowers down and leaves. Michael Meyers, the psychotic killer, is afraid of a rapper with a big mouth. Yeah, right. This is an obvious sell-out and the producers should be rewarded with bankruptcy. They do not deserve profits from this movie.Then you have horrible acting by all the teens in the movie. And more horrible dialogue. You have a girl attacking Michael Meyers with a chainsaw saying This is for so and so, and this is for so and so. God, I have never seen anything so lame in my life. Then you have the horrible Blair Witch ripoff camera work that shows the viewer absolutely nothing. This is space filler, nothing else.I would rather watch Halloween 3 without Michael Meyers than have to watch Halloween 8 where they made a mockery of him. Busta Rhymes SUCKS for doing this to Halloween, and so do the producers. Rick Rosenthal and Moustapha Akkad, may you not profit on this bile that you call a movie. This movie shames the series beyond repair and anyone with a functioning brain will just roll their eyes in disgust. "},{"Title":"Halloween meets Blair Witch.  Does it Work?","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  A group of kids go to the old Myer's house to spend the night for an internet halloween special.  They all wear cameras so that people logged in can watch Blair Witch style.  Little do they know that Micheal had come home.  Just plain dumb sequel with almost nothing going for it.  This movie is just not interesting.  At some points it is even boring due to the fact that nothing is really happening.  The dialogue is terrible, and Jaime Lee Curtis' Laurie seemed a little bit more stupider than previous ones.  It is the worst in the series since the third, still it is worth a watch for hardcore fans.  Better luck on the next one guys.     * out of ****   "},{"Title":"could have been better","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  It's really hard to catch any Halloween movie here.I'm lucky cause i get to see 6 out of 8 of the Halloween series.The first was the best and the only sequel that i love is the second one.The others are okay.The latest Halloween by me was just okay,not that good and not that bad.It was entertaining though.I got two complains here 1)the actors here all suck....with the exception of Michael and Jamie Lee Curtis...apart from that i don't see anyone i like...even the heroine..i totally hate her..her deliverance was so fake and the others are unnotable..sure Tyra banks is a hottie but that's it! 2)Let's just say that the fist 20 minutes or so was so a big mistake(people that already see it will understand) I won't spoil anything.But there are some good things in this Halloween like Michael..he was the most spooky Michael i have ever seen and a bit smarter.And the way he kills people was cool,much better than H20.Oh and i love the setting.All in all i would say this Halloween was entertaining so 5/10 i give u...good effort "}{"Title":"Lay this series to rest already.","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"    ***SLIGHT SPOILERS*** I know that you simply should not and cannot compare a sequel to its original. I get that just fine. Sequels are made for two reasons Either the creators still have a story to tell, or the producers wanna make some quick money. Well since this story has been stretched over 7 sequels, which reason do you think this movie was made for? The only reason I saw this, and all the other sequels, is because no matter how bad they are I have a soft spot for horror. At least the good stuff. This is not good stuff.Jamie Lee Curtis returns for 15 minutes as Laurie Strode, her character ruined over 2 sequels already, to set a trap for Michael, whom she knows is gonna come back once and for all to get her. I loved Curtis in the first Halloween. What I am left wondering is why the hell she was acting so bad in this one? She was overacting so much, it stung my eyes, and my ears were ringing from the sound of the horrible dialogue she was given.Once she's gone, Michael knocks off idiot college kids who are so smart, they agree to spend the night in Michael Myers' childhood home equipped with cameras to broadcast it all over the Internet, even though Laurie has just been murdered and no one even knows the whereabouts of Michael Myers. Unless you know for sure that a serial killer is locked up behind bars in a federal prison far away somewhere, you don't enter his house, no matter how much you are being paid.What follows is an unstylish borefest. To top it off, the film is as scary as Scooby-Doo. The tension and moody atmosphere from the original is now so diluted it is replaced by shots of Michael walking through the house with his knife. One by one, we get to watch as they venture off on their own and meet up with Michael. Even the deaths are so tired by now that you can almost yawn. It's boring. Michael hides in the shadows. Wow. He kills someone. Wow. And as always, one girl lives to escape it all. It fits every cliche right down to the cheap scares that pop out everywhere in this movie, polluting the screen with unbearable garbage. There is basically no story in this movie at all. Kids enter the Myers house. They die. End of story. It's not even a movie. It's an excuse to pack kids into the theater to see Michael slice-and-dice undeveloped, annoying teens and then roll the credits. That's it. The first movie doesn't deserve this. They kept Michael as The Shape lurking in the darkness, preying on the teenagers in America's suburbs with cold, unfeeling expression. Here, they try to explain why Myers is such a psycho. It was better when we didn't know. I'd like to think of Michael as evil, rather than tortured and in turn starting to murder. If I had a dime for every time someone said Michael Myers in this movie, I would have the amount of my admission ticket back. Could they humanize him anymore? Could they have worser actors? Could they have more bad dialogue? Could they!? You might find yourself asking this. Even attempts to inject humor into the movie are so laughably bad, they expect to charm us with Busta Rhymes pretending he is a martial arts expert and whipping Michael's butt. What a way to make us fear him.The only things I liked were the lighting, which I thought was great, and the music. The director is not to blame for this, however. He did exceptionally well for what he had to work with and generates a tiny drop of interest before it evaporates into pure junk. The movie is over before you know it, and you're thinking why the heck you even sat through it. It provides nothing to the viewer expect bad jokes and gore.I heard this movie went through several re-shoots. Maybe they can feature the original cuts of the film on the DVD and let us compare. I will buy this when it comes out only because it has Michael Myers in it and I simply cannot keep the Halloween collection incomplete. And judging by the way this one ends, I'll be buying another one before long again, too. "},{"Title":"For fans of Halloween 1,2, and H20.","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  In my opinion this should be called Halloween 4. Parts 3-6 were so horrible, especially when they made Michael part of some idiotic cult.  How do people who call themselves true fans buy into that? And for the first time since part 2, the mask looks scary. Having directed part 2, Rick Rosenthal knew what he was doing. The setting was scary and the acting was decent, especially from Jamie Lee Curtis. She's not afraid of Michael and that's what we love to see. Also, this movie has a really great intro explaining the events at the end of H20. I think that the reality tv setting in this movie works as well. The death scenes were good but maybe a little too much decapitations. Severed heads always look fake to me. Other than that it follows horror guidelines, including nudity! -SPOILER- And like Jason X, this movie leaves room for another sequel, hopefully to be directed by John Carpenter. So if you like the original Halloween I don't think you'll be disapointed by this. Total body count of 10. *** of ****  "},{"Title":"Goodbye Laurie! Hello sequel?","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This film is surely one of the better in the series. It starts off strong, but seems to get  a little weaker going down. Not that it bothered me. SPOILERS*****In the beggining, we see a nurse in a mental hospital, wheeling a cart through a hall, telling the story of laurie strode\ michael myers to a new girl. They tell how laurie strode decapitated a man that (get this) WAS NOT michael myers. As it happened, michael myers took a paramedic, disabled his trachea by halfway choking him, so he cannot talk,  and put the mask on him, outfit and all, gave him the knife, and gave him a little push in lauries direction. If youve seen h2o, you know what happens. She kills him. Now she is in a mental hospital. Michael shows up, yadda yadda yadda, tried to kill her. She has an elaborate scheme fixed up to kill him. She leads him to the roof, ,where a rope and crane lift him up. Preparing to cut the rope to make him drop to his death, laurie sees michael trying (fake, obviously,) to get his mask off. Thinkin again, she might have gotten the wrong man again, she goes to take his mask off to check if its him. Big wow. He grabs her, and they fall of the roof. What follows is she gets stabbed, and dies. Michael is once again on the loose.Six kids get the chance to spend the night in myers house. They all go in, expecting nothing bad. Well, they get killed off one by one, by michael myers. People are watching all over the internet. One boy, Deckard, who is watching, and knows the one girl in the house (the only girl that survives) delivers messages to her, through her palm pilot. Messages like HE IS IN THE HOUSE. Or MICHAEL IS IN THE BEDROOM. Or even the spine tingling HE IS BEHIND YOU or something like that.Ever wonder where michael stayed all this time?? Well, turns out, there was a dungeon like room in  the basement, hidden by lock and key, and, well, concrete. Turns out michael has been hiding out, down there. Wanna know how he survived?? He ATE RATS!!!The inevitable cliff hanger ending left it open for a sequel, which in no question WILL be made. Not worse than Jason X, thats for sure. Some people actually tried fighting michael. Like, one guy played a game of swords with butcher knife, against butcher knife. But in the end, only two survive. Busta is one of them. I thoroughly enjoyed this movie. Now only to see reign of fire!!8\10 "},{"Title":"Disloyal","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  ***WARNING SPOILERS CONTAINED WITHIN***I consider myself a die-hard fan of the Halloween series. The original is my second favorite film of all time and I own multiple copies of all the sequels.This particular installment was just atrocious. Being twenty-one, I really didn't expect this film to be scary, but I was really upset to see that it was trying to be funny. What has happened to Michael Myers? He used to be such a remarkable villain with all his subtlety and sparse appearances on the screen. In this film however he is constantly in front of the camera (both the actual and the Internet ones) skulking around the house, giving his knife to some human serial killer encyclopedia, backing off from a berating rapper, to name just a few of his unorthodox acts.I like most people, thought the first 15 minutes were relatively decent (except that bozo in the clown mask) as they put the puzzle pieces together pretty well (although that paramedic seemed to have some immortal qualities of his own), but from that point on, the film went straight downhill like an alpine ski course.Rick Rosenthal just didn't seem to be taking the film seriously at all. The serious and somber tone of the previous films was what used to set the Halloween series apart from the other horror franchises. I'm afraid that Halloween may be going the way of Jason X or even the dreaded Leprechaun series. I mean Busta Rhymes doing some kind of crazy Kung Fu on Myers? How do these people sleep at night? This one was full of uninteresting annoying characters that you didn't know much of anything about and couldn't have cared less what happened to them, and even the kills themselves were tremendously bland and unoriginal. Some of these deaths appeared to be homages to deaths in the previous films, but they just didn't work as well.Also, where were the traditional scenes of the Halloween series? There was next to no reference to the name Haddonfield save for a sign on the Haddonfield University lawn, no black screen with text notifying the date and town, the classic score was mutilated once again, and hardly  enough references to Autumn and the Halloween holiday itself. There was also zero interaction with Michael Myers and the local law enforcement. That for me was always one of the coolest aspects of Halloween, Michael Myers making mince meat of Haddonfield police officers. They are just more of a formidable stumbling block to Myers than a bunch of extremely inept teenagers.All in all, a very forgettable sequel. Hopefully next time whoever is in charge might have had some kind of passion for the series like a lot of us fans and turn out something which creatively emulates the original, but does not branch off into this nonsense. This is all just my opinion, however, I'm sure a newcomer to the series would probably enjoy it. I remember for the longest time I thought the fourth one was the best of them all, until I finally saw the original and realized it's genius. "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  A sure summer blockbuster.  Exciting bone chilling entertainment.    An instant classic, superb acting. Only wish Busta Rhymes played a larger role is the film.  He comes across as an excellent martial artist, and has better acting range than Steven Segal.  But on a serious note, this movie made me a stronger human.  Now I know I can sit through tremendous pain.  One of the worst movies ever made, next to Fight Club, and Santa with Muscles, shoot me, I still can't believe I paid money to see this. "},{"Title":"I disagree with those putting it down...as a diehard fan I LOVED it","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Since everyone has given short synopsies of the film I will just say what I liked best about it. I agree with the person below who said that the opening sequence brought a tear to their eye...same here. And I also agree that you have to be a HUGE Halloween fan (and I'm not just talking about having seen all the movies, I'm talking about DIEHARD fan) to understand that scene.I do agree also that the acting was a bit, well, questionable...but I really overall enjoyed the film and I really think that it does justice to the series. I did like H20 but I was disappointed in it. The one thing I wish they would do is bring back the characters of Tommy Doyle and Kara and incorporate that whole thing, MINUS that Thorn Curse. That was just stupid (and YES I have seen the Producer's Cut, which was 100x better than the theatrical release).I give it a 9/10. "},{"Title":"Liked it to a certain extent?","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  WARNING MINOR SPOILERSHalloween Resurrection was ok, but there was some stuff I didn't like. For one, Busta Rymes should have died. Second they made no mention of Josh Hartnett's character from H20, they didn't say whether he skipped town or died or anything. Here's a nice little mess up In the beginning, when the nurses are talking they made mention that the events of H20 taking place 3 years ago. That would put Halloween Resurrection in the year 2001. A couple scenes later Sean Patrick Thomas's character says that the internet show will be better than the Osbornes. The Osbornes started in 2002. Out of 5 stars, Halloween Resurrection gets 3. "},{"Title":"Good, but not Great.","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Being such a big fan of the Halloween movies, I was disapointed that they desided to continue on the series.  (H20 was a perfect way to end it all) But as long as they did, I had to go see it; and I must say I'm glad they did add this movie to the collection, as it explained a few muddy elements of the Halloween series, and also put an end some things.  The beginning was one the the best sence, *spoiler* but unfortunately the ending left it way to open for the next movie.  I don't think to series has anywhere to go but down from here, which is why I obviously don't want another movie to come out. (but I'm sad to say, I think it will).  Over all, it's not as good as the origanel, 2, or H20, but better than 3 (if you can even count that), 4, 5, and 6. "},{"Title":"A definate improvement over H20, and a pretty good film on it's own, but still can't touch 1-6","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Well here it is. The long-waited 7th sequel to John Carpenter's 1978 classic about an escaped mental patient searching for his sister on Halloween night. Over the past 10 years I have watched the series grow from a simple indie horror flick to a complex epic horror story. For me, Halloween was the perfect horror film series from I & II to 4-6. Then in 1998 came Halloween Twenty Years Later(I choose not to acknowledge that ridiculous H20 part), a decent yet disappointing sequel that broke the continuing storyline we had and tried to get us to believe that 4-6 didn't happen.That doesn't mean that things couldn't be fixed in a later sequel, so I had hope for 8. From 1999-2001 Dimension put the film together and several different ideas came across and then were dropped or debunked as rumor. Finally on July 12, 2002 it hit theatres. Today me, my dad, and two of my friends went in to see this film. I was really excited especially after having seen the cool trailers many times. Now here it, my review of Rick Rosenthal's Halloween Resurrection...!!!POSSIBLE SPOILER OR 2!!!Plot3 Years have passed since Laurie Strode decapitated the man whom she thought was her brother, infamous serial killer Michael Myers. Turns out Myers switched clothes with a paramedic, crushed his windpipe, and left. Laurie was locked up in a sanitarium and now Michael has found her. After finally ridding himself of his sister, he returns to Haddonfield, Illinois to kill off any other surviving relatives. However, he learns that 8 people are locked up in his house holding a live webcast. There they will search for clues as to why Myers does what he does. Michael doesn't like this idea, so he locks himself in with these people and kills them one by one.The goodA pretty good pace through most of the film. Jamie Lee Curtis, Bianca Kajilch, Brad Loree, and Ryan Merriman give good performances. The whole webcast things is pulled off really well, so the story is pretty good. We also get some great kill scenes, and a great dark atmosphere to go along with all of it. Not to mention a pretty good score.The badAside from the actors I mentioned above, the rest of the cast is forgettable and I could care less about them. The pace does lag at times, but not for a big part of the movie. There is no character development or suspense whatsoever. That's not te worst thing about it though. The #1 one bad hing about this film is that like H20 it tries to get us to believe that 4-6 never happened, but it doesn't completely erase them eighther. Oh and two more things What's with the connection between Sara and Miles? It doesn't go anywhere and is not needed. Finally we get a lame explanation for why Michael was supposedly missing for 20 years, but I won't spoil that one for you.OverallDespite it's flaws, Resurrection is a pretty good addition to the Halloween series, but is still nowhere near as good as parts 1-6.***1/2 out of ***** "},{"Title":"HalloweenThe Cash Cow","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Spoilers Why dont they just leave this series alone? Money talks I guess. It is now beyond milking the cow. I am a huge fan of the Halloween series but enough is enough. They should have ended with H20. It was a decent finale which brought Jamie Lee back with dignity and closure. Or so I thought. The way her character, Laurie Strode, was killed was cheap and rushed. She went through so much and to end up dead in such a ludicrous and quick way is beyond words - really. The other factor in fast resolution was how Michael Myers remained alive. What a bunch of garbage, switching place with a paramedic? What?absurdity. It would have been believeable if the killer in H20 were an imposter. Which would have been easily explained by his lack of burnt hands. Did someone forget that Meyers somehow survived a fire? This fact was evident in the now disgarded and lame sequels 4 and 5. It made sense. Now it is overlooked. Another fact that has always bothered me  - why cant they ever get the mask right? I have a mask that is an exact replica from the early 80's by Don Post. Why cant someone in Hollywood find one that is suitable?John Carpenter must be laughing at what they have done to his original masterpiece. Exploited and twisted his creation into a money cow for profit and a level of low entertainment. And Jamie Lee Curtis surprised me the most with her performance in this film. In interviews regarding her appearance in H20 she spoke of her characters dignity and purpose. To let Laurie Strode die without dignity, locked in an asylum after all that she put into her character is sad and a letdown. Moustapha please dont make another one. As a fan I feel cheated and will not purchase the film upon video release for it is an embarrassment. The only films in the series worthy of the titles Halloween are the original, part 2 and H20. I dont think anyone can dispute this. Micheal close your eyes and dont open them again. "}{"Title":"I was Impressed!!","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Of course there are downsides to this movie. It's a horror sequel!! But, the good definitely outweighs the bad. Yes, Laurie Strode supposedly dies. Anybody remember, though, that her brother has escaped death on numerous occasions? She's got that same Meyers blood pumpin' through her veins. She can take it. She'll be back for 9. I thought this movie, a comfortable popcorn flick for late-night viewers, was smarter than the other sequels for not taking itself so seriously. It had its moments. Busta Rhymes, a favorite actor of mine, gave one Hell of a performance. I liked the IM interaction between that hot chick and her online friend. That was way cool. All in all, I recommend it. I give it 7 out of 10. And now, I list the Halloween films in order from best to worst!!!!  1. Halloween                     2. Halloween Resurrection                      3. Halloween The Curse of Michael Meyers                     4. Halloween The Return of Michael Meyers                     5. Halloween H20                     6 Halloween 5                     7 Halloween 2                     8 Stupid #3 "},{"Title":"Repulsive, unbelievable sound effects, stupid effects","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I attended the opening here in S.L.C. and sorry I went. Suspense has become how loud can the sound effects become in exchange for action. Sound effects of knives moving through air doesn't sound like steel grating on steel. How can a 10 inch knife go through a body and a door and still be 6 inches long with blood dripping off it's end? Last time a chain saw came in contact with my skin it left a scar. Is Michael some kind of superman that can play dead when the situation arises or be immune to injury? Can't we find a pool of steel and drop Michael in? Maybe that's the only way to rid the world of this low-life. It seems Jamie is going the way of her father in joining movies for the money rather than the plot. A reviewer of the original Halloween commended Jamie's character for her courage but she seems to have lost it in the pile of trash. If Jamie is no more who's left in the world to combat Michael the next installment? Can be maybe find someone with some smarts to chop off a few of Michael's appendages so he can quit playing with knives? And do we need the drug use so the audience can cheer and ask to join in the festivities? Maybe I'm out of touch with today's group that enjoys this horror but repulsive doesn't equal entertainment. "},{"Title":"Uneven for fans.","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Just to let you know, this is being written by a huge Halloween fan who's seen all the movies at least 3 times, has the soundtracks, and has every sequel on DVD. I'm not some person who saw this because it looked good, I am a fan, so this is a fan's review.Anyways, I just got back from this film several hours ago, and while I'm not disgusted (like with Jason X), I'm not that overwhelmed. At no point in the movie was I ever bored or thought that the movie sucked, it was good, but as a die-hard fan I was ultimately let down.The beginning of the movie is great, in which Jamie Lee Curtis reprises her role as Laurie Strode for the last time. But after that, the movie falls into that little area where you don't really not like it, but you don't like it like you want to (confusing you, am I?).Basically, Michael, having offed Laurie, heads back home only to find it being invaded by college kids participating in a Halloween webcast gag being broadcast live. So of course, he dusts off the knife and gets right to it. But as if everyone doesn't know that the whole reason the webcast and the kids exist are to get killed. Like every Friday the 13th sequel, any excuse to get those kids into the woods worked. The same goes for the Myers' house here.Anyways, I thought Rick Rosenthal did a good job with this one. Several moments have some weird slow-motion thing going on with it, and the angles are all pretty good. The lighting was very effective and looked like the best thing about the production. It didn't look cheap. But speaking of cheap, this movie is so full of cheap scares that you can't count them on all 10 fingers. WAM! SCREAM! Oh, wait, that's just Rudy! Please...spare us the jolts, they're tired already. I thought the new, much darker twist on the music was good, but it was never played loud enough for me to fully enjoy it. At times, the character's breathing was louder than the music. They really needed to take advantage of the Dolby speakers, here, I want my Halloween music cranked up loud. As for the acting...let me say I didn't HATE it. To put it bluntly for a fan, it was slightly better than Halloween 5, but somewhat less than Halloween 6. I never thought they were doing a bad job, but they were just...decent. As for our heroine, I think Rachel from Halloween 4 was better. I never actually believed she was scared. She didn't seem to be. Tyra Banks wastes a lot of screen time doing NOTHING. Busta Rhymes was good, but the jokes were coming from all over the place and laughing at a scene where Michael is slicing and dicing is not a good thing. The acting was good enough, though. At times, the dialogue was very cheesy, however. Especially Laurie's lines. Let's just say her character would have had more dignity if she had become mute. Some jokes spurted out by the kids are corny and don't make you laugh. And they don't deliver lines that great, either.All in all, I should be praising God that this film was as good as it was for an 8th film in a series. But this movie no longer keeps the franchise together. Michael is done with killing his relatives (well not Laurie's son, but Josh Hartnett isn't gonna come back anytime soon, so...). Now that the relatives are gone...he pointlessly slaughters college kids, an ex-rapper, and a supermodel? The series used to have 2 things that balanced the story Michael and his family. The family is gone. It's just Michael killing a lot of annoying kids whom we have never seen in any other movie and have no connection to. You can't just have Myers kill, what matters is WHO he's killing. And let's face it, half the time we want these kids to die.If all this sounds like I am putting the movie down, don't get that impression. I think fans and even non-fans will get a kick out of this. It's not creepy like Halloween 2, another Rosenthal installment, and Michael has pretty much stopped being scary, but it is the most ENJOYABLE film since the 2nd. This is like a party version of Halloween. It's very fun to watch, but that's only because there's nothing to it. Go see it to have a great time, I did. It's not bad at all, I just feel like the series premise is going down the drain. I will buy this film when it comes out, so let that tell you it ain't a bad movie. My only REAL complaints? At SEVERAL moments in the film, Michael stands in front of one of the characters while they (thinking he is the fake Myers) talk to him, even hit him on the head, and he WALKS OFF. Seriously. One time someone cuts him down and tells him to leave and HE TURNS AND WALKS OUT OF THE ROOM. I could not believe my eyes. Then, another thing, THEY BURN THE MYERS' HOUSE TO THE GROUND. NO! It was the last part of the original series that was in the movie! And the last groan THE ENDING. I have never seen such a stupid ending in a Halloween movie. It was flat out embarrassing. The ending of Jason X was better.Anyways, go see this, it's not bad at all. But this Resurrection feels more like a new beginning, as if the creators are saying Hey this is what Michael does when he's all out of blood relatives to hack up! Well, if I want to stay close to the roots of the series, I'll go with another installment. If I wanna see Michael brutally slaughter, then I'll watch this one. "},{"Title":"Unbelievably Irritating and Stupid Crap","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Jamie Lee Curtis must be damn desperate if she is willing to star in the pile of cinematic puke. I got to see it for free cause I have a friend who works at the theater where I saw it and I still want a refund.  Jamie Lee actually dies in the first ten minutes of the film which is seriously lame and for some reason Micheal Myers gets away without raising suspicion and returns to his rundown childhood home instead of stalking Laurie Strode's son, probably cause Josh Hartnett still has a career and wasnt willing to flush his credibility down the toilet the way Jamie Lee did.  The rest of the film is a reality show internet broadcast taking place inside of Micheal's house think the Real World only amazingly more pointless and insipid--now thats an accomplishment.  Busta Rhymes makes an ass of himself throughout the whole film giving the impression he didnt know what he was doing.  Why anyone thought this film was a good idea is beyond me, this is the biggest piece of crap I have seen all year and the ending still leaves it open for another s****y sequal--ENOUGH ALREADY!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Rotten. This Movie Is A Pre-Teen Sellout.","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The original Halloween is quite possibly my favorite movie of all time so I always support the sequels. Well after this fiasco it will be my last.Do not waste your money on this piece of garbage. The beginning with Jamie Leigh Curtis got the movie off to a promising start but it turned more and more stupid as it went along. It took alot of effort to keep from walking out.Having a rapper in this film was the biggest sellout. Hey, let's get a rapper in the movie so we can appeal to the teeny boppers. If you like lines like Trick Or Treat Mother Fu..... Or You're just a man in baggy ass bibs or You're fried like chicken or referring to the killer as Mikey. Get my point. This movie is freakin' ridiculous.Then you have the Blair Witch camera work ripoff that is horrendous. At least in Blair Witch you can still tell what is going on. Alot of Halloween is just horrible video that shows you nothing.Busta Rhymes ruined this movie. He starts making kung-fu sounds when he is fighting Michael Meyers. If I was John Carpenter I wouldn't even have let them use his music in this pile of crap.This movie sucks, plain and simple. It is an embarrassment to the Halloween franchise and quite frankly I don't want to see another sequel. Don't even rent this dung heap unless you are drunk off your a$$. "},{"Title":"What the Heck was Jamie Lee Curtis Thinking?","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  First off, I would like to say that I am a huge huge fan of the Halloween series and of horror movies, and most importantly, of Jamie Lee Curtis. and when I first heard about the new Halloween movie and she was going to be in it, I Was VERY VERY happy and excited. But After I Saw the film today, I am NOT very happy or pleased at all. The Film was scary in some parts and looked good (cinematography was good,great direction) But It has another terrible ending,**WARNING SPOILERS**Jamie Lee Gets killed at the very beginning,all the main characters die and michael is still alive, and plus there was a sub plot that never got resolved, involving one of the lead girls and another guy she met online but never met in person. I must say i am very very unhappy and very dissapointed at dimension films and at the writers and director for doing something sooo dissapointing and killing off The Original horror movie Herione. shes survived this long,why kill her now?? it makes no sense. and For Jamie Lee Curtis her self to have had let this happen after she has said in many interviews that Laurie Strode Was her Favorite character until she did True Lies, is just unbeleivible. i my self have met Jamie and she was the best but now ive lost some respect for her because of this. But The movie was scary and entertaining and interesting despite these short coming. i mean, its not as bad as some of the other sequels to halloween so ill give it that much. i may be unhappy but im still an optimist and must be fair. If you want to go to see a horror movie for pure entertainment and not story or care about charcters or anything then youll enjoy this, otherwise you will be heavily dissapointed.** 1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"weak","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  *mild spoilers*They're really beating a dead horse with this series.  I'm a huge Halloween fan, and I don't remember ever expecting so much from a movie and getting so little.  I liked H20 a lot, and I thought it provided a very satisfying and logical conclusion to the series.  So when we're told right away that it wasn't really Michael who was beheaded at the end of H20 (it was, uh, a paramedic with the exact same size and build as Michael who swapped clothes with him, and apparently couldn't tell anyone because his voice box was crushed), I was left hoping against hope that the movie itself wasn't going to be as convoluted and stupid as its setup.Of course, it was.  The characters are all strictly cookie-cutter, with the majority of lines being completely gratuitous sound bytes (more on this later).  There are several stupid and obvious references to the first movie (e.g. bedroom closet door being smashed from the outside as girl cowers inside, MM pinning guy to kitchen wall with knives, MM sitting up creepily in the background as the camera focuses on the foreground), which only shows a lack of creativeness on the part of the filmmakers.  Perhaps worst of all, virtually all of the killings are unimaginative, garden-variety stabbings/impalings that we've seen hundreds of times in hundreds of better movies.  The other weak Halloween sequels could at least innovatively satisfy a general desire for gore.  Next, although I don't know a great deal about filmmaking, I could see some poor editing going on here.  At one point we're shown Michael lurking in the shadows, and the tip of his knife is stained with blood.  This is before Michael has used the knife on anybody (the knife he uses in the beginning of the movie is clearly disposed of). Really not good.  Finally, I don't know what other people thought of this, but I thought the concept of the movie was pretty condescending.  I can completely imagine someone saying Hey, since everyone's using the internet now, we'll tack this 'webcam' twist onto this classic horror series, and everyone will think it's really modern and edgy and want to see it!  This is augmented by a lot of really stupid and unnecessary technological references and gimmicks (communicating on the palmpilot, etc.).  I could be overreacting here, but the whole attempt to adapt the Halloween series to fit the 21st century strikes me as really ill-conceived.Last thing I don't understand the impetus to keep casting rappers in action/horror movies.  Save one funny scene where he dresses up as MM and rants, watching Busta Rhymes was painful.  The talent he showed in Finding Forrester was drowned completely in an atrocious script.  Choice lines of his include As Michael apparently gets his in the end, Busta shouts Happy Halloween, Mikey! (or maybe it was Happy Halloween, MOTHA****A!... I can't remember exactly) in the most dramatic voice possible. Then, in an apparent attempt by the writers to lend street cred to the movie, Busta exclaims Damn!  That looks like some fried chicken-ass shit! or something like that upon seeing MM's body.  I'm reminded of LL Cool J in Deep Blue Sea or to a lesser extent Dr. Dre in Training Day.  These guys aren't bad actors, they're just getting stuck with terrible lines that the writers think are cool.Anyway, please skip this movie whether you're a series fan or not, as it degrades all of the good Halloween movies that have been made.  It's very disheartening that instead of ending the series on a high note and preserving its reputation among horror movies, it was decided to milk the formula for more money.  We can only hope there's no Halloween 9, although this movie appropriately ends on the biggest unkillable-monster horror movie cliche of all time, leaving us dreading what they're going to come up with next to mangle this once-great idea.P.S. Apologies if I made any factual mistakes in this... I saw the movie earlier today and don't remember every little detail, but I'm pretty sure it's all right.  "},{"Title":"Excellent Best one yet Loved it!!!!!","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" First off Halloween Resurrection was excellent I loved it.  OK Halloween Resurrection was great the movie starts off with a big twisted.  Let me tell you that I thought it was better then Halloween H20.  The movie keeps you on the edge of your seat and it can make you jump sometimes.  I loved this movie I give it a 10 out of a 10!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"a great ride","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I had to travel one town over to see the movie when it opened today and it was well worth my time!  From the moment it started, the action barely let up.  I had made predictions on the plot before going in and it had enough twists in it to make sure I got quite a few of my ideas wrong, which is a wonderful surprise in a movie series that many say has outlived itself. The acting was above average on the whole and Bianca Kajlich was wonderful! I'll go out on a limb and say that she did a better job as a heroine in a horror movie than anyone since Jamie Lee Curtis.  I'm looking forward to seeing her career take off like a rocket after this one!  The script was good, the movie was well-made, there were plenty of surprises and squeal inducing moments and I'd go see it again in a heartbeat. "},{"Title":"UGH","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  SPOILERS I was a huge fan of the first, second, and H20.  But the new movie should've NEVER been made!  It ruined all the resolution with Laurie and Micheal, it was horribly ill-timed (I don't care about Halloween now, it's July!), and worst of all, LAURIE WAS KILLED!  So that's it for her?  She dies?  I can't believe Jamie Lee Curtis decided to do that.  It ruined all the other movies; her surviving in all the other movies means nothing because he actually did kill her now.  H20 was SUCH a better movie; the plot meant something to the series, the characters weren't all just a bunch of horny teenagers (although some were), and the overall direction and music was better quality.  I can't believe that the guy who did the 2nd movie directed this one, too.  Micheal has NO purpose for existence now that he's killed his sister.  It's what he's been trying to do for 23 years and now he's done it.  There's no point now.  And did anyone actually think he was dead at the end?  If they can weasle out of a freakin decapitation, they can make him live till he's 300!  I'm going to just pretend in my mind that H20 was the final movie; this one was a total mistake.   "}{"Title":"the worst movie of the summer! one of the worst sequels in the series!","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  this movie is just plain bad.  ignore any of the positive comments made by the other people who have posted on this website.  i'm not going to waste any time telling the story.  just know that this movie is almost as bad as halloween 5 and 6.  halloween H20 is the true ending to this series.  like one person posted earlier  total crap!  rent halloween. "},{"Title":"I Love it but I'm disappointed!","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  HALLOWEEN RESURRECTION was definitely a fun movie to watch!!  Michael looks Great (The mask looks very much like the mask used in parts 1 and 2-AWESOME) and it's so cool to see the masked-boogeyman slashing victims in the old Myers house!  Rick Rosenthal, who directed HALLOWEEN II, does a great job once again with the way he captures Michael on film. NOW let me tell you why I was disappointed...SPOILERS BELOW (Don't read from this point if you haven't seen the film yet and don't want certain aspects ruined)!!!The main storyline To the HALLOWEEN series is that MICHAEL MYERS will stop at nothing to kill his sister, Laurie Strode (Jamie Lee Curtis).  Laurie's survival is the ONLY reason to keep the series going...it gives THE BOOGEYMAN a PURPOSE and a REASON to go on!!  The opening of this movie is great, with Laurie now in a Mental Institution (nice twist)...and Michael obviously pursues her!  He breaks into the Institution and goes after his sister one more time. The first 15 minutes of the movie are awesome! However, the BIGGEST Mistake of the series happens at the end of this sequence... MICHAEL Kills Laurie!!!  He stabs her and she falls to her death (well...I suppose there's a chance she didn't DIE since no further references to Laurie or the beginning are made in the movie- Hey, Michael keeps coming back, so why not!)  But the point is, that's it!  The story ends there!  Michael accomplised his goal...Then we go into a whole new story about a group of people spending HALLOWEEN night in the Old Myers home as part of a live Web-Cast. And of course, Michael goes HOME and takes turns slashing them off one-by-one!  I have to admit, that was cool- There are some cool gore effects in this entry as well. BUT, as mentioned before, The story ENDS when Laurie dies.Series producer, Moustapha Akkad once said in an interview that they never should have KILLED off Rachel (ELLIE CORNELL in HALLOWEEN 4 and 5) in HALLOWEEN 5.  The FANS liked her character and didn't want to see her die! She didn't deserve to get killed...especially so soon.  WELL, knowing this, Why did he let our HEROINE, Laurie, bite the bullet!???  BIG MISTAKE!!! She was the last glue left to hold the series together.  Without her or Donald Pleasance, the series just can't be the same.  Well Moustapha, I hope you're reading this...And I hope that LAURIE survived that FALL...otherwise, the fans are gonna be LET DOWN big time.The rest of the cast is good, but Busta Rhymes gets a little silly with the kung-fu crap.  Why do the rappers always survive gun-shots and stabs anyway?? (laughing)!So, in summation, the movie is fun...Michael looks and stalks as cool as ever...BUT Laurie must Go On for the series to go on!  Remember that...because the FANS won't forget.            "},{"Title":"It sucks big time!","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Please, run for you life!  This movie sucks so bad it will make you want to puke.  Damn!  Busta Rhymes for God's sake!  This guy is a total idiot just like the rest of the cast.  The overall plotline is very weak but movie itself is even worst.  It's worst than cheesy.  Run away and go back renting Halloween 1 or 4 or even H20... Please, Mustapha, bring back Steve Miner or even better, get a good horror director...  What about Michele Saovi or Jaume Balarguero or Nacho Cerda !!!?!...  Get somebody with talent and with an attitude for a change!  And get rid of the rappers!!!! "},{"Title":"A Disappointment to True Halloween Fans","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  While some might find the recent installment of Halloween to be thrilling and exciting to watch thanks to the recent splurge of popular reality shows that have been frequenting the TV, the movie is nothing more than a get rich quick scheme for those involved with its production.  Those responsible sold out big time and the true roots of the Halloween films (which were laid superbly by John Carpenter, Debra Hill, Jamie Lee, and the late Donald Pleasence) are nowhere to be found in this movie.  The town of Haddonfield, in previous installments, seemed like a character in and of itself.  You would see Michael lurking into people's houses, backyards, and hospitals in the town, which makes the audience feel like they are a member of the town themself.  In this installment, Haddonfield is nothing more than your regular, run-of-the-mill, city in America.  It has certainly lost the charm it once had.  In addition, you never understand why Michael goes home and with the bad dialogue and acting, you don't really care, either.  The same goes for the Myers' house.  While it may look like Michael's home, it doesn't feel like it is. The only good thing the movie had going for it was the various ways you could view events that took place in the house thanks to head cams used by the actors.  In all, those responsible took the true meaning of Halloween and turned it into a summer slash fest.  They should have stopped at H20 (which did not follow events of previous sequels, but was in and of itself a good movie) or at least thought of something more clever to revive the series.  There are no surprises in this movie, and that includes the very predictable ending.  There is nothing left for the true Halloween fans to come back to.  The original characters are gone, Haddonfield is no longer Haddonfield, and as you will see, Michael's house is no longer Michael's house.  Halloween used to be the night HE came home.  Now, it's the night THEY sold out... "},{"Title":"HALLOWEEN  THE DEATH OF THE SERIES","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I am without a shadow of a doubt, the biggest Halloween fan in Canada, no doubt.  I saw the very first screening off this movie just about 3 hours ago.  I already complained to halloweenmovies about it and now i'm going to do my usual ranting here.  Usually when I see a bad Halloween movie now and then after the original and sequel, I accept it and tell myself,  It's ok, it could've been worse .  Well, that line just bit my in my ass! I have never wanted to throw up so much in my life and I can't believe I am saying this as a Halloween fan.  This movie makes a complete mockery of Michael Myers and I would actually pay money to see this movie, the first 10 minutes of it with Jamie Lee Curtis was very very cool for hardcore fans like myself but after that, the movie died with the franchise.  *POSSIBLE SPOILERS* The kids in the movie were making a total mockery of Michael. Smoking from a bong in the Myers' house?  I can't believe they actually taped this frikkin' movie.  Busta Rhymes did not accomplish what LL COOL J did in H20 which was proper humour.  Tyra Banks was in it for a total of 10 minutes.  The 6 kids absolutely sucked.  The whole internet broadcast thing killed this franchise.  Just call it Halloween Online, better than Ressurection.  Now, I am very pleased however at Jamie Lee Curtis departure. It was very cool to leave like that.  I am also not that dissapointed in Rick Rosenthals work at all.  It's not his fault the movie sucked, it was the actors.  I especially liked the camera angle he had and the shot when Laurie Strode was falling in the beginning.  Very emotional.  Brad Loree did an ok job as Michael Myers but for some reason, he did much better in Halloween 2.  I am very dissapointed and sad at the same time.  This movie was obviously made for cash.  Everybody actually had me thinking this was a really good movie by looking at the people who reviewed it before hand when they saw it at the premiere.  Wow, you guys should be locked up like Michael if you think you can give this movie a good rating.  I hate myself for even bashing a Halloween movie.  I give this film */***** just because of the beginning... "},{"Title":"Worse than Halloween III! How could this be!","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I saw Halloween Resurrection and I must say I was very disapponted.  Even how they described how he survived the decapatation.  I am sorry but that was lame.  I am a die hard fan of the films and Michael could not have undressed himself that quick come on.  The paramedic!  He would have died after getting thrown trough the window let alone when the van hit him. Plus, why wouls he sit up like Michael?  Another bad element  Halloween has been about Michael killing his family right?  Who was his family besides Laurie?  No one!  I am sorry but I cannot believe a Halloween movie involving Michael could be as bad as Halloween III, but there is now. Most people were leaving the theater saying I'll never see another Halloween again.  We need to know what happened to Laurie's son?  How about Jamie's baby?  Kara and Danny Strode?  Halloween Resurrection resurrected one thing and that was a terrible idea.  Michael should have been left dead since seeing this movie.  I would rate this as 1 for not continuing with the Halloween outline of previous films. "},{"Title":"New gimmicks breathe life into an old franchise","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I've seen all of the Halloween movies (the ones that count anyway), and I've always had a soft spot for Michael Myers, so I was mildly excited about the thought of a sequel. So I attended a sneak preview of Halloween Resurrection, and was somewhat pleasantly surprised.(Possible Spoilers Ahead)Jamie Lee Curtis makes a memorable appearance at the beginning of the film (though she doesn't stick around for very long), and from there we are thrust into the movie's main plot. A reality Internet show called Dangertainment has selected 6 teenagers to spend a night in Michael Myers old house, back where all the killings began in the original Halloween, in the hopes of finding some evidence of what might have driven him to murder.It's here that Resurrection attempts to innovate, and nearly succeeds in making this an excellent little horror movie. Each person in the house wears their own personal camera, which allows for some interesting perspectives particularly when Michael is on the loose and doing what he does best. This brings me to another point in this film's favor. If you saw H20, you saw a toned down version of Michael, he toyed with his victims more than he had in the past. In Resurrection, however, he's all business. He has a job to do and he doesn't waste time doing it.With all of this said, however, Resurrection becomes just another horror film, falling into some of the tired cliches that we've seen ad nauseam over the past 20+ years. Also, I found the ending to be very weak, certainly nowhere near as powerful as the ending of H20. Also, I wonder if this film signals a sort of passing of the torch from Jamie Lee Curtis to Bianca Kajlich (once you see the film you'll know what I'm talking about). With all of that said, however, Resurrection manages to be just another run of the mill horror film, although sadly it could have been so much more. 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Sadly, Michael should have stayed headless","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I suppose the explanation for how Michael could have survived his beheading in H20 is passable, and the final showdown of Jamie Lee Curtis and her homicidal brother that opens the new film is indeed quite strong, shocking, and oddly moving.  Unfortunately, once the new story gets underway 20 minutes into the film, director Rick Rosenthal can't build suspense thanks to the choppy, annoying reality TV approach that owes more to Blair Witch 2 than Halloween. Worse, aside from Jamie Lee Curtis, the film is poorly cast, with Busta Rhymes giving an embarrassingly unfunny and stereotypical performance as the ringleader that brings all of his scenes to a screaming halt. The rest of the cast isn't really bad, just knife-fodder, though admittedly they haven't been given characters to play.Though Rosenthal can't build much suspense and proves, as he did in Halloween II, that he doesn't know how to time his shocks, he does create some creepy atmosphere and a couple of scenes toward the end do build some excitement.  The film is admittedly clever in spots, and mostly entertaining, though it never comes close to topping the opening sequence with Jamie Lee, and even as films in this genre go, it's mostly just unnecessary.It isn't the worst of the series (that honor goes to Curse of Michael), and I wouldn't say it was a really bad film (I WAS entertained)...but it's not much of a compliment when the first thing you can think of as the end credits are rolling is, well, at least it was better than Jason X. "},{"Title":"Contrived, aimless AND hackneyed","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I am without a doubt, a forgiving and accepting horror fanatic.I also know when I should have waited to see a film until it hits video...if ever.  Here's the scoop this latest installment boils down to one problem - wait, no, lots of problems.  From the top, the premise runs out of steam too quickly, the direction is everything that was already old-hat in scary movies ten years ago, the script is peppered with bad dialogue and questionable setups, the acting is generally overdone and amateur AND, it turns out Busta Rhymes is the saving grace, if there is one.  I love Halloween, in theory, and I desperately want to like this; but I can't.  This was a travesty in the horror genre, and we lose a lot of ground by putting these films out there.  To the oracle that gives us horror hope, o' Miramax, please strive for something higher, more polished in the future, and the faithful will not turn away. If ye dare make another Halloween, stop jerking us around with scripts that give 20% and give us our money's worth.   "},{"Title":"all over the place (*SPOILERS*)","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Like alot of you, I'm old enough to have seen all but the 1st film in the theater. Back then, a little gore and some T & A was all it took to satisfy. This is 2002 & those Fans are in their 30's & 40's now. As you walk up to the theater to see (insert name of quality movie here), you think back to those glory days and instead see HALLOWEEN RESURRECTION. This is your (and my) fatal mistake! Another crappy, cardboard sequel that offers virtually nothing. Even on the basic levels (nudity, violence) it is cut back and reserved. *SPOILER* From a pathetic rip off of PEEPING TOM (tripod point of view used to stab victim) to heavy doses of the worst film of all-time BLAIR WITCH PROJECT (H-A-N-D-H-E-L-D!), there is nothing original or new here. There are however plenty of continuity problems (Michael gives his bloody knife to the psych hospital moron only to show up at the house with a new and already bloody knife). *END SPOILER* To address the race issue (and yes, it is a big issue with this series)- The African-American characters are given all the hero bits and the African-American audience member's yelled and cheered them on. So, on one level I guess it succeeds. Miramax clearly knows this and the re-shoots bare it out. For a $15 mil budget, it is technically passable. Acting is EXACTLY what you would expect (BAD!!!). You'll go anyway, and you'll be let down....again. At least it will be a while before HALLOWEEN 9 MICHAEL IN SPACE! "}{"Title":"Good Popcorn Movie","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Just got back from the theatre and thought I'd post my 2 cents.  This movie did not let me down like that P.O.S. JASON X did.  I thought this was better than H20.  I don't have much more to add other than this.  Earlier, someone posted that the Myers' house was clean in Halloween 6 and all dusty and dirty in this movie.  When H20 came out, the film makers threw out the storyline concerning parts 3-6. (part 3 had nothing to do with the franchise anyway!)  That's why H20 was TWENTY YEARS LATER.  So, anything having to do with parts 3-6 does not apply to H1, H2, H20 and RESURRECTION.  You can look at parts 3-6 as a bad dream...........................maybe LAURIE STRODE'S!!!!!!     "},{"Title":"Welcome back Rick Rosenthal!","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I went to the 1st evening showing tonight of Halloween Resurrection, and I am astounded at how well Rick Rosenthal directed this movie given the fact that it has been 21 years since he did Halloween II!  I am a die-hard fan of the series (and of the other horror maniac series), and I must say that this is the 1st sequel I've seen in YEARS that has actually COMPLETELY fit together with its predecessor such as H2 fit with H1!  Although the opening sequence was disturbing (expected however), there are a few key elements that have returned to the series that I have sooo missed!  The first element is the actual house itself!...it LOOKS just like the original house from parts 1 and 2! (and please don't mention part 5 where they used a CASTLE for Michael's house!!!).  This was very pleasing to a die hard fan such as myself.  The 2nd element is that Michael FINALLY not only looked half way decent (mask wise)...but the whole HEAVY BREATHING element has returned!  It gives the creepiness back to the character the way it was originally intended!  Next element, Michael has found someone new to stalk like he did with Laurie Strode...CREEPY!(the character Sara, nobody knows what connection he will have to her in future sequels!)  Last but not least, He is back to strictly doing his thing...he doesn't play games with the characters like he did in H20.On a final note, I am very disturbed that the storyline from parts 4-6 have still been completely ignored..(I was under the impression that part 8 was going to repair the damage that H20 did to the previous storyline regarding Laurie's daughter Jamie Lloyd & her baby)...but apparently I was wrong! -(On a positive ending though, this was an EXCELLENT movie that was much better than H20 or any other recent horror movie sequel...so my hat is off to you Mr. Rosenthal!!! -)  Please return to the series!P.S. I am so pleased that all of the evening showings sold out in my town! -) "},{"Title":"Garbage! Rent the original!","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I am a huge fan of Michael Myers & Horror Films and that is why I was so disgusted with this film. I guess the director never saw the original or he would know the difference between a really original and scary film and a pretentious waste of time. Look, Having Michael Myers Kill people is not all it takes to make a good horror film...Without even comparing this to the original (Because that would be a crime) it is another typical hollywood waste. If a film is really scary or interesting then you don't care about the plot, or the dialouge...but when you're as bored as I was watching this you realize just how bad those things are. Not to mention that with the exception of Busta & Jaime Lee, the characters are SO ANNOYING. He wasn't killing them fast enough! Rent the original, save your money... "},{"Title":"&#133;exactly what you'd expect&#133;","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Much like the Friday the 13th series, the Halloween movies just keep coming even after you think you've seen the last one. Most people are asking, `But didn't he get decapitated in the last one?' Yes, but they find a way around it (of course). And, `Isn't Jamie Lee Curtis done with these already?' Yes, it seems that she will be now. With those questions answered in the first few minutes, the movie rolls along a lightning fast ADD-friendly pace. Although not the best sequel in the series, it's not the worst either. It's probably the most interesting one since `Halloween 2', which also had director Rick Rosenthal at the helm. He has since honed his craft in television, which is obvious in the directorial style. Most people predicted this to be a hip-hop flavored installment with Busta Rhymes as the main star, but it's pretty straight-ahead slasher flick. Although too silly at times, Busta provides some much-needed humor to the campy tale. In fact, he has one of the funnier scenes in a horror movie in quite some time when he's in the Michael Myers costume yelling at the real Myers. Just to hear his gravely voice come out of the costume is worthy of a good chuckle.  Trying to give Michael Myers an update seems to be the reason for making this one. The internet, palm pilots, and reality TV are major plot points. Even `The Osbournes' get a mention. The `Fear Factor' meets `Blair Witch' angle gives the series a newer feel, even if it isn't a terribly original idea. It's exactly what you'd expect blood, guts, and a high body count. If that's what you're looking for, then it will be worth it to you. If you're not a fan of the genre, then it wasn't made for you anyway. Michael Myers fans should be pleased with this one.  "},{"Title":"A colossal misfiring that fundamentally betrays the franchise, Halloween Resurrection is a shallowly-trendy, sub-par by-the-books slasher flick.","Date":"1 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" You know a slasher-franchise has reached it's lowest point when an integral scene revolves around an iconic villain such as Michael Myers becoming involved in a cartoonish kung-fu fight (complete with over- the-top Bruce Lee-like screams) against a rapper who was already sort of fading from the public scene even at the time of this film's release. (Btw, that's not spoiling anything.)But hey... at least it wasn't set in space, which is where other horror movie franchises seem to want to go to die when they realize they've run out of ideas. (*Cough, cough*... Friday the 13th, Leprechaun, Critters, etc., *cough*) I guess that's sort-of a plus.Halloween Resurrection is a tedious, shallowly-trendy, under- written (and under-directed) and shockingly cartoonish nail in the coffin to what started out as an excellent horror film series. The original was a classic by any measure, and a surprising number of the sequels were actually quite good as well. (In particular the second film, and the 20th Anniversary release Halloween H20, both of which are definitely some of the best slasher-sequels ever made.)Even at their worst, earlier entries showed quite a bit of class and effort (even when it failed spectacularly, as in films like Curse of Michael Myers). Whereas this entry is instead keen to deliver the most boringly by-the-books scares and cardboard-flat characters, all while shoehorning in an incredibly dated plot revolving around the internet and reality TV- things that were just starting to take off big at the time. This reveals that the film is little more than a cash-in on the internet/reality-TV crazes, while also trying to capitalize by being part of a recognizable franchise. It's the absolute embodiment of hack filmmaking.And the true tragedy of this- this film was directed by Rick Rosenthal, who directed the generally very well-received Halloween II, which is arguably one of the strongest entries in the entire franchise. In a shocking 180 degree turn, his return to the franchise results not in another solid sequel, but instead this abomination- the absolute worst in the entire franchise.After a prologue sequence too insulting to long-time franchise fans to even bother summarizing here, we are introduced to our new characters (a term I use loosely), who are to be featured on an upcoming internet-based reality-TV series. The hook of the show They are to spend a night exploring the old Michael Myers house in Haddonfield, Illinois. Of course you know that that means Michael comes home, and decides it's time to pick-off these intruders one-by- one, forcing them to try and fight for their survival.Nothing about this film works.Performances are stale, and alternate between irritatingly boring and infuriatingly over-the-top. The worst contender being the aforementioned rapper, Busta Rhymes, who seems to be trying way too hard to convince the world he's a charming, funny, likable actor when he clearly is out of his element. He comes across as a weirdly contrived cartoon-character that has been shoehorned into the film.The script (courtesy Larry Band and Sean Hood) is a disheartening and frankly condescending mish-mash of lazy re-hashes from prior films and the forced inclusion of the modern (aka, dated within six months) elements like the internet/reality-TV angle. Modern elements which were clearly only included because one of the writers happened to open up the entertainment section of his newspaper one day and see the words internet and reality-TV in the headlines, and came under the impression that putting these contrivances in would make the film feel timely.Add to that the obvious indifference on the part of director Rosenthal, and you can tell this film is just a complete mess. The film feels like he couldn't care less about crafting a good thriller. Scenes are shot with the most obnoxiously boring compositions, set design is cliché (Oooo... creepy, grimy hallways... I haven't seen that before in every other horror film ever), poor costume design, etc. Rosenthal just didn't seem to put his heart into any decision made, and it's clear the whole film suffers for it.Heck. Even the mask used in the film doesn't measure up to previous entries. It's weird, cheap and looks like a bad fan-made piece of costuming, as opposed to a major Hollywood release.This is the film that destroyed the franchise. After the stellar prior entry, I had high hopes, and this film seemed like it was purposely going out of it's way to fail to meet any expectation... Even the lowest of expectation.This gets a well-deserved 1 out of 10. And I personally find it such a bizarrely poor film, that in no way fits in with the rest of the franchise tonally or stylistically... I don't even count it as canonical. "},{"Title":"You wanna know why I give this movie a 2...","Date":"28 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" WARNING I advise anyone who has not seen the film yet to not read this comment.Because, in a series of ridiculous and awful events, the only good scenes that this movie has at all are the opening ones with Jamie Lee Curtis reprising her role as Laurie Strode for a mere 10 or 15 mins. of the entire length of the movie. Then, Michael kills her... and there so should have been the end to the Halloween franchise. Not upset that it happened, but Michael's sole purpose in life was always to kill his sister. The next hour and few minutes or so that follow are boring, humiliating dribble that was not necessary in any way, shape or fashion. Halloween Resurrection does not better the series in any way. There is no new material to work with, none of the characters are interesting, in fact, they are quite annoying, and also, Michael was decapitated at the end of H20. What a perfect way to end the series. (They should have stuck with it.) The camera angles are quite horrible at times too, and some scenes are just left feeling questionable and unappealing.What more to say about this travesty... It's easily the worst of the franchise, including the 6th film and Zombie's renditions. (I actually like the Rob Zombie remake compared to this one.) Any movie with Busta Rhymes vs. Michael Myers in it is laughable just for that fact right there..EDIT The main top comment tears it a new one and I could not have said it better myself... "},{"Title":"This entire series should just be retitled RetroActively Changing The Previous Film's Ending","Date":"11 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Every wretched movie in this yawn-inducing series retroactively changes the ending of the previous film, so, it comes as absolutely no surprise that, yet again, this latest, and last, sequel to Carpenter's wildly overrated original begins by retroactively changing the ending of H2O. It is most difficult to care what happens when we know that, no matter what happens, the ending will be changed in the next sequel, which is contractually obligated. Now get this it was not The Shape who lost his head at the end of H2O, it was some random ambulance driver, who The Shape dressed in his own clothes and put his mask on before making his escape. Somehow, this random ambulance driver gained superhuman strength, survived being run over by Laurie, assumed a confrontational stance and stared down the van she tried to run him over with for a second time, survived the fall down the hillside, and didn't bother to even try to take his mask off. It was not until *after* she beheaded him that the mask was removed, and we learn of the switch. There are at least SIX completely implausible points in that set up. We've been told repeatedly that Myers is trying to kill any living relative. If that is true, then after he kills JLC at the end of her contractually obligated cameo appearance, why doesn't he bother going after her teenage son (from H2O)? Apparently that would make too much sense. He decides to go back to his childhood home, which, by all accounts, should have been demolished decades ago, and hacks up a group of college-aged losers who are there filming a reality programme for internet viewers. Internet viewers who think it is only a Halloween horror film, and shout commentary at their screens, a la Mystery Science Theatre. The producers even tried to add a little bit of buddy movie here, as one of the viewers helps the lead girl, over the web. The overly self-aware casting is overflowing with celeb-retards , with ... I shudder to even type his name, Busta Rhymes as the token rapper, Tyra (America's Next Top Model) Banks, JLC only along for the ride to add her name value to this enervation, along with various other no-names who will never be heard from again, even if their character survives this one. The climax has Myers boringly being set on fire again, and electrocuted, in an ending which made me say We already know that won't kill him, as it rips off Halloween II, co-directed by this film's director, Rick Rosenthal. And of course, the obligatory, contractually obligated set-up for yet another sequel, which, if it ever materialises, will doubtlessly begin by retroactively changing this film's ending. When do we get a sequel which shows Myers going after the Akkads, to finally end this crap? "},{"Title":"Re-defines Bad","Date":"26 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" The most unbelievable thing about this is there are apparently enough stupid fans to make these seemingly endless sequels worth filming. This is the most atrocious, bad, awful, crummy, dreadful, lousy, poor, unacceptable, inferior, cheesy, crappy, deficient, dissatisfactory, faulty, god-awful, inadequate, slipshod, stinking, substandard, unsatisfactory, garbage I've ever seen. At this point in the series everybody knows the legend of Michael Meyers, so you would think that when they finally set his ass on fire they would keep adding fuel until there were nothing but a small pile of ash, but no. Just lightly sear him and walk away. Goodbye common sense. Hello next horrible sequel. "},{"Title":"The Worst Movie I Have Seen In Its Entirety","Date":"16 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" It starts out well, as Jamie Lee Curtis, of course, never goes wrong, but simply put, Busta Rhymes destroys this movie. Even granting that the premise of most of the film is formulaic, I probably could have given the film 5 or 6 out of 10. Busta singlehandedly knocked it down to a 1. He's a good rapper, but a TERRIBLE actor.Tyra Banks is beautiful, of course, but should have been involved in a chase scene with Michael Myers rather than dying off-screen, and the smart, uptight girl suddenly becoming hormonal was rather stupid as well.However, if one watches the mental hospital sequence at the beginning and the morgue scene at the end, those alone would make this a decent slasher were it not for... well, you get the idea- a certain rapper turned failed actor. "},{"Title":"The bottom of the barrel","Date":"17 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" And so it continues, in monotonous, predictable, nasty fashion. A pointless cameo appearance from Jamie Lee Curtis reveals that the decapitated body at the end of the dreadful 'Halloween H20' wasn't Michael Myers after all, but a mute paramedic wearing the iconic white mask (he didn't get out of the cockadoodie car). From this desperate revelation the movie somehow manages to skid further downhill, as once Curtis finally exits the series thanks to a laughable scene in which she captures Michael and then does something incredibly stupid, the film becomes a ham-fisted medley of moments from 'Blair Witch', 'Aliens' and every slasher movie you've ever seen.The plot internet entrepreneur Busta Rhymes (likeable at first, awful later on) ensconces a group of kids in Myers's childhood home on Halloween, fits their anodyne heads with mini-cameras, adds a fake Myers stand-in and broadcasts the results to the internet. Presumably the scenes in which viewers scream and shout when the real Myers turns up are intended as a meta-commentary on the film's events, but unfortunately for hack director Rick Rosenthal, who also perpetrated 'Halloween II', the real audience is more likely to roll over and go to sleep because he's made a boring, clichéd, dopey, ineffective lump of a film that ends the series not with a whimper but a bilious splutter. Just some of the film's problems In the preceding film Curtis was reliant on medication and booze thanks to the torment she suffered at the hands of her brother, but can now think clearly enough to secrete her pills in a doll and rig up a rope and pulley system to catch him, despite having killed an innocent man, which I would imagine would screw her up even more. An overexplained reference to 'Pulp Fiction' not only distracted me with thoughts of how great 'Pulp Fiction' is but made me wonder why I wasn't watching it rather than this thing. The few decent ideas on offer, such as the false Michael and the contact with the outside world being the only hope for the troubled teens, are bungled so comprehensively that the film bypasses frustration and just plain dies.I laughed at the fake rubber head that comes bouncing down the stairs. I cringed at the hopelessly noncommittal performance of lead plank Bianca Kajlich. I sighed as the movie expects us to believe Michael has died. Again. I rolled my eyes as it's revealed not to be the case. Again. I wasted my time watching this movie and I wasted more writing about it. Don't make the same mistake. "}{"Title":"Just Plain Awful.","Date":"6 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Day 6 Of My 31 Days Of Horror 2.After the awesome Halloween H20 20 Years Later Hollywood decided hurr lets make another one! The film is about 6 college students who are signed up for a show called Dangertainment. The kids have heard about Laurie Strode played by Jaimee Lee Curtis being killed by Micheal Myers played by Brad Loree. The show is hosted by Freddie played by Busta Rhymes and his co host played by Tyra Banks. The kids are put into Michael Myers house for overnight as surprise surprise the man himself shows up and starts killing them one by one.This is what I like to call a Hollywood film. Hollywood films are just basically stupid films just to rake in money. The acting is awful. The movies plot just sickens me and surprisingly this film is very boring. Although I did really like the first 15 minutes, but thats all I can say good about this film.Rated R For Strong Violence, Language, Some Sexuality And Brief Drug Use.1hr 29min/89min.29 uses of the F-word.*/**** "},{"Title":"The Halloween Saga Halloween - Resurrection","Date":"4 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Halloween H20 20 Years Later ended up being the best of the sequels in the Halloween saga. Around the release of H20, the horror industry was in an interesting time. Scream had reinvigorated the slasher (and horror in general) film at the box office. Horror movies were making money and doing well and being talked about. But unlike the original era of slasher films, where they dominated the box office for over a decade, the slasher as king didn't last nearly as long.In 1999, one movie came out that reshaped the face of horror. And like the original Halloween in 1978, it was a low budget independent film that went on to break box office records. This movie was The Blair Witch Project and it scared audiences to the tune of $140,000,000, an unheard of number for the type of film it was.Blair Witch was a found footage, faux documentary horror film. The camera was hand held and shaky and was controlled by the characters in the film. It was shot on film and video and it had a simple story. And like 1978's Halloween, it had no gore, no special effects, a simple story and about an hour and a half of sheer terror. That's not to say the slasher film didn't play it's part at the movies. A new Friday the 13th (although now they were 'Jason' movies) film was released, a third Scream came out and a new original slasher style film came out called Final Destination. Horror was doing well and on July 12th, 2002 Halloween returned to the big screen.Halloween Resurrection follows the continuing story of H20, and like that film it ignores parts four to six. It turns out that Laurie had chopped off the wrong person's head, not Michael's. Technically this doesn't make sense based on the behaviour of the man behind the mask in the last 10 minutes of H20, but as a Halloween fan, sitting in the audience, one can let it go.Resurrection goes on to wrap up the story of Michael and his sister and introduces a new story line. Michael returns home to Haddonfield, to his house and finds a reality game show being filmed there. Hence he has to knock off the people in his house, one by one and in increasingly gruesome ways. The reality game show allows for Resurrection to throw in a bit of a Blair Witch influence. Each character in the house gets their own camera and thus the view switches back and forth between shaky, video style footage and nicely framed, smooth film footage.This makes for an interesting idea, and some cool scenes with Michael making his way through the halls and not being noticed by anyone except the audience, but overall Resurrection fails as a movie. First and foremost it fails because it is not scary. Myers himself works pretty well, he seems looming and scary, he walks the right way and he has the creepy head tilt, but once again he no longer looms in the background for very long. He's always clearly visible and ready to strike. Technically, for Resurrection's given story, this makes sense, but it doesn't work for the scare factor.Like Halloween II, this film is directed by Rick Rosenthal. When he made part two he had taken Michael Myers and made him less of a realistic monster. He made the second Halloween a film filled with jump scares and didn't capture the tension that the original did. And following H20, he does the same thing here. But it isn't only the lack of terror that makes Resurrection ultimately fail. The story is plain and generic (although the first 10 minutes with Jamie Leigh Curtis are pretty good) and the dialogue is pretty poor. Most of the actual dialogue sounds fake and expositional, where the characters instead of sounding like they are talking to each other end up having conversations that spell out the story for the audience.The acting for the most part is okay. The acting by the staff at the hospital is sub par but all the leads do a pretty decent job. Although his performance isn't bad, Busta Rhymes does end up sinking the movie some what. His character says some really stupid things and in one scene he does some really cheesy and out of place kung fu poses and noises before he drop kicks Michael Myers. What was Rosenthal thinking when he included that?Another really strange omission is a wide shot of the Myer's house. Although it sounds small, a wide shot to show the outside of the house would of helped the atmosphere of the film in many ways. For example, seeing the Myer's house in a wide shot, establishing to the audience that they were back to where it all began could of built up tension, but for some inexplicable reason, all the audience ever gets is interior shots and quick close ups of various outside features. The film is rather well shot, with great choreography and editing, especially when you take into account that in addition to the film cameras, there were the six or seven video cameras that were used throughout the film. So the film does flow nicely and never really leaves the audience bored. But when all is said and done, and the end credits start to roll, especially after H20, Halloween Resurrection sadly end ups leaving one with a strong and overbearing feeling of disappointment.Film Rating 64%Breakdown (How Halloween Resurrection scored 64%)Production Design 7 out of 10 Cinematography 7 out of 10 Re-playability 6 out of 10 Originality 6 out of 10 Costumes 7 out of 10 Directing 6 out of 10 Editing 7 out of 10 Acting 7 out of 10 Music 7 out of 10 Script 4 out of 10 "},{"Title":"goes back to roots stop hating it cause of h20s great ending","Date":"28 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" i loved h20...the ending was perfect...but we cant hate this movie cause we thought h20 was a great finale put that aside and this is a excellent halloween movie..the score is perfect jamie lee is back one last time in a bitter sweet end for her because her son is safe but she has to die...meanwhile we go back to the myers house his roots which i wish they explored more but i thought it was creepy and cool and the ending people say oh they were suppose to make a sequel ? no ! the story was over 1 2 h20 and resurrection tells the tale the boogeyman will never die thats why his eyes opened but john was safe and were just left to assume michael will continue tokill until whenever but that ended the orgiinal series 4-6 r their own trilogy and the remakes r a way of starting the series up again. check it out but keep 1 2 h20 and this one seprate from 4-6 there 2 Different SERIES "},{"Title":"Nothing new....","Date":"24 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" A film like this, is a film which doesn't deserve an intensely critical review (like some of the others I've read) nor does it deserve an overwhelmingly positive one. I'm sure the cast and crew involved didn't start filming, believing they would be part of an inspirational, brilliant, award winning cinematic masterpiece. It was just for fun, and of course, carrying on the Myers legacy.Now this movie is nothing new , nothing special, nothing ground-breaking It is just your typical slasher movie. This isn't the type of movie that demands for brilliant acting , directing etc, and for me, It was just an entertaining, fun film, with some thrills and kills and a concept that kept me interested as the standard slasher madness played out. So as long as you don't expect a revolutionary horror film (Such as the 1978 original) then you can't go wrong with this movie for a bit of late night fun with friends.6/10 "},{"Title":"Whats people's problem with this movie?","Date":"28 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" first I'd like to say this movie's reason for existence is a lil lame (how they explain Michael being alive) but isn't that the same for every slasher sequel? i think so. i really enjoyed this movie for a few reasons, Laurie dies, there's a certain kill that reminds me of john carpenters original, its pretty gory n it holds suspense IF and ONLY IF you can accept it for what it is, the 8th movie in a very basic series. If you're gonna whine about busta rhymes bein there, you're taking it waaay too seriously, LL Cool J was in H20 and there was no backlash, busta allows you to laugh n remind yourself it is the 8th n by now the directors n producers can have a joke n laugh about the movie. just look at jason takes manhattan, seriously crap but people took it too seriously while the film is pretty much a joke. this on the other hand isn't a joke but makes for a good night of slashes n stabs with a few laughs in between. the halloween franchise is my favourite out of the slasher series' but cuz i lightened up. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as I expected","Date":"10 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" As a Halloween fan, I have watched all of the Halloween films, I did watch Halloween Resurrection quite a while ago but i forgot everything about it, so last week I bought the DVD and I was quite surprised, it was better than I expected. Although there was some terrible acting. Busta Rhymes. What was they thinking! He is the most annoying horror movie actor I have and will ever see. There was also some stupid scenes like when Busta Rhymes managed to kick Michael Myers through the window. I liked the first part when Michael was searching for Laurie and he killed her. But the stupidest thing about this movie is the ending of Halloween H20. Michael switched bodies with a paramedic and strangled him until he broke his voice box but Laurie slammed him through the windscreen of the van she was driving and when the paramedic got up, he just waited there and didn't move out of the way! But this gets worse, when Laurie rolled the van down the hill and the van ended up slamming Michael against a chopped down tree and the paramedic was still alive! Personally, I think they just made this film for the money. "},{"Title":"I liked it...","Date":"11 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I actually liked this. I didn't see why people liked H20 so much, and I don't really see why people bashed this one so much. This one isn't nearly as good as the original, but it's done very well and effectively. It's suspenseful enough and the premise is interesting. However, I must admit that I preferred L.L. Cool J. in H20 over Busta Rhymes in this one, but that's not too problematic. Aside from Busta Rhymes, I liked the people in the movie, and the characters were fun. There were a few jarring moment, but those weren't that bad. Anyways, this one is a good movie and a fine addition to the Halloween legacy. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Halloween Reality TV style","Date":"13 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" After the events of Halloween H20 Laurie Strode (Jamie Lee Curtis) is confined to a mental insitution after killing the wrong man thinking he was Michael Myers, waiting for yet another showdown nut this time she loses Michael Myers finally kills her and after that he heads home, only to find that his home has been used for an Internet reality TV show where a group of teenagers and TV crew are using it and thats when the bloodbath starts up again.Halloween Resurrection is fun and entertaining and one of my faves out of the entire Halloween franchise. despite the fact that Jamie Lee Curtis dies within' the first ten minutes which is a end of an era, I was so sad to see her go after ruling the entire franchise with an iron fist, the oarts she was in Halloween 1 and 2, H20 and this one are definitely the best ones. Another thing about this one is that there are more deaths which should keep hardcore fans happy and plenty of totty to look at. Keeping with that pattern, Halloween 8 also mostly discards (except for Laurie's involvement) all of the previous Mike Myers carnivals. But the worst sin which H8 commits is discarding H20's main raison d'etre (Michael back to stalk his nephew) to give our beloved mass murderer the task as just another psycho killing for no reason. A dumb thing about this movie is that there is no mention of Laurie's son John (played by Josh Hartnett in H20)! Where are the new answers promised? The links to the previous entries? Probably in Akkad's bank account.Screenplay-wise, this has to be the thinnest of all the Halloween films. The lead characters are so beyond underdeveloped it's a screen writing crime. And what about our heroine Sara (Kajlich)? You know the LEAD girl? She's also abandoned for a long period of time and I can't say that I found out anything about who she was throughout the film. And then we have the lousy dialogue, I laughed my ass off more than once. *MINOR SPOILERS* Wait till you see that chick hit Mike with a chainsaw that was funny as hell.Structure-wise, the flick is very simple...maybe too simple. We only get one subplot that has to do with Sara and some Don Juan kid (Merriman) flirting with her via email (God, I missed Sam Loomis there), but even that angle isn't explored to its fullest. Sure it wound up being a kool plot device during some of the tenser stalk sequences but in the end, it didn't amount to anything on a character level The murders here are way slick (loved the crushed head bit&#x85;very nice) and mostly came through. Thank you for that. I also enjoyed the Blair Witch type vibe the film put out with the web cams. Rosenthal splits the screen 4 ways at times and the constant POV shots from the main players gave this sequel a more involving aura that often made up for the non-existent screenplay. Last but not least, I loved the small nods to Halloween and Halloween 2 and really got into the Myers vs Rudy (Thomas) knife battle in the kitchen. Fun stuff.The acting Bianca Kajlich screams very well but she's no Jamie Lee Curtis didn't find her interesting enough, Busta Rhymes was awesome he was the best one in the whole film with his wacky dialogue and awesome kung fu moves he ruled this movie, Sean Patrick Thomas annoyed the hell of out me I'm glad he got killed off, and well not exactly going up in the acting world after making his name in Save The Last Dance, he just ends up in a slasher movie as a pointless annoying victim wrong career move, where is he now, Tyra Banks (Nora) shakes that ass and grabs that cash. Ryan Merriman (Myles) does what he has to do well. Billy Kay's character Scott really rubbed me the wrong way. Daisy McCrackin is stunning but doesn't do much, Luke Kirby was funny and annoying at the same time but had fun with his role, Katee Sackhoff the Brittany Murphy lookalike played the blonde bimbo well was she pretending to be annoying and stupid or is she a bad actress who knows but she has a great death scene, Thomas Ian Nicolas had a seemingly pointless role much like he did in the last American Pie movie, and lastly Jamie Lee Curtis although she wasn't in it much she was still the best thing about this movie and Brad Loree played Michael Myers well definitely one of the better ones throughout the series.All in all Halloween 8 does cut it as a sequel better than parts 3,5 and 6, despite the fact that Laurie is gone and there's no story left to tell. this is just a fast paced slasher movie with pleasing results and some wicked death scenes, although this one may not be as good as Halloween H20 it still rocks. "},{"Title":"Micheal should never have been resurrected.. AGAIN","Date":"29 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I just finished watching this mess of a movie and it should have never happened IMO. H20 was the perfect ending to this franchise but oh well.the 1st 15mins of this movie is great but those 15mins should have been attached to the end of H20 and then h20 would have been even better.the acting is diabolic in this wait hang on it better than H5 but that not saying much. bustha just should not be in this movie he is so annoying he acts funny but hes so not. the blonde bimbo is also very annoying and the rest well there watchable anyway.Michaels mask is on top form in this one altou still not as good as the original but its better than H20s mess of a mask.the story i actually didt mind its just it didt fit in with a Halloween movie and he didt go after a family member A BIG NONO IN THIS FRANCHISE.this Halloween is watchable ONCE and simply nothing more its not the worst in the series that title goes to H5. H3 WELL ITS NOT PART OF IT REALLY. "},{"Title":"The Grandfather of Horror proves old people should not be ignored","Date":"27 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" It was a good film, I enjoyed the others also, specifically being Halloween 1, 2 and H20. However I do get a little bored with all the teenager slashing. Does he only kill teenagers? Isn't that discriminatory under new laws? Although I cannot say whether they leave the ending open for a further film this is a character that I find appealing in that he is genuinely scary and therefore I hope the films continue.I like the fact the he is now older where as in the first one I think he was in his early 20's. For some reason older people are scarier in films, I do not know why, perhaps because we cannot see ourselves as old, even if we are.The next film after this one needs to be better written with a more involving plot. Perhaps he could be in an institution, an isolated patient, wearing his mask because he freaks out if he takes it off. They need to make him a little more human and a little less like a cyborg. That will make it scarier. "}{"Title":"A slap in the face to the fans.....","Date":"5 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" You know how a lot of critics like to say don't waste your time by seeing this pointless sequel, I get sick of that, but in this case it truly applies. This is an absolutely putrid excuse for a Halloween film, and this is coming from a life-long fan. The original is my favorite film of all time. To say that I am disappointed by Director Rick Rosenthal (who also directed the best of the sequels, Halloween 2) is putting it lightly. The casting is just ridiculous. Busta Rhymes?! WTF is he doing in a Halloween movie? No excuse for it, none. Bianca Kajlich has to be the most boring female lead I've seen in a long time. You never learn enough about her to care and she's never convincing. The rest of the cast has so little personality that they are hard to remember after you see the film. I know they are simply there for Michael to kill, but can they at least be slightly entertaining? Can I care about somebody? Even H5 had better characters and that's saying something. I never missed Loomis more than I did watching this trash. The only upsides to the film are Michael himself and Jamie Lee's cameo. Michael's mask looks better than it has since 2, and he keeps the more aggressive style he had in H20. But other than that this thing sucked up one side of the hill and down the other. I can't believe that H6 is widely considered the worst in the series when you have this and part 5. 6 has much better acting and characters in one frame than this garbage. And it's scarier. Where were the scares beyond the first ten minutes? It's way too dumb to be scary. Donald Pleasence must be turning in his grave. "},{"Title":"No Point","Date":"26 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" SPOILERSThis is a bad slasher film. I mean, how could a wonderful movie be turned into this! It is about a group of people going in to Michael Myers's house and get killed by Myers. I mean, there are some good deaths but it is pretty bland. In the very beginning Laurie gets killed, which I just hated SO much! The very end was just stupid, he survived, oh no! This is a stupid slasher film. This is like Jason X, only worse. There isn't even creepy music. That's not right. Overall, this movie is a mindless, stupid slasher film. If you like bland slasher films, well, this is for you. I don't like bland slasher films. I like slasher films that are GOOD!3/10Recommended films Jason X "},{"Title":"probably the worst of the bunch","Date":"2 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I cannot believe what a mess this film turned out to be. After the promising opening scene, what we get is pure and utter garbage. I can hardly find ONE redeeming quality about this film. I cannot believe that for a supposed Hollywood production, the casting people couldn't find decent actors. The main lead couldn't even scream. The rest of the characters were totally useless, and held no sympathy whatsoever. When are Hollywood producers going to realize that letting acting skills go because someone is pretty defeats the purpose of good film-making? Rick Rosenthal - Look at Halloween part 2. One of my favorites, but it's still flawed to death. It's rumored that Carpenter had to do a lot of re-shoots to try and salvage something from Rosenthal's shoddy work. This should have told us something. Rosenthal just showed his lack of talent for directing. He had a good premise and blew it. A good director would have capitalized on the 'webcam' thing and made a decent, albeit hip horror movie. Fifty million thumbs down for this pile of garbage. "},{"Title":"The sequel that ruined a franchise.","Date":"4 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Say what you want about Halloweens 1-7, while some installments weren't exactly horror classics, they were at least respectable, well-made sequels. The great thing about the Halloween series was how true to its roots it managed to stay. Every other horror franchise from Friday the 13th and A Nightmare on Elm Street sold out long before they hit a number 5. Freddy Krueger suddenly became a comedian and Jason did the same routine in every movie with a different cast. The beauty of Halloween though was that it managed to stay scary and not turn Michael Myers into a joke.This film destroyed all of that.The biggest mistake is in the writing. The main arc of the entire series was Michael and his family. This movie focuses on that part of the story for maybe 15 minutes in the beginning (with Jamie Lee Curtis returning as Michael's unlucky little sibling), then veers so far off course it makes you wonder how a franchise can go down the toilet so quickly. The rest of the movie is just about a bunch of (annoying) college kids running around in a booby-trapped Myers' house with cameras as part of a reality show broadcast on the Web. Of course the kicker is that the REAL Michael Myers has decided to come back to his childhood home, and doesn't exactly like his new guests. We can't blame him.Every character here is stock. There's the goody goody you just know is going to be involved in the final chase scene, the sick perverted boy we all know is going to bite it, etc. They're the same characters from every other bad horror movie ever made. The previous Halloweens at least took pride in having good characters you actually cared about. It meant something when they died. Now all you can do is cheer Michael on as he slashes his way through some of the most annoying characters.The acting isn't nearly up to par, either. I realize this is the 8th film in the series, but who are these people? They can't act their way out of a paper bag, did the casting department just stop trying, or did these people win their roles through a contest or something? I'd like to know. Whenever the characters scream or try to show fear, it's so badly acted you just have to laugh at the comedic value of it all.In fact, at the halfway point of the movie you'll be laughing (or crying possibly) at how easy it is to take a respectable series and drag it through the mud.The only saving grace is Rosenthal's direction and the oddly good cinematography. Rosenthal does his best with the crap script he's been given, I doubt anyone could have improved upon it. And the cinematography is really quite great...the lighting and color of some shots are outstanding for a film of this type and the whole movie is bathed in orange and blue hues. I like it! Good stuff.Unfortunately that can't save this movie.This is basically just Friday the 13th in a house. Kids come around, masked killer shows up, kills them all of one by one. That's it. This movie alone managed to turn a once clever and meaningful series into a standard run-of-the-mill slasher movie. The main focus of the entire series is gone. Now we get hilariously bad acting, cheesy scares, and nauseating one-liners (the previous installments never resorted to comedy).Busta Rhymes steals the show though, with acting so bad it makes you afraid for all the wrong reasons.Just pretend this franchise ended with the at least respectable H20 and forget this travesty ever happened.R.I.P. Halloween...your resurrection was also your death. No one will take this series seriously anymore. "},{"Title":"Michael Myers may have been resurrected but the movie flops with all of the other sequels.","Date":"27 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" A group of college students are invited to be on an internet reality show called Dangetainment created by Freddie Harris(Busta Rhymes). The idea of the show is to spend one night in the old house of Michael Myers(Brad Loree). The problem is that Michael Myers is still on the loose and joins them in his old house for another massacre. Viewers watch from a party as each student dies on camera.This is an original idea for a horror movie but is done no better than any other low-budget horror film. Just the very thought of Busta Rhymes fighting Michael Myers is extremely amusing to me, but the fight takes place. The movie may have been funny but it was funny without trying to be which destroys the whole point. The murders were actually done decently well but the acting and writing made up for the missing flaws. Overall, the movie was incredibly dull and stupid and leaves the viewers asking What the hell? I do not recommend this movie to anyone including die-hard Halloween fans. "},{"Title":"What happened here???","Date":"1 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Okay, it is better than season of the witch, but I would say only slightly. People who cant sleep you no longer have to count sheep you just have to pop Halloween resserection in the DVD player. Halloween is easily one of the best slasher movies ever made. I liked the second too, but the third I hated and I was so angry because I thought Halloween was ruined. When I watched 4 I was happy again, but this one has put me back in that place of pure disappointment. Hopefully the one coming next year will be better. When they bring the new one out, they better make it the last one. Micheal myers should be remembered as a legend, not a dork. Happy Halloween (not this one!) "},{"Title":"I'll see you in Hell!","Date":"27 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Boring is the main word to describe this film! The first 10 Min's with Laurie ( Jamie Lee Curtis ) was good because it ended Micheal's rage to kill his sister after 4 movies after Halloween 1 and 2. John Carpenter should of added the first 10 Min's of Halloween 8 to the end of H2O to finally close the whole chapter of the series. It be upsetting to most Halloween fans that there wont be no more but its just cash at the end of the day for the producers, but i wont see anymore if they make a 9th or 10th cause it would have no connection with Halloween 1,2,4,5,H2O. The series has to end once and for all, cause it would get boring if there's more films made. "},{"Title":"Wrong title, first of all","Date":"8 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Halloween Resurrection has the wrong title, first of all. The original title, Halloween Homecoming would have better suited this movie. Second of all, the lead girl (played by Bianca Kajlich) was woefully miscast (her acting is fine until she starts screaming, it was some of the most unrealistic acting I have ever seen in a horror movie). Third, the whole reality concept was fun about two years before this film got made.I am not sure what the filmmakers were thinking. Rick Rosenthal, who directed a flawed but decent Halloween II in 1981, doesn't seem to have a grasp on what makes a horror movie work. Though I liked the camera effects used in this (FINALLY, Michael Myers is walking in slow-motion), I felt that the characters were poorly written (almost to an extreme) and the character of Freddie Harris played by rapper Busta Rhymes was particularly annoying.The ending, while predictable, made me laugh because it almost fooled me into thinking that he would NOT open his eyes. How lame of me! "},{"Title":"Halloween The Homecoming","Date":"2 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" GOD! why can't anybody make a good scary movie? if anything a decent sequel to a bad revived sequel of a long-dead (pun?) movie series. Halloween Resurretion... my version was named Halloween The Homecoming, or as i will call it Halloween Featuring Busta Rhymes! haha the movie borrows no-names and hardly stars from several things *The nerd on all those Disney films (he's got the babyface look. i think he was on like Smart House and some other Disney things) *American pie kid (no not the cool one Stiffler, the guy who did it with the pie, the guy doing stiffler's mom or the slick one... the OTHER guy) *Tyra Banks (who cannot act to save her life....literally as this movie shows) *Busta Rhymes (WHOO HAH!)as some of you know i played the Reaper in Scream Louder. a totally independent film made locally by the film crew at Sandalwood High and produced by Robert Lasowski. it was pretty bad really but sadly, very very sadly, this movie actually Borrowed a scene from it! explained simply Make a sexually suggestive comment, get the middle finger. HAW! there was a tit bit of nippledge but nothing to write home about. the girl was so obviously trying to look Drew Barrymoreish. Memoriable quotes? Busta Rhymes had some You hit like I murdered your f*ckin mother or somethin' and How do I FEEL right now? Feel this!and thats ALL! Busta Rhymes would be the only reason to see this. mainly because of the Kung Fu moves he busts on Michael Myers near the end. he saved this film from being say... Troll 2 level of stupidity, bad ideas, and film-making. I'm sick to my stomach from watching this film and not because of the #7 Chicken Value meal i ordered from Burger King. because this movie completely BLOOOOOOWS!!! ugh! why?! "},{"Title":"Please let Myers die.","Date":"2 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" The first Halloween movie was a classic, it's one of those movies I'll always remember. The series, however, is a bad one. It looks like those who own the rights to it are trying to outnumber the Friday the 13th series in most movies and that just can't be a good idea. Resurrection starts off like any other sequel of this sort, with a dead killer returning from the grave.All the clichés aside, this movie still reeks. Bad actors, bad FX, un-scary... This is all you don't want from a horror movie. And by the way, Busta Rhymes shows us all that he's the worst rapper gone actor ever, Snoop Dogg looks like de Niro in comparison.Avoid, avoid, avoid!1/10 "}{"Title":"Absolutely appalling.","Date":"6 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  As a stand alone horror movie, this is just fine. As the eighth installment of the fairly successful 'Halloween' series it's terrible.*SPOILERS MAY FOLLOW* Firstly the viewer is insulted before the creepy Halloween theme music even plays. It consists of psychiatric nurses discussing how Myers survived having his head chopped off in H20. It wasn't Myers you see, no, he'd torn out some policeman's voicebox, and put his own mask and suit on the poor bloke. So, Laurie Strode only succeeding in killing a law enforcement officer and not her psychotic brother. Myers has once again got off scot free. This in itself is laughable but what's even more shocking is that Jamie Lee Curtis' appearance in the film is nothing more than a cameo, yes she's hacked to pieces within minutes.Therefore an audience is left wondering what direction Halloween Resurrection will take, now Loomis, Lloyd and Strode are all dead. Does Myers have any more family members to hunt down and kill? Apparently not.The deranged killer instead takes it upon himself to kill teenage interlopers who have taken up residence in his old house on Halloween night for an internet reality show.So, after bludgeoning to death most of Haddonfield for over twenty years and surviving more physical harm than Rasputin, it seems no one can end Myers tyranny. All except, Busta Rhymes? Yes, after conquering the music world, Rhymes almost single handedly conquers Myers and puts an end to his latest killing spree.This is a sequel we could have done without. H20 seemed a relatively fitting end to the series and if they needed to follow it up, they should have tied up the loose ends from parts 4, 5 & 6, instead of wasting time on this rubbish.With Halloween 9 on the horizon, Michael Myers is in grave danger of becoming a parody of himself, much like Freddy Krueger did. Hopefully, the writers and film makers will see sense and give the Halloween series a fitting finale, (maybe by reintroducing Lloyd's baby) while it just about maintains its credibility as a superior horror series.  "},{"Title":"Just When You Thought He Was Gone...","Date":"31 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  He's back!But how you say?--Spoilers--It wasn't Michael! It was some cop!--End Of Spoilers--Guess we're in store for another 20 years of sucky sequels and another serial killer who just somehow won't die.Avoid this one unless you're looking to waste some time or wanna watch a cheap slasher flick.1/10 "},{"Title":"Busta Rhymes - WHAT ?!? ***SPOILER***","Date":"17 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  First of all, i'm gonna say what i liked in the movie. That would be Laure Strode's death. I wasn't expecting this, it was about time, the kiss for goodbye was cool. Another thing i liked was... wait.. that's about it.Basically i HATE this movie for two main reasons. 1.It's supposed to be a horror movie, a horror movie is supposed to be scary, and this movie is far far faaar from being scary.2.The creators trashed Michael Myers character.Oh sorry, one more 3.Busta Rhymes.Halloween Resurrection is predictable, boring, the storyline seems like it was written in .. 10 minutes, and the acting is horrible. But believe me. That's not the worst thing about it. This movie killed the legend of Michael Myers, and it's all thanks to Busta Rhymes and his Freddie character. So far Michael Myers was a personification of evil. Unstoppable killing machine. After seeing the first Halloween, i often thought, what would i do if one rainy night i would look in a window and see Michael Myers standing outside looking at me ? I would crap my pants and kill myself before he could do it, because there would be no way i could escape him. No way i could beat him. It would be just easier to give myself up to him. Now, after i saw Halloween Resurrection, i would think  Michael Myers ? Don't just stand there, come upstairs so i can kick your ass.Why would i think so ? Simply because this movie made him look like a complete looser, a weakling who stood no chance against Busta's character, while Freddie is a brave hero,who literally beat the hell out of Michael, and didn't even break a sweat. He used all kinds of lame phrases, showing, that he is absolutely not afraid of Michael Myers !! Michael Myers - the pure evil, a devil's spawn who should be scaring the crap out of everybody ! Busta was just running his mouth on Michael, using kung-fu moves like some goddamn action hero, and he crushed Michael Myers in combat. Perfect Victory. Oh wait.. Mike did stab him once, but this doesn't count since Freddie was surprised, and in the movie it looked like Michael just got lucky. I almost cried when i saw that. I almost forgot to mention, that Freddie ruined the whole movie. Mainly because of the fact that he wasn't even close to be afraid of Myers. It's one of the elements of a horror movies, if a victim is afraid of the killer, the viewers are more afraid. Of course there was a lot of tough guys in horror movies, but that was the idea - they act like heroes - they get killed, therefore people watching the movie are even more afraid of the killer. Freddie however, is not only brave and tough, but he also, as i already mentioned - beats the crap out of Michael... easily, which is unacceptable. Also, some of Freddie's kung-fu moves and sounds making while performing those moves, made people laugh. Every single person at the cinema was laughing (except for me, they just wanted to be entertained, i however, am a big fan of Halloween series, so instead of laughing, i cried). This is also unacceptable. The guy who came up with this was either drunk or retarded. Probably both.Actually, to be honest with you, this whole thing with Freddie p***ed me off so much, and it was so incredibly ridiculous, that even if the movie was scarier than all the other sequels (heellloooo creators of HR - that's the idea with Horror movies, they're supposed to be S-C-A-R-Y, i can't believe nobody told you that) i would still consider it a bad movie, and the worst of all Halloween titles (yes, even worse than Halloween 3).  "},{"Title":"Just what I expected...","Date":"15 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  **POSSIBLE SPOILERS**Well, before it even came out, this film had all of the qualities of a pure crapfest A stupid storyline, a rapper constantly trying to be a tough guy, annoying college kids, and a dorky looking Michael Myers. And a crapfest it was. It has everything in it that personally makes me hate a movie, and it could of been good if they would of used actors that were more convincing and not famous, and had a diff. storyline. But I guess the heyday of good horror movies is pretty much over, and the only people that would probably enjoy this are stupid teenagers that know nothing about the joy of watching real horror films. At least some of the annoying characters were killed brutally! 1/100  "},{"Title":"Halloween Big Brother?","Date":"8 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is the worst of all Michael Myers Halloween movies (I am not talking about H3 here which to me doesn't count as a real Halloween film).  The first 15-20mins or so are interesting mainly due to the fact that Jamie is there.  The rest is the usual boring run around, scream and get killed routine seen so many times before.  That is all there actually is which is not what I consider entertainment.  This movie has no real story to tell, the previous parts at least do have a plot and character development.  Looks more like a F13 movie to me than a halloween movie.  The script could be summed up like this 'Lock up some teens in a house and set Michael loose'.  3 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Halloween Resurrection is nothing but a joke...","Date":"8 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I have nothing to say about this movie. It is the worst movie in the Halloween series, but Halloween 8 is nothing but a joke. They should've stopped at H20 because that was a great ending and because it was 20 years later. ************!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!Spoiler!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!*****************When Jamie Lee Curtis dies (Laurie Strode) I could care less. The only good part in this movie is the beggining, thats the only thing that saved the movie. If the movie did'nt have a beggining like that it woul've been a 1/10 but since I did like the beggining I would give it a 3/10 only because of the begging. The movie made me jump like a few times but I dont care!! This movie is sooo stupid!!! "},{"Title":"It's time.","Date":"17 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Perhaps there is a spoiler ahead for that one person living on this earth who has never seen a Halloween/ I know what you did last summer on Friday the 13th movie...But I doubt it.   It's time. Out of respect for peoples opinion I never really understood the fuss behind the series.  Yes I've tried to be objective no matter how painful it has been. I think I seen as many of these that is humanly possible before one self puts on a hockey mask and kills a few thousand people. It's time to put this series to rest. The formula is always the same, the teens who have sex and take drugs are the ones who get killed. Um perhaps Halloween is being metophoric...ah I don't think so.  And the reluctant or innocent one is the survivor.  In this case the Rap artist Busta Ryhmns lives too.  Michael Myers isn't even bad enough to kill a rapper.  It starts off with Jamie Lee Curtis fooling everyone into thinking she is nuts. She nuts alright..being in this movie.  in any case she has divised a plan to kill her brother.  Of course it fails and she is killed (smart move on her part),  now I'll bet she comes  back in another Halloween.  Donald Pleasence has had the good sense to really die so thankfully he will be spared another sequal.  Now we go to a college and the usual students getting on a internet live show.  And some teenager who is so addicted to the internet he foregoes his older sisters party to watch some girl he likes on the show.  Kind of like the typical smart wheelchair bound kid is in other movies like Dress to Kill who saves the day.  Now instead of a wheelchair genius we have internet geeks.  Tyra Banks and Busta are running the show.  Well of course the sex and drug students get it first.  Now all that is left is the innocent and the Busta.  I want to know if Michael Myers is human?  If JLC is his sister he must be.  So why can't someone just kill him? I can see if a person cannot get close enough to kill him.  But he gets electrocuted,  burned  all kind of stuff that would kill the heartiest of humans.  No one sees this guy ever. This why this has got to stop.  You see it has got to end somewhere and I guess this is good as any time. I also get this mixed up with those Friday the 13th movies.  I can't remember which one was on that Space shuttle. In any case that is where they should put this Michael Myers on and let it drift into the big Black Hole in space where all bad movie villians who wear at their welcome should be.  "},{"Title":"*BIG SPOILERS AHEAD*","Date":"3 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  *CAUTION SPOILERS*What the hell is going on here? How does this happen? Halloween Ressurrection left me completely miffed and totally dissapointed. I am a huge fan of the franchise and I will even defend the past couple of installments.... they weren't that bad.... not worth trashing, thats for sure.This one, I am afraid is worth trashing! I was excited at the fact that Rick Rosenthal came to the helm, seeing that his direction in Halloween 2 was an exceptional feat in the heels of John Carpenter.This movie ruins everything! My understanding of the whole Halloween plot is that Michael Myers stops at nothing to rid the world of any bloodline that is his... ie Family. So they kill Lorie Strode within the first 10 minutes..... doesnt that leave her son, the Josh Hartnet character from the previous movie (H20) as the only one left? But there is no sign of him in this movie! Michael Myers has suddenly adopted a new purpose, to randomly kill anyone at any time, for any purpose. No no no, this is all wrong! It destroys all credibility!What a let down. They are bound to make more sequels (one is in production as I write)... and I really hope they can redeem themselves from this grave error. Give us fans at least SOME credit! If Michael Myers has no one left to kill... then let him rest in peace!I give this doosy 1 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Avoid seeing this lame film at all costs","Date":"21 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  ********SPOILERS*********I understand that Michael Myers switched places with the paramdeic in Halloween H20. But, how does the paramedic survive going over a cliff and being sandwiched between a van and a tree? Halloween Resurection had a concept that would have worked back in the late 90's. I'm talking about the webcast. I don't think it worked in this film. Also, most of the killings were unnecessarily gruesome. Overall, this was not a fun or even pleasant movie experience. "},{"Title":"Even Worse Than Curse of Michael Myers","Date":"31 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Even though Halloween jump started the slasher genre, it has gone way off track after  the 1st sequel, Halloween II, which was pretty good.Halloween H20 was a huge letdown because it didn't deliver what it promised, but was  still fairly enjoyable.But Halloween Resurrection is sooo bad. The story doesn't make any sense, is never  believable and is therefore never, ever, even once scary. Plus Busta Rhymes may be a  skilled rapper but he gives a performance so lousy it's almost embarrasing to watch.If you're a fan of Michael Myers, you owe to him to pass this one. "}{"Title":"Are you scared of bad movies?","Date":"31 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie isn't full of nothing and it makes people ask things - like why are bad movies done? If you think Lara Croft is getting old in video games then Michael Meyers should have been dead for decades. But no, he always shows up to kill some stupid and horny teen agers somewhere without any sense. Well, he obviously is a maniac but that is not an excuse for bad writing and directing.I think those who don't have any imagination shouldn't be in the bussines but actually in this bussines most of them are lacking any imagination. And most of those people decided to make another Halloween movie. This one isn't even scary and what kind of a horror movie isn't scary? Typical horror movie, of course. Silent Hill games are art, the plot is beyond our comprehension, it is scary as hell and leaves the player(s) to think and ask questions. During this movie my second question was, is it over yet?There could have been an actual story in this one but I guess producers decided that there shouldn't be one so that their target audience wouldn't leave confused (they propably wouldn't be able to understand if the plot had an actual twist).Michael Meyers is back again and this time he doesn't want to leave home so he decides to slaugther teen agers in his own house. Of course, these shallow teenagers don't know that. So, after special appearance of few dead bodies few of them decides to have sex and then they get killed. If you couldn't guess who are going to get killed and in what order, I strongly recommend that you won't watch any movies now on. This movie is too predictable to be interesting and too disgusting to be liked.And if you thought Michael is going to die, then you're wrong. That son of a teenage killer just won't die. Needless to say, the acting in this movie is bad and the dialogue is horrible and the movie looks like a b-horror movie anyway. If this gets you scared then you really haven't seen a real horror movie. This is total mess in any point of view and it should not have seen light of the day. But it did. However, the best thing is that you don't have to see it. That is indeed an accomplishment. Is this worse than other titles of the series? Hard to say when all of them are bad except the original.This really is one of the worse movies I have seen. This franchise really proves that people don't learn from their mistakes. The crew didn't, anyway. This series has faced so much criticism that it surprises me that they haven't done any improvements. Hopefully no one thought that they were making a good movie - that would be really scary!   "},{"Title":"oh come ON already!!","Date":"5 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Yes yes yes, I'm a BIG fan of the horror genre and an even BIGGER fan of Halloween.  I'll even admit I liked two, four, five and H20.  However, the rest could all go out with the contents of my cat's litter box. Rusurrection is no exception.I honestly had no intention of seeing this movie, but curiosity got the better of me (as well as my horror fixation) and so I finally broke down. Thank God I didn't spend a single penny of my hard earned money for this load of garbage.First off, they start it off ALL wrong by their explanation on bringing Myers back.  They did an AWESOME job of putting an end to it all in H20 and had they still wanted to do more movies, then a prequel could have sufficed. But noooooooo, they go n screw it up with this load of trash.*SPOILER*Their next big mistake was killin off our beloved Laurie Strode.  How dare they!?  Now, I'm quite certain Jamie Lee Curtis probably had something to do with that.  Probably a conversation along the lines of If you MUST do another movie, kill my character off PLEASE cuz I don't want to be linke to what has now become crap.   I could be wrong, of course.  But I doubt it.*End Spoiler*Honestly people, if you really must see this, rent it on someone ELSE'S dime.  Not yours.I'm not even giving this one stars.  Blah. "},{"Title":"Not sure what to think.....","Date":"14 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Let it be known. I love Halloween. Ever since I saw it as a teenager I've been quite obsessive about it. The music, the mask and Donald Pleasance have never been far from my mind so rating Resurrection has been very tricky.Let it also be known that I loved 2 and even 3, hated 4, despised 5 loathed 6 and adored H20. So again this made Resurrection trickier still.I think the best way to do this is via pro's and con's.ProsLink to H20 was very well handled indeed. The mask is the best it has been since number 2. Busta Rhymes was most entertaining. Michael on the whole was very effective. (Maybe too mush emphasis was used on him studying death).ConsThe beginning was poor. Laurie Strode was too important for it end like that. I felt nothing for any of the victims. I almost felt sorry for Michael, having these idiots in my house would have driven me to murder. The end was awful. We should at least be left with the uncertainty of whether he is dead or not.So in the scheme of things Resurrection is fifth best out of eight.That boiler suit must be stinking by now!!!  "},{"Title":"Advice...","Date":"9 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  If you haven't seen this film yet, save yourself 2 hours...watch the trailer! The 'best' bits are all jammed in there.Personally I think the whole thing is ridiculous, and it annoys me that Hollywood producers these days put no effort into these mindless productions, which are obviously motivated only by money, and not art or originality (which the 1st one had).The whole thing is past it's sell-by date, and stinks. If you do decide to rent, or buy this, then be prepared for a mind-numbing experience.The end. "},{"Title":"Halloween hits the drive-in.","Date":"6 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  It's official. The Halloween series has reached the point of no return. Nothing save a miracle can help this series, which is now dragging itself by the legs.As if Halloweens 5 and 6 weren't bad enough, this installment sets new levels, finally merging with its rival franchise Friday the 13th in creating a sloppy, pointless gore fest.The sad fact is, no matter how lame, the Halloween series was still the only boogeyman franchise that still remained halfway decent. In the midst of countless Jason flicks and too many Freddy nightmares, Halloween films always managed to stay away from total shlock. It still had a (if overused) plot in the 7th installment. You can't say that for any of the other series.But it seems number 8 was the magic number, and Halloween has bit the big one. The acting has never been worse, the script never more underdeveloped, and the results never so cheesy.The plot involves a group of college kids being paid to stay one night in the infamous Myers' house, childhood home of our favorite masked villain. Little do they know the house's owner hasn't left, he's just...been away for a while. But now he's back, and these kids are toast.Heads roll down stairs, people are impaled with numerous sharp objects, and the whole thing is watched by a group of kids via the Internet in a pointless subplot that makes you say What the hell?I said that a lot during this movie. Michael mindlessly stalks these cardboard idiots while director Rosenthal (who also helmed the series' first sequel) tries to impress us with shots of the characters through their video head units. Wow.Tyra Banks also shows up as the most useless character to ever appear in a Halloween film, and even our own original heroine Laurie Strode stars in the opening sequence, which is so badly written you wonder what bribe they gave Jamie Lee to even utter that horrible dialogue.Halloween has now hit the full-out cheesiness of a drive-in B movie.I knew it had to happen sometime.This franchise is RIP. "},{"Title":"Story line very, very bad","Date":"2 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  *** SPOILERS *** I've enjoyed many of the Halloween movies, especially the first one.  I saw H20 back when it came out and thought it was a good way to end the series.  H20 satisfied the following...Michael Myers met his doom.  An ending which completely wraps up the saga with Jamie Lee Curtis and Michael Myers. Now comes this film which, literally, lies to the viewer.  There is really no other way to put it.  To say Michael Myers was not killed at the end of H20, that it was somehow another man who survived being pinned against a tree at high speed, is tantamount to the most foolish storyline I can imagine.  Not so much because it is ridiculous but because it's a complete lie.  The film was ruined for me right there.  I couldn't believe the writers actually expected the audience to believe such a thing.  A total insult the audience's intelligence.The rest of the film just never worked for me.  Busta Rhymes.  Man, I don't know what to say.  Worst actor of the year award?  And the whole reality TV angle with all the Myer props in the house, which had nothing to do with Michael Myer's real childhood, was absurd as well.  Just a bad, bad storyline.  I read an interview with John Carpenter a long time ago which stated he never wanted a single sequel made with Michael Myers.  The first movie back in 1978 was it.  A great open ending but the Michael Myers story was complete.  Carpenter actually wanted other writers to write stories under the name Halloween each year with different characters and story lines each time.  It is past time for that to happen.Please.....No more Michael Myers.  The man is gone...Dead in H20.  Burn this installment of the Halloween series and start with a fresh story line.         "},{"Title":"Undoes everything that the brilliant H20 achieved.","Date":"27 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Why, when the Halloween series had reached such a successfully satisfying conclusion in 'Halloween H20 Twenty Years Later' did the money grabbing Akkads feel the need to undermine all that H20 had achieved, by completely rewriting the ending?For those who havn't already seen Resurrection, it won't be giving much away to say that unstoppable killing machine Michael Myers wasn't really killed by his sister Laurie (Jamie-Lee Curtis) at the end of the previous film, and is back to wreak more havoc on a group of unsuspecting Haddonfield teens. However, the rather flimsy and implausable reason given for Myers' 'resurrection' is by no means the most offensive flaw in the film. No, that would be the casting of rapper Busta Rhymes. Playing a cunning internet entrepeuner who plans to show a live webcast of a group of students exploring the house where Michael lived as a child, Rhymes displays a complete lack of talent and ability to act. The inclusion of a rap icon proved successful with LLCoolJ in H20 - who brought humour to the role and provided the script with a carefully limited dose of comedic value. However, Rhymes is annoying, loud and very rarely talks in comprehensible sentences. He gurns his way through the film, performs an embarrassing display of martial arts against Myers, and generally smacks of the producers attempting to include as many aspects into the film that they deem popular with the audience - thus gaining maximum box-office returns.It has been clear that producer Moustapha Akkad sees the series as nothing more than a sure-fire way to pay the mortgage, but never has it been so evident as in 'Resurrection'. Without giving anything away, the first ten minutes of the film are completely unnecessary and poorly executed, leaving what should be the series' most poignant sequence looking like the most amateurish and embarrassing; in what is supposed to be a steady tracking shot down a corridor, the camera actually wobbles.Rick Rosenthal (who more than competently handled 'Halloween 2') however, can not be entirely blamed for the film's downfall. The script is uningaging and often embarrassing and sorely missing any of the psycho-babble that Donald Pleasance used to spout in the previous films. That - the only adult or intelligent aspect of the previous films which set the Halloween series apart from its evil cousin 'Friday the 13th'- has now completely disappeared, replaced with a focus on a bland, indistinguishable group of teenagers being methodically buthchered in 'inventive' ways.However, the film does manage to create a few moments of well crafted suspense. Although the whole intenet aspect is a naff attempt to bring the series into the 21st century (previously failing in 'My Little Eye'), the sequence where one of the characters must follow instuctions from an internet user who can watch Michael's every move is genuinely tense. For a moment. The final scenes are also well carried out - were it not for the presence of Busta Rhymes. The setting of the house proves to be quite spooky at times, although when it is realised that all the scary artifacts from Michael's childhood have merely been set up, any potential for an exploration of Michael's evil is immediately lost.Of course , for general horror fans, 'Resurrection' will still prove entertaining, though not at all on the same levels as the first two outings or H20, but for die-hard fans of the series, the half-hearted execution of (practically every aspect of) the film (even the music is dire) and undoing of the perfect conclusion to the series in H20, will cause serious frustration. "},{"Title":"And you thought Part 6 was bad...","Date":"10 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Being a massive fan of the Halloween movies, I have been eagerly awaiting this new installment for some time. I really shouldn't have bothered. There are many other more interesting dvd's out there that I should have watched before getting around to this one Traffic Lights - A History in black and white, The Art of Watching Paint Dry - Part 2 or the classic Toe Clippings - A Collectors guide. All of these would have been preferable to having to endure such intelligence-insulting rubbish as this.I am now obliged to write SPOILER in large capitals, so I don't give anything important away. But I really shouldn't have to...1. Michael Myers is not dead. Plausibility Factor 8/10. So far so good...2. Laurie actually killed a pre-(Semi)strangled security guard in H20. Plausibility Factor 4/10. Oh dear.3. Michael Kills Laurie in (almost) the first reel of the film. Plausibility Factor 3/10. And sliding...4. Busta Rhymes is the hero. Plausibility Factor 1/10. And, yes, it CAN (and does) get worse.5. Michael is still not dead at the end of this movie. Plausibility Factor 10/10. Aaahh. That's better.Take your average horror film IQ, halve it, then divide by 4, then subtract the average age of your expected viewer demographic and you'll be close to the number of brain cells used while pitching this idea to the studio. Halve it again and that's about how many seconds it took the studio to split their sides laughing at the idea before cashing the cheque.It also seems that the makers of Halloween Resurrection have had to sink to an even lower level Copying Friday the 13th movies! Note the Jason style head-squeeze and the scene where Myers is hanged/hung/whatever. Pure Friday the 13th Part 3. Perhaps Michael will come back in the next film wearing a hockey mask...One final note The 5-10 minute scene with the mobile phone and e-mailed warnings was actually surprisingly good (If under-used). Points for effort there at least.(Apologies if this review seems a little disjointed. I just thought I'd try to properly re-capture the feel of the movie). "},{"Title":"Great movie!","Date":"2 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Hey there everyone! I thought this film would be crap, but it was funny. Okey, the acting wasn't brilliant, and 'the shape' wasn't the same as in the first movie, but it was just a nice movie, nothing more and nothing less. Jamie Lee Curtis died in the first ten minutes. That's a shame, I think. But although the scream-queen is finally kiled. At the beginning of the movie I just knew who was going to survive, and I was right! This movie is full of clichés, but that didn't really matter to me. 'Halloween'new version, 'Halloween'for the new generation. Easy, but very nice.  "},{"Title":"Not as Bad as Everyone Makes it Out","Date":"24 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Starring Bianca Kajlich, Busta Rhymes, Sean Patrick Thomas, Ryan Merriman, Katee Sackhoff, Thomas Ian Nicholas, Luke Kirby, Tyra Banks, Daisy McCrackin, Brad Loree, and Jamie Lee Curtis as Laurie Strode. 2 out of 4 My IMDB Rating 5.1/10 Rated R for Strong Graphic Violence, Language, Brief Nudity, and Sexual Content.HALLOWEEN meets MTV's Fear in this eighth sequel to John Carpenter's groundbreaking slasher picture. Like HALLOWEEN H20, it ignores all the post-HALLOWEEN II sequels and hews to a chronology in which unstoppable killer Michael Myers vanished following his 1978 rampage, reappearing 20 years later to further torment his traumatized sister, Laurie Strode (Jamie Lee Curtis). Here, six college students are recruited for a live, online reality show called Dangertainment. Outfitted with mini-camera packs, they'll spend Halloween night in the old Myers house in Haddonfield, Illinois, poking around dusty corners and looking for clues about Michael Myers' dark past. What they don't realize is that opportunistic producer Freddie Harris (Busta Rhymes) and his assistant have rigged the place into a haunted funhouse guaranteed to prompt the panicky reactions that keep viewers interested. Five of the group think the whole experience will be fake. Jen and Rudy hope the exposure will jump-start their careers, skeptics Donna and Jim figure it will give them something to sneer at and  Bill is just on the make. Only thoughtful psych student Sara (Bianca Kajlich), the archetypal final girl, is at all rattled by the house's bloody history, and it's giving nothing away to reveal that history is about to repeat itself. The film does its best to tie up loose ends - it opens with a prologue that severs forever the bloody tie between Michael and Laurie (Jamie Lee Curtis, again gamely reprising the role that made her famous) - and put a fresh spin on familiar material without straying too far from the fan-tested formula. I'm highly surprised that Busta Rhymes was not nominated for a Razzie Award. The cameras in the Myers house are very similar to homemade movies. It sort of reminds me of a BLAIR WITCH PROJECT rip-off, but it's a good way to get the victims-to-be into the Myers house and keep them there once spooky stuff starts happening. But director Rick Rosenthal (HALLOWEEN II) seems to have forgotten everything he ever knew about generating suspense, relying on cliched shadows and grainy, handheld images supposedly shot by the increasingly terrified students. "}{"Title":"Worst film I have ever seen.","Date":"23 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This was the first movie that has ever made me want to vomit.  Storyline was so farfetched and the acting was some of the worst I have ever seen in my life.  Busta Rhymes proves my theory, If you sing it gives you no right to act.  I wasted about two hours of my life on this movie please dont do that to yourself.  Never see this movie. "},{"Title":"Why, oh WHY!!  Did they make this movie?","Date":"17 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Why didn't the leave this series alone with H20?  That was the perfect ending to the Halloween series.  As far as I am concerned the only Halloween movies that are relevant are 1,2 and H20.Now that been said, my review of the movie First off the when the nurses are discussing how Myers survived, could that be a weaker and more unbelievable explanation or what?  He switched places with an EMT? Michael Myers has been a personification of relentless unstoppable evil, not one who fakes his own death in order to fool everyone.  He just simply disappears, and returns later to finish his hellish work.  Then the inevitable battle with Laurie Strode, contrived and predictable at best, unbefitting Curti's character at worst.Then came the predictable reality TV approach, set at the old home of Michael Myers himself.  Busta Rhymes and Tyra Banks made the movie even worse, neither one can act.  The contestants were killed off one by one in a predictable manner, all in all, I give this movie a 1 out of 10.  The only reason it rates a one is I couldn't go any lower on the voting scale.The three true Halloween movies sent chills up my spine, and were excellent, ones I enjoy watching over and over.  The four wannabe Halloween movies aren't worth the celluloid they are printed on. "},{"Title":"Piece of Crap","Date":"6 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Halloween 8 is so dumb. The Plot is really bad. The only good part is the beginning where Laurie Strode is in a Mental Hospital,I somehow wish they`d expand that into a whole movie,but It ends up being a dumb movie about The Internet,and Reality TV. Brad Loree is the Worst Michael Myers ever. It is so damn dumb!0/5 "},{"Title":"What a pile of feces","Date":"28 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I had resisted the temptation to see Halloween Resurrection at the theaters, and it turned out to be a wise decision. Better to waste $2 on the rental than $9 at the show. This is quite possibly the worst of the lot, and that says a lot considering how bad the last 4 of these movies have been. This film makes Season of the Witch seem like a cinematic masterpiece. The first 16 minutes of this clunker serve as a sort of prologue. In this part we see Jamie Lee, again proving why she is among (if not THE) worst actresses ever. The premise in which we discover why Michael still lives is laughable...come on, watch the paramedic walking around an accident scene while brandishing a large knife and tell me you didn't laugh at it. I'm guessing her appearance semi-served to identify this movie with the rest of the series, to validate it if you will. All it did was bore me.Then we get to the main premise which is actually something that showed promise put some people in the Meyer's house on Halloween and do a webcast. But right away we get your generic ensemble of victims thrust upon us, and you find yourself not caring about them a bit. Why? Partly because you know nothing about them. Upon viewing the deleted scenes you see an extended version of the scene where they're all introduced, but as the director explains he felt it was too long and that he could more effectively introduce them with the scene used in the movie. He was wrong. The deleted scene, while a bit draggy (could've been streamlined though), actually was much better than what made the final cut. You end up not being able to get a clear feel for anyone in this film, and you honestly could care less what happens to them. Yes its a horror film, but some type of character development/introduction is still necessary for the film to work. Another shortcoming was the reasoning for them being in the house. I think it would have been suitable for them to be there as a publicity stunt, to put them in a scary place and see if they survive the webcast. Instead we're told that they're in there to find the truth, to find answers of why Mikey went bad. Bah. Anyway, the movie has its generic kills and a really uninspired ending.The whole concept of what Michael Meyers is/was (and why) has been misused, abused, and generally distorted. This movie, like most of the sequels, has no style and no sense of what the franchise should be. Its easily among the worst movies I've ever seen, a list that includes H2O as well. Avoid this at all costs. "},{"Title":"Should have left it buried...","Date":"25 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Right from the get go Halloween 8 reeks of cliché. In the short time since Scream was released, have we really already reverted back to this crap that plagued the 1980's and forever made horror movies about as well respected as amateur porn. It's too bad that a good slasher is an oxy-moron.Big surprise that the man that directed this also helmed one of my other least favorite horror movies of all time (Halloween II). Just like that film, the pacing is dreadfully slow and the characters cardboard flat. All conventions of the genre are well fed here. There's the virginal hero, the slutty best friend, the sex obsessed frat boy, the bad boy loner, on and on and f*cking on.Illogical, contrived, and totally unrealistic. Yes I know this would never happen in real life. Neither would Scream and I loved that movie. Make fun of the new slashers all you want but at least some of them have some brains. Thanks for killing the slasher genre AGAIN... "},{"Title":"Cheapens the original","Date":"19 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I thought it was bad. Predictable Cheap Stupid It takes away from the original. The original to me had a good story line and plot, mystery, and  was made more real. The old one took you to a region in your mind that made you wonder if there are monsters out there in the real world like Mike. All this in a horror movie is rare.This one is nothing like that and scored a 4 out of 10.This is more like Jason Vorhees changed masks. "},{"Title":"Make it stop...!","Date":"16 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** When is this whole Halloween franchise going to let up, huh? I mean, the first one was good, I'll give them that, and Halloween H20 was pretty okay... but this... bleugh... I think what stunk most about this film was not only the ridiculous plot, but the dialogue was unintentionally hilarious . I can't remember the last time I laughed during a scene where someone was being brutally murdered.***SPOILERS***Okay, so the writers thought up a way to bring back Micheal Myers (and I have to say... ha ha ha ha ha ha!!!!). Apparently, that WASN'T him that got his head chopped off in H20... oh no it wasn't... in a Hannibal Lector style face swappy thingy, it was actually a police officer wearing his white mask. Aha!! And we have a film ladies and gentlemen! A crappy one at that! And guess what? You know what else they're going to do? They're going to get a big group of actors in their late 20's to play some teenagers staying in Micheal Myers' house! And there you have it. The entire plot in one sentence. That's what you get.So, you have a group of teenagers staying in Micheal Myers' house making a 'documentary'. Hmmm... guess they couldn't think of any other excuse to get a couple of teens hacked up. They've all ready done the baby sitter thing, just put them in his house with some cameras, and there you go! A plot! Kind of... The only decent scene in this film is the part where one of the 'kids' dresses up like Micheal Myers to scare the others, and the real one is walking behind him through the house. Both funny and a bit confusing there for a second... although not enough to save the movie.What got me the most was the scene where that guy was talking to himself in the mirror (or whatever he was doing - I don't really want to think about it) and Micheal shot through the mirror and killed him. Erm, excuse me, is the entire house sound proof or something? How did no-one hear that? And Micheal has got to be God or something - apparently being hacked at numerous times by a chainsaw, thrown out the window, stabbed, hit over the head and set on fire doesn't kill a man nowadays...This wasn't even scary either - the first one and H20 had it's jumpy moments, but this one you could see the so-called scary moments a mile off. Who couldn't predict that girl getting it when she went behind that wall into his 'secret' place or whatever it was? They might as well have put up a neon sign that said Death this way >>> Basically, I think the writers should have quit while they were ahead with H20 - left the damn thing dead.  "},{"Title":"Forget this film and accept the ending of Halloween H2O.","Date":"7 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Horrible Halloween entry and sequel to Halloween H2O.  The start of this film with Jamie Lee Curtis looked promising, but alas, it ended to quick and the demise of the strong character of Laurie is unacceptable to me.  After this, the film becomes too ridiculous.  Very predictable and did not scare me a bit.  I would rather forget this film and accept the ending of Halloween H2O for what it is.   Thanks for returning as Laurie Mrs. Jamie Lee Curtis, but so sorry the rest of the film was bad.  "},{"Title":"LAME","Date":"3 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Contains Spoiler!!! In tonight's routine episode, Michael Myers finally spoiler kills Laurie Strode, and celebrates by going home (under which he's been living all this time, of course) and slashing some random idiots filming a stupid Internet webcast in his house. In the end, it looks like he dies, but he really gets away, aren't we surprised!  "},{"Title":"This film probably could have been worse... It could have been longer.","Date":"31 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I watched Halloween Resurrection last night and I must say, yikes. It was anti-climactic and un-original. The order of the deaths, and the deaths themselves were predictable. (Which is a strange gripe I realize, but hey, this is a horror movie.) The attitudes of certain characters changed on a dime to try to fulfill some stupid scene so they can get murdered quicker. (e.g. The redhead Feminist-turned-sex-fiend) Deus ex machina anyone? Don't waste the 90minutes of your life.In the guide that I read this movie got 1 1/2 stars. I'm willing to bet the star was for Jamie Lee Curtis, and the half was for having a reality show with the ending we all can rejoice in... ... everyone of them die. "}{"Title":"Halloween 27 Trash, Trash, Trash","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Wow.... I am surprised that the people who keep making these films don't get the hint they need to stop. They have made so many sequels... Why???? The movies only get worse. And did anybody notice that it's called Halloween Resurrection? It's kind of funny that this movie has nothing to do with resurrections since Michael Myers was somehow alive all along after he managed to fake his decapitation.  "},{"Title":"Oh my god","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Might have spoiler in this comment I am big fan of Halloween but my god when i watch this at the cinema it was the worse film i ever seen this year what have they done to the halloween films i was upset abit. Busta Rhymes when micheal was walking behine him he would of been dead for sure micheal kills anyone who gets in his way. Jamie lee curtis died in the film in a bad way and wish could off killed her of in a better way then that. The whole big brother thing is stupid and silly and no other halloween film can't beat John Carpenter's Halloween giving this film 0/10 (WHAT A WASTE OF MONEY AND TIME) "},{"Title":"Be ashamed...be very very ashamed....","Date":"27 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Rick Rosenthal.  This is the worst Halloween movie ever made...this movie makes Halloween 3 Season of the Witch look good.  Compared to this Jason goes to Hell is Oscar worthy  AND WHAT DID YOU DO TO THE MASK! this movie is just wrong on so many levels.  Micheal Myers was always the best Freddy is good but jokes too much to be scary Jason is the one to watch when you're in the mood for a bad slasher flick but Micheal? Micheal was the man to watch when you wanted to be really scared. AND RICK ROSENTHAL RUINED HIM. Did I mention he also ruined the mask? what was with that? and what was with the chicks glass shattering screams?? they focused on that for 20 seconds and then forgot about it. BLAIR WITCH SUCKED STOP WITH THE FREAKING CANDID CAMERA CRAP!!! I'm sorry i'm just terribly disappointed with this movie i think rosenthal should give back the $3 i spent to rent this drivel. Do not watch this NO NO NO NO PUT IT BACK RENT SOMETHING ELSE jeepers creepers or even Jason X. Do not give these people anymore of your money until they pull this from shelves and try harder not just attempt to cash in on this reality t.v. nonsense....and one more thing before i forget WHAT THE HELL POSSESSED THEM TO LET BUSTA RYMES GO ALL KUNG-FU ON MM???? JET-LI Vs MICHEAL MYERS ug that was just wrong....so very very wrong..... "},{"Title":"No offence Mr. Rosenthal but you suck!","Date":"26 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Is it not bad enough that we experienced Rick Rosenthal's travesty of the Halloween series as early as part 2?Is not enough that we have sat through countless cliched horror films? Why must we be subjected to the same old thing, Rick?  Why bloody rip scenes off from John's very fantastic original Halloween and NOT EVEN MAKE THEM SCARY? Can you not think of your own ideas?AND (forgive me for being so negative), that whole story at the start that showed why Michael was still alive? I mean PUHLEASE! If it was a paramedic in the back of that ambulance and not really Michael at the end of the last film, why in the name of Norman Bates was he trying to kill Jamie Lee? Because he was angry?  Because he was p***ed that he accidently washed his white shirt with his coloureds and it came out pink? No wait, he was a jilted lover of Jamie Lee's and wanted revenge.  Or maybe he was Donald Pleasance and he figured that the only way to stop Michael was to kill her!I am so sure that Jamie Lee Curtis said Sure I'll do ANOTHER Halloween film but ONLY if you kill me in like 10 minutes so I can NOT come back cause I'm so OVER these films.And what's with Michael opening his eyes at the end? - Gee! Michael is not dead, how surprising, I really wasn't expecting that!!!!!!!!! How insulting!Not only was this film boring, it was cliche ridden and it was no fun. And I really needed to go to the toilet about 30 minutes in and I thought to myself no, I won't go cause something really good is going to happen, and GUESS WHAT?? I peed my pants waiting for like 3 DAYS.Anyway, I over putting myself through any more pain about this film, although, I must say, Halloween 2 is MUCH better than this fish and that's saying something. "},{"Title":"THE END OF A GREAT SERIES","Date":"24 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Well, folks, we have seen the last great horror series sink to the level of Freddy, Jason, Pinhead, and others. The thing that made this series the best, and most believable was this IT ENDED!!!!The best ending to a horror series is that the killer finally gets killed, and in Halloween H2O it should have stopped there. That was a great finish to the best horror series ever. Laurie killing Michael should have closed the book on the story, but no..... Hollywood had to keep going with it, turning it into a soap opera of a horror series. How many times in soap operas is someone suppossed to be dead, only to come back later because they somehow escaped, or somebody else got killed who looked just like them??When the series was going into film #4,#5, #6, and so on, the one thing that made the films more entertaining, and believable, was that Michael never actually died. As to where Jason dies and comes back, and Freddy and Pinhead are already dead, the thing that makes Halloween so scary is that Michael was never dead to begin with. But now the series is as laughable as the Friday The 13th's, Elm Streets, and Hellraiser films.Simply put, this film should not have been made. Had they quit with Michael finally being killed in H2O, this would have gone down as the greatest horror series in movie history. But since they kept him around?? Unfortunately now every horror series ever made simply sucks!!  "},{"Title":"The worst one yet.","Date":"23 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  *~*~*~ Spoilers Ahead *~*~*~Oh, this film is bad.  I'm a big fan of the 'Halloween' films, but there is absolutely no excuse for how terrible 'Halloween Resurrection' is.I had been wanting to see this film for a while.  The previous movie, 'Halloween H20' was really good, so I figured that the scares would keep coming.  Well, I guess when it comes to an eighth installment (this is the eighth film!), the 'Halloween' franchise has officially gone down hill.'Resurrection' started off slowly and pretty much continued at the same pace for the entire duration of this nightmare.  Jamie Lee Curtis is killed within the first ten minutes, and that right there was enough to persuade me to turn the garbage off.  Seriously, Curtis is a favorite of mine, and was it really appropriate to kill her as soon as the credits stopped rolling?  So, Jamie's dead, I'm mad, and 'Halloween', a once simple and scary film, is now buried in cameras that are hooked up to the Internet.  'Halloween' has now ventured into the dark side.  The change between professional filming and the personal filming gave me a headache for the whole 94 minutes (or so).  'Resurrection' drags on and on.  It wasn't scary, the death scenes were over in the blink of an eye, and every scene was predictable including the end.  Now of course, Michael Myers is still alive, which more than likely means that another 'Halloween' film is in the making.  What a terrible idea that is.The direction that this film was under was unbelievably idiotic.  Rick Rosenthal, who directed the wonderful 'Halloween 2', is apparently now under the influence of drugs.  His directing is half done and simply terrible.The acting is probably among the worst I have seen in a while.  I liked Bianca Kajlich on 'Boston Public', but she is not fit to appear on the big screen.  Katee Sackhoff, Daisy McCrackin, Thomas Ian Nicholas, Sean Patrick Thomas, and Luke Kirby are also bad.  It's a shame that the film didn't even allow the audience to actually see them before most of them were killed.  Maybe I would have liked them better in that case.  Busta Rhymes is ridiculous.  He obviously can't act, but he did manage to make me laugh a couple of times.  Tyra Banks' incredibly small role here is no big deal.  Ryan Merriman is probably the best of them all, and I'm just saying that because I've liked him in previous movies.  Overall, the cast is awful.Everything about 'Halloween Resurrection' is asinine.  The acting is horrible, the death scenes are silly, the writing is simple, and the film is just not scary in the slightest bit.  Most of the 'Halloween' movies ARE scary, but this one isn't at all.  I would say that it's a shame that 'Resurrection' is so short, but in this case, it's a relief.  Nobody should have to sit through this trash. "},{"Title":"Eight Is Enough!","Date":"21 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I wish I could say that this movie lacked any redeemable values... but I have to admit that there were some good moments to be had by anyone who enjoys the genre and the franchise.  Unfortunately, these tense and suspenseful moments occur towards the last 20 minutes of the film.The story  revolves around a reality TV show, owned by Busta Rhymes and produced by Tyra Banks, that puts a group of college students in the old Myers house to unravel the mysteries behind Michael's killing spree. There are an abundance of limp thrills and cheap gore sprinkled with some genuine cleverness.  It was great to see Jamie Lee Curtis resurrecting her role as the homicidal maniac's favorite sister, but her part seemed to have been added solely to give credence that the movie is connected to parts 1, 2, and H2O.  So, if you are a true Myers fan, rent the video but don't bring out the expensive popcorn.And as for Busta Rhymes' performance... sadly, William Shatner's spray-painted, latex mask out-acted him in every scene! "},{"Title":"Why does someone always have to spoil things!","Date":"20 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  As a major horror fan I've seen a lot of crap in the past but crap horror is certainly a genre that can be tolerated and enjoyed in the right frame of mind - there's no way I'd own all the Friday the 13th movies on video if not.Over the years I've been particularly forgiving of the Halloween series mainly because I think the first movie is an outright classic and the characters it created were certainly good enough to continue as a franchise - the series since then has had it's ups and downs but HalloweenH20, the 7th sequel was in my opinion a great film - it captured the mood of the original, brought back important members of the original cast and the ending was an absolutely perfect way to finish the franchise - with this in mind, why go on?Well as fat execs sat around the table the thought of an 8th sequel popped in to their brains. Clearly by this time nobody could care less about the movie anymore because nothing decent story-wise could be further developed - no, this time around money was clearly the only motivation.SPOILER! In my opinion HalloweenResurrecion makes two fatal errors or rather director Rick Rosenthal who should have known better does. For starters, and simply put it's just awful. The set-up is far too gimmicky and sets the movie in a very limited time scale clothes aside Halloween could have been in any era. The film's characters are a horrible bunch of charisma-free smart arses who spew a lot of cultural references that are obvious now but in just a few years will mainly be rendered obsolete. I'm afraid to say I cared not an iota about one single character in the movie and could certainly remember only a few of their names just a few moments after leaving the cinema. They're all horror movie cliches which I thought we'd done a long time ago - post modern 90's horror belongs in the nineties.Characters aside though is the movie scary? A resounding no on that scale - for one if your characters are unlikeable then you'll be rooting for them to get it not to run away. Deaths are unimaginitive, lots of them are offscreen not a bad thing if done with suspense and most shocks are achieved with musical stabs and characters jumping out on each other. Secondly, I thnk an attempt at humour was made during filming but somewhere it got lost - what may have seemed a cool idea in production just doesn't work on screen - Busta Rymes character for a start practising Bruce Lee-style kung-fu on Michael Myers. I also hear that the ending was re-shot to make it better - if this was the case then I dread to thnk what they rejected - I'm afraid making the audience believe the killer is dead and finishing with him opening an eye is so hackneyed - I think they used that one in a Friday the 13th fifteen years previously.To it's credit the film does have one great scene when the Rymes character is dresed as Michael Myers only to encounter the real killer - this flash of ingenuity only depresses you further as you think what could have been.Man more questions go unanswered? Why do the group all end up alone in such a tiny house? Why does nobody hear anyone else scream? Who's controlling the net cameras that follow Michael around the house and why don't they tell anyone about it? and why seemingly is only one group of teenagers watching the damn broadcast in  the first place? Oh yeah I forget so the contrived text messaging ending can take placeMost importantly and I'm sorry to go on is the lack of respect the film displays for the previous movies specifically 1, 2 and H20. By killing Laurie Strode they're messing with a formula - one that has been around since 1978 when Halloween 1 came out. To simply kill off a lead after so long changes the way you see the original because no matter how much you root for her you know that ultimately Michael will kill her. H20 wrapped things up so perfectly and so satisfyingly that there was simply no need to continue. At least a decent justification of the sequel would have sufficced but Resuurection's explanation of oh it was someone else just does NOT cut it.I can only hope now that either a Halloween 8 will be made because Resuurection has no number as it were to wrap things up properly again. If not however I will simply block this film from memory and assume H20 was the end of the saga.Dimension Films, Rick Rosenthal and Moustpha Akkad - hang your heads in shame for the irony of making Resurrection the complete opposite! The death of the Halloween franchise. "},{"Title":" OUTRAGED!","Date":"14 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  SPOILERS*****ok first of all who in the world wanted another halloween movie! the last one was pretty good and showed he died! I have to admit i haventd seen all of the movies but i'll seen  great deal of them! I have to say whoever directed this movie should be banished from hollywood FOREVER! Where to start! fist off the whole let's kill jamie lee thing just so people wll come and see the film was not a great idea and i bet if they do another sequel, which they will probally do she will be back! OK second the actors! the blonde wannbe brittany murphay should have been killed first! i wanted to strangler her myself! Third the whole camera angle thing, (blair witch type) bugged the crap out of me! the rest of the actors were so horrible! (for all you people who say tyra banks sucked she wasn't even in the movie and she didn't have much to work with) fourth, the only sara using a digital interent to talk to her interent boyfriend! come on (he's in the hall)(he's right there) come on! Fifth, most of the movie i was cracking up because how bad the acting was and the plot and the screaming and the idea! sixth, there was no suspense up to the killing and the music didnt work! like if you see the movie, you know who is next! overall i give this a 0/100 yes 100! THERE IS so many things wrong with this. i am outraged that you imdb users that wrote comments say that this might be the second best hallwoeen movie come on i'd think you be alittle smarter than that!  "},{"Title":"This movie sux","Date":"11 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is better than H2o but sux just as bad. I used to love Halloween (part 4 &5 were in my opinion the best) but this series has truly got to stop SERIOUSLY. I don't even know how they could get anyone to produce such horrible films I mean can't they come up with a whole new horror series or are they all just to wacked out as these films portray them as being?? "}{"Title":"Oh dear","Date":"30 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I really wanted to do a Spinal Tap style two word review for this, but it has to be of a certain length. So I would just like to say how bad a film this is. No, that's an understatement, it's a terrible film. It is so full of horror cliches that it's as if Scream was never made. Halloween Ressurection follows the rules set in Scream exactly Those who have sex die, take drugs etc. die. This could be forgiven if the film was actually scary, but it's not. There is one scare at the start, but from then on it is so obvious what is going to happen, that the film quickly loses all credibility. And the ending is unbelievably predictable, and in the end gives the audience the scariest thought That there will be ANOTHER Halloween film. There are a few redeaming features, such as the Blair Witch style cameras and the homage to Pulp Fiction, but it cannot be forgiven for it's stereotypical nature. 1 out of 5. "},{"Title":"Isn't Michael getting a bit old for this? I know I am.","Date":"10 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I have lost count of the nightmares that I have had over the years that relate to Halloween and Michael Myers, the theme tune alone is usually enough to scare me silly. That was until I watched this pile of manure!The opening 15 minutes was passable, though I pitied Jamie Lee having to put her name to the overall film. What followed was an exercise in how to completely bury a horror series. Granted the only films that have any credibility were Halloween, H4 and H20, but even in the darkest (or should that be lightest) moments of the fifth and sixth episodes at least Michael himself was scary. Not any longer.There wasn't a believable or likeable character in the film, Laurie apart, and how the hell Busta Rhymes was cast I will never know.It is almost wasting breath to plead that there will be no more Halloween films, because there will be. The only positive thing that could be said is that at least they can't be as bad as this one. "},{"Title":"mini-review","Date":"6 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I'll keep this short and sweet, rather unlike this film... The Halloween series has become a horror film legacy and rightfully so purely on the basis of the first 2 films alone. They expose the Nightmare on Elm Street films in comparrison for the poor, weird films they are. However, the Halloween legend has been tarnished in the past by poor films in the series, Halloween 3 and H20 spring to mind. Sadly, carrying on from H20 in more ways than just plot (ie. it's poo on a stick...), Halloween Resurrection is nothing short of a joke. It's original, (but then so was Scary Movie once, and that has 1 decent gag in it...) but flawed. Terrible acting from no-hoper teen newbies, no suspense and/or terror and laughable special effects make this one of the worse horror films of recent years. Avoid. "},{"Title":"Why did they do it?","Date":"31 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I don't understand why this film was made?H20 finished perfectly. It tied up the loose ends in a way that did the series justice. The way in which this film starts makes no sense whatsoever. Basically, the film has been totally spoilt before the opening title comes up.The only scary thing about this is its predictability and acting. Busta Rhymes being the worst culprit with some of the most corny lines i've ever heard. "},{"Title":"Help! Why did I Watch This Film?","Date":"26 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  A major question pops into my head when I think of the long running horror franchise films such as Friday the 13th (currently on 10) and Nightmare on Elm Street (currently on 7). This question is why do we need more sequels or put more bluntly why do we need more remakes of the original film but with a slightly different touch, like a new setting or a new group of people to kill.As you can tell I didn't like this film at all, as the cast were utterly predictable and there were numerous sorry excuses for actors especially rapper turned actor Busta Rhymes. The plot is basically a repeat of the previous sequels and the climax is nothing short of rubbish.Who this film is meant to be aimed to is as much of a mystery as the mind of David Lynch. Overall this film was utter tripe showing that after an unimpressive series they really should pay some one to bury all known copies of these films and save the world of the future from seeing Halloween 1,569 and Jason Comes Back from the Dead Again 200!Grade F "},{"Title":"Boring...","Date":"14 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I was disappointed in this film, and I also thought that it was boring, and it wasn't at all scary.  It was also cheap in my opinion.  I almost forgot about it.  I thought H20 was way better.  To be honest, the only reason I went to go see this film was to see Tyra Banks.  I give this movie a D+, and on a scale from 1-10, a 3. "},{"Title":"IT'S TIME FOR THE BOOGYMAN TO RETIRE","Date":"29 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Ok, Michael has no purpose in this movie.  In H1 and H2 he was after Jamie's character and in The Return and Revenge he is after his niece in Curse he is after her baby and in H20 after laurie again but now he has NO PURPOSE!!!!! He's after a bunch of brain dead teens in a haunted house!!!  The movie doesn't even have good death scenes.  It's just your usual boo fare. This one out of all of them feels the most like a contrived sequel.  Don't bother with this one, but for you die hard fans wait for video!!! "},{"Title":"A worthwhile sequel","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I saw this movie last night and thought that it was impressive. I think that this sequel in the Halloween franchise was the best as it had a different feel to it than any of the other films.SPOILERS!!!! I was disappointed that Jamie Lee Curtis was killed off within the first 15 minutes and Tyra Banks death scene was done off screen which the viewer themself didn't know she had been killed until near the end of the film End Of Spoilers!!!!Anyway the film had an interesting storyline and the acting performances from the leading characters were good but i wonder if they are going to take this series to a different level after all this is Part 8.If they do ever make decide to make a Part 9 then i would be curious to find out which direction they will take the series in. I would give this film 7 out of 10 and say go and see it! "},{"Title":"Total rubbish","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Because this movie is set online (viewers can watch people wandering around the Myers' household - why is it still standing?  What about the neighbours?), every attempt is made to integrate hi-tech gadgetry into this movie - e-mail, palm-PC devices, webcams and huge screens - and transmitters that don't stop working when they're on fire.In short, the movie makes too many attempts to be cool and fails miserably, then choosing to fall back on the old Halloween staples Don't have sex, don't do drugs, don't drink coffee etc etc.  If you do, Michael will have an excuse to kill you; perhaps like one unlucky lady he'll *cut your head off in one swipe* with a butcher's knife - was it a Kitchen Devil?  Or perhaps a laser knife?Though it does tie up some already implausible loose ends, it creates many more in this tired dragged-out series, which even hardened lovers of Halloween will find hard to stomach.Avoid at all costs! "},{"Title":"Not since Greedo shot first...","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" ...have I seen such utter disregard for the intelligence of the fans of a movie series.  SPOILERS CONTAINED WITHIN The explanation of how Michael Myers survives H20 is ridiculous.  Not only is the paramedic that Michael Myers uses as a stand in for himself the exact size and weight as him but he apparently also possesses Michael Myers' ability to survive being thrown out a car windshield, hit by a car and crushed by a car.  Granted the film makers of Resurrection took the time to explain why the paramedic doesn't yell out to Laurie Strode and tell her that he isn't Michael Myers (his throat has been crushed - again this would kill most people) but they don't explain why, after fighting his way out of a body bag he doesn't take off the mask he's wearing!!!!Okay, horror movies rely on suspension of disbelief for the movie to be enjoyed but consistency is still needed within the frame work of the film. I'm sure even die-hard Halloween fans would be upset if Michael Myers started to fly from place to place to do his killing.  Michael has the ability to survive extreme trama, but he usually goes into a coma or disappears for a long time to recover from his injuries, everybody else, like the paramedic, cannot have this same ability.That's my distain for the first 15 minutes of the movie the rest of the movie is just your run of the mill bad slasher flick.  There are a couple of interesting moments, one or two minor scares and a little bit of suspense but nothing really worth mentioning.  There aren't any characters to root for everyone is just fodder for Michael to slash through.  Actually Michael is the one to root for as he cleanses the vermin from his house, I really wish he had been more successful.  The movie would have ended better with no survivors and Michael walking off into the sunset then it actually did, perhaps he could be on his way to do away with his nephew John!  As it is, I was REAL shocked to see Michael wake up in the morgue, not!I love the Halloween films that feature Michael Myers.  I, II and H20 make a great trilogy.  H20 would have been a fantastic way to end the series (despite what some of the other reviewers say).  But the film makers got greedy and made this pile of crap suckering in the people who loved H20 and thought they were going to get another H20 but only got a Friday the 13th Part 8.Halloween Resurrection gets a 2 out of 10 the full 2 marks go to Michael Myers the coolest of the big 4 slasher killers (Leatherface, Jason and Freddy) "}{"Title":"one of the best","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Hey ya all now for some of you that have not seen this movie this might have a couple mini spoilers!! now i have only seen the first movie and #6 and this one in the series but i know alot about the series.I think that this is one of the best horror movies to come along for a little while.This movie gets going in the first 5 mins and just goes right to the end.For people that are sensative to blood guts and stuff like that don't see this movie you will end up wasting a ticket .Rick Rosenthal (the director from Halloween 2)is back in this movie and is better than ever.Please go see this movie if you are a fan of the halloween series or if you are looking for a good scare.Tip be prepared for anything !! and  enjoy !! "},{"Title":"If you think it was a good idea to have Busta Rhymes in this movie, then you will enjoy it.....","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" ....but for the other 99.9% of the world, this movie is a piece of trash. Michael Myers gets his butt kicked by a karate-chopping Busta Rhymes - this single act alone causes one of the greatest movie psychos of all time to lose his fright appeal. The makers of this movie seem to be more intent on trying to make Busta Rhymes look cool (Trick or treat motherf***er) then on making Myers seem scary. I wish that Michael Myers and Jason Voorhees would pop off the screen long enough to mutilate any of the people associated with this pile of garbage and the similarly ridiculous Jason X. "},{"Title":"Bad Bad Bad","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie sucked! If it weren't for a decent first 15 minutes, it would be a total disaster. The plot of this poor excuse for cinema is that Michael Myers survived being beheaded by his sister in Halloween H20 by..well let's just say the explanation is dumb and leave it at that. Well then he hunts down his sister Laurie (Jamie Lee Curtis) who is now in the loony bin to kill her. These opening minutes in a dark loony bin are actually very good, Jamie Lee is outstanding again as Laurie Strode, and the atmosphere that director Rick Rosental presents in outstanding.  *SPOLIER* Then good old Mike kills Laurie and the movie becomes a lame Blair Witch Project copy after that. My main reaction to this movie is that killie Laurie was a mistake because the movie actually is pretty good when she was in it, after that it turns to ville brainless crap. Maybe they should have taken John Carpenter up on his offer to write and direct the final instalment of this mess, and do all of us a huge favor.  There is clearly gonna be another one of these movies and they have killed the most fascinating relationship in slasher films, Laurie and Michael were a classic without them the movie just like parts 3-6 are pure drivel. The movie ends promising (more like threatening) as there is gonna be a part 9, oh the humanity. "},{"Title":"Truly a disappointment and waist of precious money.","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I must say, this movie seemed to be disappointing from the very opening scenes.  I have been a huge fan of horror movies in my days, and to tell the truth, this movie did not cut it.  From the beginning, it seemed as if the writers wanted to cut to the chase.  This movie lacked a plot completely and could not deliver a sense of enjoyment throughout.  The so called scary, gruesome scenes were not scary at all.  I actually laughed through those scenes and people in the front row were startled at my disgust.  What disgust is that? The disgust that aroused when I remembered I payed $12.99 for this crap. The actors were, no doubt, pathetic playing their non-believable roles.  It was as if they were picked out of a high school classroom.  Absolutely no talent.  Anyways, it is recommended you do not watch this movie at all, but do so if your a crazed fan as I.  "},{"Title":"One of the worst slasher flicks ever made. contains spoilers","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Based on a reality television series, this halloween installment is abosolutly terrible. It has 1 cameo in it, Jamie Lee Curtis as Laurie. Who gets killed within the first 15 minutes. The plot is somewhat workable, but digs it's own grave, no pun intended. Starring Busta Rhymes, Seann Patrick Thomas, Biancha Kajlich, Tyra Banks, Daisy McKracken, Luke Kirby. "},{"Title":"One of the worst Movies of all time","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  As a major Halloween film fan, it was very unlikely I was going to hate this movie, considering how I can enjoy a couple of the really bad early sequels although I am fully aware they a just movies. But this movie is so bad even I cannot like it.Never has a movie productions company's financial motivation for the movie production been so glaringly obvious! Horrendous acting, an utter lack of respect for the most important character of the series by killing her off so quickly. The whole explanation of Michael Myers survival after H20 will have have you crying with laughter at its glaring unstated translation and who is actually saying it the last movie mad far more money than we expected, and we want to make more money as easy and quick as possibleThe camera work and lighting are terrible, the Michael mask abysmal, and a subtle as sledgehammer in the testicles attempt to be perceived as a modern movie by thrusting hand held PDA's time-after-time DA into the camera.The movie is like a parody of earlier 80's slasher movies (I kid you not, but a character finds a working chainsaw in the cupboard of an abandoned house!!!!!!!) if the film makers had an ounce of care about this movie they would never include such a horror parody in the movie, and would at all costs avoid including a chainsaw in the movie at all HALLOWEEN MOVIES DO NOT HAVE CHAINSAWS IN.I must have groaned at least 30 times watching this film.If you have not seen this film, no matter how much a Halloween or slasher movie fan you are I absolutely 100% guarantee you are going to hate this film. It is that bad. Avoid like you would do Leprosy. "},{"Title":"After all these horrendous slasher flicks, a good one actually comes along","Date":"1 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  After watching these crappy so-called slasher flicks like Urban Legends 2 and Valentine, I'd be satisfied with a halfway decent slasher flick. Well, this is more than halfway decent--it's good.  Sure, it's nothing extraordinary, and there are those moments where you do wanna scream out, How stupid can these people be?? but overall it's near par.  There are a few good scares, and Michael Myers never ceases to be creepy.  There's even some cool gross-out f/x, including a head rolling down the stairs.  But mainly, what makes it work is that it never gets too cheesy, yet it never takes itself too seriously.  And there's even a lil' bit of female nudity. What's a horror movie without some bare boobs?  Fans of the series will definitely be satisfied.*********SPOILER AHEAD**********If there's one harsh criticism I have, it's Busta Rhymes's speech at the end.  I found Busta perfectly convincing as the money-hungry founder of Dangertainment, in which he scares the hell out of his innocent young recruits to keep his Internet audience glued to the screen.  But at the end, he makes this heavy-handed, ludicrous speech about how the murders of these young people shouldn't be means of entertainment.  OK, maybe if it came out of a better actor's mouth, it would've sounded somewhat convincing--I mean Busta is a fairly good actor, but he's not ready for serious drama.So for all of you who are in doubt of this eighth installment to the series, don't be.  Trust me, bring the popcorn, you'll have one hell of a time!My score  7 (out of 10) "},{"Title":"Is this the end? *POSSIBLE SPOILERS*","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of the better sequels to John Carpenter's fantastic original. The story line is interesting (though done before) and the cast does a great job. It's good to see Curtis back again, this time only for a cameo.The film is about a group of students that get picked to spend the night in the Michael Myers house, which is to be broadcast over the internet. Each student is fitted with a camera, so the producers and the viewers can see what's going on at all times. And guess who shows up? Yep - You guessed it - Michael Myers. With any luck, this will be the final Halloween film. As much as I love the series (well, part of it anyway) its time Michael Myers was laid to rest. The way this film opens, it SHOULD be the final film. Only time will tell...Overall, one of the best sequels to a fantastic film. 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Not a bad movie, although not great either. Just in-between","Date":"26 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Michael Myers is back, and you thought he was gone for good! In this eighth installment of the famous `Halloween' series, thought to have died three years after Laurie Strode `assumed' that she hacked her brother's head (we learn from flashbacks that she killed an innocent paramedic), Michael Myers returns to where the killings all started---home. Six teenagers have won a contest, sponsored by Dangertainment, where they must spend Halloween night inside the Myers' residence. They are unaware that the ultimate evil lurks in the house. It is wonderful to hear the theme song, or variations of the John Carpenter theme made popular in 1978, and its always a treat to see Jamie Lee Curtis on the big screen, once again playing Laurie Strode, whose role in this is reduced to nothing but a cameo. Better than your usual slasher flick, one might think, but this is not the best movie or worst movie of the year. Ending leaves door wipe open for `Halloween 9 How Long Will Michael Myers Kill These Innocent People Before He Gets Tired And Gives Up, He's Basically In His 40s By Now.'OK, maybe that's that the APPROPRIATE subtitle. Speaking of subtitles, they should've stuck with `Halloween Homecoming'. One reason why they got dinged of the three-star category.Stars 2.5 out of 4 (Grade B-) Grade on IMDb 7.5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"oh my gosh!","Date":"19 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  ROTTEN ROTTEN MOVIE!!!!!! The best part was the opening credits because they really presented John Carpenter's theme well, and the ending was great, plus the creative email thing but other than this movie was nothing but a routine slashfest! Jamie Lee Curtis has a thankless role.  "}{"Title":"Worst horror movie I've ever seen","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I enjoy horror movies a great deal, and even though, since part four, each successive Halloween is disappointing, I continue to see them.  I love the original so much, that I just want to love every sequel as well.  But Halloween Resurrection is without a doubt, the worst horror movie I've ever seen.  Even for a slasher film, which is a genre known for it's lack of plot and characterization, this movie stands above the rest as an example of awfulness.People have said, Just relax and enjoy; it's just a slasher film.  Yeah, well so is the original and it manages to have likeable characters and an actual story.  This abomination, however, can't even make us root for Michael Meyers to kill all the annoying people.  And because events are part of a live broadcast on the internet, not only do we get to watch this garbage, we get to watch OTHER PEOPLE watching it.  Just sickening. "},{"Title":"23 years of Terror, boy Mikey looks good...","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Halloween will always stand it's ground against all the other wannabe's because Michael is the one, and only original slasher king. So how is Michael looking after 23 years of taking out teenagers and chasing his sister Lori? Michael looks pretty good, but not great. I wish I could say I loved Halloween Reserection, I really wish I could say that I had a great time sitting through the 85 minute film, but again, I'm at a loss for words. As I was at a loss for words the first few minutes following the first viewing of HalloweenH20, on the big screen 3 years ago after the thrilling ending that made up for the first hour and 15 minutes of re-hashed Scream formula that was already killed by such rip offs as I Know What You Did Last Summer. Unfortunately H20 would become a silly romp that should have been spanked and sent to the corner, for doing exactly what all the films have done since the original Halloween. 15 minutes after 20 years is not even worth the other 85 minutes in H20, so does Halloween Reserection follow suit? No, but there's a different kind of wrong here. We are given an opening that hasn't been this fun since Halloween 1. But we are shocked and shook and fed an unbelievable explanation for all of the events that happened in H20 and then the film goes farther down hill from there. This film suffers from the same problem that Director Roesenthall's Halloween II had, no character development of new characters. We get to know them well enough to know who they are when they're butchered, and that's about it. You've heard that from critics since the beginning of the slasher days, but what's wrong with that? Everything, for all the reasons that makes Halloween stand out above the rest is the characters, we knew them, we cared about them. In this film they follow that formula, but they really don't let us in on who these people are. We don't even care about the female lead enough to care if she gets out of the house alive anymore then the rest of them. Busta Rhymes has his moments, but you can't let him carry this movie with Michael alone. So, I guess what I'm saying is this, good idea, bad presentation. 6 out of 10, only because this Michael is more believable then H20's. Let's make Halloween 9 a little better than this, but better than the derailment of Haloween III, 4, 5, and 6. "},{"Title":"Better Than Halloween H20!","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I just got back from the theater  after seeing this movie, and I really liked it a lot! It was even better than H20! It is about a group of people who get to stay the night in Michael Myers' house while being broadcast over the internet,  where he murdered his sister at age six. Everybody is having a good time exploring the house, until Michael finds his way home and begins killing all of the college students one by one! Will Michael get his revenge? And who will survive?This was a really entertaining movie, even though there was some unreal elements in it. ***EXTREME SPOILER*** Also, I was very disappointed that Jamie Lee Curtis (Laurie Strode) died in the beginning. How is that possible??? She's been the star of the Halloween films!  That was the one thing that disappointed me most.***END OF SPOILER*** All in all, if your looking for a good scare and some great entertainment, also a great movie, see Halloween Resurrection. I give Halloween Resurrection a 9 out of 10. ) "},{"Title":"Surprising","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The first Halloween film is my second favorite movie ever made, right behind The Empire Strikes Back. So I am always anticipating another sequel and this one suprised me. It's one of the best of the series in my opinion, and that's quite amazing when you consider that it's part 8. Unlike the Jason and Freddy movies, Halloween is still a respected franchise that can get known actors and major releases. Michael Myers is the greatest movie slasher ever and this movie reinforces that sentiment. Out of the 8 films in the series this one ranks number 4.  Part 1, Part 2, Part 4, Resurrection, H20, 5, 6, and then of course the Myerless 3. Now I guess they need to find a new hero to replace Dr. Loomis and Laurie Strode for part 9. "},{"Title":"you've got to be kidding...","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Somebody wrote that this was probably the best sequel of the series...please, this movie was absolute torture, for me.  I literally was ashamed of myself for the six dollars I threw down the toilet.  The only reason I didn't walk out was b/c I was begging, pleading, praying that somebody would wack Busta Rhymes.  Seriously, you've GOT to be kidding. "},{"Title":"Please....no more.....","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Halloween H20 was a pretty good horror movie, which should have brought closure to the halloween series. Being a fan of the first 3 (yes i liked halloween III), i thought it was wise to ignore halloweens 4 - 6 and continue the story of laurie strode... As most people know, Michael Myers got his head chopped off in the last few seconds of H20, so why did the film makers decide to bring him back? Obviously for nothing more than quick bucks... Halloween Resurrection has to be one of the worst sequels ever made. The way big Mike has been brought back is nothing short if ridiculous, and Jamie Lee Curtis (in her 5 mins of screen time) looks embarassed. The only way i could figure she was in this must have been to do with a contract from H20, saying she had to be in another sequel. Poor Jamie Lee. And now the plot...Busta Rhymes decides to get a bunch of kids together to spend a night at Michael's old house in Haddonfield, and have it broadcast live on the internet. Busta's great idea is to have various 'spooky' happenings going on to make sure the kids get scared, so the internet ratings go up....but oh no, Michael Myers is in the house too, and guess what?....well you know the rest. Ok....WHY IS MICHAEL IN THE HOUSE????? did he forget to turn the stove off or something??? this movie is just a complete mess, and an insult to the fans of the series. Personally, i want my mind wiped of this movie, and just remember H20 as the ending of the series. I just hope this movie flops so there wont be anymore. "},{"Title":"Internet/Glam ScareFest? Try Turbulence 3 (","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Having seen Halloween Resurrection, I feel cheated.  Why this flick was not a straight-to-video release is a small wonder to me, as the overdone ideas and choppy acting add nothing to the series, along the  same lines of 'Bloodsport 2+'.Halloween had attained a level not unlike the Exorcist to many moviegoers, appealing to not just a B-movie horror crowd, but the vast majority who were wanting a good scare.  Michael Myers was unstoppable, the boogey man in your child-hood nightmares, the enemy who could not be beaten.Fast forward to present, and the current release tries to capitalize on a teenie-bopper scary movie crowd that sprang up with 'Scream' and 'I know What you Did Last Summer', with modern technology, cameos from has-been musicians, and not-so-dark humor, not to mention a more mortal Michael Myers.  As I grew up, Michael Myers and Jason Voorhies were the characters that kept your eyes open on your pillow and second-guessing shadows way past bedtime.  Now, the scream character from 'Scary Movie' is more terrifying. Busta Rhymes vs. Michael Myers? Please. This should've been one hit. Period.  There is no integrity left to this series, and it should've ended with H20.The concept of this flick is not innovative by any stretch of the imagination.  Internet Broadcast gone awry? Try 'Turbulence 3 Heavy Metal'. It did it first to the best of my knowledge, and was innovative at the time (even if it did deal the death-blow to Rutger Haeur's career).Halloween had attained a level not unlike the Exorcist to many movie-goers, appealing to not just a B-movie horror crowd, but the vast majority who were wanting a good scare.  Michael Myers was unstoppable, the boogey man in your child-hood nightmares, the enemy who could not be beaten.The horror movie crowd that grew up with Jason and Michael is gone, replaced by kids whose idea of cold sweat inducing terror is 'House on Haunted Hill'. Do not try to appeal to this crowd; Halloween will never be a 'Scream'. Leave the classics as they were, unstoppable and terrifying. "},{"Title":"This movie is insulting!","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is total TRASH!  I don't care if I get attacked for my review on this piece of crap.  I am sick and tired of reading reviews of you true Halloween Fans about how good this movie is.  This movie is pointless. Now that Laurie Storde is dead there is no more story to tell.  Dr. Loomis is dead, everyone is dead.  There is Josh Hartnett but we all know he will not be in another Halloween film because he is too big of a star now.  So for the rest of the series we are going to be stuck with idiotic college students who have nothing to do with Michael Myers's past.  H20 had the perfect ending to the series, Laurie got her revenge and Michael finally was dead.  But that idiot MOUSTAPHA AKKAD got money hungry again and greenlighted this piece of garbage.  Like one reviewer said earlier that he regrets killing of Ellie Cornell's character Rachel because of the fans, well what about Laurie Strode, she was the first and main star besides Loomis in the series, and does he regret killing her off, No!  I know Jamie lee Curtis did not want to be in this film, and you know what I do not blame her one bit!  Look who she would have been acting with, BUSTA CRAP and TYRA BANKS.  But do something with the character some other way.  The series is now pointless, his whole family is dead, there is no more story to tell. Now this series is just going to turn into a Jason movie.  I like Jason Movies but I always thought Halloween had a better storyline than Friday the 13th.  Now its just going to be KILL KILL KILL anyone.  That is not How Michael Myers works, he does not kill for fun, he kills because he kills his family.  His family is dead.  So now we are stuck with idiots who have nothing to do with Michael.  That is why it should have ended with H20. This movie also makes H20 pointless.  The whole point was for Laurie Strode to get her revenge and win,  but this movie took all that away from it for the sake of money.  I am sorry for complaining so much, I am just really insulted that how this series is going to end up in the future.  I grew up watching these movies, and I know some of the sequals were bad, (PART 5 and 6) but at least those movies has characters attached to Myers.  This one has no one.  And if I get attacked for my review well so be it.  This is how my feelings feel and they are not going to change,  worst wishes to Halloween 9.   "},{"Title":"For the love of God!","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Any one who has seen and/or has even a little appreciation for the original HALLOWEEN will most likely consider this movie nothing less than a train wreck. Going into it i tried to give the movie makers the benefit of the doubt but sadly, not 10 minutes into it it descends into teen-slasher-I Know What you Did Last Summer-crap. I cant totally blame the film makers, they know what sells.....crap. "},{"Title":"Horrible...","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This years earlier attempt at resurrecting an 80's horror icon, Jason X, had mixed results, but it at least managed to entertain viewers who saw it as a comedy. Halloween Resurrection is so awful you can't even enjoy the  so bad it's good  factor. Skip this one, folks. Even watch Halloween H20, a pretty bad installment in the franchise, but still much better then this. Let's hope this time, Michael Myers really is dead.  "}{"Title":"they ruined it again...","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  i saw all the Halloween films,and have become a big fan of them. after part 6 (the curse of Michael Myers) i was really looking forward to H20. well... it sucked, i thought. boring as all hell, with hardly any violence compared to the others, and crappy dialouge (other than jamie lee curtis, who can act) So, when i saw the poster for Resurrection I was like Well, its been a few years, so maybe they made this one better  did they?? Nope.  it starts off good, then it goes WAYYYYY downhill. too much comedy, not enough horror for a horror film, god awful acting by busta rhymes (who ruins this film in every way by his comedic performance) The sad thing is, this film has the potential to be really scary and just an all around great film, but it seems hollywood has forgotten how to make scary films (ex. the bad scream films and H20)I am assuming there is another film, hopefully they will get the right people to make it. oh and please holloywood... NO busta in the next one..  "},{"Title":"I really love the Halloween series so I must pretend I never saw this one","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This poor flick took every wrong turn imaginable. You could tell from the opening sequence that the production of the film was first rate, however the story was merely take any given reality show and drop in Michael Myers. Curtis was only there to get a pay day. Jason X was funny if nothing else. "},{"Title":"If you have ever disliked a Halloween movie you should HATE this one.","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Damnation.  This movie serves as a call to arms of true horror movie fans. Please sit down right now and begin to pen your own script as clearly it cannot eclipse the disastrous unfolding of this feeble plot.  The most remarkable thing about the movie is the clear division of the fan base about the merit of the film.  So great is it in fact that I must wonder if there are actually two different versions! I must now cleanse my mind of the travisty I have just witnessed before it sullies the entire franchise.  And I thought Clash of the Titans was bad. "},{"Title":"The Proverbial Dead-End","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The following review is possibly a spoilerIt used to be, that you could see a Halloween film and say, It was bad, but it was no Halloween 6. This latest installment of the Halloween series The Resurrection, is so unmistakably horrible that it could possibly BE worse then Halloween 6, and in fact the worst film of the Halloween Series (Possibly the worst big budget movie of all time).To say this films stinks, to say it was bad, to say it was a waste of your life would be an insult to such other stinking, bad films that have wasted your life. How to begin counting the ways?First of all, the music, the name Michael Myers,  and Jamie Leigh Curtis are the only things that bare any resemblance to the first Halloween - Oh, and the executive producer Moustapha Akkad, whose bank accounts are surely solely responsible for bringing the series this far in the first place. There is this ridicules subplot at the beginning which is over in about five minutes, and has absolutely nothing to do with the rest of the story (I use that term as loose as possible). Characters appear and disappear, having left no clue to their significance at all whatsoever (Including Jamie Leigh's character!!!).Busta . . . Oh, Busta . . . Actually, thank Buddha for Busta, because not only did he steal the film from Michael Myers, but he is (if you can find a reason) the only reason to wake up from time to time.There is - albeit a pretty stupid one - some assemblage of a plot. It is all-interneted and Mtv'd out. I never thought of the 21st century in terms of youthful cliches, but this film definitely put them out there. The Internet, the palm pilot, voyeuristic entertainment they all show up to provide future generations with the ideal image of the most cliched 21st century American (And what the heck was the point of the motorbike? I've never seen anybody riding a motorbike around campus.) .Subplots appear seemingly out of nowhere. There is absolutely no consistency. You hate every character except Busta. There is no humor except Busta. There is no suspense, but that of the cheap Haunted House variety. When I saw Rick Rosenthal's name (director of Halloween 2) during the opening credits, I actually thought for a spilt second that there might be some redeeming qualities to this film. I was wrong.Okay, it's a Halloween movie, why be so analytical about it? Perhaps, because the first Halloween was such a cool, well made film. Sure, some of the sequels have been pretty dumb, but for the most part they've been entertaining. This one is a conglomerate of stereotypes and irrational nonsense.This film would serve perfect usage in a film school, under the chapter on how NEVER to make movies.On a side note, the formula (which Akaad certainly understands, because he obviously knows NOTHING about quality storytelling) is pretty obvious young characters (including the obligatory boob shot) with all the typical cliches, a popular rapper and a sexy model. He can't go wrong. I fully understand his motives, but there is just something repulsive about associating this garbage with John Carpenter's classic. It is a tragedy - the proverbial dead-end - that it should have been the spark from which this latest piece of undeniable trash is descendent.  "},{"Title":"Michael Myers should kill Moustapha Akkad","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** I have seen H8 and I must say Poor John Carpenter.As many know, Carpenter will rarely divulge into a conversation about the sequels that followed Halloween.While being interviewed by John Stewart, for plugging Ghosts of Mars, Carpenter shrugged off the question of the numerous sequels that followed Halloween.Also, all the DVDs that are released of John Carpenter films, they have audio commentary - except Halloween. Not to mention that Carpenter turned down an offer to direct H20 because he felt that there was no reason to re-visit the film ... again.And with H8, I understand his apparent bitterness and annoyance with the many of the sequels that followed Halloween III.Halloween Resurrection is a disgrace to Carpenter's 1978 classic. The film ignorantly (SPOILER ALERT)kill off Laurie Strode in such a non-suspenseful, quick fashion. But yet Busta Ryhmes schools Myers in a good ass whooping. Not to mention the film has no sense of - nor no attempt of - character development. You know absolutely nothing about their characters. Nothing. They are just there to be cannon fodder. H20 which took place in California, Myers and Laurie are back in Haddonfield (?)... which also inexplicably has it's own college university(!). The film also had no respect of Michael Myers, as Busta Ryhmes shoves a electrical wire into Myers' crotch. I won't even mention the film's loopy logic like the indestructible behavior by Michael (consider that this film picks up from H20 - which ignored all sequels after Part II), or characters who are strapped with cameras (with a worldwide web looking on) partake in sexual activities and smoking a bong. I know it's only a movie. But why insult the viewer by trying to rationalize the film's incoherence.(END OF SPOILER)I am ashamed that Myers character is so poorly handled and that this cash cow is having its udders bruised. It's a shame that for those who complain of the stupidity of horror films, fans can not argue with such films like H8. It is simply idiotic. Apparently, even the studio thought nothing of this film because they did not allow a screening for critics. Logically handled because the studio don't want horrible reviews to affect potential box office grosses. The critics will have to pay to see the film like everyone else and will feature their review in Monday's paper. By then it's too late and H8 has already had a successful weekend. Take in mind that all of the prior Halloween films, NOES films and Jason films (yes, even JASON X) had a screening for critics. The studio obviously smelled a stinker with this one - which also explains a 1900 theater release as opposed to H20's 2600 theater count. And it's all deserved. H8 is a stinker - by far one of the worst sequels in the series. But those who like gore instead of a cohesive storyline and any sense of character development will enjoy it. Others beware. H8 is not awful, but it's not good either.And who do I blame ... yes, Moustapha Akkad who has apparently gone to the well once to often.And I also blame Kevin Williamson for rejuvinating the series with the ultra successful H20. He should've just not have made the film. Now, Akkad has a few more movies to rinse out of H20s success. It's a shame. Poor Carpenter. A great classic is being dragged through the mud. 3/10 or *1/2 out of 4 or D+. However, you rate it - it's just not good.  "},{"Title":"Down with Fanboys!","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I cannot believe that over 60 percent of the people who voted on this film gave it 10 out of 10.  Come on.  I mean, did you actually watch the movie? It was a flaming piece of crap.  I'm a Halloween fan as well, and this non-Carpenter commercial crap made me want to tear my arms off.  It's just chalk full of *clever* one-liners and *amusing* deaths.  I mean, it's got a rapper as a main character! MINOR SPOILER ALERT-- I almost left the theatre when Laurie Strode, main character for the last 7 movies!-- Jaime Lee Curtis!-- died in the first 15 minutes.  What the hell?!  END SPOILERS I had a friend with me who WAS terrified of Michael Myers.  About halfway through he turned to me and said, This is crap.  He doesn't scare me anymore. So for the love of God, why do you cursed fanboys rate this so high just because you're afraid to acknowledge how bad it is?  This movie BETTER NOT get on the top 250 list or I'm hunting you all down personally, Jay and Bob style. "},{"Title":"Was this really necessary?!?!?!?","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Id like to say one thing...they should have ended it with H20...i thought H20 was pretty good...nothing i would die for to go see but it was a good ending then i found out that they were in production of another Halloween...first off the name is pretty corny...second i heard of a tragedy happening that i wont mention because it could be a spoiler...and third Busta Rhymes the main star???...come on!!!...they should have just made a whole new horror movie instead of putting Micheal Myers in yet another bad modern horror flick...ofcourse nothing will compare to the first one which i think is the greatest of all horror/slasher films...but i think its just stupid how everyone trys to act all brave with Micheal Myers now...back in the days the horror movies were more realistically convincing...i hate to break it but if Micheal Myers was in fact real...Busta Rhymes would be s***ting i his pants just from the thought of it...the only good pointers of the film if that the lighting was great for a modern day horror flick and the directing wasnt bad either...i certainly hope they dont make another one...the only reason i went to go see this one is because im  hardcore Michael Myers fan...and for the hopes of a decent modern day horror movie...stick to the Jamie Lee Trilogy 1, 2, and H20...and add 6 in there and that is all the Halloweens you need. "},{"Title":"Worst of the series","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Why do most modern horror movies have to suck so bad? Why can't they just make them the way they used to? I also saw Reign of Fire this weekend. That worked because they treated the dragons seriously. No gangster piece of garbage said to the dragons Hey yo firebreath.Spoilers aheadThe movie starts off with a weak switch around where Jamie had actually chopped off some other guys head at the end of part 7. I haven't seen 7 in a while, but they're explanation doesn't seem to add up.Jamie Lee Curtis overacts her scene to death. Kissing Meyers and saying See you in hell was just so stupid. Totally killed what should have been a powerful moment.From there we go to Haddonville University (that's really stupid. A small town is going to have a university named after it?) That's as bad as the Crystal Lake Research Lab. A bunch of students are chosen for a reality show webcast that's supposedly going to make all this money, but obviously only one household is watching it. Busta Rhymes is running the show, and he's as annoying as you can imagine.The webcast turns into a Blair Witch rip off.Meyers, with nobody else left to kill, goes after the people in his old house. In all the previous Halloween movies, Haddonville treated the threat of Meyers seriously. Are the cops really go to laugh off a call of Meyers? They're friggin' police station has been whiped out a couple times by Meyers.This movie, and the people who made it are just pathetic! "},{"Title":"Ironic title for the movie that killed the series!","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  There were so many factors in the making of this movie that should have delivered a memorable, if not cornerstone, film in the Halloween seriesRick Rosenthal - the director from part 2, Jamie Lee Curtis - whose more realistic and demented state as someone psychologically tortured by her brother made her more sympathetic than her role in H20.Locations Mental Institution and The Myers House.Unfortunately these key features of the series were flashes in an otherwise forgettable film.In an effort to give the series a new direction or dare I pun, new blood, the producers have ironically killed off Michael for the true fan of Michael in this Resurrection picture. Much as Jason X failed by removing him from his tried and true setting of Camp Crystal Lake - and if there is any doubt from those who loved that film - consider how much you cheered and how excited you got for that short moment when Jason was in the holograph deck and thus in the old Crystal Lake setting with the familiar Jason theme playing - that rush was missing from the rest of the film.****SPOILERS*****The plot holes are enormous Why go through the trouble of finding Laurie and then forget about John?Laurie would have been too smart to fall for the mask trick. Obviously that person could grab their head - so why couldn't they take off the mask themselves if he was another victim of Michael being made to look like him?No one in over two decades ever noticed the sub basement in the Myers house?Michael could bust quickly through a reinforced sanitarium door which are made to withstand such trauma (most doctors will tell you that pysch patients can posses supernatural strength because of their mental illness and most doors are metal reinforced) but it took him longer to bust through an old wooden door in the Myers house - which is coincidentally falling apart due to wood rot?The characters head cam go from being on their head to being on the floor and being back on their head without any explanation.***END OF SPOILERS***Those are just a few items that annoyed me, and the gaffs and plot holes are certainly not my real beef. After all I accept (and enjoy) that Horror movies are allowed to work on a level of disbelief - providing that they deliver the evil and darkness. Ultimately this is where my disappointment in this film lies.Where was the atmosphere? Where was the darkness? What has always been a trademark for the Halloween films has been is this mood of personal darkness that seeps out of the being into the general environment - infecting all those on screen and subsequently the audience. Halloween was not about chills and quick jumps but about the mood of darkness all around you. As Dr. Loomis said in Halloween 2 Samhaid is not spirits, it's not goblins, ghosts or witches. It's the unconscious mind. We're all afraid of the darkness inside ourselves.What this film need most was that sense of darkness. Halloween Resurrection - the death of Michael Myers (though I am sure their will be a sequel)  "},{"Title":"Same old routine","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Okay, you knew it was coming, I knew it was coming, everyone knew it was coming. Michael Myers is back (and I don't mean the Austin Powers star). He is back home again, killing teenagers in the eighth Halloween film, Halloween Resurrection. Anyone who saw the seventh one, Halloween H20, might remember that Myers supposedly had his head cut off by his grown-up sister Laurie (Jamie Lee Curtis) at the end of the film. But since, this is the eighth film, the writers conjured up a way to have Myers slicing his way through yet another picture.Surprisingly enough the director Rick Rosenthal (Halloween II) and the screenwriters do create a fairly effective show down early on between Michael and sister, Laurie, who has been put in a mental hospital. After the opening few minutes though, the film becomes a mixture of the cliche and predictable. The plot revolves around having six teenagers spend a night over in the old Myers home as part of an online publicity stunt for a website. And surprise, surprise... Michael Myers is home.The one trait Halloween Resurrection lacks is tension, an obvious key ingredient to so many horror or suspense flicks. What made the first Halloween by John Carpenter so effective was a mood of genuine terror and tension based upon the unknown. Myers (in that film)appeared, then disappeared, he was basically a ghost and you waited and wonder when he would pop out of the darkness. This film as with virtually all slasher films now, possess none of that terror. Each killing in Halloween Resurrection is telegraphed way ahead of time. So either Myers can stare at his victim for hours before he kills them or there will be a small meaningless chase before Myers shows his knife cutting abilities.The film has a few other low points, especially in the plot. No one seems to notice the cameraman go missing for hours after being killed and despite a loud scream not a sole hears Bill (Thomas Ian Nicholas) meet his doom either. Although, this doesn't matter too much, since plausibility and the slasher film just don't go together. Then, there is rapper Busta Rhymes. I didn't know whether to laugh or cringe at some of the dialogue he spoke, which was just plain awful and silly at the same time.The interesting aspect of this series as a whole, is how little things have changed in terms of the basics of the plot. Sure, some minor details are fixed. The teenagers in Halloween Resurrection play on computers and e-mail rather than riding around in cars. There's even a mention of the TV show, The Osbournes in this movie. Despite the updating in visual and verbal references, little of substance has been added since the original. Michael Myers is still that unkillable boogeyman, and there are still teenagers waiting to be butchered. At least until movie executives stop seeing dollar signs next to the word, Halloween. A 3 out of 10. "}{"Title":"How Could They Destroy Movie History???","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  SPOILERS...All of you who are claiming to be huge fans of the Halloween series and who are raving about this movie need to stop. Any serious fan of Halloween knows Laurie Strode is one of the most popular horror characters in history and probably the most popular horror heroine ever. So how could Laurie's death in this film not annoy the heck out of you? In every Halloween movie there has been some sort of a human connection to Michael Myers. Of course, his sister Laurie, the psychiatrist, Dr. Loomis, his niece Jamie, and neighborhood boy Tommy. The three most vital of those characters are now dead and we were left with Bustah Rhymes to duel with Michael Myers??? GIVE ME A BREAK! The writers and producers of this wretched film have slapped all of the true Halloween fans across the face. They seriously messed with horror history here in favor for Bustah Rhymes and all the other dreadful actors/characters in this film. Halloween Resurrection was not made for the fans, it was made for the studio. And while that's the treatment that most horror films get nowadays, it's truely pathetic that they have destroyed this franchise with this piece of garbage. Amd shame on Rick Rosenthal and Jamie Lee Curtis for agreeing to sign on and kill off Laurie Strode. Let's just hope the producers pull another quick one and save Laurie to bring her on to kill Michael Myers once and for all...and this series. "},{"Title":"The absolute WORST of the Halloween movies, 3 was bad but at least I'll give it credit that it was trying to be something different","Date":"5 June 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" So here is the very last of the Halloween movies and... This is one of the worst sequels (period!) that I have ever seen in my life. YES! This does more damage to the series then making Tommy Doyle the protagonist of the series and have Michael be worshiped by a satanic cult. I mean the editing isn't as crap as Halloween 6 but I'll tell you when it comes to the overall quality of the thing I'd gladly sit through Halloween 3 and 6 in a looped marathon for three weeks then sit through this movie again ONCE.So the movie opens with Laurie Strode who's upset because it wasn't Michael she decapitated in the last movie (Why didn't he take off the mask? Why did he attack Laurie?) and after three years of being in a mental asylum Michael comes back and finally kills Laurie. So naturally because since the second one it's been about someone killing his family that he would now go onto Laurie's son and... What's that? He's not in this movie? No instead we cut to a college student named Sarah, she has the personality and acting range of the keyboard I'm typing this with. She and her 2 friends (I don't know their names I'm just calling them Stereotype 1 and Stereotype 2) Stereotype 1 wants to be famous and sees the idea of staying in the Myers' home on an internet show (Why is it still standing?) and Stereotype 2 has even less of a personality than Sarah. So they go into the Myers home BUT!... If you haven't guessed Michael is in there with them then this movie is perfect for you.Okay so the problems. Starting with the nitpicks, I'm a film student. In my few months of learning have learned that Studio lights have sandbags put on their inner legs so they don't get knocked over causing people hundreds or thousands of property damage, I find this particularly remarkable that they didn't pick up on this mistake because THIS IS A STUDIO PRODUCTION! THEY WOULD HAVE KNOWN THAT THIS IS WRONG! Not to mention that tripods are not sharp enough to stab somebody with and if by a random coincidence they managed to find one WHY WOULD IT BE IN A PRODUCTION WHERE THE LOCATION IS IN A HOUSE THAT'S 40 YEARS OLD, I mean it's not like the wood can just be punctured through with it.Not to mention that this was at a time when internet was in it's starting phase. At this time YouTube didn't even exist, what makes me believe that shooting live an internet show where people can change between cameras even now would be like finding a website where there aren't any trolls. By the way the use of making it an internet show I believe was just an excuse to have the worst cameras they can find and just give it to the actors and say rehearse your lines! and put it out as a final product.Is there anything that can make this worse? Well Busta Rhymes electrocutes Michael's balls in this movie. Me just TYPING this makes me think Why did I spend $7 on it, knowing what this is I wouldn't spend 7 cents. He manages to get the better of Michael twice because, you know - he's meant to be a badass rapper because that's jiggy.Three quarters of this movie is building Michael Myers up. Um, there's someone that did that and unlike these characters - he actually DID something. Was the mindset You know what the other Halloween movies needed? More build-up? Because I've summed up over half the dialogue with Michael is evil.Not to mention the very last problem I have with the movie. It is dated more than any of the other Halloween movies, because the others made the most they could to make it as timeless as possible I mean yeah they DID pull one or 2 references out but that's it. THIS is trying to be hip and cutting edge. INTERNET! That's the new big thing right. RAP MUSIC! That's going to last forever. THE HOST OF AMERICA'S NEXT TOP MODEL! That show's never going to stop with her as the host. I mean that's another eighth of the movie for you.So who would I recommend it to? I'd say completionists of the series. I mean the only 2 good things are Michael and the theme music but that's it. If you want to see him hack up some people who you want him to hack up (when did this become a Friday The 13th movie! Sorry I'm harsh when I compared, sorry for all Friday fans everywhere) then this might be for you. There really is no character to sympathize with, all the goofy moments are too few and far in-between and it's BORING! I mean not the most boring horror movie I have ever seen but with the exception of 6 ALL of them held my interest. This closed off all the Halloween movies with good reason "},{"Title":"They Just *Had* to Make Another One","Date":"27 December 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Well, this is it the final review in a journey that's seen me make my way through a total of eight (including this one) horror movies all born of the same franchise. All told, we've had some classic moments, plenty of absurdity, and a third entry which doesn't feature the iconic Michael Myers in any way, Shape (Ha! See what I did there?), or form. The next to last entry, H20, promised to end the franchise on a slam-bang note, with Mr. Myers decapitated and Laurie Strode well on her way to finally overcoming the emotional toll that years of paranoia and attempts on her life by her psychopathic brother have wrought.But they&#x97;the Tinsel Town powers that be&#x97;couldn't leave well enough alone.Quite frankly, if the series had actually ended with H20 it would have been nothing short of a miracle. A studio opting for dignity as opposed to additional dollars is unheard of, so it should really come as no surprise that Michael would return to the big screen.How is that possible? you ask. Laurie cut his freakin' head off with an axe&#x85; right? That's the end. Kaput. Nothing else could possibly happen.Guess what that wasn't Michael at the end of H20. It was actually one of the paramedics who'd attempted to recover Michael's body. We're told that the not-at-all dead sociopath sprang to life, crushed the larynx of said paramedic, and swapped their outfits, mask included. Admittedly, the explanation is pretty ingenious (though it starts to lose some credibility when one asks the question, Why didn't the poor sap just take off the mask and signal for help?).Fast forward a couple of years. Laurie has been placed in a psychiatric institution due to the guilt she's endured after beheading a completely innocent man. She's spent her time preparing for Michael's inevitable return, having devised an elaborate setup that she implements in the opening moments of Resurrection. Laurie lures him onto the roof of the facility, uses a wench to string him up by his feet and then attempts to dispatch him. Predictably, Michael gets the better of her. He pretends to suddenly feel remorse at his actions, asking for her affection. When she acquiesces, he stabs her in the back (literally) and hurls her off of the building.That's it. That's how she dies.Laurie Strode, one of the definitive female action/horror protagonists of the past thirty years, is killed within the first fifteen minutes of the movie. It's one of those things that you have to see to believe; the first time I saw the movie I was appalled at the laziness of it all, and knew that what would follow could only induce queasiness.And that's exactly what happens. In essence, the story is reduced to a reality TV cash grab. Michael inexplicably returns home&#x97;he's killed his whole family at this point, not counting the infant featured in Curse (a plot point that's strangely ignored here), so I'm not sure what he hopes to gain by doing this&#x97;and survives by trapping and eating rats. When a crew of horny teenagers is recruited by Freddie Harris (played by Busta Rhymes, whose penchant for overacting is both hysterical and mind- numbing) to spend Halloween night in the former Myers home while the entire experience is broadcast live on the Internet, we can predict exactly what's going to happen. Michael starts killing people, and everyone watching thinks it's part of the act. Busta Rhymes uses some kung fu that he learned from watching Bruce Lee movies to kick Michael out of a window and eventually electrocute him. It's hackneyed as hell and infuriating.Michael, of course, isn't really dead, and when he dramatically regains consciousness in the Haddonfield Coroner's office we know that the same B.S. will continue, ad infinitum, until Michael faces both Freddy and Jason on Venus.The good news? Based on sheer mathematical probabilities, another good Halloween movie will be made eventually. It might just be another two or three hundred years before it happens. "},{"Title":"Underrated.","Date":"20 September 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Where do I begin with 'Halloween Resurrection'? Well, I honestly can say that it was a rather enjoyable experience.It's also the most underrated sequel in the series.It really does deserve more than a 3.9.Some people may not agree with me, but since I'm a fan of the franchise, this one was just as enjoyable as some of the others.At least people who hated this movie can agree with me that this sequel is much better than the completely unnecessary 'Halloween III Season of the Witch'.The death scenes weren't quite as gruesome as Rob Zombie's 'Halloween 2', but they still delivered the goods.So ignore the negative reviews and try to enjoy this movie for what it is.Just don't take it too seriously.It's a slasher movie and nothing else. "},{"Title":"OK but not Great","Date":"15 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" OK so this is the 7th instalment of the Halloween series with our favourite serial killer, Michael Myers.Same old s**t, different year, a bunch of teenagers meet their gruesome demise at the hands of the Masked, Unstopable killing Machine, Michael Myers.There are some (suprisingly) good points to this film, it's well acted by the cast and Michael Myers' costume is pretty much spot on and he acts and looks the part. There are some good death scenes for the hardcore horror fans like myself and some tense moments for all the wimps who scare easy ).The only difference with this film to all the other Halloweens is that the others at Least had some form of plot worth watching (to some extent) and getting into, whereas the plot line of this film is basically just a bunch of teenagers (what a surprise) residing in the old home of Michael Myers' house in haddonfeild (wow so original) where he surfaces to kill the unsuspecting trespasser's.To make things WORSE they have rap star !!!Bhusta Rhymes doing KUNG FU!!! Say no more! All in all it's not the worst horror film by a long shot but it could have been so much better!! "},{"Title":"The f*** is up with this movie?","Date":"20 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I honestly don't know what those f***ing movie producers were thinking when they did this movie. First of all, if Michael kills Jamie Lee, then there's no point for the rest of the movie. That was the whole story throughout the entire series! Second, having Busta Rhymes in the movie was a BIG mistake. You couldn't have chosen anyone worse to deliver that one-liner. That one-liner (Trick or treat, mother f***er) would have been really cool if someone better did it. I could see Ving Rhames doing that line perfectly. He was probably busy doing Dawn of the Dead, though. Third, making a reality TV show out of the Myers' home?! That just shows how f***ing stupid MTV is! What the f***?! The only redeeming factor of this movie was the very beginning where they reveal how Michael Myers survived H20. That actually seemed like something that he would do! Although, I watched H20 again and saw that it was highly unlikely that that actually DID happen in the world of Michael Myers. If it truly was like that, he would have taken the mask off at the end of H20. Would anyone NOT notice they have a f***ed up Captain Kirk mask on them? I just hope they put Michael to sleep forever now. They better not make another Halloween movie. "},{"Title":"The Movie is not Very good But its OK","Date":"27 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" i saw the movie and from what i saw the movie wasn't that good i mean Halloween is all about killing its not as better than the old ones but still its fun to watch i somehow liked watching it I'm a fan of Halloween movies i may not be giving a lot of information here but I'm just saying for all Halloween fans you should watch this this is good to watch if you have nothing to do or bored believe me its an OK movie it talks about teenagers visiting Michael Myeres House and stay in it for 1 day while they are in there they start dieing one by one you should see the movie i don't want to ruin it for you but believe me its a good horror movie to watch and it would be a good tribute for Mustafa Akaad The Producer of Halloween Movies. "},{"Title":"Michael Myers is now a reality-show's star!","Date":"19 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Michael Myers is back, but this time he's the star of a reality show! This last movie of the Halloween series is funny&#133;very funny indeed! It brings the old Michael Myers to the XXI century, to the internet era!... The plot is about a group of teenagers that are chosen to participate in a kind of reality-show broadcasted by the internet, The Dangertainment, which consists in being locked at Michael Myers house, exploring everything that belonged to him&#133; They thought it would be an amusing entertainment, scaring to the public, but funny to them&#133; However they are not home alone, and the fun will begin, but for Myers!The reality-show's fashion has reached the horror films! It's a movie that reflects nowadays society, always waiting for some reality show in the screen! But, on the other hand I think this movie is also a critic to that&#133; By a comical point of view it can even be seen as a spoof to the horror flicks, because just to a spoof movie one would mind to create such pathetic idea! This movie would be a nice target to the next Scary Movie&#133; Producers of spoof movies please take a look on it!Beside this brilliant pseudo-scary-reality-show the movie is a traditional slasher, just one more to the Halloween series&#133; But could/should we expect something else beyond this knife cuts flesh from a Halloween series movie? Of course not! So it's an average movie anyway! "},{"Title":"Halloween","Date":"23 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I love the Halloween films, i love the intensity it gives the viewer such as myself, i wouldn't mind seeing more of them as i am i big fan. I'm sure another Halloween is due to be made which does involve a member from the Myers family which would be cool i guess, check it out on this website its Priberbly on here. however i think the early Halloween films are way better than the modern ones because the scenes in the early movies are more intense and yet very simple. a few early noises and footsteps give that scary feeling which the director probably wanted. i don't get that scared by the modern Halloween films. but i still think the cool. "},{"Title":"Wretched","Date":"31 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The only reason for making this rotten sequel was for the money. There isn't a single scary moment in it, unless you count watching Tyra Banks and Busta Rhymes attempts at acting. The explanation as to why Michael Myers is still alive after the conclusion of Halloween H2O is ludicrous and insulting to the memory of that film, which was, in my opinion, the second best of the series after the original. Why oh why couldn't they have gone out on a high note?? Instead, they bring in a vapid bunch of teenagers and a cliche-ridden script (which appears to have been rewritten daily and had no set ending according to the DVD) and tarnish the series beyond repair. If there's another sequel, may God help us, I will avoid it like the plague.  "}{"Title":"will they ever give this up?","Date":"7 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  as a devoted fan of john carpenter, i'd rate his original 'halloween' as a competent horror flick and not one of his best. my favourite entry in this series is without doubt 'halloween 3' mainly because of the great nigel ('quatermass') kneale's uncredited contribution to the script which is a darn sight better than this tired load of drivel. the only redeeming feature in this i thought was the remastered theme music whilst i kept hoping micheal myers would have snuffed out everyone involved within the opening prologue. rather than commenting further on this waste of space i thought i'd just give you a little bit of fascinating trivia! did you know john carpenter named micheal myers after the late micheal myers, a brit film distributor who released carpenter's cult 'assault on precinct 13' in britain to worldwide critical acclaim? i also use to know a kid named micheal myers from my old school though whether he went on to walking around with a mask in the same boiler suit since 1978 and hacking up people courtesy of a kitchen knife is anyones guess. "},{"Title":"Utter disgrace!","Date":"4 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I cannot believe how bitter I was leaving this film after it's premiere. I was so disappointed that I could not stop raving about it all night. The acting/plot/music/etc was good and had potential, but it was just carried out in such a way that it ended up flawed and just didn't work. There were so many bad, laughable moments that I wished the film had never been made.Kudos must be given to Rick Rosenthal for what he did after the film was dumped into his hands, though. But ultimately the film is poor and does little to help the series, as this is just another made for the hip teen audience and not to continue the storyline. Watch out for the duplicate, ridiculous deaths and the stupid, ridiculous one-liners, particularly from Freddie (Busta Rhymes - whose effort was poor). The kung-fu scene is also an absolute joke!This film gives the series a bad name and does little to restore faith in the Halloween movies. Steer clear! "},{"Title":"cool","Date":"26 July 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  this was one of the best halloween movies i've seen in a long time.  the ones before this one were all right but didn't really say much about why michael myers became the way he is. the fact that they were trapped in the house was cool. the killing scenes were good all except one but hey the movie itself and the rest of the killing scenes makes up for it. the ending was kinda trippy and for some reason i sense another halloween movie coming out, but we'll see what happens. by the way, ever notice how the hottest chic always lives at the end?  take it easy y'all.  "},{"Title":"GREAT!!!!!!  , warning, contains spoilers!!","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I have been waiting to see this movie for 4 years. And after Halloween H20, me, my brother, and my best friend has disputed over the fact that if that was the real Michael Myers in H20, or just a copycat. Halloween Resurrection cleared this argument up, and is one of the many pleasures of Halloween Resurrection. In the beginning, Michael tracks his sister Laurie down after 3 years in a mental hospital. On top of the roof, Michael finally kills Laurie, and then proceeds to go back to his home. The beginning sequence is very exciting to watch, and the music pumps up just at the right times. The story follows a group of teenagers who have won a contest set-up by Busta Rhymes, and Tyra Banks, to spend on night in the house of Michael Myers. Attached to their heads are cameras which they use to go around the house to try an uncover the mystery behind Michael Myers madness, and rage. But what they don't know is that Michael is already in the house, hell bent on killing them all. Halloween Resurrection sets up these characters to die in cool, and sometimes elaborate ways. This movie cranks up the suspense by having Michael Myers at sometimes pop out of nowhere, and the score gives you that crank of music just at the right time to create an even more atmosphere of terror. Another pleasure of this movie is that is able to interract with the people who are watching over the internet, and sets up a very suspensful, and creey scene in which the heroine has a little palm computer device which allows her to make contact with the people wathcing, and they are able to tell her where Michael is. The movie not only has great suspense, I found my heart pumping at the end, and that's what a great horror/thriller should do. Halloween Resurrection has a lot of funny line, and scenes, including a great one where Busta Rhymes  dressed up as Michael Myers meats up with the real Michael Myers, and delivers a very funny outcome, which I will not reveal. Not only is Halloween Resurrection creepy, and suspensful, it is able to create all that with a believeable plot which has characters, and events that are believeable. Followed by ok acting, and a funny performance by Busta Rhymes, great music, cool death sequences, a believeabl story, and ending which made me jump, Halloween Resurrection is not as good as the first, but not that much close behind the first, Halloween Resurrection stands as the best of Halloween sequels. 4 out of 4 stars.  "},{"Title":"Michael still lives","Date":"21 July 2005","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I recently watched this 8th installment in the series and on the whole I wasn't disappointed. I'm actually one of the few true Halloween fans who liked Halloween H20. I particularly liked the ending. It sort'a wrapped things up neatly I thought. But since they HAD to bring old Michael back (and by the way, I'm not complaining) they at least did it in a semi-plausible way.Halloween Resurrection takes place three years after H20 and Laurie Strode (Jamie Lee Curtis) is in a mental hospital, following the traumatic experience of decapitating the wrong guy. Michael pays her a visit and thereafter the Michael vs. Laurie plot is laid to rest.BRING ON SOME NEW MEAT! An internet company titled DANGERTAINMENT (cool title) decides to offer a few young people the opportunity to spend a full night in Michael Myers's old house and the whole show will be broadcast live over the net. Of course, when they get there, Michael is waiting for them with a big sharp knife.Resurrection doesn't offer any novelty to the series. This is a plain slasher fest with no subplot whatsoever. That's basically OK, I mean, it's fast paced, Michael gets down and dirty from the get go and it's over in an hour and twenty minutes. The movie has some definite highlights and it generates a decent amount of suspense and has some very cool kills. Director Rick Rosenthal returns to the series, he made a very decent Halloween 2 and obviously has some respect for the genre.But the film isn't overall successful. It's got a paper thin storyline and you basically don't care about any of the characters, none. There's an annoying storyline concerning a geeky teenage boy at a party who watches the live show and of course he's the only one who knows that the show is for real while everyone else are totally oblivious to that fact. Busta Rhymes isn't very good as a central character. He simply doesn't fit all that well in this movie. His fancy (but utterly stupid) lines over the course of the whole film are really annoying. Just think how much better the movie would have been with a better written character and actor. LL Cool J, also a rapper, fared much better in H20. The internet angle, a new twist, is interesting but not used to it's full potential. I didn't think it added anything, I mean, it's just the routine slash fest that delivers here. And the tunnel, well, I thought it was just too much.But these Halloween films aren't perfect. Fans like them like this, with all their imperfections. They could make 5 more movies like this and I'd go see them and have a good time.Halloween Resurrection is a perfectly acceptable sequel. The first ten minutes alone are a knockout. "},{"Title":"Almost laughable Halloween sequel","Date":"31 October 2002","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  A money-hungry website developer (Busta Rhymes) uses the Myers house as his meal ticket and selects six college students to spend one night, broadcasted live on the internet.  Once inside, the doors are locked and the windows are boarded up, making escape impossible.  Little do they know Michael (Brad Loree) is locked inside with them and waiting to kill.  Who will make it out alive?The eighth installment in the series tries to build up as much scares as the last installment, but unfortunately comes up short.  Jamie Lee Curtis serves very little purpose other than to get picked off by Michael after the first ten minutes.  Rap star Busta Rhymes turns in a one-dimensional performance that's almost laughable.  Rick Rosenthal is the only director brave enough to work on another Halloween sequel.  He goes out of his way to remind us that he did Halloween II by throwing in occasional references (character names, puddle of blood, etc.) and places himself in a cameo.  My evaluation ** out of ****.  "},{"Title":"Still out of ideas, Hollywood?","Date":"24 April 2004","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  If there is one thing that can be counted upon in Hollywood, it is the sequel. As long as the film either makes a profit, however small, or is enough of a tax write-off to keep the producers afloat, the sequels will keep on a-coming. In some cases, such as X-Men 2 or Aliens, this is a good thing. However, they are a small minority that prove the rule, regardless of their excellence in themselves.Horror franchises are the worst offenders in this regard. It's not so surprising when you consider that horror is a difficult genre to make work, and that no writer wants to be associated with a horror film that fell flat (what's the writer of Halloween III up to lately?). There are, of course, only so many different ways one can kill people before it becomes blasé, so to speak. But, as recent films like Ringu or its American equivalent have shown, Hollywood can get significantly more original with its horror than it has tried for most of the last twenty years.The original Halloween, much like the original A Nightmare On Elm Street or the original Texas Chainsaw Massacre, was a novel concept that brought something new to the genre. In the case of Halloween, that something new was a silent killer who at times seemed more sane than his doctor. Of course, it also helped blow the number of murders committed by the mentally ill way out of proportion in the mind of the public, but it also exploits the fact that the extremely mentally ill are much more creative (Ed Gein, for example).The Halloween franchise should never have made it past the second episode. Where the first episode spent time creating an atmosphere and set up characters one cared about, the second episode could be summed up with hey, bimbo, try power-walking, he'll never catch you that way. The worst part is that every episode since could be summed up in exactly the same manner. The fifth film made an abortive attempt to restore this tension, but failed.Fast forward to film number eight, and the best idea that the writers can come up with is sticking a mob of dopey twenty-somethings into the Myers house as part of a reality TV show. Not only is this a creative vacuum, it also opens up a million plot holes. For one thing, if the street that the Myers house is located on is still part of a residental zone, one has to wonder why the house hasn't simply been torn down and either had another house built on it, or been replaced by a small park. Another big plot problem is the stupidity of the cast. A murderer taking so long to dispose of a body, dragging a video camera all the while, is just begging to be caught.There's also a big problem with cinematography. One would have thought that if the idea of resolutions lower than 35mm film in theatres hadn't been firmly killed by cinematic turds like Blair Christian Project, it certainly has been buried by the likes of Baise-Moi or Attack Of The Clones. A signifcant portion of the film is seen through the eyes of web cameras, however, and the abrupt transitions between the formats do not make for a pleasant viewing experience.This is to say nothing of the fact that in spite of trying to make the film more now (did I mention the poorly-research pop-psychology subtexts?), the plot essentially boils down to Michael Myers shows up in Haddonfield, kills a bunch of random strangers, someone 'kills' him, the end. Not exactly what I would call even slightly creative. Compare this with Ringu's ending, and it is easy to see why American horror films are so derided, even in their country of origin.I am not surprised in the slightest that the rating for this film is 4.4 out of ten. As I sit and watch it now, I don't think of how creative or interesting the story is, as I did with parts one and three. I think to myself something along the lines of Can't the Akkads do something creative for a change?. I think that, in essence, summarises every frame of the film. "},{"Title":"Why did they have to ruin it?","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"15 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Okay, it was not that bad of a movie.  But why did they have to make it?  Halloween H20 had ended just perfectly.  Laurie Strode had finally conquered her fears, and had put an end to that monstor.  It was just like Frankenstein except she did not create him.  But they just had to create another sequal.  Again, it was not bad, but they should have left it alone.   "},{"Title":"Don't Resurrect This.","Date":"16 July 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Halloween Resurrection (2002) Dir Rick Rosenthal / Cast Busta Rhymes, Sean Patrick Thomas, Thomas Ian Nicholas, Tyra Banks, Katee Sackhoff Horror crap that regards venturing into the deadly past to seek answers to the disturbed mind of one Michael Myers. An explanation is given as to his decapitated survival from the dreaded Halloween H-20 so that filmmakers can continue to present viewers with celebrations of mindless violence and murder. Jamie Lee Curtis makes one last appearance as Laurie Strode who is now in a mental hospital, and to further underline the idiocy of the film, she is murdered in the opening. A bunch of teenage airheads are picked to enter the abandoned Myers house showcased by some stupid program called Danger-Tainment. That just might be the height of creativity in the entire film. Bugged with cameras they roam about unaware of Myers inside who murders them via decapitation, impalements, etc. Rick Rosenthal is back after directing Halloween 2, and this isn't even on par with that lousy film. Instead it becomes perhaps the worst film in franchise. One can say that perhaps producers grew tired of trying to get John Carpenter back with the franchise. He attempts to pull a Blair Witch Project with its pitiful look. Horrid acting by Busta Rhymes, Sean Patrick Thomas, Thomas Ian Nicholas, and Tyra Banks. Pointless sequel that should be cut to pieces. Score 1 / 10 "},{"Title":"The resurrection has returned!","Date":"5 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" HALLOWEEN RESURRECTION is the final installment in the original series of Michael Myers films and is directed by HALLOWEEN II director, Rick Rosenthal and is the eighth installment in the HALLOWEEN pictures.The film builds upon the continuity of HALLOWEEN H20 20 YEARS LATER and this was the last HALLOWEEN film to have Jamie Lee Curtis as Laurie Strode in the film's first 10 minutes. Although sequels were planned to follow HALLOWEEN RESURRECTION, Dimension Films decided that it was best to later reboot the film series with Rob Zombie's remake of the 1978 of the original HALLOWEEN film.The film is set three years after the last film with Laurie being put in a psychiatric hospital after mistakingly killing a doctor who she thought was her brother. Laurie sets a trap, but successfully, after twenty years of tracking her down, Michael eventually kills her.The following year, the movie goes from here. It continues with the masked serial killer Michael Myers continuing his murderous rampage in his hometown of Haddonfield, but this time, in his old childhood home, now derelict, which is being used for a live internet horror show. Just like the last film, Halloween Resurrection insists that the fourth, fifth and sixth installments are not canon.I don't hate this film, but I can see why other people do. I will not explain anything bad because everything about this movie is so great.The acting is fantastic, but I will say, I was sad that Laurie Strode was killed off at the beginning of this movie. Jamie Lee Curtis is good in the screen time her character has and she does an incredible job in her last appearance as Laurie Strode.Bianca Kajlich plays Sara and she is amazing in this film. Daisy McCrackin plays Donna and she is just dreadful and she is the only one who does not try in this film. Luke Kirby, Katee Sackhofff, Thomas Ian Nicholas, Ryan Merriman and Sean Patrick Thomas are all good in this film and they deliver some good acting skills. Busta Rhymes in this film, a lot of people did hate, but I like him in this film, because he is funny as heck. Tyra Banks plays Nora and she does good in the screen time she has.Brad Loree plays Michael Myers in this film and he is just good, if not better than the other Michael Myers actors that has came before him.The musical score by Danny Lux is just phenomenal and iconic and he created a genuine score to the original film instead of generating something new. He goes crazy for this Halloween picture's musical score with an electro-acoustic feel that dates back to the synthesizer scores of the 1980's.The kills in this movie are way too out there in a few areas, but I can still manage to sit through this movie and still get some very good scares out of this film and really like this movie, unlike some fans and critics and audiences who won't take this film nicely, unlike some of the other Halloween, FRIDAY THE 13th or A Nightmare on Elm Street film sequels in those three franchises.Overall, I love HALLOWEEN RESURRECTION, sure it is stupid, but there is a reason why I like this movie at all costs.8/10. "}{"Title":"Halloween Resurrection","Date":"1 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" 'Halloween Resurrection' is the eighth instalment in the original Halloween series, and in my opinion tied for worst of them all. It takes place three years after Laurie (Jamie Lee Curtis) supposedly chopped off Michael's head in 'Halloween H20'. Well we find out in this one that she got the wrong guy, and has since been locked away in a psychiatric facility. Michael kills her early on (WHICH I HATE!..) and we make our way to Haddonfield to meet our main cast of characters. Our main group of six is a bunch of young people participating in a reality show run by Busta Rhymes and Tyra Banks...yeah. Anyways, the show consists of the group having to spend Halloween night in the scariest house in the USA - The infamous Myers house! Michael of course does not like this, and dispatches most of them in gruesome ways leading to a fiery conclusion.This one definitely the weakest of the original series, right next to 'Halloween 5 The Revenge of Michael Myers'. At least part 5 had some real connection the Myers story! After Laurie is killed, we get a bunch of newbie characters that we never really even care about. The acting is OKAY, but the characters' are written as the most irritating people in existence. I never really cared for most of their safety, except maybe Sean Patrick Thomas' character Rudy. The main girl Sara is nice enough, but she is written and acted as a complete bore. The twist of having the reality show was good though, and I give them marks for thinking outside the box. Their time in the Myers house is also broadcast on the web thanks to Cameras set up all over the place, which adds an interesting twist when a person watching the show has to help guide the reality stars to safety. The scares just aren't there though, and that's what I watch a 'Halloween' film to get. I want to be startled. Michael isn't intimidating or creepy or even scary in this one. Completests of the series and of horror films (like myself) will have to see this at least once, but it's the weakest of them all for sure. The gore is fine, and the Myers house is done up well, but it's a disappointment.5/10 "},{"Title":"Halloween Retrospective 8- Halloween Resurrection (2002)","Date":"22 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Well, it's come to this... the final review of the original 'Halloween' franchise. It's been a long, sexy ride. But we have to stop some day because, you know, I have other films that I have to review. So, without further a 2002, this is 'HALLOWEEN RESURRECTION!' PROS The best thing about this film is the premise; a bunch of sexy teenagers (lead by Bianca Kajlich) who are chosen to star in a reality show where they have to stay the night in Michael Myers' house. Awesomeness! This is the last one that included Laurie Strode (Jamie Lee Curtis), as she is killed off early in the film. All the actors in the film were good but not great. Tyra Banks has a small part as a character named Nora Winston, but I'll get to her later. The mask was pretty good, it seemed like the costume supervisor was more professional than the idiots who did the rest of them. They even managed to fit the original theme in! That's mostly what I can talk about, there wasn't any drama or anything. But, still goooooooooooood.CONS Tyra Banks, in this film, she wasn't really needed. She was just there probably for market value. You don't even get to see her death. Busta Rhymes, again, should have been replaced with a REAL actor. Get this straight, Hollywood... RAPPER'S SHOULDN'T ACT! And neither should rabbits! They just ruin the film with their urban bullshit! Some of the dialogue was stupid. But, it's the best of the sequels to me.See this mo' fucka! HALLOWEEN RESURRECTION Starring Busta Rhymes, Bianca Kaijlich, Thomas Ian Nicholas, Ryan Merriman, Sean Patrick Thomas, Tyra Banks and Jamie Lee Curtis Directed by Rick Rosenthal "},{"Title":"Bad, even in the concept.","Date":"30 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Concept that is so basically, introducing Michael Myers in the world of reality TV. And the film looks more like a reality TV show has a Halloween episode of the saga.Already started, the writers came saddled with the film trying to explain why and how Myers is still alive (Which is simply to spit on the previous episode, namely H20).Then the concept of the saga, is itself the victim of a spit (as Myers arrives at the beginning of the film indeed his goal, I would not say more, however, on its fine).So why then he returns to Haddonfield? Does he want an autograph by Busta Rhymes? Not at all, the writers have not had to do with Myers, a music lover. Let's go to Busta Rhymes, therefore, is very excited to be part of, but whose performance is not at all enthusiastic. Basically the character of Busta Rhymes is a manufacturer and a fan of Bruce Lee, it is almost the only features of his character, but surely the role of composition in his eyes.Other casting error, with a role which slows the film more than anything else, namely Ryan Merriman, in the role of Myles, Myles so that at a party disguised as Vincent Vega in Pulp Fiction, one of the best ideas of the film, making a nod to Pulp Fiction (because we said to forget what turnip Halloween Resurrection, may have always admired what's masterpiece Pulp Fiction), Small problem Ryan Merriman did not have the charisma of John Travolta.Bruce lee,Pulp Fiction longer a reality TV show .... Forgot the first two, it'smore like the last, a big reality TV show of horror (in every sense),horror and boredom. In short, for me the worst episode of the saga, but not bad for a reality TV show (because of boredom before this film is the same) ... "},{"Title":"Stupidity beyond belief.","Date":"14 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I have read some comments on this movie of things that others have pointed out so I'll be brief. Because spending a considerable amount of time and patience is not worth it at all when it comes to soulless drivel like Halloween Resurrection. This has got to be the most stupidest horror film I have ever seen(on TV one Saturday afternoon to be precise). With a bunch of flat, uninteresting characters whom I didn't give a rats ass if they lived or died, I didn't care for the whole film either. It's not enough that the actors suck but putting celebrities in a horror movie?!?!?!?! How freaking stupid is that? Are they expecting us to believe that they can deliver a good acting performance? Well, they failed miserably at that and I'm glad GLAD for that. The funniest part of the whole film is Busta Rhymes going all Bruce Lee on Michael Myers in one of the most laughably stupid and illogical pieces of comedy in film history. Busta kicks Myers out of a window? HAHAHAHAHA!!!! I would love to do that to the makers of this film. "},{"Title":"Terrible!!!","Date":"5 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This is one of the worst horror films I have seen. Soo predictable. Just another film with a bunch of teenagers getting chased then dying. And why the hell is Busta Rhymes in it? I didn't find this film scary at any moment. I didn't think much of the first Halloween film and I don't know why it got carried on this long and got turned into this garbage. I also don't get why Michael Myers gets hung on a wire and stays alive! If you get hung you die straight away. Also at the end how does he come back to life? They check that he's dead, and then right at the end we see him open his eyes. This film defies logic. The only thing I liked about this film (as with the first one) Is the soundtrack. Its cool. creepy and suspenseful.Stay clear of this film. 1/10 "},{"Title":"A tragic way to end the (3rd?) series","Date":"17 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Stay away from this movie.Just watching it is like having Michael Myers gut you to pieces, and that is exactly how I felt after I finished watching this movie.The idea is terrible! I also believe it felt the need to rip off PSYCHO with it having the main character that everyone was anticipating getting murdered SO EARLY in the film. H20 seemed like a masterpiece to me.Also, how could a normal person survive what happens to Michael in the last film! He gets stabbed, flown through a windscreen and crushed against a tree! It couldn't have been a paramedic! Why!? Also the whole Dangertainment thing with Busta Rhymes? WTF? It's like seeing your favorite movie being torn apart by a sequel that twists the whole idea OF your favorite movie. Oh, that's right, IT'S EXACTLY THAT! 1/10 "},{"Title":"Or maybe it was all a dream","Date":"1 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Halloween H20 was a pretty worthy sequel, a bit slow but still pretty good. Then they just had to level the whole series again. I suppose there is some sadistic fun is seeing how these writers hopelessly try to bend the story their way, but mostly it's just insulting to the audience. I mean, the explanation they give to how Myers can still be alive is terrible. I have seen that Jason movie in which he is brought back from the dead by lightning and I went like yeah, could happen. This could not happen. It makes no sense. I don't expect a good plot from a slasher, but it would have actually been better if they had given absolutely no explanation. About the rest, this thing tries to make up for its story and I appreciate that. There aren't really any creative kills, but the way they're directed makes them look pretty brutal. It's a bother how Michael keeps getting stronger and weaker whenever the script demands it, but really that's a criticism I could give to any of them except for the first one. I like how this one doesn't even try to kid us, leaves the door wide open for a sequel. I just hope it won't have Busta Rhymes. "},{"Title":"A disgrace to Michael, Halloween, Horror, and humankind","Date":"15 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Oh boy where to start here. Well, Busta Rhymes and Tyra Banks star, so there's a start. Rick Rosenthal isn't a terrible director (Halloween II is one of the better sequels) but after watching this, you'd think he were in a coma for 10 years and forgot how to direct.Awful, awful movie, basically no plot whatsoever, contradicts the series even MORE than H20 did (at least that was good), terrible acting, and a disgusting Michael Myers that hopefully will never be seen again.H20 should have been the end, as it was perfect for closing the series quickly and even going back to it's roots (sorta) without any supernatural bull and more suspense than gore. This bastardization of Halloween makes the previous Halloween film look cheap and lazy, while this is really the cheap and lazy one.If I had to choose between Jason X and this, Jason X would be it. At least it was campy and had one of the best deaths the series has ever seen.Halloween Resurrection gets a pathetic, degrading 1/10. "},{"Title":"Should have been titled Halloween Crucifixion","Date":"31 October 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Picking up where Halloween H20 left off, Halloween Resurrection re-writes the previous installment's ending so that Michael has actually survived, via the ol' switcheroo. After a little detour to the local mental hospital to face off with his sister once again, Michael Myers heads home and is anything but pleased to find a group of college kids filming an internet documentary/web-cast on his turf. Quicker than you can say Silver Shamrock, Michael dispatches violently of the brain-dead, overly horny cardboard cut-outs in an attempt to clean house.To say this film is a new low for the series is an understatement. Fact of the matter, to this day, I cannot say why they even bothered making this film, assuming that it's sole purpose was to make a little money. Perfectly mirroring that theory is the complete lack of a soul in this film. Sure, in the '78 original, Michael was meant to be a blank slate without conscience or reason. But does that mean that any of his films should share those characteristics? The eighth installment in the franchise was surely the final nail in the coffin of what was a very troubled series. Despite it's various off-shoots and dropped story lines, the Halloween series always carried itself as a more intelligent, reasonable franchise. Not as outlandish and far-fetched as the Freddys and Jasons of the eighties, Michael and his films were more often than not, believable. As fans, we have weathered cults, curses, men in black, sisters, uncles, nieces, Marco Beltrami, characters and stories that constantly met dead ends and everything but the kitchen sink -- heck, even a film that had nothing to do with Michael -- so to say we were used the abuse by 2002 would be an understatement. But by insulting our intelligence with it's downright stupid explanation as to how Michael survived his last fling and then following it up with the lamest, weakest story of the franchise, it seems as though they genuinely didn't care about making a decent product this time.Basically, with this film, the intention was to create a fast-food version of Michael Myers. He walks, he stalks, and he slashes rappers, models and mid-20's actors trying to be teenagers. There is zero story to be told, as Michael basically takes a detour from the usual Halloween mythos to slice and dice some random meat. Despite the fact that Rick Rosenthal -- who also directed Halloween II -- can deliver a good looking film, there is nothing else of substance. No suspense, no scares. The characters -- even the intended survivors -- are paper-thin and uninteresting. Heck, they even got Michael Myers wrong. Aside from a completely disinterested Brad Loree, what was up with those eyebrows? Heck, they even butchered the Myers set...err, I mean...house. I could break it down for you some more, make it seem even more unsavory, but it would be pointless. Just know that any sequel bearing the name Resurrection is a waste of time. Sure, if you turn off your brain and forget Sam Loomis, Laurie Strode and everything else you came to know and love about Halloween and see this as a modern Friday the 13th with Michael doing the dirty-work, it can be enjoyed on a very simple level. Afterall, with so many bad characters to choose from -- most notably, a karate-kicking Busta Rhymes -- a little bit of pleasure can be derived from seeing their ultimate demise, a reassurance that they won't taint the Halloween name ever again. Other than that, though, there's nothing else to write about. "},{"Title":"this movie sucks","Date":"28 October 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" i have not watched any Halloween movie, but based on IMDb, i presume it to be quite good, it was listed as a horror classic. so when i watched this crap, i was thinking is this even about the same thing?? the antagonist (the phantom of the opera copycat) is silent, superhuman, and he likes to stab people. what for??? i only find out the reason when i look up wikipedia. a good sequel doesn't need the audience to refer to sources. the heroes are really lame, and i couldn't give a damn when they die. there's the slutty blonde retard, who's always looking in the mirror, and just scream when mike stabs her. come on, at least try to run in your stilettos! the other red head is really stupid too, she had sex, and then she touches a dead rat, and screams around, shouting to mike I'm here! come kill me! don't they ever learn never go anywhere alone in horror movies? the brunette fares barely, too weak to even lift the table off her at the end. her only redemption is she never flirt or try to have sex in the show. and she kicking mike's head. the stupid hip hop wannabe producer is retarded too, like when he pretend he's mike, and shout at the real mike. he can't say a sentence without motherfucka in it. the pussycat doll reject is really idiotic. she always dances at the crucial moment. i'm glad she became a pool of blood. the other characters are too shallow for me to recall. as for the non existent plot, at first i thought i was watching reality TV, like fear factor. then i figured out it was the cult classic everyone was talking about. go figure, everyone. "}{"Title":"I hate myself for watching this more than once","Date":"12 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Rick Rosenthal directed Halloween 2. I thought he did a fine job. He also directed this piece. Why would he agree to do it? This movie kills me. The first 10 minutes is actually OK. Jamie Lee Curtis is great. They should have done another one with her starring, and finally dying at the end. That would have been great.I thought Halloween 6 was bad. This makes it look like the Godfather. Simply think about this. Someone actually pitched this idea and it worked Why don't we kill Jamie Lee Curtis 10 minutes in, have Michael Myers come back to his house where Busta Rhymes will be filming a reality internet show. Michael will kill some kids in front of a big internet audience, only for Busta to whip him with some kung fu. Nice. And some fool paid a bunch of money for this to get made. I know that making films is a business, but at some point there has to be some kind of artistic integrity maintained. I mean, this was so bad that they couldn't even make another one for 5 years. "},{"Title":"worst movie ever ?","Date":"5 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" i watched this movie when i was really bored one night and just could not sleep, there is my excuse for watching such a mess right there.an abysmal movie with the wrong intentions from the start. morons looking to make money, rather than making movies out of passion. a cast and crew that does not care for the audience just so long as they go and see it and their pockets fill up real fast.HOW MANY MORE HALLOWEEN MOVIES? first off, michael myers is electrocuted and attacked with a chainsaw and still does not die.secondly, he is in the bodybag when he wakes up. DID NO ONE THINK TO CHECK HIS PULSE? DID THEY JUST SEE HIS EYES SHUT AND PRESUME HE WAS DEAD? this movie is so silly and ridiculous it is beyond belief.thirdly, the storyline is disgraceful. some students get to visit michael myers house to snoop around...without knowing that he lives in the basement.DID THE ORGANISERS NOT CHECK THE HOUSE? abolutely pathetic film-making. the only positive is that it is amusing from scene to scene how bad this movie actually gets. if you have seen a worse movie, then i really feel for you.aah...rant over "},{"Title":"Top 10 worst movies ever!!!","Date":"3 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" On the one hand I'm happy Jamie lee Curtis took the 3 million to do this. It's nice that she got some of the payday. I also like that it took the character Laurie away form the horror that this series became. But on the other hand Laurie should not have died and this piece of crap should never have seen the light of day. The movie starts based on the worst premise ever having had Michael switch places with another person in H20 so he didn't actually die. That doesn't really explain why he would rise up in the back of the ambulance, attack Laurie and be able to stand right up after a car hits him. After that we get a little Laurie vs Michael, Laurie dying, then Michael killing a bunch of college students on a reality show. The performance of the movie is made by Busta Rhyms. He yells things like f*** and motherf***er and it's actually some of the worst dialogue I've ever heard. He then Bruce lee battles Michael myers complete with Bruce lee sound effects and ninja kicks.( I am actually being serious this really happens!!) All and all one of the worst movies I have ever seen. I wonder why the director from Halloween II would come back for this. I always felt the second film could stand up almost equal to the first. I'm sure he got a much needed payday. If there was a zero rating I would give it to this movie it should never have been made.It destroys all the good the series had and should be burned and forgotten forever! "},{"Title":"No no no no no","Date":"20 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" With one single stroke, namely 'Halloween Resurrection', the entire Halloween franchise has lost all credibility. Even low budget horror films should have standards, and this film is so bad, it makes some of the worst 'Friday the 13th' movies look good. John Carpenter's original film is rightly considered a classic, and one of the most influential films in the genre. The sequels have been a very mixed bag, but I never thought it would get this bad. Other reviewers have commented on the fact that this movie is atrociously poorly made, so I won't repeat these charges, except to add that the musical score by Danny Lux is like everything else about this film way below standard. My main gripe is really this To me the 'heart' of the Halloween series was always the character of Laurie Strode, played wonderfully by Jamie Lee Curtis. The fact that they chose to dispose of her in such a casual way within the first 15 mins. of the film does simply not ring true with the continuity of the original storyline of 'Halloween', 'Halloween 2' and 'Halloween H20'. Not only is the proposed explanation of how Michael Myers survived his decapitation in H20 completely unbelievable, even for a film in this genre, but the way Laurie Strode meets her doom is utterly ridiculous and beyond 'suspension of disbelief' if you consider the way the character developed through the previous films. I can't understand why Jamie Lee Curtis would ever accept having Laurie Strode written out of the Halloween series as if she were a character in a day-time soap opera, but maybe she just finally wanted out of the franchise. In sum, any fan of the original 'Halloween' film should feel offended by the low quality offered us in 'Halloween Resurrection' The movie is so bad that I consider it an insult to the audience. "},{"Title":"this is terrible","Date":"1 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" this movie makes no sense.. the previous one h20 shows Laurie strode chopping his frickin head off hello.... not even Michael comes back from that come on they ruined it bad.. why would they bother with this.. if they really wanted the series to continue why not have him not get his head chopped off....seems to me its a moneymaker do why not.... i actually cant believe john carpenter would lend his name to this let alone Jaime lee Curtis.... also whats up with the last 2 Halloween movies in this series having rappers in it???? in the next one are they gonna have ice cube coming back on Friday maybe to conquer the wrath of Michael myers with the help of Chris tucker??? they should have quit after h20 "},{"Title":"worst Halloween","Date":"10 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This really has to be the worst out of all the Halloween films. It could have been a completely different movie about people on a game show who go into a killer's old house. NOT Halloween. *spoilers* Aside from the boring plot and cheesy acting, the worst thing has to be that Laurie dies in the first 10 minutes. It was really a stupid twist that she killed the wrong person in Halloween H20. The series should have just ended there... Why kill Laurie? She's the best Halloween character. It's just depressing that in the end, Laurie doesn't defeat Michael and instead she's an opening kill. Other than that, this movie could have been OK. Just get better actors, a new killer, don't have the stupid retard watching her on the computer getting chased and not doing anything, and get rid of the rapper. "},{"Title":"Crap","Date":"24 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Let me start of by say saying how ridiculous the plot is. A group of teenagers spending the night at the Myers house for some strange reason, just in time for Michael to return and kill every one in it. Yup that's the movie for ya. Doesn't it sound great? Oh, and that's not all, the teens apparently have set up cameras everywhere in the house so they can always see what's going on. Oh, wait that's still not all Lourie Strode was killed off in this one. That's right after all those exciting appearances by her it's all gone. The only good thing about this movie was I must admit there was one cool death scene, but besides that it was completely horrible. On top of that it wasn't even that scary in fact not scary at all. A complete disgrace to the series. "},{"Title":"At last, the end of it all","Date":"21 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I've got to say that this series has survived well, and has flourished well. The ONLY terrible sequel in here is part 3, since it's not even a sequel. Part 6 is just not as strong as the others. Part 5 has weak points, but is still a powerful movie.As for this one, I see it as a... Let's celebrate how far the series went with just one more set of fireworks to end it all!. If they make ONE MORE sequel, I swear... It's a great movie, if you're desperate to see Michael Myers in action one final time, but if you're looking for yet another rebirth of the series, give it up- there's not much more they can do, and this certainly doesn't do it. The only part in it that fans will find satisfying is the beginning scene, before the real story of the movie is introduced. (The situation surrounding the opening credits with Laurie, basically.) So it's a good finale to the series, (though H20 would've been far better), but there'd better not be any more. Michael Myers' reign of evil ends here. Let's not kill the already-extensive series.Kudos to the whole series, minus part 3. Kudos, kudos. *Applause* "},{"Title":"What a pathetic movie!","Date":"13 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I have watched all the Halloween films and ever since the terrible Halloween 5, I haven't been so impressed. Halloween 6 was utter rubbish, saying goodbye to the legendary Loomis who is killed in H6. I then watched H20 and quite frankly the only thing good in the H20 was Jamie Lee Curtis. Then I found out about this Halloween 8 coming out and since Jamie Lee Curtis was on top of the credits list, I went especially to the premier. Halloween Resurrection starts off well with Laurie Strode (Curtis) in a mental hospital trying to keep safe from the evil Michael Myers who has SURVIVED yet again in the Halloween H20. Michael kills numerous guards of the mental hospital including drowning a man by locking him in a washing machine which in my opinion is just pathetic, finally after the almost-funny murders, he get's to the room of Laurie Strode and here comes the worst part of all! He kills Laurie! It is with out a doubt the worst thing that's ever happened in the Halloween series. I thought I'd seen it all when they'd killed Loomis back in H6 but no they have to kill the main source to the series.Right now that they've killed all the original characters, it's not even worth watching. Mike Rosenfeld (director) has tried to bring the Halloween series to a new generation by casting cool characters. The first is the ridiculous Busta Rhymes who's acting was truly awful and supermodel Tyra Banks who in my opinion was just casted to promote the film and not that she could act (well she can't act so there!) Then the plot goes so stupid that I was actually considering leaving the premier half way through! I admit it was kind of a good storyline bringing six young wannabes into the childhood home of Michael Myers and making a reality show, but they made it funny. If it was a separate movie altogether I would consider it being good but it's not a Halloween movie. It's cheap compared to the original Halloween, it's more of a comedy than a horror!The director then tries to scare us by Michael Myers killing everyone in the house but the murders are so predictable and is a trillion miles away from scary.And just when you think the worst is over at the end, Michael opens his eyes after being hung, stabbed, burned, electrocuted, blown up and thrown of buildings, and then it's the end of the movie. I felt violated! Now that all the original characters are dead, God knows what Halloween 9 will be like and after all the Halloween movies I've seen, I am seriously considering not going to see Halloween 9 because it's probably going to have Christina Aguilera and Xibit or some other new characters in 2007! "},{"Title":"A million other films in one - all of them redone badly. VERY badly.","Date":"1 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I like horror films. Always have. But, sadly, the genre seems to have taken a powder over the past 10 years or so, particularly the last 5, I'd say, and this film is a perfect example by now, one expects lackluster direction, lousy acting, and derivative storytelling but this one hits an all-time low, for it's a million other movies you've already seen, thrown into a blender, and left to stew in the sun to spoil even further. Worse still, for those fans of the Halloween installments, except for the opening sequence featuring Jamie Lee Curtis, this film bears little real relation to any other film in the series. The recycled ideas provided here as entertainment are nearly endless teens being stalked by a killer? Too many other movies to count but let's start with Scream and I Know What You Did Last Summer, to name a couple. Teens staying in a haunted house over night? Saw that in House On Haunted Hill, The Haunting, Night of the Demons, you name it. Stupid people doing stupid things that cause their own deaths, or aid in it? Or horny teens getting whacked for doing what comes naturally? How 'bout Friday the 13th? Helpless, screaming, white heroine who can't do anything without a man around to save her? In this girl-power age, we don't see that much anymore but just about every older flick has it. A group investigating weird happenings while capturing it all on video? Blair Witch Project all over again. And, just like Blair Witch, this is an unmitigated disaster all around. There isn't a single scare or moment of tension throughout, helped neither by a director who'd be hard-pressed to successfully direct a grammar-school play, let alone a big-budget film, nor a cast of unknowns who greatly deserve to stay that way. They're awful. Not one of them has any screen presence, or creates a character worth caring about (though of course there aren't any characters written, just stock figures from any other horror film). The only names of note - besides Curtis, who has little more than a Drew-Barrymore-in-Scream cameo - are model/actress/talk show hostess Tyra Banks and rap artist/actor Busta Rhymes, and when Banks and Rhymes are your biggest names, boy, are you in trouble! Imagine the producers talking this one over Okay...the last installment had Michaael Myers killed in a very satisfying wrap-up of the series. How can we bring him back AND upset everyone who loved the films? Maybe we can kill off Jamie Lee Curtis! Yeah! But who to replace her with...? Hmmm... I know! Busta Rhymes! When I think of horror-movie legends, I think of Jamie Lee Curtis and Busta Rhymes. And maybe we can get one of those Victoria Secrets models? Any one of 'em will do. Let's get one who THINKS she can act but really CAN'T so we can kill HER off, too! Banks IS a bad actress (not Cindy-Crawford-in-Fair Game bad but close) and disappears, thankfully, about halfway through. Unfortunately, that means we're stuck with Mr Rhymes, whose idea of acting is screwing up his mouth and face in attempt to come off as 'street', with some out-of-nowhere Jackie Chan moves thrown in for the big finale. (Yes, you read right Busta - taking himself seriously - breaks into pseudo-ninja action, complete with the vocal sounds you'd expect. He's so impressed with himself, and it's all so ridiculous, that you've just gotta laugh out loud.) Oh, and did I mention that for a physically huge and powerful, unstoppable killing machine, Michael Myers has the lithe grace and body control of a dancer because AT NO POINT IN TIME does his hulking presence on the steps or floorboards of a decades-old house create ANY noise whatsoever? I wasn't sure if I should be scared for the characters or impressed with the carpentry. Goodness knows the carpentry would be the ONLY THING to be impressed with. Everything else in this flop is pure cash-cow desperation. "}{"Title":"Another lame Halloween sequel","Date":"29 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" It is so sad to see that the Halloween has bogged down into a never ending story of bad film making.After the highly praised and indeed brilliant first installment by John Carpenter the film have gone from reasonably okay (part 2), to bad and even worse (the next sequels although I must say that I've never seen part 6).No it has never been good news since 1978 when Michael Myers is concerned and that's a pity.The first film that had all the great stuff a good slasher should have (except maybe for the supernatural ending) was never equaled,not even close.Even part 3 that tried to give a new non-Michael tail to the story was pretty disappointing if you ask me.Not to mention the stories with Michael's niece.H20 brought back Laurie but with no good effect although we all thought that Michael was dead by now (hey,his head got chopped off).In HalloweenResurrection (lame title) the first thing we hear is that Laurie killed the wrong person cause Michael put his mask on a father of 3,poor Laurie now she is a killer.In the opening she is again stalked by Michael who tries to kill her and seems to succeed when he stabs poor Laurie several times after we see Laurie fall down (but is she really dead,that's something for everybody to discuss about,I'm not really sure).Anyway,in the rest of the movie she won't be bothered again.The rest of the film is an unmotivated and uninspired follow up of badly shot death and mayhem in Michael's old house in Haddonfield.The attempt by Rick Rosenthal (who actually made the first sequel) to recreate some of the tension and atmosphere of the original fails entirely because of the bad story,bad cinematography and bad acting.The story is full of flaws (why does he go on killing after Laurie's death what he sincerely believes and why can he simply kill people without anyone noticing it on the web cams,it's too accidental),the cinematography is not any better (the small cameras make for a pretty unpleasant viewing experience and the slow motions are very annoying not to mention the full view shots of Michael as he comes storming towards someone,which is totally against the great first person view of the original) and the acting is inert especially by Tyra Banks and Busta Rhymes although the rest of the cast isn't much better.The characters are too standard to give any depth.No,this Halloween installment again fails to compete with the original or with any good or even decent horror movie for that matter.Myers becomes more and more some kind of immortal godlike (or Satan) creature who refuses to die as we also see in the ending of this movie sadly enough.Another sequel seems to come although thanks goodness none has arrived yet,maybe Hollywood has come to senses and Michael laid to rest.Poor Michael (or poor Laurie) does not deserve another hellish Halloween sequel. "},{"Title":"Just a terrible excuse","Date":"22 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" H20 ended happily. But Michael Myers wasn't finished with the murderers... They decided to make Michael Myers live again. What? do you probably think. Will he return without a head?. But no, according to this movie, it was someone else who got killed in H20. It was after Michel Myers fell down with a lot of knife stabbings, Michael putted the mask on someone else. Someone who flew out of a car window, got hated by the van and then squeezed between the van and a tree. And he survived. But only Michael Myers would survive that! What a terrible excuse to make another sequel. And all this happened in the intro. Jamie Lee Curtis accepted the movie just to make sure that she wouldn't appear in any other sequel. Why didn't she just reject every other sequel, and live happily ever after? We were all so happy when she survived in H20, but she just had to die in this movie! I got very angry! And the rest if the movie was pretty bad. I hope that Halloween 9 will be better - but i don't think i will see it! "},{"Title":"Silly but still viably entertaining","Date":"2 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This installment in the Halloween series has a group of college kids led by Busta Rhymes and Tyra Banks of all people doing a live POV internet feed while they spend the night in Michael Myers' childhood home. Of course, Michael is back in town, and of course, he's about to kill almost all of them.Halloween Resurrection works as a closing chapter for Laurie Strode, with Jamie Lee Curtis reprising her role only to bring the character to an end. Needless to say, she deserved a better last hurrah, but the post-millennial digital age bent to the film keeps it consistently amusing no matter how silly it may be. The cast is great for what it is&#x97; Bianca Kajlich leads the film, and Sean Patrick Thomas and Katee Sackhoff are solid support here. The characters are all archetypical cutouts&#x97; sex-hungry college boys, a sassy psychological student, and a blonde ditz who's planning on jump starting her career as a star&#x97; but the truth is that in a film like this it really doesn't matter.There are stalk-and-slash scenes a'plenty, and voyeuristic explorations of the Myers house that reveal interesting if not contrived backstory on the legendary screen killer. The last half of the film is ridiculous fun, and it really goes out with a bang. Does it compare to the original string of films? Of course not. How could it? It's millennial post-slasher trash at the end of the day, but as an extension of the beloved series, it's still worth a watch just for mindless amusement. 5/10. "},{"Title":"Evil Has Found Its Way Home","Date":"13 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Halloween Resurrection is the eighth film is the Halloween franchise, it's one of those that's been going on a long time such as 'Nightmare On Elm Street' & 'Friday The 13th' but like the latter these films are just about drying up.Resurrection finds a group of teens entering the birth home of Michael Myers for a special web-cast that will be broadcast live. The teens are to spend the night there and find answers to the big mystery of Michael Myers. But Michael intends to crash the party LIVE.This film i enjoyed and i cant understand why so many people hate it, i found it to be a good way to spend a couple of hours with a classic icon that is Michael Myers.The opening of this film is quite interesting, and opens with Michael trying to kill Laurie something he's been attempting to do for quite sometime. The opening to the film i thought was great but just a little too short to give me the satisfaction of ending that particular era of Halloween. Jamie Lee Curtis gives a good performance as this battered, beaten down woman and i think she can be satisfied with the performance as can the viewer.The film then turns to a different level with the film turning into one of those teen slasher films, now while usually this would be a terrible route for a horror film with Halloween in the title, it uses story as reasoning for Michael killing people. These teens have come into his home and so that is the reasoning for killing the teens.The acting is mediocre at best, the best performances have to go to Jamie Lee Curtis and Brad Loree who portrays Michael. Loree really gives a performance to Michael that we really haven't seen since the original, he also looks menacing which always helps, he should definitely be considered for future Michael outings! Busta Rhymes definitely puts in the worst performance of the entire cast, he portrays a guy that in his words just wanna give America a good show' well Busta you didn't so don't bother doing it anymore.The set design is creepy and the darkness throughout really makes you cringe not knowing if Michael is in the shadows waiting and i think that is such a clever usage of the lighting.Now this film does something interesting as far as cinematography is concerned. The story has the cast wearing head cams that films everything they see and a lot of the films footage is this sort of stuff with the head cam. I liked that idea and thought it worked quite well throughout the film and made it much more interesting, as though you were there with the actual characters in the film.Of course deaths are always important in a film like this and Michael has his fair share in this outing. To name a few, Decapitation, Stabbing, and a clever use of a tripod. The deaths are really what we've seen before so don't expect anything original here.The direction is all over the place with some bits like the opening done well while other seem like like he has let the cast run wild.So what's bad about the picture then? well i think the main problem has to be that Michael just keeps coming back and i think that is a real problem when they kill him off in one film and then decide hes not for the next film. Also this film seems to ignore Halloween films 3,4,5,6 which seems pointless but hey this is Hollywood.Overall i enjoyed this film, it had some good scares in places and the opening really intrigued me and sit up and pay attention. While the acting is sour and Busta Rhymes is just the most annoying guy in the whole film, this picture works and i think if you're looking for a little piece of horror to get your teeth into then look no further than this, its no masterpiece but its no piece of crap either.****** out of ********** "},{"Title":"Waste of movie going time!","Date":"6 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Out of all the Halloween flicks this is by far the very worst. I didn't care for Halloween 3 but it's a far cry from this bomb. In fact this movie makes that movie look like a masterpiece. I really don't mind part 3,it's so so even though it's unrelated to the series so i can't really say it's a stinker. Out of all the Halloweens in the series this is the worst.The first 5 or so minutes was OK,but anything after the death of Jamie Lee Curtis flat out sucks. I like Busta Ryhmes but even he could of done better than this. i didn't care for the whole reality show in the Myers house thing. Like one person said they don't make em like they used too. I guess they couldn't think up any other ideas so they say hey,why don't we spoof the annoying reality TV shows. Like they're not annoying enough on small screen but big screen. you got to be kidding! Although if they threw in a scene when one of the annoying girls,whom am I kidding anyone in it's annoying,like I was saying anyone in that flick to eat worms or reindeer testicles it might of amused me for a split second. After Curtis died it was one big train wreck. no scares,little gore or not as much as a ghoul like me would like.If they wanted to do something do a follow up on part 5 or 6. Even though it might of still sucked it had to of been better than this lame brained plot. I ranted enough on this subject.) "},{"Title":"Actually, it wasn't that bad...","Date":"23 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" For a long time now, I've been hearing people badmouthing this film, saying how un-scary and horrible it is. Well, lets get one thing straight it's not anything compared to the original. It's not very scary and has more than its fair share of horribly corny one liners and chills. But, if you want a decent night in with a couple of friends, this isn't necessarily a bad pick... Starting off with a slightly ludicrous beginning, we see Mike Myers break into a hospital and gruesomely kill some innocents (police officers, etc.) Then, the scene turns to the obvious a group of high-school kids, invited to stay in a supposedly haunted house by entrepreneur Fred Harris (yikes!...Busta Rhymes). Mike is not at all delighted about this, his house been filled with the terribly clichéd annoying high school kids, and sets about killing them once on for all. To shorten this down, Halloween probably should have finished after H20 but it is slightly nice to know someone cares enough to do another (hopefully last!) one. So, to answer the question no, this is not a good film. It's not particularly scary, clichéd and and dumb. But for a night in with some friends and a bag of popcorn, this might be the ticket...Overall **/ out of ***** (2 and a half out of 5) "},{"Title":"A Cut Below The Rest......","Date":"30 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" The first 15 minutes are handled wonderfully with the demise of Jamie Lee Curtis. They could have tagged this on the end of H20 and saved the producers a small fortune in paying out a further fee.The rest of the movie doesn't do much for the franchise and apart from the last 10 minutes or so doesn't hold much tension or suspense either.If Michael was truly killing people via an internet link wouldn't the police be there a lot earlier? Let's hope Halloween 9 is a lot better with more thought put into the story and stronger characterizations.Laurie Strode rest in peace!! "},{"Title":"Better than it's rating","Date":"6 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  OK, I know this flick isn't gonna win any awards, but the killing spree really did put me on the  edge of my seat.  Bustah Rhymes is always cool, but I am certain I'd never seen somebody  with only one sideburn.  Too bad, because the one he was wearing was really cool.  And of  course he's The Great Bustah Rhymes, so he does more than his fair share of butt-kicking.   Jaimie Lee Curtis was somehow really good with what I would describe as a dubious role.  There's an internet webcam tie-in they allude to in the previews.  It's too bad this wasn't a  short film of just that scene, because it was GREAT and the rest of the movie was boring and  silly. "},{"Title":"A waste of time","Date":"7 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" A waste of time. Halloween 1 and 2 are the ones to watch and all the sequels are to be ignored. I wish filmmakers would learn to leave well enough alone and stop wearing out original ideas. Its the same scenario with the Friday the 13th movies where part one and two are excellent and the rest of the sequels are an insult to fans of the horror genre. Why can't Hollywood come up with fresh ideas instead of messing continually with the classics by remaking them? The Omen has just been remade and the reviews are terrible. The only highlight from what i have read is Mia Farrow's( Rosemary's Baby) performance as one of Damien's nannies. Otherwise its a poor imitation of a great horror film. Halloween Resurrection is inconsistent, poorly acted, predictable,boring,and full of every cliché you can imagine. Jamie Lee Curtis shows up in the first ten minutes of the film and even her gracing the film with her presence can't save it from itself. If you have never seen Halloween 1 and 2 rent them and forget there were ever any sequels made after that. "},{"Title":"Movie was terrible, but what could have been...","Date":"1 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Let's face it, this was a bad movie. This could have been pretty decent had they used the web cams only. On the DVD there is an option to watch the movie only from the web cam views. It's much scarier this way. I wish they had put the movie in the theatres like this, it had a blair witch feel to it. If you happen to rent this, I suggest checking out this option...much better than the movie itself. "}{"Title":"Awful","Date":"31 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is by far the worst of the Halloween movies that has Michael Myers in it.  Jaimie Lee Curtis's role is a glorified cameo.  The characters in this movie are so unappealing that you don't care who lives or dies.  I think it is time to put Halloween out to pasture.  I never thought it was a good idea to continue the series after the death of Donald Pleasance.  This movie proves me right.  If you must watch, see if you can see anything in this movie because it is so dark. "},{"Title":"Mediocre, but a step back in the right direction","Date":"10 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  OK, Rosenthal, not bad. I gave up a long time ago on anything living up to the legacy of the first two films in this phenomenal franchise. In fact, I left it for dead after seeing that god-awful H20. But this....this is truly a new beginning, even if in some ways it does reinvent the wheel. I've always applauded the series for keeping up its continuity better than Nightmare of Friday the Thirteenth. There's a SAGA at work here. And in this one, a whole chapter is closed at last Laurie Strode bites it; kudos to Jamie for knowing when to throw in the towel. But now, we seem to be developing a whole new arc...though I can't really tell where this one could go. Adding the Scream-ish touch of the whole web-cam idea (reality/fiction line blurred) is cute, but I don't know if it really fits the feel of the Halloween legacy. There's not a lot to surprise slasher fans...in fact, it's more or less standard fare. But it is entertaining, nonetheless. That notwithstanding, I'd be happy to see this series come to an end with dignity. There's nothing left of the original franchise, save for...well, Michael. Everybody else is gone, in one way or another. It's time for the final curtain before this does indeed drag on into Friday/Nightmare territory.  Personally, I even thought 2 Scream sequels was overdoing it. On a side note, to DVD fans, check out the webcam feature; it's a cool new way to watch virtually the entire movie. Rent it, don't buy it. "},{"Title":"Hopefully the last sequel...please!!","Date":"13 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Mediocre eighth installment (and hopefully the last) in the famed Michael Myers series.  Turns out the masked serial killer is not really dead after being decapitated three years earlier, so he returns to his childhood home where six losers are spending Halloween night as part of an Internet-reality show. Not as horrible as some of the other sequels, but not very fresh either. AKA Halloween The Homecoming.  "},{"Title":"I am guilty.","Date":"8 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  There might be **SPOILERS** in this review.I have seen every film in the series and I still feel that the original HALLOWEEN was a very great horror film. Of course, the only reason it is held in such high regard is because it was a novelty. Nowadays, if a film like this comes out, it is filled with cliches.HALLOWEEN RESURRECTION has a bad opening. The beginning sequence and explanation as to how Michael Meyers survived it totally rediculous and is not very far from the dumbest thing I have ever heard in a movie. Jamie Lee Curtis who supposedly liked the script looks like she is high on drugs during her scenes and her acting abilities look like they worsen with age. The beginning is just bad, bad, bad, bad.The story is very good, on the other hand. I like the whole concept and the characters are very likeable. The credit sequence notes a special appearance by Sean Patrick Thomas. Well, I don't see what's so damn special about his role. He is a main character like everyone else and there is nothing special about his appearance in the film. Busta Rhymes tries his best to be very 'action hero' and screams things like trick or treat motherf***a! and happy f***in' halloween and he runs around like he is a complete badass. I like it. A lot of his scenes were funny.Other cast members are potentially there just to die. Whenever you think someone is going to die, their either die now or they survive that situation, move on and get killed a few minutes later. HALLOWEEN RESURRECTION packs on a lot of those kind of scenes. Daisy McCrackin, Luke Kirby, and Katee Sackhoff take some of the better roles as some of the more diverse characters in this mess.I must admit, I liked this movie to a degree. The film is very, very, very, very cliched and keeps the story simple and traditional. It is just not a good movie. I liked it. HALLOWEEN RESURRECTION gets 3/5.-This is evolution the monkey, the man, and then the gun. "},{"Title":"Average Film...Fantastic Soundtrack","Date":"25 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This film was average. The story was ok, the beginning being the best, however the sountrack was excellent. I watched the film at home on my Sony Home cinema system. You could hear the rats running round you, and great use was made of the subwoofer channel, you could almost feel Micheals breath. Mediocre films can be greatly saved by a great soundtrack.Visual, and storyline 6/10 Audio 9/10 "},{"Title":"WHAT ARE YOU GUYS TALKING ABOUT?????","Date":"11 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  WHAT ARE YOU GUYS TALKING ABOUT????? this movie was GREAT!!!!!!! My heart was pounding the whole time. ive read so many comments about how this movie sucked and i was the best out of them all. Come on guys! Give it a chance!!!! "},{"Title":"Terrible...","Date":"6 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  A group of teenagers win a contest to spend halloween night in the house where Michael Myers grew up in. Their night is going to be broadcasted live on the internet. But little do they know that Michael Myers is actually going to be in the house himself, trying to kill anybody that he sees! This movie was terrible, not only is there no point to it(Why is Michael still killing people after he already killed his sister?) but there also was no story too it. It is painfully predictable, dumb and like I said absolutely terrible. I would give HalloweenResurrection 4/10 "},{"Title":"Are you afraid to die, Michael?","Date":"25 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  ~Spoiler~The first 15 minutes of Halloween Resurrection is so promising.  It's dark, even a tad bit spooky, and highly reminiscent of part 2 (which was also directed by Rick Rosenthal).  We're watching as Michael Myers is stalking the long hallways of a hospital for the mentally insane.  We see him make quick work of the security guards.  We know who he's after Laurie Strode. He finds Jamie Lee and chases her out onto the roof, slowly hunting his prey.  And then he kills her.  Woohoo!!  He finally got the b*tch.  Okay, now turn the movie off.  Trust me, turn it off.  It's okay.  Or don't listen to me and watch this miserable excuse for a Halloween movie.  You could possibly argue that I didn't like H20 because I'm simply a purist of the series.  You cannot make that argument for Halloween Resurrection.  It has no redeeming qualities whatsoever.  There's no point to the movie.  First off, he's killed Jamie Lee, he has no more purpose.  He's no longer hunting his family and I no longer care.  Now, maybe the character name Moyer will turn out to actually be Myer in the next installment (if there is one), but for now it doesn't hold water.  Even if it did, how many unknown family members can one guy have.  Secondly, the entire storyline is dumb.  I don't want to see any of this cliched Blair Witch Project stuff; it's a Halloween movie!  You don't need it.  And lastly, it has Busta Rhymes kung-fu fighting Michael Myers.  I was soooo upset at this.  They turned Michael into a p*ssy.  I could go on and on, and onward still...but just read some of the other reviews.  Rick Rosenthal has the distinct honor of directing what are widely considered the best and worst Halloween sequels. "},{"Title":"Liked the movie...hated Busta","Date":"8 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was really good, up to par with the rest of the Jaime Lee Curtis ones (the ones without her were so freekin dumb...i mean micheal myers has a symbol)also if you watch the film in the opening they tell all the people micheal has killed, they left out everyone in the movies without Jaime lee Curtis. They only talked about the people he killed in Halloween1,2, and H2O. This furthers my theory that they want to make those movies just disappearI have to get back to my review the movie itself was excellent but Busta Rymes is so anoying in this filmI wanted him dead so much...everything he said ended with Mother F got very redundant and he lost his edge. He seems like he was trying to be rebellious but he said it so much that i just started rolling my eyes and fast forwarding.i give the rest of the actors their dues, story was great from start to finish.7 out of ten...ten out of ten if you pretend busta was never in this MOVIE!!!  "},{"Title":"Better than H20","Date":"27 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This film was better than the dreaded H20, but still has Scream aftermaths.The film actually starts out decent, good Halloween atmosphere and theme music.  Couple decent death scenes.  But then enter Dangertainment.  A group of teens headed by Busta Rhymes, explore Michael Myers' house.  The thrills don't add up to much, and neither does the overall product.Attention Moustapha Akkad, if you absolutely have to make a sequel, make it similar to the first 6 Halloweens.**/**** "}{"Title":"Michael Myers is finally back","Date":"14 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Congratulations to Moustapha Akkad for producing a sequel which is right up there my fave halloweens - 1, 4, 5 and 6.H20 was alright but their was not enough footage on Michael Myers and more on Laurie Strode. It felt good to see lots of shots of the boogyman but why did Busta survive.Roll on Halloween 9  "},{"Title":"Truly great horror sequel","Date":"21 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I found this horror sequel so much fun to watch because of the way it kept me on the edge of my seat from start to finish with its creepy fun and excitement.  I think it was extremely well directed and acted.  I'd say it's the best film in the 'Halloween' series since the second one. "},{"Title":"Pretty good Movie!","Date":"19 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I was surprised At this Movie. Michael Finally gets Laurie His long lost sister Which ticks me off! And kills people in his home place that just walk on in and shoot a  big brother/ Survivor Type Internet Show. Or a scariest place on earth. But Michael Does not fool Around No sir He just Kills his victims With out mercy! My favorite death was  Jims the usual skull crushed. In the end I give it a 9/10. If you like Halloween Watch this it is good !!!! "},{"Title":"Akkad is Running this into the Ground!","Date":"17 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  First of all let me say this film sucked. Secondly might I add that Moustappha Akkad is sending this Franchise to the scrapheaps(not without help from Dimension and the House of the Louse...err, Mouse.Evidently this is the last resort in horror sequal filmmaking (monkeys in a box and on the payroll).Lastly may I state for the record that the franchise is DOA (that is until the next one).P.S. Did I say this sucked? 2/10 "},{"Title":"very good","Date":"12 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"   i really liked this movie, luckly i saw this in the day time but still it scared me. I liked how the characters investigated the house and we saw what it was like for little micheal growing up. what I didn't like about it was when micheal finally killing luarie. But i guess that her chapter had to end sometime. "},{"Title":"One of the best in the series","Date":"5 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  OK, so practically everyone is saying this movie is terrible, but I didn't see what was so bad about it.. it took a fresh approach to a Halloween movie, with the action more or less confined to one place (the Meyers house) and added a modern twist with palm pilots, e-mail, webcams and such. The movie definitely had a more creepy vibe than any of the previous sequels, making good use of the darkness in the house and the restricted views of the webcams. The acting wasn't brilliant, but when is the acting every brilliant in a slasher movie? There weren't really any big scares, but a few moments came close to making me jump, which is about the same as any other horror movie made in the last 20 years. Busta Rhymes was good in places, but also contributed to the worst scene in the movie, where he fights Michael with his bad kung fu. It's easy to see that some of this movie was ripped off from Halloween 1, including an obvious death scene (you'll know which one i mean) and various now you see me, now you don't scenes, but seeing as how the original came out 25 years ago, it could be seen as an homage rather than a rip off. To sum up, i would say that this movie gives the Halloween series a well needed change in pace and direction, especially after H20's minimal body count and teen flick approach to the series, and hopefully it will lead to Halloween 9 (yes, it will happen, it's inevitable) becoming a tense chiller like the original. I'd give this movie 6.5 / 10 "},{"Title":"Watch Out Josh Harnett (John Tate H20 ), Michaels Coming for You Next.","Date":"31 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This sequel is a hell of alot better than I thought it would be, first off almost all Halloweens I found to be great films. Unlike Jason Voorhees (which really has no plot to it) Michael has a reason to do what he is doing (its a psychotic reason though). SPOILERS!!!!!!!!!!!The movie starts out with a bang, first with the series signature theme (composed by John Carenter) than showing a tunnel as Jamie Lee Curtis gives an insight on life and how its like a dark tunnel, anyways we than see Jamie Lee Curtis in an assylum. We see two orderlies talking about what happened in the events of H20, It turns out Michael wasn't the man behind the mask when Laurie chopped his head off, it was an ambulance driver whose vocal cords were crushed by Michael (explaing why Michael seemed so disoriented and confused at the end of H20).As the orderlies enter than leave Lauries room (they gave her a sedative) we see that Laurie isn't comotosed like everyone thinks and has actually been hiding pills in her doll. We than see her looking out the window and staring down at Michael as he looks in. Apparently for 3 years she's been waiting for him, after Michael kills two guards and breaks through Lauries door she makes a run for it towards the roof. Michael makes it up the roof to find Laurie gown hanging from the roof and Laurie no where around, Laurie then appears behind the door and put Michael in a rope trap. It appears that Laurie has won and is ready to end Michaels reign of terror, but as Laurie starts to cut the rope Michael smartly re-enacts the gestures the ambulance driver gave in H20 and tricks Laurie. Laurie concerned that it might be a fake goes to take the mask off, but suddenly Michael grabs her and both go over the roof. Unfortunately, Michaels hangs on to the rope and Laurie lands on the knife that Michael is still holding. Laurie kisses Michael and leaps to her death....Thus ending the epilogue and Lauries fear of her brother.After seeing this film I knew that Halloween is a series that no matter how many are made, or even if no more are made will never get tiresome. Unlike the other films Michael isn't going after relatives to satisfy his rage, he goes after a group a group of six teens, who have decided to do a live internet broadcast inside Michaels house (since Halloween 4-6 never happened, the Myers house is still condemned) this isn't something Michael agrees with and he goes on his usual killing spree. The movie isn't just another horror/slasher film to me, because it deals with todays technology (internet, portable organizers).Tyra Banks and Busta Rhymes star as Nora and Freddie the two people who put together this event and now must deal with the consequences. Also starring is Sean Patrick Thomas (Save the Last Dance), Thomas Ian Nicholas (both American Pie movies) and Bianca Kajlich as Sara Moyer.After the nationwide media coverage from H20 for featuring LL Cool J, Dimension decided on another rapist, it certainly worked at least Busta Rhymes kiss butt, all LL Cool J did was get a bullet across his head.Now for my rating I'm saw two versions of this film, the one that was shown theatrically I give 3 out of 5 stars.The other version (still entitled Halloween The Homecoming)I saw was an early screening version with an alternate beginning and alternate CSI ending that one I give 3 1/2 stars out of 5 because the beginning of the film was better. The ending however, the ending although a jolting ending isn't as good as the ending that is shown. "},{"Title":"LOVED IT","Date":"30 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  ~*Spoilers*~ This was a great film. It had a kool idea but it could have been better. Many people dont like it but i say anything with Mike Myers rocks... I meen its an 8th entry its hard to make it original. There is a movie just like it ( thecampushouse.com (v) ) which is horrible. Im happy this didnt sink that bad. And atleast if they made a new sequal it wasnt like Halloween Trick or Treat in space. All good horror movies usually slip to the space but thts a horrible idea! I meen they end the Laurie Strode chapter which most fans wouldnt be satisfied with the series ending without her dying. And i think Sarah Moyer is the Laurie strode of the new age. Young, Cute, and paranoid... I think thay can pull the next two with her in it and then die in the tenth or she defeats mike in the tenth. And I am actully making a script that will cover the events between 2 and 4 so in the 10th there will be a total series from Mikes first kill to him being killed. My idea is copyrighted so dont take my ideas. Well i give the movie a 10/10 and the dvd features a 9.3 / 10 because they miss some deleted scenes such as the grainy bbq from before judith was killed which featured the mr.sandman song and when sara was in the shower. I DEFINITLEY RECOMMEND you to either rent or buy especially if ur a slasher fan or halloween fan. But dont take it from me see it urself. And it didnt bomb it made duble its budget w/ 30 million $. If they thot it was gunna make much more thr budget would have been bigger. Pyce. "},{"Title":"It wasn't THAT bad.....","Date":"24 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Speaking as someone who absolutely despises H20 I though Resurrection was a big improvement, sure it had cheesy dialogue, clichéd scenes and average acting but what the hell do you people want from a slasher film!!! If this film was made in 1983 you'd all be saying it was a lost classic, but because it's a post-Scream horror movie everybody jumps all over it! Let's face it, were never going to get another part 1 even if John Carpenter himself directs it!  Were at a time now where horror is back on the big screen and it won't last long. Want would guys prefer it be, like the early 90's where horror was straight to video and dominated by Full Moon? "},{"Title":"second best out of the series","Date":"15 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The movie wasn't as good at the boc office as Halloween H20 or the first halloween but shocked probably millions of people being only 2 or three points away from MIB 2 and Austin Powers Goldmember that shocked me. I watched the movie in theaters but the one mystery about that movie to me is the mask it looked weird because there was 4 different masks one looked like a replica from the original Halloween and the others where just plain odd one had huge eye holes and the others had little tiny ones and the one with the small eye holes had more of a realistic face, the 4th mask was not white it was kind of grey which made look scary in a way. The movie was good i think the begining was kind of cheesy but a nice ring to it because after Micheal killed Lauri that one patient that Micheal gave his knife to and told Micheals biography made the beginning more spectacular and the key words NOW HE'S BACK and the laugh and then the music made the movie good. Probably the most violent and yet funny halloween i've seen but probably the script out of the series. In the past Halloween movies after the 1st and 2nd the Myers house always looked different but this movie brought back the original house which made the movie better. I think this movie did well enough for another halloween movie because it was definetly better then a lot of then 3,4,5,and 6. i give this movie a 9.9 out of a 10 "}{"Title":"few tricks, few treats...","Date":"11 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  After a 20 year hiatus from the series, director Rosenthal returns for part 8.  This one is just about as middling as his part 2.  Shows how far things have come, as the internet is incorporated this time, with a decent idea a group of hackable teens lock themselves up in Mike Myers old house and host a webcam party.  Turns out Jamie Lee (who's character is disappointingly dropped after only a few minutes) chopped off the wrong guy's head at the conclusion of the last chapter paving the way for Mike to stop by his old haunts.  The murders are blase (he only carries a butcher knife) and the point-of-view shots of the characters gets very annoying.  But things pick up well during the usual chase finale as for the first time in years watching a slasher film I found myself yelling at the screen.  Look out!, Heeeeeelo!, She's still on the ground???  Get up, dummy!.  It's all carried out pretty well, but hardly lets you recommend the film.  And the answer to the question of another sequal is made fairly clear.  So check this out so you can file it under the seen 'em all now category, but don't expect it to outdo the others.  Ah, well, at least there was some nostalgic fun this year with a new Friday the 13th and new Halloween out within months of each other, just like in the good ol' days. "},{"Title":"DVD Review","Date":"10 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I've already done my main write-up on this movie. If you're interested,look at the first write-ups. Anyway, I just got the DVD of HalloweenResurrection today, and I must say overall I am impressed. For how badlythis movie bombed at the box office, the DVD is pretty packed. Audiocommentary, deleted scenes, Jamie Lee Curtis interview, web-cam feature,etc. You'd think this disc has it all, but it's missing one major thingthe original opening with the Myers family having a get-together in thebackyard of the house shown in grainy Super 8 footage!! Unfortunately,the only way this can be seen is via the bootleg video of HALLOWEENHOMECOMING - check eBay for it. Otherwise, the ending of that bootleg isavailable on the DVD (CSI Hand In Tunnel). I'd have to give the DVD 93/4 out of 10 stars. ALSO I almost forgot - they changed the titlesequence on the DVD from what was shown theatrically! The originaltheatrical titles were very bland - just a bright orange, basic font.This time, the font is one of the Copperplate fonts (think HalloweenCurse of Michael Myers logo) backed by red-orange. The actual titledoesn't appear until AFTER the Tunnel/Laurie scene. In the theatricalversion, the title appeared right at the very beginning of the filmalong with the rest of the credits. Dannie Lux's excellent reworking ofthe Halloween theme is intact, as is the rest of the theatrical versionfootage. Check it out, though - this slightly new intro is at least alittle more appealing that the theatrical one (it's so subtle, only aperson who'd seen the film several times theatrically, such as myself,would know the difference). Still, 9 3/4 stars out of  10!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Good movie`","Date":"15 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"    ***SLIGHT SPOILERS*** I only became a fan of the Halloween movies two years ago and already I am hooked on them. After seeing H20, I began to watch for the rumours for Halloween 8. I had seen all previous seven movies and was ready for this one. I first saw it when it opened here and I must admit it was one of the best sequels to Halloween that there has been. Even though, I must admit that most of the acting in the movie was poor, the story was ok. I must admit it was bad to kill off Laurie Strode at the start of this movie, but I think that one of the strengths of the movie was Brad Loree, I thought that he was one of the most intimidating actors to play Michael ever since Nick Castle and I think he was definitely better than Chris Durand in H20. Overall, even though the story wasn't really good and a lot of the cast was poor, I felt it was definitely the better sequel to date.3 out of 5. "},{"Title":"Why such harsh reviews?","Date":"27 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  As a huge halloween fan I went to see this on opening night(25th oct UK) And I have to say that critics have been too harsh on it.It's not the worst halloween(hello does anyone remember pts 5&6)and I have to say it's not a patch on the original,but I don't think anything could top that.Having said that I did enyoy it and thought they tried to make it original unlike h20 which i liked but felt it was a bit of a scream wannabe,this one felt more like a halloween movie.They did a good job on the mask this time and on the myers house,its true that michael appears more vicious in this one,this is evident in the gorier kills.I enjoyed the opening sequence,even though it said goodbye to jamie lee curtis,Wasn't to keen on the part where busta tells michael off,but eveyone else in the cinema seemed to like it.I also enjoyed the part where sarah was being told where micheal was in the house and I disagree with the people who said the camera footage was annoying i felt it added to the film.So give this film a chance and try not to compare it to h20 and accept it for what it is-another slasher pic.People who are over analysing it should stick to reviewing movies like The godfather etc. Overall i give H8 a 7.5/10. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as people say it is","Date":"26 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Alright I saw Halloween Resurrection yesterday, the day of release in the UK. To be honest, after reading the verbal slammings it got from other IMDb users, I wasn't expecting too much. But in the opening 15 minutes I was pleasantly suprised. The dark corridors in the Sanitarium gave an eerie and suspenseful feel, the same suspense which made the original Halloween movie such a success. When watching a Halloween movie, you must NOT perceive it as being realistic. You have to realise that Michael Myers isn't really human, and no matter what you do, you cannot get rid of the guy. Move onto the new segment with the students. To tell you the truth, although I don't think the whole 'webcam internet show' idea worked as it was intended, I applaud the originality of it. How many other horror movies have done this? None. It is inevitable that people will say the Blair Witch Project did this, but the only similarity is that both movies used cameras. With Halloween Resurrection it was live instead of recorded. I congratulate the writers with the originality of this concept. Unfortunately I found the whole 'internet geek rescues online-girlfriend' plot stupid. The scenes inside the Myer's house were good, with lots of nice dark shots, but frequent cut-shots back to a teenager in a tuxedo in a living room surrounded by student cretins distracted from the narrative of the movie. In fact, the movie would have done better had Sara NOT had the assistance of her geeky sidekick. Never mind. Busta Rhymes was awful, the guy can't act at all. Also I believe he set a record for using the 'MF' word most times in an hour period. Busta, stick to scratching and rapping, at least that sort of thing doesn't require much talent. At least the end of the movie ended on a high note, which of course I won't tell you what it is...but it definetly was a VERY good ending. I have seen ALL of the Halloween movies (including the bloody awful Halloween 3), and I believe that this is the 4th best. I'd say Halloween 1, 5 and 6 out-perform Halloween 8. Percentage score? I'd give Halloween Resurrection an 80%.  "},{"Title":"Still Going Strong","Date":"25 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I wasn't expecting much from HalloweenResurrection to be honest. I certainly didn't find the premise appealing (bunch of kids spending the night in the Myers house as part of a reality TV programme). But HalloweenResurrection was a pleasant surprise. The original Halloween movie was a horror masterpiece. The sequel was also very good. Halloween 3 had a different plot so I won't comment on that. Halloweens 4 and 5 were okay but nothing to shout about. Halloween 6 was mediocre. Halloween H20 was a fantastic movie easily on par with the original. This movie was awesome.It is possibly the most violent of the series but it isn't all gore. There are a few shocks as well and it is interesting. Michael really seems to creep up unawares each time just like in the original. This Michael Myers was just like the one from the original film-SCARY!Throughout the Halloween series we have learnt little bits about the man behind Michael. Throughout the movies, there have been hints as to why Michael is the way he is and hints about what motivates him. There are a few in this movie too. I don't think it would ever be right to make Michael fully human but at the expense of sounding ridiculous, I think we have gotten a closer look at Michael's soul throughout the series and I hope the next film explores it a bit more. Character development in film series are important-even when dealing with 'demons' like Michael Myers. It also made me think more about life. When we see murderers on TV news programmes, we tend to judge them. In no way can murder ever be condoned or justified as it is wrong to take another persons life. Anyone who does take a life should be punished but this film made me wonder about why people become murderers? What motivates them and could things have been different if a murderers life had turned out differently? I never usually scrutinize films in this way but HalloweenResurrection did get me thinking about things.HalloweenResurrection was a pleasant surprise. I look forward to Halloween 9. "},{"Title":"Welcome Back Rick Rosenthal.....","Date":"27 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  One of the best sequels in the Halloween franchise has director of Halloween 2 taking the helm once again.This time Michael returns to kill off a group of teenagers who have decided to spend the weekend a his home for an internet broadcast in which the group search the house in hopes of discovering what might have set Michael off enough to kill his sister Judith in 1963.SPOILERS! This film is excellent, I was there for the very first showing in which I moved to the front row so I wouldn't miss One second of the movie. I certainly wasn't disappointed, since then I have seen an alternate version which was released for the premiere in which it has a different beginning, alternate title, and alternate ending. The alternate beginning has a home video type video picture. We see the Myers in a typical family barbeque with Judith hoola-hooping, Lori a newborn and Michael by the back door with his body turned away from the camera. As he is ignored to get away he turns around staring at the camera with a homicidal look in his eyes, we go closer into his eyes to a black tunnel and Lori's introduction. Then we are given the movies original title HALLOWEEN HOMECOMING. The alternate ending has Busta Rhymes smashing the camera, then panning over to a women who is investigating a hole in which Michael has been sleeping and hiding for the past 20 years, as she looks closer in the hole Michael appears and grabs her and takes her down. I'd say go see this film, if anyone wants to watch the premiere version go and download Kazaa and download HALLOWEEN HOMECOMING. i GIVE THIS FILM 5 OUT OF 5 STARS. "},{"Title":"Not bad.","Date":"21 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"     Not great, either. OK for a matinee, especially if you like this sort of thing.  Social commentary is included to make it extra instructive for kids.  Has to do with exploitation, and the way everything in the 'net, TV, and movies tends to be sooo FAKE.  Another question MAY come up.  Does humor compliment the stalking shape of Evil? "},{"Title":"Halloween get's reinvented.","Date":"15 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Well I'll put my point across straight away, this is a good movie.There I said it.  There's really nothing different about the old staying over night in a haunted house set up.  And indeed I've seen quite a few lower budget horrors do this with the hidden cameras about the house broadcasting the event.But this mixed in with the whole Halloween...  I'd like to say theme but it's more of a Genre in it's self.  Makes this new and refreshing.The film looked good, it kept it's pace.  It had an unexpected start (which I think the fans had been waiting for).  It's good that Halloween has moved on.  Where as with the recent Friday the 13th sequel.  Well Jason in space?  Say no more.  That film has managed to join the ranks of Leprechaun in space and Critters in space.The good thing about Halloween is that with each sequel the budget seems to go up, yet with Friday the 13th it seems to go down.Well to the people who made Halloween Resurrection.  Good job keep reinventing and for god's sake don't do a Halloween in space.If you're a Halloween fan watch this film.  If not watch this film.  Stay away from Jason X.  It hasn't even been released in England yet.  I thought it was taking a long time but I'm beginning to believe the film board is protecting us from it.Ciao. "},{"Title":"Definitely the worst in the series","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  What a terrible mess is this vain nth remake of Halloween, with a botched resurrection and a terrible story, that mixes Blair Witch Project, Haunting and even Deep Red (why they stole the nursery rhyme from Argento's masterpiece? What a shame!). The movie sucks from the start of the real story, after a very good prologue with the last apparition from Jamie Lee Curtis and her Laurie Strode character, but when it moves to the Halloween internet hosted show live from Michael Myers birth house is all downhill from then on, a really bad horror, without enough sex, tension and gore to please even the less demanding of the fans. "}{"Title":"Chilling First Twenty Minutes then......","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The opening sequences of Halloween 8 are as chilling as any since the first movie, but the movie quickly dissolves into another teeny bopper slashfest. All in all a decent chapter, but certainly not the best in the serious or the worst.  Diehards see it!   "},{"Title":"WELCOME BACK RICK ROSENTHAL....","Date":"19 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I saw H Resurrection on its premiere day and was very excited. It was also the last time Jamie Lee Curtis would be in Halloween flick, so I wanted to see her in her movie theatre glory. Like the ad says Evil Come Home it sure does as Michael slices his way through more unsuspecting trick or treaters. In fact he borrows a type of death from Jason Voorhees kill book. If you get a chance see this film right away. 5 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Definately a worthy sequel!","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  It's interesting the way they've chosen to do this, isn't it?  First you have Halloween and Halloween 2.  Then there's HalloweenH20, which completely ignores Halloween 3(cus you have to),4, 5, and 6.  It's nice to know that Resurrection keeps with that.  So really, H20 and Resurrection are only parts 3 and 4.  With that in mind - very intense and scary!  Michael doesn't mess around - although I didn't think he was all that soft in H20 - I mean, that scene where he breaks that girl's leg and then kills her mercilessly is just brutal!  But this movie is very original, and Jamie's role in it is priceless.  A must see for any fan of the series! "},{"Title":"One of the best","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I really enjoyed Halloween Resurrection!  It has to be one of the best in the Halloween series.  I am a huge Halloween fan, and I could not wait for this movie to come out, and I think it was well worth the wait.  One thing that made this one better than other ones, is that it had a lot more humor than they usually have, which is always good.  The killings weren't as good as other ones, but they weren't terrible.  Busta Rhymes really made this movie better, because he was so funny.  The dialogue wasn't cheesy like some of the other Halloween movies.  Overall, I would recommend seeing this movie, but if you aren't a Halloween fan, you might not appreciate the movie. "},{"Title":"This Movie Was Great","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was great. It was funny and scary at the same time. I'm a really big fan of the Halloween series, and this movie lived up to my expectations.   "},{"Title":"Best of the sequels, not as good as the original","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Spoiler!!! This film is surprisingly good.  I thought it would be part 8 of an unoriginal series.  What works is they updated the story with a dot com theme.  Some of the film is stale, and tired.  We know who is going to survive, the only difference is instead of the jock being the hero, we got  a rapper, street type guy, which is a predictable staple in today's modern horror film.  I wish they would have a film where no one is killed or everyone lives. This would be an original or the sleazy woman or the annoying prankster lives.  The film is scary, and does not pull any punches;  except which character in what order dies.  The film hides what will happen next.  This film creates tension, and causes the viewer to jump unxepectedly.  This is what a horror film should do, and the second Michael Myers is perfect script writing.  Concluding, I like how they bridge the last film, with the present one.  Laurie Strodes kills the wrong person.  Watch, in Halloween 12 or whatever, they will have the Myers house again after they burned it down in this film, I hate it when they insult the viewer with such inconsistencies. "},{"Title":"A Sequel That Still Delievers After A Quarter Of A Century","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Halloween Resurrection is the best seventh sequel that I have seen in my entire life! It is excellent to see the Halloween genre go through new innovative stories, due to the time periods that are in the movies. The late 70's, The late 80's, The early and late 90's and now the Millenium. The writers are always different and the situations that Michael is put to kill his relatives is very ingenious. This venture you may or not see the bloodline quickly evaporates. Even though what happens in the beginning happens, there is still a mystery and as Will Brennan said in H20 I believe that It is possible for recovery. To true fans who have seen this movie, don't be let down by what has been shown. Remember when Dr. Loomis and Michael in Halloween 2 when Loomis exploded the operating room which both were in. Remember October 21, 1988 when they were both back in Halloween 4. You draw your conclusions. The new setting of broacasting university students to be in the Myers home is excellent. Once again, the writers of this movie take the audience to another level. They are using the concept of the popular reality shows and using it as a background for the film. Michael is at his best in this film. Brad Loree (Michael Myers) is very haunting and very strong as Michael. He is an excellent actor and never laid the rest of Who's Afraid Of The Boogeyman. Jamie Lee Curtis is still and always will be the Scream Queen. Even though she is in the movie for a short time, you can feel the pain and torment that her character, Laurie Strode has endured for 24 years. She strong and it all runs in the family. Jacinda Barrett is excellent as Sara, Busta Rymes is Excellent as businessman Freddie Harris, and Ryan Merriman is excellent as Dekkard/ Myles. This movie is excellent and a must see. when viewing this movie, get into the feeling of the Halloween  story, feel what the actors in the movie, are feeling especially Michael Myers and Laurie Strode and pay attention to every part of the movie you will hear the story set though Danny Lux's excellent adaptation of John Carpenter's theme. A true Halloween fan will be proud. The storyline is excellent and this movie tells you why it exists with the excellent flashbacks to Halloween H20. See it and to Moustapha Akkad, keep doing your thing, to all the directors of the series, John Carpenter, Rick Rosenthal, Tommy Lee Wallace, Dwight H. Little, Dominique Othenin-Girard, Joe Chappelle, and Steve Miner, writers, John Carpenter, Debra Hill, Tommy Lee Wallace, Alan Mc Elroy, Dhani Lisipus, Larry Rattner, Benjamin Ruffner, Michael Jacobs, Shem Bitterman, Dominique Othenin-Girard, Daniel Farrands, Robert Zappia, Larry Brand, Sean Hood, keep doing the best. Music is always the best John Carpenter, Alan Howarth, John Ottman, Marco Beltrami, and now Danny Lux, thank you for scaring us and please in the future. See this new movie 5 out of 5 Stars. "},{"Title":"If this is a 6.5 then im the president","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Halloween Resurrection, only 1 and 5 are better in my view. This movie has it all. Nobody expected what would happen, it kept fans on the edge of their seats, not one person was dozen off, everyone was excited to see what would happen next. Michael Myers, the greatest thing to happen to horror films.John Carpenter noone does it better. I saw the movie at the latest time at my cinema, 1130, walking home was a thrill, just imagining someone to pop out and (i dont wanna sound like a suicide) just attack me. One day i hope to act in a horror film. Halloween Resurrection 9/10 "},{"Title":"Mildly entertaining","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  For whatever reason, I'm a big fan of the Halloween series so my review may be slightly biased.  Then again, who else but a fan would have seen the film or be curious enough to read reviews of it?The first Halloween was brilliant.  Definately one of the best horror movies ever and a very entertaining and creepy movie.  I guess it hooked me for the rest but one of the cool things about Michael Myers is the fact that he is fairly real for a slasher movie.  He is strong and hard to kill but human and he has an M.O.  He wants to kill his family and anyone in his way.And that's my biggest problem with this sequel.  He's hunting people that are doing an internet show from the house he grew up in (yeah, that'd be real popular - the sad fact is most people don't have broadband connections at home, so why not just make it a tv show?  Not a big deal though). There are several instances in the series where Michael ignored people who aren't in his way so this seemed fairly gratuitous.  Also, the six kids who are doing the show are just plain boring.  Not likeable, not annoying, just THERE.  The kills are what you expect out of a horror movie - brutal.  Not many false scares of people bumping into each other fortunately.  Still, the kills aren't very inventive.  There is nothing here you haven't seen before.I personally was a little annoyed that it ignored Halloween 4-6.  H20 didn't refer to those but it also didn't contradict them.  This one has two or three small references that infer that 4-6 never occurred.Anyway, this one's totally a filler.  Nothing significant is added to the mythology in any way.  It's just a guy killing people for no real reason. Decent acting and directing, just... no real reason for any of it.  I give it a generous 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Better than previews make it out to be","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Being as I am a huge Halloween fan, well of the original that is, when I saw that a new Halloween movie was coming out, I thought to myself, no, not ANOTHER sequel. The previews for it just made it look like a joke. Like really ... 6 people staying over night at Michael Myers' childhood house? Come on, who is going to buy tickets for that? Well I did, and I don't regret it. Even though I had my doubts as to another Halloween sequel (being as all the sequels stunk, with the exception of H20, which was acceptable), I thought, its Halloween, the classic of all classics, so I have to go see it. So as I bought my Mr. Deeds ticket (Yes, lets remember that the movie was foolishly rated R, so minors like me can't get in legitimately) and went in the Halloween Resurrection theater, I sat down prepared for disappointment. But when it was over, my expectations were blown away. It was scary, exciting, and had a breath of fresh air with its one original idea (which for those of you who watched the movie will know what I'm talking about **Deckard**). So as I write this review, I will tell you that if you are turned off by the previews, don't be, because it was pretty good and worth the 10 bucks. And, well, let's face it, it's a Halloween movie, you just HAVE to go see it.Grade B+ "}{"Title":"Pretty Pleased W/ The Film","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I have to say, great movie... Rick Rosenthal did a tremendous job with all of the imagery he used, thats some nightmare inducing stuff. All of the camera angles, I don't know how he pulled it all off in such a fantastic manner. With that aside, no real well-known actors appear in the movie. Jamie Lee Curtis is obviously in it, but considering she was on the set for all of 4 days... No shocker that her appearance is brief. The movie did not disapoint me at all, I've seen them all (but 3... Don't get me started) and I have to say this ranks right up near the top. It's as good as any 8th movie in a series such as this can be. I reccomend anyone who likes a good scare, or horror films in general to go see this movie. Brad Loree does a great job as Michael Myers. Busta Rhymes however did not thrill me, his character was necessary to the movie... But seeing him do kung fu manneurisms while confronting the Michael Myers... Not even cool. Whoever wrote that into the script has no respect for the series' integrity. If his character was more... Lets say serious, the film would have been about two times better. "},{"Title":"Great until the ending...","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I, for one, am a huge Halloween fan.  I've seen every movie (including dreadful number 3) and I was really waiting for this one.  For the most part it lived up to my expectations.  It was scary, it was funny, and the audience was all loving it (damn some of them scream loud!) but then in the end it just wait straight to hell and there is one obvious reason...Busta Rhymes.  The guy was fine in the beginning but soon he turned into the movie's hero saving the heroine from certain death and, believe me, Donald Pleasence he ain't.  At one point he fights Michael off by (I'm not kidding) karate kicking him.  YOU DON'T KARATE KICK MICHAEL FREAKING MYERS!  Plus he just wouldn't die.  You know the reshooting had something to do with that... Since when are rappers Michael Myers's favorite victims.  First LL Cool J and now Busta Rhymes.  But the difference between LL Cool J and Busta was that LL Cool J was a much better actor. So in summation, see Halloween Resurrection but leave right after the climax.  That way you at least won't have to see Busta's amazingly cheesey change-of-heart monologue.  He's funny, but he's not Halloween. "},{"Title":"A Pleasant Surprise!","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  As a huge fan of the Halloween series, I must say that i was not expecting much from Halloween Resurrection. I thought that the reality-TV plot would be trite, but (thankfully) i was wrong! The fear factor aspect was actually a relatively clever parody of the reality tv shows that Americans are obsessed with these days. The characters, of course, were ill-developed- as they are supposed to be in horror movies. Jamie Lee Curtis makes a brief but memorable appearance in the beginning of the film as Laurie Strode- the forever stalked younger sister of Michael Myers. The body count is high, and the ending is a cliff-hanger.Overall, I would urge any horror movie fan to go and see this movie. This is by far the best Halloween sequel. 7 out of 10 stars.  "},{"Title":"hello sequel","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  A pretty good movie all in all. It starts out at the mental istitution laure strode is at. They explain in flashbacks how michael dressed an ambulance driver in his clothes at the end of h20. He disabled his trachea in his neck so he could not talk. Laurie was taken in for murder, and put in a mental institution. Well, theres a showdown, were laurie has rigged up a very elaborate trap to kill michael. Doesnt work. She is dead. Fast forward to now, six kids go into the house of myers. They die one by one. Only one survive. hello sequel. Inevitable cliffhangar ending.  "},{"Title":"Cut it some slack people...","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  First rule of thumb when going to see the EIGHTH installmant of a horror franchise...........it's not Oscar material and it's not intended to be. I too am a huge Halloween fan, and have seen all the rest a hundred times. And yes, I was sad to see that Jamie Lee Curtis/Laurie Strode would no longer be involved with the storyline...but it wasn't that damn bad of a movie.  Lots of gore, which is always nice, and some pretty good scares make it very watchable and entertaining.I do have complaints, much like everyone else who has commented on this film so far.  The one thing I never cared for in horror sequals was the notion that this sequal never took place and forget that last two sequals. According to H20, we were supposed to only remember as far back as the second film, and forget about Halloweens 4-6.  So now that Michael has eliminated Laurie, does he have 1 or 2 blood relatives left?  John Strode would be relative #1, but do we still keep Jamie Lloyd's baby in mind or not?  They try to forget so many movies that it never makes sense. Michael's gonna need people to go after in the next films (cause you know this one's gonna make $$$ and Dimension will just keep pumping them out until they either run out of ideas or Michael gets sent into space), and Busta Rhymes and the character of Sara just don't cut it.  The other major complaint I have always had was how the survivors acted at the end after your friendly neighborhood serial killer (Jason, Michael, etc etc) was supposedly dead.  Let's see a sole survivor laughing and crying at the same time, eating their hair and talking in gibberish.  Their friends were just slaughtered before their very eyes and they were stalked by a murderous maniac, yet they have time to make a statement or be calm, cool and collected.  Give me a break.  The only instance I can remember where that final survivor is totally f---ing nuts is at the end of the 3rd Friday the 13th where the girl is screaming and laughing in the back of the police car.I spent the 80's growing up on the Halloween, Friday the 13th, and Nightmare on Elm Street films and I'm a true fan.  I'll be sitting in the theaters on opening night for Jason XXIV, Halloween Michael Myers Runs Out Of Oops I Crapped My Pants, and all the rest with a big smile on my face.  You know why?  Because I'm a fan, and even the loss of a major character, or a rapper for a lead or bad acting/dialogue/plot won't change my mind.You want a fun night out this summer??  Go see HalloweenResurrection and have a good time.  4 out of 5. "},{"Title":"Not a let down at all, this franchise stays alive!!!!!!","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Well, it sounds corny but i traveled like 3 hours to get to see this film and let me tell you i was not dissapointed, my greatest rewars was to see Michael v.s Laurie 1 more time, its a cool film,its that horror film that keeps you on the edge of your seat from time to time, thank god the movie theater i saw it in had surround sound and it was cool to get the shivers when someone or something came out all of a sudden. Ill give it a nice 9 out of 10. Blood senseless death and a happy ending.I love horror movies. "},{"Title":"One of the better Halloween's.","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I saw the movie on the opening night, and thought it was one of the better Halloween's since part II. The new mask was also cool. It really added the terror Michael Myers is. Does anyone remember the name of the cult Michael Myers is originated from?  "},{"Title":"Only for us hardcore Halloween fans.","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  First off, I enjoyed the movie, but comparing it to the original is a crime. Halloween 8 had its moments and a pretty scary ending. But then again, it had its bad moments. Busta Rhymes' looked like he was actually reading cue-cards when acting. His performance was a major travesty. The scenes were great and creepy. However, it didn't FEEL like it was Halloween, no titles saying, ex. October 31st, 1978, Haddonfield, Illinois, Halloween, etc. **SPOILERS** The beginning might be the best of the sequels with Jamie in that creepy hospital. I like the flashbacks to Halloween H20 and how Michael escaped. What I find weird is the part where Michael gives the knife to Harold meaning that he is framing him or retiring. I thought that the part after that was boring until they went to the Myers' house. Brad Loree played a great Michael and could have played the best Michael since Dick Warlock, from Halloween 2. The ending ranks up there with Halloween, 4, and 7. Real great work. I also like the references to the previous movies. EX. Remember Dr. Mixter from H2, a reference to that, how about the clown mask from Halloween 1, which was what Harold was wearing.Only hardcore Halloween fans will know what I'm talking about.**END SPOILERS** The movie is not as good as 1,2,4 but beats the hell out of 3,5,6. It is on par with H20. Acting Best was is Bianca Kajilch with the amazing set of.....eyes. Worst was Busta Rhymes. Funny moments but his acting is not fit for a horror movie. Plot Good, not great, not bad. I was hoping for Michael to kill them all really, except for Kajilch. Out of 10 stars.......********(8). I hope the next one isn't where Michael is in space like Jason X. Yuck. "},{"Title":"Come on. It wasn't THAT bad.","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Yes i hated H20. It seemed completely unnecessary. No, i don't hate this movie. Rick Rosenthal did a good job. This movie had its share of frightening scenes. Even the ending is quite good. Halloween 9? could be. Ya never know. This film is a lot more comedic than the others in the series. I have enjoyed many of the Halloween films. A few were a little lame and less scary, but this one is very well done. This movie fits in the series barely. Even if you don't want to consider it a movie in the series, it's still a good film regardless. Please go see it. You won't be disappointed. If you are, then don't watch anymore Halloween films if there are any. But my recommendation to you is, go see it! "},{"Title":"Standard sequel with some gulity pleasure moments to a dead horror series","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  In 1978 John Carpenter released one of the greatest horror movies in the form of Halloween. It's first sequel was okay but after that the series went downhill. It seems that every sequel would have a new backstory on Mr.Meyers and this is one is no execpation. I think the producers make a mistake by killing of Jamie Lee Curtis. Mrs.Curtis is what Halloween is about and only she can stop Meyers. I think the producers should have went with Josh Hartnett (but he's too big for movies like this) or Danielle Harris (but who has seen her in years) together since techinally they are siblings if you tie all the loose ends together. Halloween Resurrection isn't scary but it's funny which isn't a good thing. Busta Rhymes makes the movie as Freddie Harris with his one-liners and the chicks in the movie are very hot. The film will disapoint hard core fans of the movie and those in the mood for a scare. The film might be better in my book if Bianca Kajlich had shown her knockers but all in all the film is just a gulity pleasure. The death scenes are okay and the chicks are hot. I give it 5/10. "}{"Title":"Are you people plain stupid??","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I just got back from this....... and I mean come on, I am a big big horror fan, a fan of GOOD MOVIES.. not some stupid lame ass teen sequel. Yeah, I'm 17, I'm a girl, but I do have taste, and this movie was just plain stupid. Is it just me, or are 98% of horror movies since the 80's all the same and stupid? *Spoilers*At the beginning, I thought it was going to be good... it started out decent... But... when she went up on the roof... and Michael got caught in the leg thing it turned stupid. Boy she had that planned, didn't she? And did she not think he'd grab her when she went to take off his mask? And in H20... ummm... the guy was crushed in between the van and a tree... would he have lived and been ok for her to cut off his head? No.But all that aside.... The whole Deckard at the party thing got really old...AND THE ENDING.. was BY FAR... the STUPIDEST MOST STUPID STUPID STUPID, lol, thing I've seen in a long time!!!!!!!! The absolute end, when he opened his eyes... ARE WE SUPPOSED TO SCREAM, OR GIVE A S**T!??! OH BOY ANOTHER SEQUELS ON THE WAY. WHY CAN'T THEY JUST FREAKIN CALL HIM!!!!!!!! They killed Laurie, they burned down the house, they killed the series.. why not finally kill Michael instead of having him open his eyes like the end of some stupid TV movie.The movie went on forever and ever.... And it was just plain not good. Well, I can say ONE thing.. It wasen't as bad as Jason X!If you have taste, and thought the series sucked after 5 was made, then forget this s**t.   "},{"Title":"Awful","Date":"9 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is absolutely terrible.  Who in their right mind actually thought the world needed another Halloween movie?  As if the first 57 movies weren't bad enough, this one takes the cake.  Where does it take it?  Down to the bakery to see the other cakes...Anyway, the dialogue is about as bad as my cheesy jokes and the acting isn't much better.  Who on earth has ever seen Jamie Lee Curtis actually act? No one.DO NOT EVER WATCH THIS FILM.Rating  -6 out of 9.4 "},{"Title":"Shouldn't have been made","Date":"4 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" The plot is irrelevant. It's still the same old song and dance. Michael dispatching annoying people right and left. The movie makes no attempt at novelty. It's completely content at being what it is a bland entry into a franchise that, with the exception of one film, had descended into parody a long time before. The one thing this movie does try to do different with the franchise is that it uses more F bombs than all the other Halloween films put together (before Zombie, of course). This should be no surprise given Busta Rhymes is one of the stars. So yeah...that's something to be proud of.The cast is mostly terrible. Jamie Lee Curtis, clearly fed up with Halloween, reprises her iconic role for the sole purpose of seeing her killed off once and for all. You can't really blame her for wanting to be rid of this mess. The rest of the cast is made up of the super annoying Busta Rhymes, the beautiful Tyra Banks, and a host of (at that time) aspiring stars. Of the bunch I would say Bianca Kajlich and Katee Sackhoff comport themselves best. Obviously this movie did nothing to help the careers of anybody involved with it.Rick Rosenthal, who I felt did a decent job way back when with part 2, directs ineptly here. There isn't a memorable scene in the entire movie. It's just a loud, obnoxious mess of a slasher film. I struggle to decide whether this is the worst of the series or part 5 is. Both are excrement. There's also something truly sad about a Halloween movie being so unoriginal that it borrows from or rips off various other movies (Blair Witch Project, Scream, Terminator 2, Peeping Tom). The first Halloween movie was an innovator, not an imitator. It's just sad to see how far the franchise fell by 2002. I also think it was very indicative of the state of horror films at the time. "},{"Title":"Is This The End?","Date":"12 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Part VIII picks up with narration explaining how Laurie Strode(now a mental patient for three years, still played by Jamie Lee Curtis) did not really kill her brother Michael, who is still alive, and determined to finish her off...Afterwards, Michael goes(literally) back home on Halloween night, which is being occupied by college students doing a live web cast with their professor for some kind of sociology/filmmaking experiment. Of course, Michael doesn't take kindly to this, and sets out to kill these intruders.The plot twist used to bring Michael back from his apparent final end of Part VII is clever; utterly pointless, crass, and contrived, but clever. Shame the rest of this shoddy, foul-mouthed, unappealing and stupid sequel isn't. A real piece of trash, and possibly the final chapter(but you never know...Part IX could happen one day!) "},{"Title":"Halloween Resurrection (2002) *1/2","Date":"28 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" SPOILERS TO FOLLOW! BUT WHO CARES??Those lousy, money grubbing bastards... they just couldn't leave a good thing alone! The previous film, HALLOWEEN H20 TWENTY YEARS LATER, was such an ideal way to end this series, but no --money talked, and so they stretched the rubberband so far here that it snapped. HALLOWEEN RESURRECTION is surely one of the dumbest, unnecessary, most hackneyed attempts to continue a franchise past its expiration date, EVER. The most offensive things occur right at the beginning. At the end of H20 we finally saw Michael Myers killed once and for all when Jamie Lee Curtis chopped off his head with an axe, right? Wrong. Because now an absurd plot device was created where we learn via flashback that prior to the decapitation, Michael supposedly got hold of a paramedic, crushed his larynx so he couldn't speak, and dressed him up in his own clothes and mask; thus, it was actually the paramedic and not Myers who lost his head (!). There is a certain creativity to such an idea, but it's also a cheap way with which to completely obliterate the last movie and try to keep the cash cow milked.The next part really puzzles me. The real Michael Myers arrives at a sanitarium where sister Jamie Lee now resides and he kills her within the first fifteen minutes. That's right - KILLS HER. So all Laurie Strode's efforts from those other Halloween films come to an abrupt and uncaring end in one flash. Aside from the plot point, the main thing that really bothers me about this to this day is why did Jamie Lee Curtis agree to do it? She had gone on record four years prior saying that it was her idea to return for the last chapter (H20) and have the Laurie character get her revenge. It boggles my mind that Curtis would have bothered with this idiotic followup and get herself offed, after she had been the one who wanted to bring some dignity back to her character. If I ever meet her I'm definitely going to question her about this. Could the money have been THAT good??From here, Michael Myers has no family members left to kill. So a scenario is set up where an internet website is hosting a Reality Show for Halloween Night, staged in the very same old abandoned house that Myers grew up in as a child. They've got web cams and a live feed installed so that millions of viewers at home may get a thrill as rapper Busta Rhymes impersonates Michael to make it look good. At first it's just a gag, except when the real Myers heads back home again. You haven't lived until you've seen Busta kung-fu the masked Michael.I can't even write about this. It deserves zero stars for having the audacity to continue in such a stupid manner, but it does have some okay horror moments that earn it a star and a half. As far as I am concerned, HALLOWEEN H20 was the true final film and this thing doesn't even exist. *1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Trick or treat....MoFo!!!","Date":"2 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" When a group of college students win a contest to spend the night in the childhood home of serial killer Michael Myers they expect a few scares But none of them are prepared for what awaits them. The house has been rigged with cameras as they are to be broadcast live over the internet to be watched by millions.As they wander around the house in search of some kind of answer for Michael's murderous actions they find a bigger problem.Michael has come home and he does not intend to let anyone leave his house alive. ...So Curtis never finished the job. That quite touching ending of H20 was just a guy asking for help.Scraping the barrel and cash cow come to mind. The opening is good, and i'm glad Curtis killed off Laurie, because the rest of the film is trying to pull in the Scream crowd, and it fails miserably.The film isn't scary, the characters are dull and very, very annoying, and to top it all off, we get Busta Rhymes spouting one liners and Tyra Banks spending the entire movie pouting and drinking coffee.Even the forgettable one from American Pie pops up with a smug grin as if to say i'm the most famous person here, but he gets offed quickly.It's an offence to the franchise, and the kick in the crown jewels is knowing that Rosenthal, the guy who directed the original sequel, helmed this.Avoid, or turn off after Curtis buys it. "},{"Title":"Disappointing & Unnecessary Sequel!","Date":"31 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Bianca Kajlich, Busta Rhymes, Tyra Banks and Jamie Lee Curtis star in this 2002 horror sequel. This starts off with Laurie Strode (Curtis) in a mental institution for killing someone who she thought was her evil brother, Michael Myers. She's soon confronted by the real Michael (Brad Loree) and is killed. A year later, Michael returns to his home and stalks a group of college students who get to spend the night in his home for a reality show, Dangertainment created by Freddie (Rhymes) and Nora (Banks). Sara (Kajlich) is the main teen who's fearful of going into the Myers house and becomes targeted by Michael. Rick Rosenthal also returns as director after he directed the second film. This is a disappointing and unnecessary sequel and I think I speak for many that the beginning with Curtis is probably the only good part. Rhymes and Banks didn't help it either, but I like the camera stuff and probably still recommend it if you're a fan of the series. "},{"Title":"Halloween Overkill","Date":"5 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Resurrection is an improvement over the last 2 or 3 entries in the franchise. It has a clever theme using the reality show idea. A few problems I have with this movie is they changed the ending in H20 to make this movie work and this movie keeps tripping over itself because of it. Laurie Strode didn't actually behead her brother it was actually a paramedic gagged and wearing a mask. When Michael is on the roof hanging upside down Laurie wants to unmask him and says This Time I have to be sure before she kills him. Did he not break into her room just minutes before and try to kill her, C'mon. And this film further deviates as many of the sequels do, Michaels sole purpose was to kill his sisters, he killed the older sister in the original and kills his other sister in the opening of this movie further undermining the original story. Nonetheless this movie is a fun ride with overkill in the graphic violence department. "},{"Title":"This is bulls**t!","Date":"11 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  WARNING REVIEW CONTAINS MAJOR SPOILERS. ONLY READ IF YOU'VE SEEN THE FILM.Halloween Resurrection sees the return of the director of Halloween 2, along with an introduction to the cast of Tyra Banks and a bloke out of American Pie. A satire of reality television, internet programming and horror conventions, it begins with Mike Myers not being decapitated after all, and ends with Busta Rhymes electrocuting his genitals after crying out Trick or treat muthaf**ka! The strangest thing is, the film is actually even worse than that description makes it sound.It seems odd that the somewhat limited Halloween franchise limps to its eighth movie (or seventh if you consider Season of the Witch was completely divergent from the Myers story), while its Xeroxed spawn of Jason Voorhees has reached new heights of mainstream popularity with its tenth and eleventh entries. Although Friday the 13th was never as satisfying artistically (though I always found John Carpenter's original hugely overrated anyway) it always seemed more fun, and Halloween movies have always left me a little cold.There's a scene where a character describes how camera positioning from high or low angles is scary, but face-on angles are dull. You suspect that it's a philosophy Rick Rosenthal follows religiously, completely unaware of the fact that there isn't a single frightening scene in this entire movie, no matter how many clever angles he tries to insert. Ironic discussions on the staginess of horror films doesn't really hit the target, either, unless Jen's decapitated head really was supposed to look outrageously fake. Let's not even get into the internet transmissions, which are remarkably bereft of slow streaming times or people getting kicked off their connection. Okay, it's a movie, roll with it, but it's not a very good one.There seems no genuine reason for this film to exist, other than the fact H20 reinvigorated both critical and commercial appeal, to an extent at least. Yet even the curiously limited appeal of that entry is abandoned here, with Jamie Lee Curtis (commendably playing a highly unglamorous version of Laurie) killed during the first fifteen minutes. To fill the vacuum we get more of the same obligatory airhead teens, and a pair of ginger boobs to go into the mix. Season of the Witch may have been poor, but it was rarely dull, and this truly is the most tedious movie in the Halloween canon, a bona fide clockwatcher.The DVD release intrigues, with Mike Myers now being downgraded by the Theme/Contents description as merely moderate horror. But best of all is the scene selection chapter titles, with such spoiler-heavy gems as Chapter Twelve, He's Still Alive! It is a nice package, though, with a range of extras that you would probably describe as impressive if it was actually a film you gave a toss about. I can't claim to have sat through the whole lot - a tour of the set I skipped, as well as a brief documentary where they all kiss Jamie Lee Curtis's ass.  With over half an hour of extras, then Alternate Endings reveals that another Mike gets an axe in his head ending was proposed, while the commentary tells us little, except for Rosenthal's lack of respect for the intelligence of his confused audience. Or maybe you really do have to be pig thick to enjoy a Halloween sequel? Certainly when wit is dredged up in the form of You have great legs - when do they open? (Followed up by one o'clock? as a rejoinder to the obligatory middle finger) and a man bleeds from his eyeballs as his skull is crushed, then I guess it never was highbrow filmmaking. The use of video inserts could be described as an innovation, but, like the rest of Resurrection, it never feels like something we haven't seen many times before. Promotion in magazines used a Big Brother style campaign, with the tagline Meet The Housemates... Who Dies? You Decide. Unfortunately, in a Trades Description-defying revelation, it turns out you don't actually get any say in it whatsoever, a feature that could have improved things no end. Still, who'd want to watch a DVD where the main feature finishes after only two minutes? "},{"Title":"Nothing more than...well...than a poor ass comedy","Date":"6 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  HALLOWEEN RESSURRECTION (2002) spoiler alert(( This is the eight...I think? Halloween - horror movie made, well, its just as bad as the five others (except the first and H20!). Well, this time its REAL teenagers struggling against an angry Michael Myers.Beautiful and young men and women get stabbed and squised to death, its really just another blood-packed horror s*** of a movie! Its not entertaining, its not creepy, its not dramatic, its not nice made and its all threw just a really crappy movie! STARS * 1/5 "}{"Title":"Sorry Rick, this was NOT the one to bring the hard core fans back!","Date":"26 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  OK OK, Myers LOOKED better than the boofhead wimp in HALLOWEEN H20..which we find wasn't even Michael...yeah right guys! but THIS isn't what Michael's all about either. Killing off Jamie Lee was plain pointless and dumb! With Loomis out of the equation, you guys need every original cast member you can get hold of - especially the main character!With Strode's demise (and quite frankly the first 18 minutes of the film were by far the best) what you're left with is just driftwood and this entire charade seemed to be played more for laughs than with any sense of menace. Busta Rhymes played out his role more like AMERICAN PIE 3 than a Myers epic!A few inventive killings could not make up for a ludicrous edition of BIG BROTHER GOES HOMICIDAL This offering REALLY annoyed me and it could have been better......way better. Note to Producers Kindly note what punishment Michael has taken so far and survived..there is even a website devoted to just this fact... I ask you...is a few volts to his nervous system likely to bother him?Obviously left open for his return, one can only hope that sooner or later, SOMEONE is going to do this properly!  The fans are waiting!..and there's a lot of them!  Spend the money...get the writers  - give us what we want!   "},{"Title":"Enough is enough.","Date":"20 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  SPOILERSI do not know what prompted me to watch this, but RESURRECTION shows that things have not changed in the slasher series. And that is a pathetic shame, for potential is blown on stupid gimmicks and not serious talent (maybe like a REAL director, and a smarter post-production effort). But I have to hand it to them HALLOWEEN RESURRECTION shows that what they have done terribly all along, they've made it cult-like, like GODZILLA. Poor thing is is that the big green lizard in a rubber suit does not kill the general audience's intelligence.Six college students win the opportunity to survive a night in the house of Michael Myers. Lucky them.The deaths were not frightening. Michael Myers looked like a walking cliche. Busta Rhymes had me shaking my head. The whole 'internet' thing was terrible. The heroine relies on a teen she never met before? I mean, what the heck was everyone thinking? The actor, whose character looked into the laundry bin, NOT recognizing the body that is obviously there ... but no. He has to look in the laundry where a head was strategically put to induce what? Then he trips on the stupid body, that would stick out like a sore thumb to every actor who knows the character would recognize that first. I feel sorry for everyone involved in this movie. I should not, but I just do. But I guess people are only as good as the stuff they watch. "},{"Title":"Enough, already--ENOUGH I SAY!","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Like Michael Myers, the Halloween franchise lumbers on long after you wish it would drop dead, growing increasingly ridiculous as it goes along. Halloween II was a thrill for fans of the original because it literally gave us more of the same, although it left Laurie Strode in a catatonic state for most of the film and giving us boring nurses and orderlies for the wandering Shape to play stalk & slash with. 4-6 painted themselves into a corner with a storyline that attempted to explain Michael Myers, who was so scary because he couldn't be explained.Part 7 reintroduced Curtis to the series by wisely jettisoning the ludicrous sequels and taking its history from the original and Halloween 2, giving us a neurotic Laurie Strode finally having to face the Shape after 20 years of paranoia. The foolish H20 moniker could almost be forgiven, and the brisk pacing made it easy to overlook the silliness of the whole thing and focus on the excitement, culminating when Laurie lops off her boogeyman brother's head with an axe once and for all.Now this.In an introductory explanation that wouldn't get by on an episode of Scooby Doo, we are informed that Michael Myers stealthily crushed the larynx of a convenient paramedic, and then switched outfits with him. It was this paramedic that Laurie hauled off with at the end of H20. It was all a big mistake and the real Michael Myers got away, while Laurie was sent directly to the booby hatch for chopping off his head. Although she does not speak anymore, Laurie secretly dodges her meds (the nurses never notice), and when Mr. Shape inevitably returns to claim her, she is ready. Laurie has somehow even set up an elaborate trap for him on the roof of the asylum, involving a snare built out of a garage door opener (where she got these elements we can only wonder). But it's all for nothing--she falls for a big fakeout and dies, getting a knife in her gut and falling off the roof.At this point, Halloween Resurrection could end. Unfortunately, there are still about 75 minutes left to the film. Director Rick Rosenthal, who directed Halloween II, manages to elicit zero chills in this one. The atmosphere of dread that is essential to the success of a horror film is absolutely missing. Not only that, but the plot is just plain stupid.A group of beautiful young people is gathered in the Myers home on Halloween night as part of an Internet stunt conceived by Busta Rhymes. I doubt you will remember anybody's name after the credits roll. The roles are thankless and the scant amount of personality that the actors manage to inject is quickly exhausted. They wander around the Myers house (locked in, of course) with grainy cameras on their heads so that we can be reminded of Blair Witch Project. Then they are murdered. Some of the early murders even manage to go unnoticed, despite the fact that...well gee, the house can't be that big, can it? Think of your own house. Wouldn't it be real obvious if some screaming person were being hacked to death in the kitchen?The Myers house looks almost nothing like it has in the previous films. We also learn that there is apparently a labyrinthine series of tunnels underneath Haddonfield, which can be accessed through portals in the basements of the homes. Kind of makes the plot of Jason X seem a little more plausible, right?No tension is generated in the film, partly because of the MTV-style editing that obscures the details of the action, and indeed it looks just like a direct-to-video outing. It's even got a groveling television audio mix, where everything is underscored with constant rumbling, spooky music. Then there are the clanking knife sound effects. How can a single knife make a sound like two knives being rubbed together? This movie does not take place in anybody's reality. They might as well have made it an animated feature. The best thing Halloween Resurrection has going for it is some unintentional humor (the campy shots that highlight the bloody tip of Myers's butcher knife) and some amusing references to the earlier films. The actors are powerless to get this dead horse to bolt. Busta Rhymes reveals that he's no Ice-T, and features in one of the movie's most embarrassing sequences when he fights Michael Myers with kung fu moves. In fact, ALL of the roles in this film appear tacked on and contrived. Case in point Tyra Banks's do-nothing role that centers on her wiggling butt and her prowess with a coffee machine. She is so expendable that even her death occurs offscreen.While it was no masterpiece, H20 still carried some curiously powerful imagery, especially in the climactic confrontation where Laurie decapitates the Shape, pausing beforehand to reach out for its hand in an eerily compelling moment. To buy into this film's mythology is to defuse the last good thing about the Halloween series. I ain't buying it.I know Halloween fans will see this movie, just like I did, meaning that the only resurrection going on here is that of Moustapha Akkad's bank account. Now that Laurie Strode is gone from the series, taking the last shred of interest with her, I seriously doubt if even Halloween fans will go to see the excruciatingly inevitable Halloween 9. Unless, of course, we learn that it was NOT Laurie Strode who plummeted over the side of the building, but rather a cleverly disguised female orderly in a rubber Jamie Lee Curtis mask. With her larynx crushed, of course. "},{"Title":"A real low for the Halloween series.....","Date":"26 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I thought 3 and 6 were terrible, well, this takes the cake as worst Halloween movie and one of the worst movies in general. It is overall an appalling movie with disgraceful performances, a shoddy script, bad characters and a generic, boring score.The movie had a great start. We see Laurie Strode (Jamie Lee Curtis) is now confined to a mental asylum. But it's not to long until good ole Michael Myers (Brad Loree) drops by and knocks her off. This is when the movie slowly descends into the crapper. A group of teens audition to spend a night in the Myers' house courtesy of Dangertainment. Alas, it all goes terribly wrong as Mikey pays them a visit.I'll start by saying, if the movie had been edited to only include the first 10 minutes, it would have been better than this 90 min pile of crap. Busta Rhymes gives possibly the worst performance in history and the rest of the cast are only a cut above him. The script is poorly written and the characters were not interesting. The score was generic and not the least bit scary. Brad Loree does play a good Michael though, and surprisingly he was the best actor (bar Curtis).Usually I'm OK for some mindless slasher entertainment but when its this bad, I just can't hack it.1/5. Skip this and watch the others, even 3 and 6 are better than this turd of a movie. "},{"Title":"Imaginative Sequel!","Date":"26 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"   Halloween Resurrection is another in the long list of Halloween (1978) sequels to be sure, but this one is better than most and uses interesting new cinematic techniques to enhance the horror. The story opens with a prologue in which we find out how Michael Myers (Brad Loree) escaped death in the previous installment Halloween H2O (1998) and what has become of his beleaguered sister Laura (Jamie Lee Curtis). After a couple of grizzly murders we move on to the main story. The main body of the film which involves six young people being chosen by promoters Busta Rhymes and Tyra Banks to spend a night in the 25 year old deserted Michael Myers house, with the whole event being captured on video for a web cast over the internet. But of course you know who is also lurking about in the house. The six, and I hope I've got this right are Bianca Kajlich as Sara, the main character, Sean Patrick Thomas, Daisy McCrackin (looking like a younger Julianne Moore), Katee Sachoff, Luke Kirby and Thomas Ian Nicholas. Naturally there are the usual bloody murders as one would expect in a Halloween flick. Helping Sara escape the horror is high school student Ryan Merriman, who had established an on-line relationship with her and is watching the proceedings on the web. He is able to warn her through e-mails over their respective cell phones of impending danger. What sets this film apart though, is Director Rick Rosenthal's innovative use of digital video cameras strapped to the head of each of the six actors in the house. As well, there are stationary surveillance cameras scattered throughout the house for added effect. These are actual working cameras that capture the events of the story from six different points of view. The video footage is integrated with the film footage to give the film a more terrifying feel. We see what the characters see including a couple of their own murders.  Rosenthal reveals on the DVD that a Special Edition DVD will be forth coming where the viewer can follow any one of the six characters through the ordeal utilizing only the footage shot from their respective video cameras. In other words you can follow the story from six different points of view. Should be interesting. "},{"Title":"A SORT OF HOMECOMING","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  HALLOWEEN &#150; RESURRECTION (2002) ** Busta Rhymes, Bianca Kajlich, Thomas Ian Nicholas, Katee Sackhoff, Daisy McCrackin, Luke Kirby, Sean Patrick Thomas, Tyra Banks, Ryan Merriman, Billy Kay, Brad Loree, Jamie Lee Curtis.  Umpteenth sequel to the indefatigable horror franchise reviving unstoppable homicidal evil Michael Myers (Loree-who manages to use his eyes to full visceral effect behind the William Shatner trick-or-treat mask) with the premise involving a slick talking website entrepreneur Rhymes enlisting six young adults (read idiotic victims-to-be) to spend the night in the madman's childhood home while being filmed during a live web cast with the usual carnage ensuing in predictable ho-hum manner. Trivia note film's director Rick Rosenthal returns 21 years after his big screen debut with the series' first sequel &#150; go figure.  "},{"Title":"Must see! Exlllecent movie!","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This was a very good movie.It is a lot better than some of the other sequels.It starts out exciting and stays exciting thoughout the movie.I am also the biggest fan of all the Halloween films except for the third sequel.But in conclusion you must see Halloween Resurrection. It will be one of the best movies you will see this year! "},{"Title":"it rocks","Date":"2 August 2002","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  this is an awesome film it is the best sequel even better than h20 cant get better than this awesome art work the actors are good the actresses are good this movie is awesome if you havnt seen it than you better see it fast its worth $3 and &5 cents baby it even shows some boobies "},{"Title":"Suprisingly good","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I didn't intend to see Halloween Ressurection, instead I wanted tosee Austin Powers in Goldmember. But because of my brother Iended up seeing Halloween. From the commercial, I thoughtHalloween Ressurection was another bomb from  Dimension/Miramax and a slump in the Halloween series. Insteadit turned out to be a thrill ride. Busta Rhymes lit the screen asFreddie Harris. Busta Rhymes was hilarious! The Michael Myersand Busta Rhymes chemistry can probably go on for anotherinstallment. Unlike H20, Busta Rhymes had more Michael Myerstime than LL Cool J. Busta Rhymes got in more conflicts withMyers other than LL. Myers just passed LL and that was it, butBusta actually got into a fight with Myers. Enough with the rappertalk Halloween Ressurection gets a perfect 10. "},{"Title":"The most underrated entry in the series","Date":"28 October 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Participating in a new reality show, a group of college students exploring the childhood home of Michael Myers broadcast the killers' return and eventually killing them one-by-one forcing those watching the event to help them get out alive.This here is a sorely underrated and highly enjoyable effort with a lot to really like here. One of the film's greatest strength here is the use of its central gimmick here of using the reality show addition to the series in an incredibly fun way. Not only is this one highly probably to occur here given the guidelines of what's known in the series thus far, and the set-up here is much more genuine and authentic here due to that. The early set-ups here showing their preparations of the house which gets fun with the hidden kills having to a lot to do with that, though the real fun here come from the integration this does in the final half using it as the primary factor in helping them escape. By utilizing the footage from the shows and the different headsets on the group as that frame-point and then tuning to the technology they share is s a means of guiding them out is a supremely imaginable scenario filled with suspense as the fellow partiers watching the broadcast continually shout out information to help him along brings this nicely full-circle with the stalking in the house providing plenty of insanely suspenseful scenes throughout the house and down through the garage which makes for some great times here. Outside of the finale, there's some great stalking throughout here as the early walk-through of the house up into the second floor or down into the basement which is a lot of fun as the big encounter here with the falling wall of fake bodies before the fine chase through the area settling on a fine kill. The upstairs scenes are almost as fun, with the great jump through the dresser to launch an attack, the absolutely crazy scene where they come face-to-face with the doppelganger and are unsure of who's the real one or if the game is still on-going, the great battle in the kitchen that has plenty of fine action as well as the outstanding ending brawl in the garage that gives this one some fun. Along with a stellar opening chase and some really fine, creepy work with Michael here, this has enough here to hold off the long flaw here. The only thing here is the fate of the show's organizer, who's one of the most annoying characters here who survives the whole affair based solely on who's playing him rather than anything to do with what happens to him in the film proper and even manages to survive in one of the most hokey methods imaginable to provide the final killing blow instead of the final girl which really should've happened here, doing so with some absolutely lame methods as well. This is really the only thing holding it back.Rated R Graphic Violence, Graphic Language, Brief Nudity, an interrupted sex scene, and brief drug use. "}{"Title":"Not a great Halloween film, but this is my guilty pleasure and one of my favorites in this franchise! I really do love HALLOWEEN RESURRECTION.","Date":"15 September 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" HALLOWEEN RESURRECTION is the final installment in the original series of Michael Myers films and is directed by HALLOWEEN II director, Rick Rosenthal and is the eighth installment in the HALLOWEEN pictures.The film builds upon the continuity of HALLOWEEN H20 20 YEARS LATER and this was the last HALLOWEEN film to have Jamie Lee Curtis as Laurie Strode in the film's first 10 minutes. Although sequels were planned to follow HALLOWEEN RESURRECTION, Dimension Films decided that it was best to later reboot the film series with Rob Zombie's remake of the 1978 of the original HALLOWEEN film.The film is set three years after the last film with Laurie being put in a psychiatric hospital after mistakingly killing a doctor who she thought was her brother. Laurie sets a trap, but successfully, after twenty years of tracking her down, Michael eventually kills her.The following year, the movie goes from here. It continues with the masked serial killer Michael Myers continuing his murderous rampage in his hometown of Haddonfield, but this time, in his old childhood home, now derelict, which is being used for a live internet horror show. Just like the last film, Halloween Resurrection insists that the fourth, fifth and sixth installments are not canon.I don't hate this film, but I can see why other people do. I will not explain anything bad because everything about this movie is so great.The acting is fantastic, but I will say, I was sad that Laurie Strode was killed off at the beginning of this movie. Jamie Lee Curtis is good in the screen time her character has and she does an incredible job in her last appearance as Laurie Strode.Bianca Kajlich plays Sara and she is amazing in this film. Daisy McCrackin plays Donna and she is just dreadful and she is the only one who does not try in this film. Luke Kirby, Katee Sackhofff, Thomas Ian Nicholas, Ryan Merriman and Sean Patrick Thomas are all good in this film and they deliver some good acting skills. Busta Rhymes in this film, a lot of people did hate, but I like him in this film, because he is funny as heck. Tyra Banks plays Nora and she does good in the screen time she has.Brad Loree plays Michael Myers in this film and he is just good, if not better than the other Michael Myers actors that has came before him.The musical score by Danny Lux is just phenomenal and iconic and he created a genuine score to the original film instead of generating something new. He goes crazy for this Halloween picture's musical score with an electro-acoustic feel that dates back to the synthesizer scores of the 1980's.The kills in this movie are way too out there in a few areas, but I can still manage to sit through this movie and still get some very good scares out of this film and really like this movie, unlike some fans and critics and audiences who won't take this film nicely, unlike some of the other Halloween, FRIDAY THE 13th or A Nightmare on Elm Street film sequels in those three franchises.My favorite part of HALLOWEEN RESURRECTION is when Busta Rhymes does his freaking karate, Trick or treat, motherfreaker, dressed up as Michael Myers and super-kicking him out the window. I know people hate that part and would rather see him die, but I loved that part. I just teared up laughing and cheering for that part. He is a good rapper and an actor and I don't think he's bad as every one says, but as much as I love this movie, there is only one complaint.They had to kill Laurie Strode in the first 10 minutes of the film and I admit, it is sad, but Jamie Lee Curtis wanted the studio to do that because she didn't want any part of the new Halloween sequels.Overall, I love HALLOWEEN RESURRECTION, sure it is stupid, but there is a reason why I like this movie at all costs.8/10. "},{"Title":"I really don't understand how they could screw this up so badly (Major Spoilers!)","Date":"13 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Laurie Strode is in an asylum after inadvertently decapitating a paramedic that she thought was Michael Myers. Laurie hasn't spoken a word in three years, knowing Michael will come for her. Michael does come for her, but she's ready this time. She has Michael right where she wants him, but after inadvertently murdering someone, she becomes hesitant to kill Michael. It costs her and Laurie plummets to her death. Meanwhile, Freddie Harris and Nora Winston are reality programmers of Dangertainment, and choose 6 teenagers into the house where Michael Myers grew up in with cameras to boot. Things get real when Mikey gets infuriated that they are invading his homeThis movie has one of the most suspenseful openings you'll ever witness. The asylum adds to the suspense and Jamie Lee Curtis is fantastic. Almost everything about the opening is something Halloween fans will lap up, there is just one problem. After all that suspense, all those thrills, they did the unspeakable, they committed blasphemy. One of the most iconic scream queens s killed off. I realize it had to happen at some point, but it was so anti-climatic and the first time I saw this movie, Laurie's death broke my heart. Halloween is my favorite horror film of all time and this is her send off? It's like finding copious amounts of gold, only to have it snatched away from you a day later. That's how ripped off I felt about the opening. Laurie is beyond a shell of herself. She's morose and gone, why not take advantage of such an intriguing opportunity to add another dimension to Laurie? I know that Jamie Lee Curtis wanted to be done with Halloween and that this was clearly a paycheck role, but her legacy deserved an amazing send off and this was inexcusable. To this day, I'm still disgusted about Laurie's death, but I've gotten over it for the most part. They began to stretch credibility during the 5th movie, but this takes the cake. Laurie killed the wrong guy? Are you that desperate to make cash? To make matters worse, Rick Rosenthal gives us characters that have the personality of a fart in a hurricane. I wanted almost everyone to die and didn't give a damn about their fates. There were way too many characters that I wanted to be jettisoned. So many things are wrong about this movie, I don't even know where to begin. Why wasn't Laurie's son John in this movie? He survived H20, as did his girlfriend. I don't get it at all. Technology had to but in, didn't it? All of the technology really hampers the experience in a big way. I found Deckard's text messages to Sarah, to completely take away from the suspense, it just didn't fit for me. There is far too much wandering around the house with characters that are thoroughly uninteresting. And, no. I don't consider a few of the characters doing pot and sex to be of any interest. I hated the found footage BS they did in this movie, it added nothing new to the proceedings. I'm a die-hard fan of this series, but I have to admit that this series was beginning to get stale. This style didn't reinvigorate things at all. At least the Myers house is a hell of a lot more believable, unlike the monstrosity in Halloween V that they built. The score ranges from decent to bland at times. The direction is pretty mediocre as well. It's rather ironic that Rick Rosenthal was angry at John Carpenter for wanting to add gore in lieu of suspense in Halloween II like Rosenthal wanted. He had his chance to make the Halloween film that he wanted and he blew it. Bianca Kajilch does what she has to do adequately. It isn't entirely her fault that her character is void of charisma, but the way she is written doesn't help matters. She won't make fans forget Laurie Strode. Her You bastard! This is for Jen, Rudy, for all of them while going after Michael with a chainsaw had me in fits of unintentional laughter. Busta Rhymes would be amusing in a different film and his character was NOT amusing here. Threatening Michael with kung-fu, was that supposed to be funny? His shtick wore thin on me very quickly. He does have a few memorable lines, i'll say that. Get the F out of dodge Trick or treat, motherf***** Hey, Mikey! Happy f**** Halloween! It was just in the wrong movie. I wasn't wanting to see any comedy. Brad Lorre makes for an intimidating Michael. He's got the slow saunter down and everything. Katee Sackhoff's recalcitrant character should be fun for guys. Ian Nicholas should stick to American Pie films where he was actually fun and enjoyable. Ryan Merriman is bland as Deckard. The rest of the cast aren't great either. What was a model like Tyra Banks doing in this film? The way they ended things was so conventional. I actually preferred an alternate ending where Deckard saves SarahFinal Thoughts Watch the beginning, then shut it off. I can only recommend this to Halloween enthusiasts. I've seen this movie many times, simply because I'm a Halloween enthusiast. It's the definition of mediocre, filled with annoying characters and situations. Halloween 9 was going to happen, but this movie bombed. No wonder they rebooted the series and let Zombie take over. It's not as bad as Halloween V, but it is pretty bad3.8/10 "},{"Title":"The Last Great Sequel Directed By Rick Rosenthal","Date":"24 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Well This Is The Last Sequel Of The Series And I Enjoyed It And It Stars Jamie Lee Curtis As Laurie Strode Only Seen At The Beginning And Finally Gets Killed By Michael Myers Busta Rhymes As Freddie Harris Bianca Kajlich As The Hot Sara Moyer And Of Course Brad Loree As Michael Myers I Won't Never Forget Michael Myers He Is Number One In My Book Well The Ending Wasn't That Great When Michael Myers Open's His Eyes Proving That He Is Still Alive Because This Film Ends The Sequels And The Ending Should Have Had Him Dead Although Their Is Three Alternate Endings Two Of Them I Wish They Added To The Ending And The Other Ending I Don't Care For But I Still Do Like This Last Sequel And All Six Of The Other Sequels I'm Going To Miss Michael Myers I Wish They Had Made Another Sequel Instead Of Remakes Though Well Love Ya From Brandon DeVore "},{"Title":"Failed Mix of Halloween and Reality Television","Date":"24 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Laurie Strode (Jamie Lee Curtis) is now in an asylum, where she awaits the inevitable return of Michael Myers. Myers, after visiting her, returns to his childhood home and makes a nightmare for a group of kids who have decided to film a reality show inside the house.First of all, this film pretends that Halloween 4 through 6 never happened, creating the possibility that the Myers house has been abandoned for decades, rather than lived in by other families. This reboot is a result of the writing on H20, but it was still a bad idea no matter who started it.Second, one would think that bringing in Rick Rosenthal would be a good idea. He made Halloween 2, which was probably the last solid part of the franchise. But Rosenthal is clearly not the horror directing master we might have thought, as he approaches this film with a weak vision and sense of style, more emulating MTV than his own work. A quick glance at his credits will explain this he has spent the last twenty years making teenager-based television rather than horror films.Next, add Busta Rhymes. Like its previous installment with LL Cool J, this is the point in the series where a rapper is added to the mix. Much like how many horror franchises ultimately ended up in space, many started adding rappers to the cast. Why? I do not know. But it does nothing to help the credibility of the picture. Busta Rhymes and Tyra Banks do not have the appeal for horror fans that other actors would have.The POV camera thing is a mess. It looks bad and is more or less a bad idea. Yes, it has worked in such films as The Blair Witch Project and more recent excursions. It does not work here. Had they cut that aspect out entirely, this film would have been a bit better instantly.No horror franchise took as big of a nosedive as Halloween, with this being the final crash landing. Reviews of this film were so poor, and viewer appreciation so weak, it's very unlikely they will ever make another one in the series. Yes, they made the two Rob Zombie films after this, but I just like to pretend that never happened. "},{"Title":"Michael, Busta Move On!","Date":"26 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" It's not surprising the director of 'Halloween Resurrection' also helmed 'II' as they both had Michael vs. Laurie, both succeeded the best of the Halloween franchise and they both sucked. Jamie! How proud I was to see you return to greatness in 'H20' only to (literally) fall into this mess. I hope you earned enough blood money. And after you read your only scene, how on earth did you agree to this storyline? Absolutely the worst, uh, resurrection of any franchise killer since 'Jaws The Revenge' which told us the original's long-dead shark actually lived and followed by ocean the Sheriff's widowed wife down from New England to the Keys?? In this, they attempt to make us believe Michael switched bodies in the end of 'H20' and she killed the wrong man. If that were the case, wouldn't the victim simply take off his mask or do the universal no movements with his hand since he couldn't speak? And then Laurie doesn't ask this Michael to take off his mask since he's playing the same prank. But, I digress, that's just the first 17 minutes. You have the rest of the movie to hate as well. Reasons Busta Rhymes (enuff said, but&#x85;) and his busta moves, a victim that's on the verge of death texts someone vs. dialing 9-1-1, an overbearing soundtrack and a normal human scream that breaks glass. Obviously they were trying to cash-in on the reality series/webcam boom of the time and bring Michael on camera for people at home (or in this case, just a party) to watch him stalk easy prey in a house that's insides seem like a 37-room mansion with enough hiding places for 6 killers. Do NOT waste your time; of the original series, stick with just #1 and 'H20.' "},{"Title":"This oddball sequel will please some of the die-hard fans of Halloween series.","Date":"6 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Three years has passed now... When Laurie Strode (Jamie Lee Curtis) thought, she killed her murdering brother Michael Myers (Brad Loree). Their rivalry comes to an end, when Michael finally kills her. Then a few days later... the reality programmers at Dangertainment (Busta Rhymes and Trya Banks) selects an group of college students (Biance Kajlich, Sean Patrick Thomas, Luke Kirby, Katee Sackhoff, Daisy McCrackin and Thomas Ian Nicholas) to stay one night at the infamous house of brutal killer Michael Myers for the internet and for Halloween. But what Dangertainment or the College Students didn't realized that Michael Myers is in his house and there's living there for years. Michael decides to kill them off, one by one.Directed by Rick Rosenthal (American Dreamer, Bad Boys, Just a Little Sex) made an lively but certainly silly and oddball sequel to the popular Halloween franchise. Although Halloween H20 was the perfect way to end the series and the battle between Laurie & Micheal in H20 was effective. But Miramax/Dimension Films didn't think so. Which HalloweenResurrection was certainly made for the money. Which each sequel of the series was certainly profitable enough. The story is quite dumb for this sequel but it is also fun as well. There's good performances by Kajilich, Thomas and Ryan Merriman as Kajilich's internet buddy.DVD has an sharp anamorphic Widescreen (2.351) transfer and an strong-Dolby Digital 5.1 Surround Sound. DVD has an commentary track by the director and the editor of the film. DVD also has Web Cam Special with optional commentary by the director. Which Web Cam Special offers some alternative scenes and deleted footage wasn't used in the theatrical cut. DVD also deleted scenes, featurettes and more. Perphas the dumbest thing in this film is the Character of Rhymes. Which he's an OK character until he fights Michael with his Kung Fu Skills!. Which it seems out of place with the rest of the film and sadly Rhymes has an few unintentional laughs as well. Probably what makes this film fairly entertaining is directed by Rosenthal. Which he directed the violent, respectable and underrated Halloween 2. Executive Produced by the late Mousapha Akkad (Who's been involved with every Halloween movie until the recent remake/prequel of Halloween). Super 35. (*** ½/*****). "},{"Title":"Fun slasher sequel with a few hints of brilliance","Date":"1 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" OK I know I'm gonna get flack for this, but I don't hate this 7th sequel to John Carpenter's classic film. Sure I hate the fact that, like H20, it acts as if parts 4-6 never happened, but what can you do? Also, there really are far worse and more disappointing sequels out there. 'Freddy's Dead The Final Nightmare' anyone? That's not to say 'Halloween Resurrection' is perfect, but it's darn sure more interesting than some of the other horror films that have come in the last few years.Pros The film moves along nicely. The premise is good and has real potential. Each and every actor gives a good performance and really seem to be having a good time. The kills are creative, something lacking from the previous film. The replica of the Myers house is quite impressive. Danny Lux can't beat John Carpenter or Alan Howarth, but his score is better than average and his version of the main theme is eerie. Brad Loree does a great job as the masked madman and is probably the scariest Michael since 4. The writers injected some humor into the mix and some of it works. Finally, Rick Rosenthal does a pretty good job as director and makes the film look quite dark and spooky.Cons As I said above, this film ignores 4-6. Some fans might not care, but I know there are some, including myself, that aren't too thrilled about it. And seriously, does it really fix things anyway? Lacks both suspense and good characterization. The explanation for where Michael may have been between II and H20 is just dumb.Final thoughts H20 seemed to end the long-running saga of Michael Myers, but I guess the cash machines came a callin' because now we have another sequel, which leaves the door open for another. I for one am glad they didn't end it with H20 because then there would have been so many unanswered questions. Now that Rob Zombie has done a remake of the original, what does this mean for the original franchise? My rating 4/5 "},{"Title":"The weakest of the series","Date":"17 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Halloween Resurrection tries to make itself a modern horror film by adding computers and an online show but it's lacks the style that the first film had. Another thing I mentioned in the H20 review is that these two films try to disregard the previous Halloween sequels and that is a let down since they wasn't that bad.Jamie Lee has only a cameo appearance in this other than her main role in H20. Some of the characters were unlikable, Busta Ryhmes added some humour into the film. The gore is also limited from the previous movies. Halloween 8 is the weakest from the Halloween series, watch it if you're curious to know what happened after H20. "},{"Title":"Maybe 8 is enough...","Date":"30 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" As with any movie franchise that is nearing the double-digit mark, it proves tougher and tougher to try to bring something new to the table. Filmmakers, writers, producers, etc., seemingly are always deemed to add another notch to all ready squealed-to-death series'. Such is the case with the classic 'Halloween' franchise.However, instead of attempting to put Michael Myers (aka The Shape) into such silly realms as outer space (a la 'Friday the 13th's' Jason Voorhees-in what turned out to be nothing short of pure embarrassment for both the producing studio and fans alike!) 'Halloween 2' veteran director Rick Rosenthal decided to take a more modern-day, practical approach. Using what every American all ready knows all-to-well about reality television.For some, this may have been the final straw that broke the camel's back; using what most moviegoers would consider to be unprofessional, low-end methods in an attempt to revitalize an ailing series. Such, were my thoughts! It seemed an odd attempt, this guerilla style film-making, in what is usually such a technically sterile environment that is Hollywood.Guerilla style film-making or not, Rosenthal manages to pull off the impossible; not only using the consumer digital video format but learning to integrate it with the professional look of 35mm film! Some are quick to state that this has all ready been done via 'The Blair Witch Project' but that would be a false assumption. 'Blair Witch' used 16mm film and DV, both which were later blown up to a 35mm format so it could be viewed in theaters. Therefore, 'Halloween 8' is unique in it's mixing both formats simultaneously.Rosenthal and company were looking to create a more 'documentary' type feel to the latest installment in the series and they managed to create just that. This proves to be vital to the film since, at this point in time, there is little left to reveal to the audience, at least as far as it's main characters are concerned. Probably, more people know more about Laura Strode and Michael Myers than they do some of their own family members! Having said that, what else can one do to try to still maintain the audience's interests in these all ready exhausted characters? Gore will only carry you so far and big names will only cost your production a heck of a lot of money. Neither is a guarantee for success. So, what do you do? Why, you must reinvent! 'Halloween 8' is like a phoenix rising. And, while it is not perfect, it does manage to spark interest again. There are some 'name' actors (or, at least, some familiar faces running around) that kill the suspense of the film. Those being Busta Rhymes, Thomas Ian Nichols ('American Pie' veteran), and Sean Patrick Thomas. And, while I find all three of these actors superb in their own right, I feel that their presence here is disingenuous and distracting. Whenever I see Mr. Nichols running frantically about, I keep waiting for Stifler to show up! These celebrity faces just produce the results a good horror film should not.Pretty faces aside, the rest of the film generate some heart-pumping thrills. Rosenthal and director of photography, David Geddes, keep light levels low. And, as mentioned in the commentary, almost to the point of being dangerously low that should a mere candle have been blown out the picture would have gone entirely black! Video footage shot by the actors themselves is integrated with the look of professional film. Giving the overall production an 'edgy' feel with its digital glitches sprinkled throughout partnered with the imperfectly framed DV shots. Surprisingly, it works! Musically speaking, Carpenter's original main score is still recognizable but little remains of it. Composer Danny Lux does a descent job combining the past with the present. The 5.1 Dolby Digital mix is also very active and effective enough so that you'll be snapping a few quick glances over your shoulder to be sure the Shape himself isn't standing behind you! Unusual as it may seem, Dimension Home Video has packed this disc full of fun, informative bonus features. First, a must listen to commentary track by director Rosenthal and Editor Robert A. Ferretti. Like Carpenter, Rosenthal is quick to point out his 'areas of improvement' and even goes as far as to point out a crew member lying on the floor holding a flag in the film! Mostly, his self-critical analysis is typical of any director and it just goes to show how much of a professional Mr. Rosenthal is and how he has evolved over the past 20 years since his having helmed the 2nd entry in this series.Topping off the disc are such gems as a deleted scenes section (with commentary!) as well as a 40-minute webcam special (also with commentary) which gets to be so slightly nauseating after awhile. There are numerous featurettes dealing with set design as well as Jamie Lee Curtis's thoughts on finally killing off her much admired and loved character Laura Strode. Also included is a very healthy Stills Gallery.With a clear conscious, I can state that 'Halloween Resurrection' is a welcomed new entry. Having said that though, I'm not sure where the ol' Myers kid is to go from here. For the next director that should dare to helm yet another entry, I can only state that the Shape needs to stay put at home. Avoid the wackiness of space and ignore any high-flown ideas that would make our beloved Michael into something he's not; such as an angry spirit or evil alter ego via Martha Stewart. Keep him grounded safely in his roots. Just another deranged serial killer, who as Rosenthal jokes, is getting ever so closer to collecting his social security! And, at this point in the franchise, that may not be such a cursed statement. After all, if I see Myers terrorizing a retirement home, I'm definitely throwing in my 'Halloween' towel! "},{"Title":"H20 shot this movie's potential skyward, and then...It crashed.","Date":"20 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Halloween Resurrection takes place 3 years after H20. It is discovered that Laurie Strode beheaded the wrong man, and Michael Myers is still on the loose. Michael ends up finally killing Laurie, and the story moves on. A group of eager college kids join a reality web cast to spend the night in the house of Michael Myers. Unbeknownst to them, Michael is living under the house, and he doesn't want them there. This sequel sucks because it doesn't even fit in with the rest of the movies. Every movie was about Michael Myers' quest to kill all of his family members and those who get in his way. Nothing happens in this movie that's important, except he finally kills Laurie, which was a BIG mistake. The rest of this movie is filler. Michael Myers killing people just to make the audience cheer. And the audience doesn't cheer, trust me.The acting in this movie sucks. It features the corniest acting I've ever seen on film this side of Friday the 13th Part VII. Busta Rhymes lacks any acting talent whatsoever. Every time he opens his mouth a stupid line comes out, and it's actually annoying. I also hated how his character knew karate just from watching kung fu movies, and he beats the crap out of Michael Myers. I have to say though, the reason this movie gets a 3 instead of a 1 is because it had one memorable scene where Michael is facing Busta Rhymes dressed as Michael, and Busta Rhymes mistakes Michael Myers for someone in his staff, and he reams Michael out. It gives you a bit of a laugh. The female lead in this movie lacked everything needed for a female lead in this type of role. She wasn't a good actress. She was completely unable to react to situations.You might as well just skip this Halloween movie since it has nothing to do with the rest of the series and probably won't be mentioned in any subsequent sequel.3/10 "}{"Title":"Maybe we should have left it dead.","Date":"23 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Teens gather in the old Myers house, complete with internet camera equipment, when who should show up but the owner!Pretty laughable sequel certainly doesn't come close to the previous Halloween H20 (1998), but I suppose we really didn't expect a Halloween movie with Busta Rhymes to be THAT good anyway. Granted though, it does have some entertaining parts. The best sequence is really the opening with the cameo by beloved Jamie Lee, who does a nicely humorous turn in her brief appearance.Resurrection isn't a completely dead film, it really just suffers from some unnecessary silliness. Even still, it's only for the die-hard Halloween fans.** out of **** "},{"Title":"A plausible & different entry. Better than 4, 5, & 6 for sure.","Date":"14 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Well, I for one Liked Halloween Resurrection. Granted Busta Rhymes was crap & a hindrance to the film (ditto with ditsy but fine looking Tyra Banks). And in regards to the authorities not knowing about the tunnel running under the place, it wasn't found UNTIL after that girl fell backwards & that old plaster wall collapsed. Also, as far as the improbability of Michael getting into his old house unseen, there are a lot of nut-jobs who were probably walking around Haddonfield with Michael Myers masks on. After while it becomes old hat. Ole' Mikey wasn't seen for 23 years (or so they say) so I doubt the cops would be on 24/7 watch on the old Myers place. You'd be lucky for a 2-3 times a night drive by with a flashlight out the patrol car window surveillence. For example, look at that idiot Busta Rhymes during the film walking around in HIS M.M. wardrobe trying to cash in on a cheap scare or two to boost ratings for Dangertainment. For the record, I found the explanation for Micheal's survival at the end of H2O very plausible & ditto with Laurie's death in H.R. Afterall, it really wasn't Michael that did Laurie in (she had him dead to rights), it was a combination of HER uncertainty & his cunning. The camera on the heads of the would-be victims was a nice touch. And in regards to their poor acting, I think that this was intentional because they're reflections of most of the real life wannabes we all see on those crappy reality shows-no real talent & can't act worth a damn. Finally, I think some folks here are just WAY too hard on this film. I give Halloween Resurrection a 7/10. "},{"Title":"Jamie lee Curtis","Date":"30 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" this was a really good movie, but i didn't like how Jamie's character dies within the first 20minutes. the entire Halloween collection was based on Micheal either killing his sister or running into another relative while looking for her. now that she's dead it doesn't seem like the Halloween series is going to go very far with another sequel unless they find away to bring Laurie Strode back into the picture. even so, i still enjoyed this film. being a fan of Michael Myers since the age of 4, any Halloween film that comes out, i will still watch. however the only other thing that i found upsetting about the film was how it branched off from HalloweenH20. that movie in itself was a perfect 10 for me, but then when Halloween resurrection came out, it seemed to undermine the great story-line of H20. "},{"Title":"Not that bad at all! *** out of 5","Date":"29 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This is the one that gets lambasted quite a bit, but I'll be honest I've always felt it was a pretty worthy successor and a heck of a lot better than 4.I like the fact that Rick Rosenthal returns who directed by favorite HalloweeN sequel, HalloweeN II. He's definitely got a flamboyant touch and uses his filming techniques quite well in this film. The opening is actually my favorite scene in the entire film. Then again I'm not too fond of the fact that Laurie Strode was killed. BUT... well, it works. It's just that I hate that Laurie Strode survives three films only to be killed at the beginning of the fourth. Oh well, it's constructed well and it is a suspenseful chase scene.The rest of the film features a cast of unlikeables actually... but Bianca Kajlich was likable and yes... I found Busta Rhymes to be an alright kind of guy in the film. I laughed at his scenes anyways!Michael Myers was a real bad ass for sure here. His mask is more terrifying than ever.The music Danny Lux is very good and he really does a great rendition of the spooky HalloweeN theme.It's definitely a solid HalloweeN sequel even if it is nothing but a bunch of hack and slash. It's fun. And scary.I mean, it made my friend's popcorn land in my lap. So there. "},{"Title":"'HalloweenResurrection' fun but flighty","Date":"24 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Halloween Resurrection Open Mental Hospital, our struggling heroine Laurie Strode(Curtis) is in a mental hospital after we find out that, at the end of 'H20', she beheaded the wrong guy. Now, as she sits helplessly haunted by the memories of her brother, Michael, he decides to crash at the hospital. And this time, Michael finally succeeds...Meanwhile, producers of the reality series DangerTainment Nora(Banks) and Freddie(Rhymes) give a group of teens the opportunity to spend a night in Michael Myers childhood home. The teens include the hesitant yet compassionate Sara(Kajlich), her tawdry yet supportive best friend, Jen(Sackoff), the timid yet surreal Rudy(Thomas) and the fun-loving and easy Donna(McCrackin). Sara is hesitant about the situate, but Freddie and Jen convince her.Now, trapped in Myer's childhood home for the world to see, this new group of teens will struggle to survive when Michael decides to crash the party and come home! 'Resurrection' has a good concept and is fun, but it's flighty and the look of the film wrong. This time around, Michael seems to find increasingly blander ways to kill people, a few scenes aside. The suspense level is very low for a slasher-film, and by the plot it could generate tons of chase/suspense scenes. These things aren't completely delivered.The things above aside, 'Resurrection' may be flighty, suspense-less and bad looking, it nevertheless is a fun way to spend your night and is definitely one of the better installment in the series(IMO its the 4th best after the original, the 2nd and H20) Halloween Resurrection- *** R for strong horror/terror violence, language and some sexual content. "},{"Title":"Fun but it shouldn't have been made","Date":"9 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" HALLOWEEN RESURRECTION (2002)starring Busta Rhymes, Bianca Kajlich, Jamie Lee Curtis, Sean Patrick Thomas, Ryan Merriman, Thomas Ian Nicholas, Katee Sackoff, Luke Kirby, Daisy McCrackin, Tyra Banks.plot One year ago, Michael Myers switched outfits with a paramedic in order to get away. Now, after Michael pays a brutal visit to Laurie (Jamie Lee Curtis) at the mental hospital, he returns home to find that Freddie (Busta Rhymes) and Nora (Tyra Banks) are running an internet reality show where college students Sara (Bianca Kajlich), Rudy (Sean Patrick Thomas), Bill (Thomas Ian Nicholas) and more are searching the house to try and find the motive for Michael's rage, and decides to clean house.the good I'll start with the first 10 minutes where Michael visits Laurie at the hospital. It was fun, dark, suspenseful and entertaining and marked a great final horror scene for Jamie Lee Curtis.Michael Myers is also at his finest, his mask was creepy and he looked just the size as the one in the original.The murders are also great. Gory and suspenseful.The climax was fun, where Myers chases Sara through the house, her only savior is an online friend who helps her with a portable computer.The score is also kickass, almost like the score of I and II.the bad It just shouldn't have been made. H20 was a very fitting ending to the series and the ending was even kind of emotional, but this one ruins it.The side characters weren't very interesting or developed.Busta Rhymes character didn't really annoy me until the end, he should have died instead of returning to fight Michael, saying lines like Trick or treat, mothaf*cka!The ending was very predictable.P.S. This was a very great final scene for Jamie Lee Curtis, after surviving HALLOWEEN, THE FOG, PROM NIGHT, TERROR TRAIN, HALLOWEEN II and HALLOWEEN H20 20 YEARS LATER, she finally decided not to run away from her killer, but fight to the death.6.5/10 "},{"Title":"The final chapter in the series & entertaining for what it is.","Date":"25 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Eighth & final chapter to the HALLOWEEN series, once again ignores the plots of 3 through 6 & adds more violent blood shed & inventive deaths that was lacking in H20 & while I found the film to be quiet enjoyable, there's no denying the fact that like most in the series, this entry was still a far cry from John Carpenter's original film. That's not to say however that this film is bad, it's actually pretty good & is better than a lot of the sequels in the series, although I am pretty sure there are plenty of HALLOWEEN fans out there that would like to argue against my statement. The film, true to the series, has many of it's trademarks, most notably some decent scares & suspense, good directing & acting (Though a few characters were still annoying including Busta Rhymes character) in fact I actually think it looked & felt a little more like a HALLOWEEN movie than what H20 was, which despite having some good moments, felt more like a SCREAM movie than a HALLOWEEN film. The score here is much better & fits with the series & like I said above the kills were better & more inventive & BRAD LOREE was a good choice to play Michael in the film, as he seems to be channelling the same performance of Nick Castle in the original film. Director RICK ROSENTHAL (Who also helmed II) sets up a series of interesting moments of suspense, the stand out is when we see Michael merge from the living room into the kitchen, only to be followed by another Michael Myers! However HALLOWEEN RESURRECTION still has problems, the mask Michael is wearing is again all wrong, he looks like a rubbery Sid Vicious from the Sex Pistols. TYRA BANKS makes an appearance as a co-host of the show, but must have had something in her contract, that stated she didn't want her character to be killed on screen. She's in the film briefly, mostly towards the beginning of the film & then disappears, before re-appearing at the climax as another of Michaels victims seen hanging from the shed ceiling, In fact her character did nothing & added nothing to the film & it was my feeling that her character could have been written out of the script & the film seemingly ignores the question of what happened to Laurie's son (played by JOSH HARTNETT in H20) did he & his girlfriend get killed by Michael, when Laurie was locked up & if not, where was he? why was he never mentioned? I mean it appears as though Michael if he killed Laurie at the beginning, must have killed her son John, since it appears he has no family left & is no longer in pursuit of any, as he has now taken up residence in his old childhood home. The characters were bland & one dimensional & the heroine is nothing to write home about either & while I accept the fact that the paramedic seen in the flashback, couldn't tell Laurie who he was before she beheaded him, thinking it was Michael, it was still silly, a crushed larynx is fine, but why didn't he just take his mask off? Laurie being killed off is another disappointment, especially since her character lived her entire life in fear, that Michael would find her, before over coming her fears & confronting Michael in the end. It all just seemed like she went through it all for nothing. Plus even though I'm seemingly one out of the five people walking this earth who seen this movie & prefers this one over H20, I also felt H20 was the perfect send off to end series, since everything was brought full circle in that film. The films attempts to cash in on the reality television craze & THE BLAIR WITCH PROJECT'S phenomenal box office success, resulting in a film that features web cam footage annoyingly intercut in with film stock footage is fine at first, but this gets annoying real fast & adds nothing to the proceedings. Director Rosenthal also fails to balance the real horror vs. the stuff set up by Harris in the movie, which I felt would have made the movie even more interesting.All in all, if you can just not think about the original HALLOWEEN film while watching it & view it as more of a stand alone, you may have a lot of fun with this sequel, it's no masterpiece nor does it try to be, it's just a slasher film offering an attractive cast, lots of blood & suspense, but question, Am I the only one that thinks that the films climax, which has the lead heroine fending off Michael with a chainsaw while Michael blocks the chainsaw hits with his trusty kitchen knife, a rip-off sequence of Friday The 13th Part V A New Beginning? where the lead Heroine PAM, fends off maniac ROY BURNS (who dressed up to look like Jason) with a chainsaw in the barn, while he blocks the chainsaw hits with a machete? maybe it's just me, but for some reason I have a very strong feeling, that the writers may have ripped off that sequence or were at least inspired by it. While far from being perfect, HALLOWEEN RESURRECTION is really good & is better than most in the series.***1/2 stars "},{"Title":"Not the best Halloween but gotta love that bad ass music!","Date":"5 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  *Maybe A little spoiler*I pretty much agree with most people about the first 15 minutes of this movie being the best but to say it was total garbage isn't fair. I much rather prefer Jason to Michael anyway but it was mildly entertaining and when that original Halloween music comes on, WOW suddenly my rating goes up a couple of notches (I would really love to find the Drum & Bass mix of that but can't find it anywhere). I did like Busta for some reason but the rest of the potential teen victims did pretty much suck. Just fodder for Michael. No real inventive killings and twice in this movie Michael cuts the head off a person so the movie really is stuck for idea's. Not as bad as most people say so Halloween Resurrection gets 7/10 from me. "},{"Title":"A Bit To Clean For Me.","Date":"25 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"      After the amazing ending of HALLOWEEN H2020 YEARS LATER,the fans were at least pleased with the great entry.But when director Rick Rosenthal and writters Larry Brand & Sean Hood got together and came up with the resurrection of Michael Myers.    After finally killing Laurie Strode(Jamie Lee Curtis),Michael goes home to Haddonfield to rest in peace...or so he thought.When boyfriend and girlfriend,Freddie Harris(Busta Rhymes)and Nora Winston(Tyra Banks), two t.v. producers coming up with a brand new show to explore the home of serial killers.The first house they chose is the Myers' house.Contest winners Sara Moyer(Bianca Kajlich),Rudy Grimes(Sean Patrick Thomas),Jenna Danzing(Katee Sackoff),Jim Morgan(Luke Kirby),Donna Chang(Daisy McCrackin),and Bill Woodlake(Thomas Ian Nicholas) are the unlucky ones to explore the house.What they didn't count on is Michael Myers to come back home.    I must say the way they thought of bringing Michael back was genius,but this film alone was alright.They should of just left it alone after H20.The gore in this one was way to clean for me.Even the first HALLOWEEN,which I love,was gorier than this.The acting was fair,but to me Busta made the show.When he did karate on Michael,I laughed my a** off.This entry was good,but not all that.Still the worst is HALLOWEEN 5. "},{"Title":"I pretty good series","Date":"31 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I hope there is another sequel halloween has to be the best series of horror movies to even be around this long. Halloween resurrection wasn't the best but it was still a good and entertaining movie. I hope they make another soon  "}{"Title":"Only for the true Halloween or slasher fans","Date":"23 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  After the heart pounding finale in H20, Laurie Strode (Jamie Lee-Curtis) thought that she has ended it, but she's wrong. Michael Myers is too smart to die easily.  Now she's spending her life on a sanitarium, waiting for Michael to get her again. Finally, Michael accomplishes his goal to kill Laurie (isn't he?). And then the story goes to a bunch of teenagers that plan to spend a night to the old Michael Myers house in Haddonfield, to fulfill the challenge of Freddy Harris (Busta Rhymes), the owner of Dangertainment, an internet real time show. Everything goes terribly wrong then, when Michael Myers is back for his bloody rampage.Okay, we thought it has end on the H20, but the producer had a second thought. The result is one of the bad sequel ever made. Actually, the first 20 minute is great, and does a decent contribution to the Halloween saga.  We easily presumed that the series was over. Think again! Michael is still alive and still blood thirsty. It's like that Resurrection is divided into a two movie. One is the Laurie Strode saga and the other is a plain slasher flick. Rick Rosenthal (Halloween II) did succeed to entertain us but with the cliché mandatory and a lot of rip off from another movie like Scream and Blair Witch Project made the second part as the bad one. The plot is pointless and does nothing except just for a fun watch to the audiences. What a pity that Halloween series fall into those typical slasher flick.Well, at least for a true Halloween fans or slasher fans, you won't miss this. But if you want to watch more serious movie, avoid it.7/10 "},{"Title":"Why did this film get bashed?","Date":"4 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I went to see this movie, after reading seemingly terrible reviews for it everywhere, and i want to shout at them all, the movie was a perfect addition to the series. The explanation they used works really well it even gets you thinking back to the previous instalment H20 and wondering if you could actually see this happening. The plot moves along quite quickly and mixes the laughs you have grown to expect from modern horrors with the good old fashioned shocks. My main problem was with the new mask he got himself, why the hell do you change the greatest mask in horror history??? Busta rhymes is amusing and fulfilss his purpose well, but they had to go and bring him back at the end this is a silly thing to do with black rapper actors as far as im concerned!!!!! But the ending once again sets it up for another sequel, i just hope that it is as good as this was. Still not as good as Halloween 6 but thats just my love for slipping back perfectly into the story of Mr Myers. overall a good film 7/10 "},{"Title":"Decent movie but very bad idea","Date":"31 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  HALLOWEEN H20 was the best ending that could ever reach the screen without John CARPENTER on board and after the great Donald PLEASENCE's disappearence. Although it was a great movie,it lacked Donald PLEASANCE's presence (who is to me more essential to the series than Jamie Lee Curtis) but he wasn't forgotten as the opening credit was a moving tribute to his character. Without LOOMIS, the series had to end and Laurie was the only character that could finish the doctor's job killing MYERS. I thought the producers had a wise idea that respected the memory and work of the greatest actor of all times. But now comes HALLOWEEN RESURRECTION that wants to bring the series in a new era and gets rid of Laurie bad idea as HALLOWEEN films were so great because Michael MYERS always came with at least one of these two strong nemesis that could preserve all the interest when the killer wasn't not on the screen and enhanced his impact.RESURRECTION falls into two different movies an opening sequence for true HALLOWEEN fans and the rest of the movie that represents a new beginning.This opening sequence finds the spirit of the previous movies and is made as a farewell to an entire age and maybe an entire bunch of fans too those who, like me, believe that Michael MYERS' nothing without Laurie or LOOMIS.This sequence was both moving and a bit annoying as it ruined H20's great final scene. And now starts the new HALLOWEEN...When you watch the rest of the film, it confirms how essential Donald Pleasence and Jamie LEE CURTIS were and the mistake the producers have made by deciding to continue the series without them. Take the first movie for example LOOMIS' dialogues presented MYERS has pure evil and were so effectively performed that they gave a new supernatural dimension to the killer, enhancing the audience's fear. Now we only have silly dialogues and neverending explorations of the empty rooms quite boring. The attempts to create the suspense of the previous movies are all failures and you wait for MYERS to show up and chop all these hollow characters.Hopefully, anytime he's on the screen, it's obvious that Michael MYERS hasn't lost his power of fascination he's threatening, brutal, scary, invincible and save the last part of the movie. After JASON X, RESURRECTION is another proof that the 90s haven't created any slasher icons killers from SCREAM or I KNOW WHAT YOU DID LAST SUMMER never have JASON or Michael MYERS'charism and are bound to oblivion through the ages. Here, Brad LOREE delivers a great performance.The last 30 minutes are pretty nervous and show a few interesting ideas that, if better exploited,could have bred real and original suspense, for example the fact that Sara's informed of Myers' position in the house with her electronic agenda. This final part saves the movie by compensating for the lack of scares by a breath-taking pace and intensity you finally leave the theater on a positive feeling. Of course there are still a few bad points Busta RHYMES' Bruce LEE-like screams in the kung fu sequences are a bit ridiculous and so are his one liners, especially after Jamie Lee CURTIS' last words in front of MYERS. Also, the way they get rid of MYERS seems a bit easy for an invincible killer. And there's also something quite shameful they have chosen to ignore part 4,5 and 6 but they don't hesitate to copy entire scenes from those movies. There's a HALLOWEEN 4-like roof sequence and a murder that really reminded me HALLOWEEN 6.As a conclusion, I will say that even if I was pleased to see Michael MYERS again and there was excellent opening and an entertaining last section, this movie should never have been made. Myers is a fascinating character but can't support a movie on it's own. Next chapters will always lack LOOMIS and Laurie and will only be interesting when the Shape's on the screenjust like this one. Furthermore, I insist on the fact that such a legend could only die from his two nemesis' hands, it will now be impossible to have an ending that equals H20. In this movie, we have Laurie's last stand and Donald PLEASENCE is totally forgotten (what a lack of respect for such an actor and for all he has brought to the series!) HALLOWEEN enters a new era, but I won't follow him there. For me,Michael MYERS died in H20, the only possible ending of a great series.  "},{"Title":"Michael Myer is back","Date":"27 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  We have learnt this killer 24 yours ago and John Carpenter's legendary character is still alive. There is no way to kill him. Today nobody seeks him like Dr. Samuel  (Donald Pleasance). In this movie Laurie Strode (Jamie Lee Curtis) has left the story also. The legend will continue. However, hunting young generation equipped with internet,palmtops, webcams.. is much harder work than Myer used to in the past. Halloween fanatics will find everything in this picture. "},{"Title":"...FINALLY, a respectable sequel in the halloween series...","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I enjoyed this sequel. I was very happy that Resurrection was made. At first, I thought, not another H2O. (I felt H2O was disappointing because it was a knock-off...err, 2000 remake of the original.)I highly recommend this sequel, it is very scary and very intelligent. There are, of course, typical flaws, but not ones that ruin the illusion of the movie. I give it my thumbs up and a respectable 8 out of 10 for a horror/suspense/thriller. "},{"Title":"Great Addition to the Series.","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Halloween Resurrection was a great movie.  Four years after the last 'Halloween' movie, this one turns out to be a re-freshing, new, up-to-the-moment thriller.  The cast is great as well, including Tyra Banks and Jamie Lee Curtis.  I definitely recommend this movie; go see it.  "},{"Title":"Bust Rhymes Steals the Show Wu Style","Date":"22 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Seriously, this movie has gotten such a bad rap from the critics, but it achieved everything a horror movie attempts to achieve. It was gory, it was suspenseful, it was funny at times and when you leave the theater you had a good time.This movie was probably one of the most original of all the sequels, it's originality alone made me enjoy  the film a great deal, however the most enjoyable part of the film was Busta Rymes.. Just seeing him Fight Mike Meyers Wu Style was one of the most entertaining fight sequences ever. Also the fact that he said Mutha F**ka about 36 times made his character all the more enjoyable.This is definatly the first horror movie I may consider going to see again in the theater. The only bad part of the film is the way Jamie Lee Curtis met her fate, there should have been a lot more to it as she is what made the first two films  and H2O the gems that they are.I reccomend this film to any fan of Slasher movies "},{"Title":"A very worthy sequel!!","Date":"22 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  After hearing and reading several bad things about the making of this film for the past 2 or 3 years, I had not a single ounce of hope for it.  But being a huge Halloween fan as I am, I went in, saw it and was very pleasantly surprised at this installment.  Go see it! "},{"Title":"Evil Never Dies. We Should All Know That by Now!","Date":"20 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  REVIEW CONTAINS SPOILERS, SO THOSE OF YOU WHO HAVEN'T YET SEEN THIS MOVIE YET, DO NOT READ ON         It has been 3 years since the events in Halloween H20. Our story opens in an insane asylum on October 29, 2001. Laurie Strode has been committed--for murder. Yes, apparently the man she decapitated in H20 wasn't Michael. When a paramedic came to collect Michael Myers' body, he woke up and switched clothes with the man, so it was the poor paramedic that got his head chopped off.The real Michael Myers vanished, until now. He's been stalking Laurie and finally comes inside the hospital, killing two guards. Laurie escapes to the roof and tries to get the best of Michael by hanging him by his leg. She had to be sure it was him so she attempted to remove his mask, but he grabbed her and stabbed her. She fell to her death. Myers escapes.         A group of college students at Haddonfield University were planning to set up a live web-cast from the Myers house. The project was headed by Freddie Harris. The students chosen were Sara Moyer, Bill Woodlake, Jenna Danzig, Donna Chang, Jim Morgan and Rudy Grimes. It would be like a reality show broadcast on the Internet. Sara was nervous about doing it, but Freddie assured her it was the right thing to do.        At the Myers house, the doors were locked. The windows boarded. It was just the six kids and Freddie and his girlfriend. What they didn't suspect was Michael Myers was locked in the house with them.He began to kill every person he came across. 'Til finally only Sara and Freddie were left. They tried to take him down but it didn't work. Finally, all the electrical wires in the house and gasoline spilled from an old lawnmower set the house ablaze and Michael Myers is electrocuted.        Is this the end of Michael Myers? No. And those of you who are counting on seeing Michael's face are going to be disappointed. They don't show his face. There were several attempts but they all failed. But keep in mind his face was shown in the first Halloween. Michael isn't a monster like Jason Voorhees, he just looks like a normal person. I suspect there will be a Halloween 9. But what would it be about? Michael going after more family? The way it looks, there may be no end. But anyway, I enjoyed the movie quite a bit. It was better than I thought. And, according to this movie, Halloween III, 4, 5 and 6 never happened, so techically, this movie is Halloween 4.So if you haven't seen this movie yet, you gotta check it out. It'll top anything else playing at the box office, like Stuart Little 2, the first one wasn't any good so how would this one be any different? K-19 The Widowmaker, probably a good film. Has Star Wars veterans Harrison Ford and Liam Neeson; Road to Perdition. Take The Godfather and put Tom Hanks in it, you got Road to Perdition. The Powerpuff Girls Movie, sheesh! Don't get me started on that sloppy cartoon. Just goes to show you. If you don't do something good with your life, you turn out poorly drawn junk like that.          Anyway, I'm rambling. The point is see this movie!! It's better than H20! It's also a unique Halloween movie. For example in the first 7 Halloween movies, subtitles telling us the day have always appeared. Not in this movie. In this movie, they just leave it to us to guess the date. But this movie is good! It's gotta be good. It has to be! I wrote a review for it!-            "},{"Title":"Horror films","Date":"19 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  usually these horro films are really terrible.  i gave this one a 9 due the the difference in the way things were done.  It was actually pretty entertaining, contraty to my original impression that i was just another holloween H2O.  It is one worth seeing, if you are a compulsive movie goer such as myself, or if you just like scary movies. "}{"Title":"Not a bad movie!","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Warning spoiler in this review!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! The movie was great, all the parts were really good the only problem I had with the movie was Busta's roll they just made him look to hardcore. I mean Micheal stabed him about two to three times and he didn't die (please).The next movie should be about Jamie's son (Micheal's niece)or Laurie Strode's son (from H2O). Also the movie had so humor in it and I think Holloween shouldn't be about funny parts, that just makes it look like all the other horror movies out right now.. Anyways the movie was good and I hope they come out with the next one as soon as possible..  "},{"Title":"Entertaining, but leave your brain at home","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Although this movie is pretty soulless and mindless, even by slasher sequel standards, it was still entertaining. The body count was good, there was some gore, and I liked the look of the movie and how quickly paced it was, so it delivered. Better not think too much though, this movie has ultra one-dimensional characters and the plot is just an excuse to get kids slaughtered(F13 films are more complex). But this is escapism, folks; there is nothing remotely cerebral or intellectual about this movie. At least they use original music(pretty good,too,the new version of the theme is almost haunting)instead of the Scream music they used in H20. "},{"Title":"Halloween 8 What a surprise","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Halloween Resurrection or a.k.a Halloween 8. This movie was a suprise to me becasue most of the times the eight installment in a horror franchise isnt good. Then comes along Halloween 8 a action packed thrilling, humorous movie. The movie is alot diffrent from other Halloween's but that doesnt mean its worse. It's no where near as good as the first(casue the first is a classic)but it is better than Halloween II, and it's close to Halloween H20. The franchise is ready to go into diffrent directions I think (As long as they dont go back to the Senseless story line of 4,5,6). The movie stars Bianca Kajlich,Busta Rhymes, Thomas Ian Nicholas, Sean Patrick Thomas, and Jamie Lee Curtis. They all do a great job, especially Curtis. Of course the Halloween franchise will keep going on. You know there will be a Halloween 9 and so on. Halloween Resurrection and Jason X are the slasher movies so far this year. Both franchises went into diffrent directions and only one pulled it off good. Jason X is pointless dribble, When on the other hand Halloween Resurrection intrigues you, scares you. It grabs hold of you and never lets go.  "},{"Title":"Not Bad, impressed, ending was a let down","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I was quite surprised how well the film went. The internet broadcasting was interesting, more like MTV Fear in a way.  There was a few things i disliked for example, someone gets killed while the other two do nothing but try and escape, if it was reality, sure enough it would have been different and then the ending was a disappointment.  There will be another sequel, but question is...will Josh Harnet come back for the role of John Strode?  If he doesn't it wouldn't make sense to bring that character back, but then again who is left in the blood line unless Laurie was never killed off. "},{"Title":"Make way for Mikey!!!","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  After seeing Halloween 8 last night I would have to say it was one of the better sequels and really pretty much what I expected it to be. The portrayal of Myers is more like the original, maybe because of Rosenthal. Of course, Myers is alive after H20, and returns home to find out that his house has been occupied by a group of teens holding an internet webcast. This movie continues along the lines of H20, assuming that the house has been deserted since Myer's childhood. But in Halloween 6, remember that members of the Strode family move in the Myers house and refurnish it. But I guess that is getting into too much detail for a 7th sequel. Above all, Busta Rhymes gives a great performance and would recommend seeing it for some good scares and some good gore. **+ out of ****. My ratings of the best Halloween movies. 1) Halloween **** 2) Halloween 2 ***+ 3) Halloween 8 Resurrection **+ 4) Halloween 6 Curse **+ 5) Halloween 4 Return ** 6) Halloween 7 H20 ** 7) Halloween 5 Revenge ** 8) Halloween 3 Season (Don't Bother!!!)*  "},{"Title":"Don't listen to the critics, entertaining sequel here!","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Halloween Resurrection (2002) C-94 min. D Rick Rosenthal. Jamie Lee Curtis, Busta Rhymes, Bianca Kajlich, Tyra Banks, Daisy McCrackin, Katee Sackhoff, Thomas Ian Nicholas, Sean Patrick Thomas, Brad Loree. 8th installment in the HALLOWEEN series starts out with a great opening sequence and never looks back. This time around, Michael Myers returns to face Laurie Strode one more time... Meanwhile, an Internet entrepreneur (Rhymes) has offered several college students scholarships if they can stay in the Myers house for one evening, on Halloween night. The expected carnage follows, but is done in a fast-paced style. The cinematography (especially with the multiple camera angles) is done very well and the acting is for the most part superb, with the greatest performances by Curtis and Rhymes. Don't believe the critics, this is an entertaining sequel and a must for ANY Halloween fan, probably the best sequel since HALLOWEEN 4. RATING 8 out of 10. Rated R for graphic violence, brief drug use, sexuality, profanity, and nudity.  "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good.  Go Busta!","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I thought this movie was most definitely one of two or three best of the entire series.  The movie contained plenty of TERRIBLE acting, so it actually made Busta Rhymes look like he could act.  He impressed me quite a bit, but I'm sure it was because his acting was a lesser of two evils thing.  I don't know why people get upset when there is comic relief in horror movies.  The movies shouldn't be taken so seriously anyhow.The main problem I had with the movie was with how they made Michael Myers a bit too intelligent.  In the previous movies, Myers was diagnosed as having Antisocial behavior, which according to psychology, means that he does not care who he kills, etc etc.  He never worried about getting caught before, but in this movie he hides and worries about getting caught, which is unrealistic (yes, so is having an unstoppable killer, but at least stick with the creator's formula).  There were obvious references to Jason and Freddy movies in the movie.  Busta Rhymes was named Freddy and dressed as Myers in the house.  Is that some sort of subliminal message saying Freddy Krueger wants to be like Mike...Myers?  Maybe they took these shots at the Freddy and Jason movies since those two are seen as the two premier horror characters and they're supposedly going to have that showdown.Well, I would give the movie 7 out of 10 stars "},{"Title":"What???","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Ok, I was really disappointed after the first scene in this movie. Laurie is supposed to be the one person that Michael does not kill and they started it off with that? If it were ever going to happen, I would have been much happier if they died together, once and for all in the last movie of the series. They did actually have me biting my nails and saying things like No, no, he's in the hallway!! at the characters and the body of the movie wasn't all that bad. But with Laurie gone and this obvously NOT being the last movie as proven by the final scene, I find myself incapable of being throughly happy with it. Nice try, guys, but I don't like it. "},{"Title":"Not Bad!!! Not bad at all actually","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I am a HUGE fan of the series, but I had my doubts, c'mon!! Busta ???  In a Halloween movie ???I give this one, a well deserved 9/10I will not go into the plot here, but I must say, I was still impressed.  I enjoyed the movie, it definitely had a different taste, I actually jumped during this one, THRICE!!!!!  The beginning was awesome, I am glad they went back to the theme over the opening credits like in the original, HOWEVER, the pumpkin was missing (Talk about theme music, this movie would have been scarier in ten places with the three scary themes from the first film.  The du dun du, du dun du theme would have fit nicely and really added much to many of the chase scenes as it did so well before.Maybe Spoilers !!!The ending kicked butt, however, I have to disagree with the rest of the people here and say, this is how the series should end.  THERE IS NO OTHER WAY!!!!  Get out now please. "},{"Title":"Entertaining, but bland","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Not surprisingly, there is not a whole lot that stands out in this movie. Like many horror films, it has blood, guts, a psycho killer who won't die, and his victims stupidly running upstairs, into corners, and separating themselves.  On the upside, Busta Rhymes has a great comedic performance as the webcast's producer, the plot flows smoothly, and at least 75% of the hour and a half film was filled with action and suspense, which keeps the audience entertained.  I haven't seen any of the other Halloween movies, so I can't compare it to them, but if you like the typical horror film, I would recommend seeing this, and the sooner the better, as the packed opening night crowd in the theatre I saw it in definitely added significantly to the atmosphere of the movie.  Expect a fun, exciting, and suspenseful 90 minutes, but nothing out of the ordinary ... 7/10 "}{"Title":"Better than expected","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  OK, after much controversy over how much this movie would suck, it turns out that it is far from the worst sequel in the series (That honor still belongs to 6). The film gets off to a great start with an extended cameo from Jamie Lee Curtis facing Michael Myers for the fourth (and final?) time. Watch for several interesting visual references to the early films in the series, especially the last shot of the original. We then return to Haddonfield and the original Myers house where a group of college students are spending the night armed with webcams. Bianca Kajlich is quite good as the new heroine, Sarah, probably the best since Curtis herself....there are quite a few gruesome and memorable deaths, and some entertaining scenes. Perhaps my favorite moment of the film comes where we finally see where Michael spends his time on the other 364 nights of the year. The films only big problem is the casting of Busta Rhymes as the hero...but at least his annoying kung-fu fightin' antics are kept to a minimum until close to the end. I truly came to Halloween Resurrection ready to hate it, but came out satisfied. My friends and I jokingly called the film as Halloween Crackhouse for quite a while, but we were wrong...this was a worthy series entry.  "},{"Title":"what goes wrong when you popularize a franchise","Date":"21 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Let me answer on my summary, everything can go wrong. First, it picks up were H20 ended so again forget part 3,4,5 and 6. Secondly, money makes the world go around, Jamie Lee Curtis is just in it for a teaser. And last, Michael died in H2O but here they gave a stupid twist to H2O's ending and never explained anything. The only good thing was that they brought back Rick Rosenthal, the director of part 2.So Laurie Strode is just in it in the first minutes, the part that makes H2O a bit laughable, but once that's over we see the main storyline. And here we have the popularization of Michael Myers. This has nothing to do with Halloween, I remember pinhead (Hellraiser Hellworld) being involved in an internet craziness, well, this is nothing else. Just watch Michael's first killing, that's surely based on, and an inside joke, to Peeping Tom's killings with a tripod. Look, if you go back to the Myers' house than it's just not possible that Michael is still living in that house, abandoned for 20 years. And with the kids running into trouble, nobody goes out to rescue them, even as you can follow their mayhem on the Net! And the way it was filmed is just picking in, again, on mockumentaries and docu style horrors like Blair Witch or FearDotCom. I have seen the 4 endings that were shot and one, the CSI ending was surely made to go further on with the franchise. Katee Sackhoff was in this flick as Jen just to move one year later to the Batllestar Galactica series as Starbuck. Daisy McCrackin, reveals some flesh and there's more red stuff and stabbing then in H2O, so on that part it really looks more Halloween then H2O but still, bad storyline. Up to this writing Michael didn't reappear if we don't count Rob Zombie's remake with it. Brad Loree did fine as Michael Myers, and the acting was okay, sadly as John Carpenter once said, a good flick needs a good story, and how many franchises died with the popularisation of the main character (remember Freddy!)Gore 2/5 Nudity 1/5 Effects 3/5 Story 2/5 Comedy 0/5 "},{"Title":"Please, make this the last one","Date":"9 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This sequel really took the franchise downhill. I remember H2O was good, but this one isn't.  None of the killings are memorable. Nor is Michael after any family members once he gets to Jamie Lee, which by the way was so absurb to think a mental ward would have such sorry security.  Not to mention, every door in that place requires a key, so once Michael breaks her door down, there wouldn't be any door for her to open.  The whole internet show story was OK, but like I said, this film lacked any cool killings and very little blood.   But, the rat prop was cool.FINAL VERDICT  See the other sequels; they are better than this one.  "},{"Title":"Mixed bundle","Date":"23 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Halloween 8, I both love and hate this film depending on what level you want to look at. In terms of plot, it sucks heavily while it's littered with nice little perks and tweaks to the horror formula. Suddenly the motive behind Michael's reign of terror changes-now he's living at home when a bunch of teens break in on a reality show publicity stunt. Granted it is nice to have something different, but something else could've been done.All the previous Michael-included Halloweens are all but voided in this film; the hunt for members of his bloodline all gone. No more Laurie, or her son whats-his-face, and no more Jamie or her son (granted Jamie died in H6, but frankly that film deserves to be ignored.). Um, it's no secret Halloween Resurrection is a sequel to H20, meaning no mention of the events in Halloweens 4 - 6.The characters were all right, standard slasher fair, and of course Halloween Resurrection has its share of cheesy parts. Most of them involve Busta Rhymes, but one particular 'revenge' sequence involves the heroine.Enough of the bad, time for the strengths of this film. After five sequels, Halloween finally returns to its old-school feel as former Halloween director Rick Rosenthal takes the helm again. Halloween 8 easily has the most style points of any slasher that's come out in a long while. Jam packed with nods to Halloween 1 & 2, Resurrection brings back the creepy atmosphere, the lighting and camera angles that made the Halloween franchise what it is.As much as I liked John Ottman's orchestration of the Halloween theme in H20, it didn't feel right as the score. An orchestration would've been a great idea for just a CD release or something, but Halloween Resurrection gives the synthesizer the dominance in the infamous rhythm. Danny Lux took the best of Carpenter's creation and blends it with the best of Howarth and Ottman's variations, throws in a few twists of his own and delivers the finest rendition of the Halloween theme.Lastly, Michael Myers is downright vicious in this film. When he kills, he lets the audience know they're not getting back up. My only gripe is that when Busta Rhymes breaks out with his pathetic attempt at martial arts, Miky should have sliced the SoB to ribbons and have that be the end of it. The mask looks great, probably the closest to the original mask since Halloween 2 other than the opening scene where the mask has an afro thing going on. The bulk of the film though, that's remedied.Finally, the computer reality program setting does allow for a level of awareness of those being stalked. It's always a nice touch when the people in the films have knowledge of the situation, and come across as remotely intelligent. More could have been done with it, and the characters certainly could have been brighter & less cliché, but like I said I both loved and hated this film. Love its style . . . hate just about everything else. "},{"Title":"* out of 4.","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  A group of college students are selected to spend the night in Mike Myers old childhood home on Halloween. Attached to the students are cameras and microphones and they are broadcasted across the internet. However, Myers is still living in the house and begins murdering the kids. However, the people viewing it on the internet think the murders are all faked and staged and cheer on Myers as he kills his next victim!You know something is wrong with a film when it resorts to ripping off Book of Shadows Blair Witch 2 and the Scream franchise. This entry lacks any form of logic and reaches new heights of absurdity. Virtually everyone in the cast is miscast and / or given nothing to do, but wait around and be murdered. As good as an actor as Busta Rhymes is, he seems like he is acting in another film altogether (maybe a result of all the re-shooting and re-editing). Not even the rock solid Jamie Lee Curtis can save this mess of a film, that never takes advantage of her presence on screen.Rated R; Mild Sexual Situation, Graphic Violence, and Profanity. "},{"Title":"When will the pain stop!","Date":"22 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  It's time for this series to end and die. The  day Busta Rhymes thinks he is an actor is  the day Hollywood should start tearing down  building. He should stick to his crummy  day job. A sad and sick excuse for film, one  tends to forget they have a brain due to the  mind numbing story and the anesthetized  acting, one should enter this film with caution.  You may forget your brain due to the hypnotic  and hallucinogenic factor of this film. For crying  out loud, how many times will Michael Myers  die and resurrect. Are they trying to beat Jason  and make more crappy sequels. Not really  scary, with plenty of bad sound editing, this  should be up for the Golden Turkey, no problemo.  "},{"Title":"Good Movie or Huge Flop?  Definitely a good movie!(SPOILERS)","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Hey everyone! Well, I went yesterday to watch the movie.  Usually in the beginning it updates us on what is going on now, and reminds us of what happened in the past.  This movie told what really happened at the end of Halloween  H20 and updated us on what is currently taking place (three years after the last events occurred).  I thought the beginning was good.  I mean, where Laurie Strode ended up really shocked me.  What happened to her really shocked me. There were a lot of things that really shocked me.  There were a couple parts where it got sorta boring, but, I think the only reason I felt that way was because one of the people that I went with isn't really in to horror movies, and I didn't want him to be bored..lol, so in a way I was bored with him.  But, if i would have went by myself, I would have loved the entire film.  Anyway, I thought the ending was good, but what happened wasn't really surprising.  You wanna know my thoughts on making another one?  Bad Idea!  I mean, there is really no need to make another one, is there? Michael finally accomplished what he set out to do twenty four years ago. There isn't any reason to continue this franchise.  End it while it was good.  We don't want to ruin a good thing.  But, in conclusion, this was a good movie. "},{"Title":"Ruinous and malicious ending to the Halloween franchise","Date":"7 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Rick Rosenthal returns from Halloween II to direct Halloween Resurrection, the eighth in the franchise involving the serial killer Michael who is still out to get his family, and who still lives despite the cathartic ending of Halloween H20. But what happened? Whereas Halloween II specifically worked to recreate the mood, tone, and construction of the previous movie, Halloween Resurrection is a directly malicious attack on the franchise.It's three years after H20, and it turns out that the figure Jamie Lee Curtis decapitated in the previous film was a voiceless security guard, not Michael. Let us forget a moment that this makes no sense as the figure did attack Laurie Strode while she worked to defeat him, and instead focus on the fact that this movie pretty much makes short work of killing Laurie for no good reason except that it seriously seems like the filmmakers wanted to punish her, and the makers of the previous movie, for making an end to a franchise. Then the movie continues with a character named Sarah, possibly the daughter of Jamie Strode (from Halloween The Curse of Michael Myers), who joins two friends in a televised expedition to Michael Myers' childhood house for a night of reality television. Okay, so they're gonna get killed and people are going to watch them in real life. In some way, this movie really tries hard to present a voyeuristic aspect of television viewer-ship theme, marked by its pop critical and psychobabble dialog, an ill-conceived death-by-tripod, and Busta Rhymes saying some really stupid lines about the lack of humanism in television by the end of the film.If Halloween 5 was bad in construction, this one is bad in conception. The entire film is completely contradictory. It takes (bad) influence from reality television and The Blair Witch Project to make a movie about the dangers and emptiness of our popular televised lives, but the movie itself is filled with screen stars, monotonous television-style editing techniques, and a malicious contempt for everything the entire franchise stood for. The characters are more than stupid, this time they're even hateful, and what's worse, their confusion and clumsiness in the Dangertainment event shows an absurd lack of understanding from all levels of the production, from script to editing, on what the whole purpose of every level of the film is the in-film dynamics of reality television, the out-film tension of viewer-ship, the point of the movie itself based on the themes it fails to actualize, and the relationship between those things.The actual film-making itself was flimsy and retarded. Rosenthal peppers the flick with worse scare-tactic cuts than even the most mundane of thrillers that come out practically every week, and then he tries to give significant dramatic effect with--seriously people--random slow motion takes of nothing happening! The acting and production design were equally as bad, making this movie literally seem like a random mish-mash of a bunch of stupid idiots running around an old, decrepit stage, pretending to be actors. Then the movie adds in new, in style, modern technology to show without a doubt that these kids are cool, they're completely relatable to a new generation! If this movie doesn't sound vomit-inducing yet, you have no soul.But all that aside, NOTHING forgives this film for Busta Rhymes. His entire presence is one of those hateful, headache-inducing things that makes people like me wonder if the filmmakers were just trying to get everyone to leave (not a bad guess, considering Rosenthal's aforementioned history with the franchise). A more obnoxious and uncomfortable character was never created for a horror movie, and then this film actually allows him to go all kung-fu on Michael and, the greatest sin of all, actually defeat him! By the time it ends, this movie has the ability to make you terminally ill--not because of the gorror approaches or the thriller tropes, but because it's so rotten and degenerate that the mise-en-scene itself smells like dead cat.The Halloween franchise has various levels of qualities and is in general an entertaining entity, but avoid this one at all costs. This movie should never had made it past the terrible script, much less the rest of production.--PolarisDiB "},{"Title":"Waste of time!","Date":"30 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Even though most of them are rubbish, the Halloween movies always seem so full of potential when the lights go down and the film fades in to that ominous and slicker-than-crude-oil theme tune. Sadly though, they never attempt anything other than stabbings.John Carpenter's original low-budget horror flick, about a babysitter stalked by the bogey man, was a big hit that brought him much acclaim. A sequel was inevitable. Carpenter even worked on it. But after that, he bowed out and his producer Moustapha Akkad took over. He's not a filmmaker, he's a businessman. And for 24 years, he has served us the same sandwich, over and over.Rick Rosenthal, who directed Halloween II, is back behind the camera. One would assume that his familiarity with the franchise is a good thing. Too bad he's obsessed with cheesy lighting, obnoxiously loud sound effects and confusing editing.This film was supposed to be released in the autumn of 2001, but apparently there were major differences of opinion when the director of H20, Steve Miner, started fiddling with the finished print. The original title, Halloween The Homecoming, was dropped because Dimension Films wanted a title that made it clear that Michael Myers was still alive. So they nicked half the title off an Alien movie and stuck it on.There is only one way to tell a story of teenagers being murdered by a psycho in a William Shatner mask/hockey mask/pillow case. And you've seen it a zillion times. The only minuscule difference this one offers is that the whole thing in broadcast on the Internet, which provides room for some gimmicky, if annoying, set pieces and a few clever tricks. But don't expect jaw-dropping twists, or intensity.An ambitious reality show producer (Busta Rhymes) sets up the Myers house with booby-traps and red herrings to juice his sleepover Internet show. A handful of teens, with stereotypical personalities, fall for it and deliver the goods. Until Mikey comes back, that is.What's that you say? Surely, Mikey can't be alive after Jamie Lee lopped his head off in H20? Well, the movie says that Michael stuck his mask onto someone else before being chucked into the back of the corpse-mobile. Umm...so where's the actual resurrection? What follows is a shlocky assortment of teenage slayings - Freddy, Mikey and Jason must surely have laid waste to most of teen America by now - and massacres. What motivates Mikey? Never revealed, man.Carpenter used this to good effect first time round. Parts 4, 5 and 6 - they dropped the roman numerals after III - added truckloads of story to the Michael Myers myth, which, although nothing but hokum, was at least interesting.H20 completely disregarded those movies and went back to killing for no reason. And now once again, it's just pointless bloodshed. Mikey isn't scary. Jason would flatten him in a second. You know that he's always going to get up after being hung, shot, stabbed, poisoned, fired out of a cannon or run over with a steam roller. There is zero suspense.Watching a rubber dog-doo machine make rubber dog-doo is not interesting. And watching a killing machine kill got boring well over a decade ago. It's time to try something new.Halloween Resurrection tries a little harder, perhaps. And for this reason, it's one of the better sequels. But it's still a big jive turkey in need of a valuable lesson.Horror films should offend and disgust, not regurgitate the failures of previous sequels. "},{"Title":"yeah i loved it","Date":"7 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" So Halloween Resurrection... number eight. Of course this movie wasn't the best of all the Halloweens, but it was viewable and it kept me entertained. More gore used then all the others, which was liable to happen, considering thats what every one wants now... just look at all the other horror flicks AND their titles (Bloody Murder 2, Freddy vs. Jason (which at the time wasn't competing against this movie but is getting put out there)) gore isn't what makes a movie scary, just makes you look the other way, BUT, with the brilliance I think this movie had taken on (yes I said brilliance), I think it at least deserves an 8. What other movie in 2002 can say they used modern technology (internet) to lure kids into wanting to see this film?Michael Myers (to me) is the scariest killer/murderer ever created in time. He doesn't need to say a word... he walks like he knows he's going to kill the next person he does, which scares me even more. The classic mask, the classic suit. This movie could have been better, but was brilliant in my mind, but I'm sick and twisted, what are you going to listen to me for?rent it!... actually if your a complete moron and call yourself and horror flick fan and haven't seen the original Halloween, go rent that first. The master of all horror movies ever created (Halloween) "}{"Title":"I thought it was going to be bad!","Date":"14 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Halloween Resurrection turned out to be a good movie. I thought it was going to be bad due to Michael's head being chopped off by his sister Laurie back in Halloween H2O and then returning from beyond the grave.But it seems, however, that a cop was dressed up like Micheal and this made Laurie believe it was him!Then, I understood because, she accidentally killed an impostor and MICHAEL WAS STILL OUT THERE!!!And then, Michael finally killed Laurie in this film! The acting was good and so were the shocks and the laughs. Jesus! THOSE SHOCKS SCARED THE HELL OUT OF ME!!!! I could not believe that Freddie was crazy enough to let those kids go into that house and he was crazy to dress up as Michael Myers because, the kids would soon discover that there is a real Michael Myers lurking in the shadows! And only two people in total survived which was Freddie and Sarah.And it's pretty cool to see a Junior High boy saving Sarah's life by communicating from a computer at a house party to Sarah's cellphone.Hey, do you want to keep yourself entertained with this movie????? Get the DVD and check out all the surprises it's got. You'll be amazed! "},{"Title":"one good movie!","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was great! If your a HalloweeN fan and havn't seen this movie and here a lot of bad reputation on it dont worry my friend your in for a treat, but really people who moan, what did you expect from a horror movie that is 8th in the series, the godfather!!!!While halloween remains as the godfather of the movies this movie is good, for 8th movie in the series with hardly no story left, it was awesome, most fans love the first, so do i, but the movie was very scary and exciting to watch!!! Michael looks awsome, the movie was awsome, scary and exciting with a lot of suspense!I mean the real critics for newspapers gave this movie a lot of credit, is with them being professionals they know what to expect from an 8th, and this must of really sparked them for giving it 5 positive headlines for this movie in the first week of it opening, and it came 4 in the box office, and thats how good this movie is for eighth in the series.so enjoy!  "},{"Title":"Not So Bad","Date":"23 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Three young men and three young women are invited to spend the night  in the house of Michael Myers, in a type of `Big Brother show'. Michael Myers is in the house and the slaughtering of the participants of the show is broadcast transmitted. I really expected a movie worst than that. But in the end, it is not so bad. The problem is again the use of cameras like in `Blair Witch Project'. It shows a total lack of originality of the director, in a formula that is getting the viewers tired. Anyway, the movie is a good entertainment for fans of this series. The participation of Jamie Lee Curtis is minimum. My vote is seven. Title (Brazil) `Halloween Ressurreição' (`Halloween Resurrection')  "},{"Title":"A great sequel to a great franchise","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Halloween Resurrection so many words can express this movie.Halloween Resurrection has to be the best sequel since 2. Brad Loree pulls off The Shape so excellent, he reminded me of Nick Castle.I am a big fan of series, I came in with a smile and walk out with one. The movie is my favorite movie right now.  "},{"Title":"This is *so* not what I signed up for","Date":"5 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" No, like, I mean, *totally*. The series reaches its lowest, and Resurrection ironically enough killed it until Rob Zombie remade them(I haven't watched either of his attempts yet, but I have literally no reason to believe that he handles them well). This was made purely to crap out another sequel, and with how sub-standard it turned out, that does not come close to justifying its existence. The plot is meaningless and full of holes. There is not a single character in this that you can relate to(all are stereotypical and one-note), like, and there's a mere handful of them that you can even stand. They go out of their way to be obnoxious, and you do not feel any sympathy when they die. The acting is utterly unimpressive, for both the names and the unknowns in the cast. Worst are probably the model and the rapper. The music is OK, and the original theme does turn up here and there. This doesn't build up atmosphere, suspense or tension all that well. There are cheap scares, the set-up is forced, and, well, here's a clue for the film-makers who clearly had none When those in the movie are bored, the viewers are, too. Editing and cinematography are decent at best. The show doesn't make sense; are they only going to do it once a year, on Halloween? There's only the one house, are they picking up a new sensationalist background for each iteration? Is it a one-time thing? Why on Earth do they think they'll be rich, it's not like they have something easy to franchise? This isn't likely to satisfy the least picky of its intended audience. There is plenty of bloody(and at points, gory) violence, relatively frequent strong language, a little sexuality/suggestive material and brief gratuitous nudity. I recommend this solely to those who must watch every single slasher made, regardless of their quality. 1/10 "},{"Title":"If you have not see this movie,good don't see it","Date":"1 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Halloween H20 is the last movie Halloween series to me.Halloween Resurrection is movie that shroud never happened as H20 killed Michael Myers and there was no way that could bring him back after that.There is so many bad thing i can say this movie, it all big brother now and number of teens go to the famous Michael Myers house and and killed on live TV and while other people would watch a crap TV show instead of having party that were invited too, the death were not good at all and Michael Myers were not even scary in this movie and you don't really care about any of the people in this movie and I wish Michael Myers could killed them faster.I hate the ending as it left it open for another sequel that never been made due the two remakes that have been out now.The is one good thing i can about this is that some of the acting from cast was good.I going to give this 3 out 10 "},{"Title":"The Worst Halloween ever!","Date":"5 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Five years has passed since the last movie, Laurie Strode (Jamie Lee Curtis) has been institutionalized after killing the wrong man whom she thought was her brother. Michael Myers however is still on the rampage as he confronts with her for the very last time, however back in Haddonfield a producer named Freddie Harris (Busta Rhymes) and girlfriend (Tyra Banks) hire some college students (Sean Patrick Thomas, Thomas Ian Nicholas, Bill Kay, Bianca Kajlich, Ryan Merimann, Katee Sackhoff, Luke Kirby Daisy Mccraken) to do a reality program on the net called DangerTainment. They wire cameras in the Myers home to do their program which could be very successful, unfortunately Michael is back as he terrorizes the reality WebTV crew.The worst movie of the series! some people say it's Halloween III Season of the Witch but no it's not, that movie which maybe unrelated was an experiment to turn the franchise into a big screen horror anthology. Some say it's Halloween The Curse of Michael Myers but that maybe bad but it had it's moments, now Resurrection is truly the worst and most embarrassing movie in the series. I do like the idea of a Survivor-esque reality show on the internet within the Myers house idea but the idea seem to got wasted by the bad acting, some miscasting, some lame killing sequences and a stupid fight sequence with Busta Rhymes kicking Myers's butt as he quotes Trick or Treat Motherf*****. Rock Rosenthal who gave us the superb Halloween 2 did a poor job of bringing back Michael to the screen as this movie nearly cripples the franchise no thanks to this dud. "},{"Title":"Only unquestioning Halloween aficionados will appreciate this gimmick-laden installment in the long-running series.","Date":"11 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" The latest Michael Myers' slasher saga Halloween Resurrection relies more on slick gimmicks rather than sickening gore to generate fear and anxiety. No, Resurrection doesn't surpass director John Carpenter's peerless slice'n dice classic Halloween (1978), which launched unknown actress Jamie Lee Curtis into the Hollywood firmament as scream queen Laurie Strode. Yes, Resurrection tops 1983's Halloween III Season of the Witch. Nevertheless, this derivative but efficient follow-up to the much superior Halloween H2O (1998), the second-best Halloween epic since Carpenter's original, piles up a reasonable body count, stirs up serviceable suspense, and features one of the more memorable moments (or the mother of all false alarms) of the franchise.Halloween Resurrection fades in three years after H2O faded out. Evidently, Laurie believed she had beheaded her murderous younger brother, the unstoppable killing machine Michael Myers. Sadly, she learns to her shock that Michael swapped places with a paramedic. Macabre Michael crushed the guy's larynx, so he couldn't identify himself when Laurie hacked off his head. Consequently, the authorities have locked up poor Laurie in the loony bin . Meanwhile, when she isn't stashing her pills in a rag doll, guilt-ridden Laurie awaits her inevitable showdown with her big, bad bogeyman brother. Fifteen minutes later, Laurie confronts Michael (career stunt man Brad Loree), and you can guess who triumphs in their rooftop encounter. Hopefully, the proposed ninth chapter in the Halloween movies may rewrite Laurie's untimely demise the same way Resurrection shrewdly revived Michael. Director Rick Rosenthal, who helmed Halloween 2 (1981), shifts the action from the insane asylum to the dilapidated Strode family domicile in Haddonfield, Illinois, where all the bloodletting began. Enter dot.com entrepreneur Freddie Harris (rapper Busta Rhymes of Shaft) with a sure-fire scheme to cash in on Michael mania. Harris recruits six unsuspecting college students to appear on his Internet cybercast 'Dangertainment.' He promises them $5,000 apiece if they can survive a night in Michael's house. Each wears live web cams as they prowl the premises. Harris has wired the house with hidden cameras, too. Little does Sara (Bianca Kajlich of Bring It On) and her five ill-fated friends know that menacing Michael has been living alone under the house. While Michael isn't knocking off these nitwits with his customary sadism, Sara's cyber-pen pal Myles Barton (Ryan Merriman) is typing out and sending messages frantically to Sara on her Palm-Pilot, warning our heroine about Myers' whereabouts. Halloween Resurrection combines The House on Haunted Hill with The Blair Witch Project. The formulaic screenplay by Larry Brand and Sean Hood ignores the slasher movie rules about sex and drugs that Wes Craven's Scream trilogy outlined years ago. Gore- hounds looking for buckets of blood in the R-rated Resurrection may feel cheated by the overall lack of slash and gash. The best parts of Resurrection have little to do with horror and more to do with keeping this mass murder melodrama up-to-date with the latest advances in technological hardware. Altogether, only unquestioning Halloween aficionados will appreciate this gimmick-laden installment in the long-running series. "},{"Title":"Entire Film Is Inpossible!","Date":"28 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Laurie Strode cut Myers head off at the end of H20. With an Axe. So there is NO Myers for this film.I find it unlikely that he would be able to locate her in the Mental Institution (why was she even there anyway?).And once he'd killed Laurie there was no reason for him to do anything any more. He would never have known about the TV show being done at the Myers old house.Why had this house not been demolished? It's been empty a long time and no-one would ever buy it considering it's history.And no-one knew about the tunnels under the house? Did anyone else notice the mistake where the girl read the newspaper article about Laurie Strode Myers Sister? That's wrong, she was a babysitter, nothing more.I doubt the police would have allowed anyone to film on a house on such a day. Oh, and being hung from the camera flex would have killed him.The whole film became a joke once the last girl got the chainsaw. At least the electrocution would have killed him beyond any shadow of a doubt.This is the 1st Halloween film to end showing us Myers is still alive. Every other film has either shown him dead or locked away or impossibly trapped.This film was dire. "},{"Title":"Worst manner to end a franchise.","Date":"17 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Where to begin? This is a bad sequel for the wrong reasons. It had a lot of potential but the director and producers took the franchise to the wrong direction (s).First, I know that the reality shows took by storm t.v. but it wasn't necessary to focus a HALLOWEEN movie on one of them. That was truly a bad decision. Michael Myers does not belongs in the new century, he's a slasher icon that should've stayed in the past. Or you could've used another character instead of Myers. I mean, the premise is really good but it didn't work with Myers. I watched the movie's premiere back in 2002 and I was very excited mostly because it was the new Halloween movie but soon after the great opening sequence, the movie goes terribly down hill.The second mistake was to include rappers and socialites in this movie. What do they have to do with Halloween? I mean, LL Cool J did a decent job in H20 but it wasn't necessary to use new rappers. Rappers, Halloween, what does that have to do with Horror?! damn it.The third and biggest mistake was to kill Laurie Strode. She was the best thing about the movie but I'm sure that Jamie Lee Curtis didn't like the new dimension that the franchise who once she made popular was taking.Without JLC and Donald Pleasence, the series are ruined. And now that (sadlY) Mr. Akkaad is dead, I think that Ressurrection is a terrible way to end the series. If you are a newcomer to the genre, you might enjoy watching the movie because it has a lot of boobs, cheap gore, and false scares. But if you are a die hard fan of the series you might feel hurt. "}{"Title":"Not great but not terrible","Date":"11 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Yes I admit I liked it despite the tech flaws and mostly flat acting. Busta Rhymes wasn't the best but hardly the bomb some would say. If he is, then blame the director who needed to do just that; direct. As it seems, its like he made the film by consensus. Second; fire the continuity person, he/she did a terrible job. Big diff between continuity and editing. Bianca Kajlich (?) while pretty was wimpy at times with her inexplicable screaming but did better when she summoned up some spine. Someone said there was a prob when Michael impales Sean Patrick's character. I took it for granted that the knives went in when Michael lifted him off his feet jammed the knives through the door then picked up the third knife. He didn't grow a third hand lol. Next was the scene where he's shown not to have been decapitated was a very good way to 'resurrect' him, as opposed to Jason and Freddy. Crushed voicebox was a good way to explain it but dumbed down as who wouldn't notice a paramedic carrying a knife around? So much more could have been done but still; an enjoyable timewaster. Didn't expect the bust through the mirror scene which actually made me jump, lol. A ninth? Only if it is a final movie with Michael hunting his last living relation; his nephew John. And only with Josh Hartnett signed on. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as people say !","Date":"26 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" There are a lot of people saying this movie is really bad, and ruins the Halloween series. I think not. I am a massive Halloween fan and think that after H20, we didn't want to see Laurie Strode running around and surviving for a 90 min film again. Introducing the new characters help give the film a new feel. A modern feel. Bianca Kajlich was a brilliant, a real asset to the franchise. Her great acting helped the film in any area's it lacked. The killing scenes were original and experimental, great. The death toll isn't to high or to low. Good for a 21st century horror film. The opening scenes are the greatest opening scenes in the Halloween series. The only downers on this film is the lack of suspense that the other films carried. This doesn't show to much as there are action scenes. Also, there are a number of flaws. These are hard to see if you're enjoying the film. I love it. "},{"Title":"A decent next chapter.","Date":"15 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" The Halloween series seems to follow a pattern. One excellent entry, one OK entry, one bad entry, repeat.1, good, 2, OK, 3, bad. 4, good, 5, OK, 6, bad. 7, good, 8, OK. See what I mean.Over all a step down from H20, but right on par for the series over all. Resurrection is an apt title as it brings back series vet director Rick (Halloween 2) Rosenthal. He knows the tricks and is ready to employ them. Sadly, this old dog is lacking in new treats.An internet video site wants to set up a Halloween night web-cast from the abandoned Myers house. They enlist the services of several fresh young faces to explore the house and uncover it's secrets. This would happen to be the unfortunate evening that Michael returns home. Needless to say, a body-count ensues.Interms of how the film is shot, Rosenthal employs some nifty camera switches; cutting back and forth from the omnipresent audience view and the cameras set up for the fictional web-cast. It's a nice touch to the overall look of the film. Were he falters is in the scare set-ups. He uses every trick you've ever seen before in a slasher; some of the set-ups are lifted strait off of the original Halloween and H20. As such, the film is never as scary as it ought to be.On a more positive note, the cast is more likable than the usual cannon-fodder. The females especially come off very well and the men manage to be less obnoxious than slasher fans have come to expect.The whole package is worth a view. It's better than about 90% of the slashers on the market these days, but it never hits the horrific heights that this series is known for.7/10 "},{"Title":"Conflicted and uneven, but still fun","Date":"28 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This attempt begins with a beautiful sequence between Laurie Strode (reprised by Jamie Lee Curtis) and Michael Myers. She is killed almost immediately and we are left with teen-aged cast members imitating the cast of Scream 3. Character for character. We all know that Strode isn't dead. She did not survive all that just to die from a 12-foot fall and a single stab wound. Try again.The rest of the movie centers around the Gale Weathers who isn't the 'real' Gale Weathers character and her would-be Deweyesque boyfriend who goes by Deckard. Everyone else will die. Everyone but Busta Rhymes, that is. He was the main reason I didn't want to like this movie. I mean...Busta Rhymes? And he is a little over the top here, as I expected, but unlike my expectations, he was otherwise quite good. Other than the clichés (and there are thousands, it seems), the fact that it could not decide between a PG-13 rating (the level of violence and the kill saturation) and an R (waaay too much gratuitous sexual shots and scenes), and the obvious ripped-off characters, it was fun. It was not unique, creative, intellectual, or fresh, but it was fun. Average, but enjoyable and it's (not vastly) under-rated here at IMDb.I give it a 8.2/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Interesting concept. Bad movie.","Date":"16 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Halloween Resurrection (2002) was directed by Rick Rosenthal (Bad Boys) who also helmed the second film in the series.  Yet, he suffered the same fate as Part Two.  He was a victim of re-shoots and re-editing.  The producers were not satisfied with the final product so they ordered him to heavily re-shoot most of the film.  Several times he was almost taken off the project.  But he soldiered on an after a series of delays, Halloween Resurrection was released.The movie follows a geriatric Michael Myers. Time has not worn out old Michael.  He's up to his old tricks, killing dumb teens and others who get into his way.  The movie has a bunch of fools with mini cams go into the old Myers  homestead live on an internet broadcast to solve the mystery of Michael Myers.  Well. the usual results occur as the  shape slices and dices his way through a new crop of youngsters.  What could have been a cool movie turns out to be  just another run-of-the-mill franchise film.Slightly recommended.  "},{"Title":"NOT AS GOOD AS THE ORIGINAL ,2, orH20, yet great its great fun!","Date":"22 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  halloween resurrection provides some great kills and terrifying thrills. no, its not as good as the orignal, h20, or 2, but this is a thrilling ride. even though its not really scary, this movie has some great thrills, especially with the palm plot scene. the beginning is a little weak but the ending will have you jumping right out of your seats.. "},{"Title":"Bad Ass!!!!!!!!!","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"    ***SLIGHT SPOILERS*** I don't care what you people say Halloween Resurrection was damn good. The story is about a group of kidsSara,Rudy,Bill,Jim,Jen,and Donna. These six kids do it for scholarships not money, suddenly they all start dying. This movie is good and the best since the first, and it is good to see someone direct who directed a Halloween before. Although there is one thing I did not get, Thomas Ian Nicholas is third in the casting and is mentioned on the back of the movie but he is the first one to die out of the teens. It doesn't make sense. "},{"Title":"A good sequel.","Date":"25 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The film had a great beginning!The film overall was better than I thought it would be.Busta Rymes was funny and I was surprised what he did in the film.The music and theme was great.I don't mind to have another Halloween film just have Jamie Lee come back!Honestly though I think they should have just quit with the first two as they are classics! "},{"Title":"The best for me personally since the first","Date":"21 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I have seen two different versions of this film, one was an on-line thing, the other was what finally came out. The latter was much more polished and much better. They have actually a very good script and they both answer and ask a lot of new questions. It started like the typical slasher flick but tended to be more stylized and thankfully very UN-Scream-like.It is amazing to see a character still be this fresh into what is his 7th entry in the series. Before you diss this as just another slasher flick remember it is number 8 in a series and that it is this good is phenomenal. "},{"Title":"Rick Rosenthal rocks Halloween","Date":"15 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Rick Rosenthal is the absolutely best Halloween director;Sorry Carpenter! This is the seventh sequel, along with Halloween 2, these two are the best in the series, Rosenthal uses the moody creepy athmosphere, that also were in the early Halloween movies. I´m delighted to see that Jamie Lee Curtis also appear in this one, this movies only problem is that, there seems to be some kind of rule, to use, rap music singers like Busta Rhymes, in the last Halloween H20, it was LL Cool J, and other movies like Exit Wounds and Half past dead, so get rid off the Rap music singers and use them to play music, or put them in movies like Menace to society or Dead presidents.Hope there will be a perfect final Halloween, that is 100% creepy in the old fasioned way, without Rap music artists. The ingredients must be of the following.1. Dean Cundey´s art of cinemathography 2. Rosenthal or Carpenter´s direction 3.The same creepy facemask, which Michael Myers used in the first and second Halloween, the modern mask doesn´t measure up. 4. Let Nick Castle or Dick Warlock play the Shape. 5.Finally make it a bit more brutal and graphic,I gave it a 8 out of 10  "}{"Title":"Thanks Jamie Lee!!!","Date":"6 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  SPOILER Forget about Halloween 3 to 6! These are purely craps!!! For me, there's only four Halloween movies and Jamie Lee Curtis is in the four chapters. I think there couldn't have better end to Laurie Strode. If you watch H1 to H8 back to back you'll see something strong. First, you see the virgin girl stalked by a total stranger. Second, the girl who escapes learns that the stalker is her brother, third (20 years later, which is the best idea), you learn that this virgin (not anymore) get into alcohol problem and she became stronger than ever. And then, the final chapter, the girl that we loved during 25 years, the girl we wanted to protect....is killed by her own brother. Ok, I admit, the rest of H8 is not the story of the century, but for a fan like me, I could not ask for better. Curtis accepted one last time to play Strode if she get killed. She got what she wanted. For me, there's not gonna have other Halloween movies. Even if they make another one. Micheal is still alive but I don't want to know more. Laurie Strode is dead, Halloween serie too. Because Halloween is not Halloween without Jamie Lee... "},{"Title":"Fun - better than expected","Date":"1 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  SPOILER ALERT!! I had a look at viewer's comments on IBDM.com and I did not have very high expectations.  Also - the film has only been released late Nov 02 (a few months after the US release) - which doesn't sound good.  Also - I knew Jamie Lee Curtis died in the first 10 minutes (which was a fairly interesting idea). After Jamie's character died - I thought the movie was going down hill - it felt rather corny with all of the teenage victims and Busta and Tyra were introduced.  I was thinking - this movie is going to be S$#^!But once it got into the swing of things in Michael Myers'childhood house - it gets fairly lively.  Busta Rhymes is well cast as a internet show host/entrepreneur - he's fairly livid and has a few great lines and moments (ie trying his kung fu out on Michael - kewl!).  It was obvious who was going to die and who was to survive - this movie tends to follow all the horror rules (as described in SCREAM).Go see this movie - don't have any expectations that this is high art or anything.  See it at the cinema (it was great as there were a lot of teenage girls at my session - who provided a bit of a scream soundtrack at the right moments - great fun!).Although a bit of a warning - the violence in this movie is a tad on the extreme end of things - a lot of gory butcher knife action which made me flinch a bit.  ;-)I give it 3 and a half victims out of 5  "},{"Title":"Second Best!","Date":"29 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Halloween Resurrection is ALMOST as good as the 1st Halloween movie, and that means that it is VERY good! =) In this movie Michael seems to posses a lot more evil, and he often appears like a Jason Vorhees clone when he's at his best. Good music, of course, and some good acting, besides the ppl at the party watching at the show over internet, makes this one of my favorite Halloween movies!  The killings are pretty raw too..not as gory as Violent S*** 3 though =D Is this the last in the series? I hope not! I can't wait forMichael vs. The living Dead or Lyonel from Braindead. *chop chop*! =)  "},{"Title":"It disturbs","Date":"31 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Well, this eight entry of halloween hurts, disturbs, scared the s*** out of me.  Practically it is a very good movie going step by step and following who the hell was Michael Myers.  The performance of the rapper it is very cheerful. I loved it.  This is not an ordinary sequel.  I would put an eight.  If you haven't seen John Carpenter's Halloween you would understand this one.  That is what is makes this sequel good. 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"One of the best in the series!!","Date":"28 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  WARNING!! CONTAINS SOME SPOILERS!!ok where do i start in h20 we saw michael myers get his head chopped off by long lost sister jamie lee curtis... or did he?We start off the sequel with jamie lee being locked up in a nuthouse and two nurses are talkin bout how michael myers survived. Apparently a paramedic went to check on michael in h20 michael woke up crushed the guys larinx (so he cant talk) and switched places with him so it was the poor paramedics head that got chopped off!Anyways jamie lee got put in the asylum for killin the wrong guy and who turns up but her brother michael lookin for a reunion! after the gaurds wouldnt let him in outta visitin hours he kills them and proceeds to find jamie lee who is wiser and escapes to the roof where a trap for michael is laid so jamie lee has michael hangin by the leg over the roof but wants to make sure its really michael. with an attempt to take the mask off, michael grabs her and stabs her and sends her flyin!meanwhile in haddonfield six students are gettin paid to stay in the myers house overnight whilest bein watched over the internet arranged by busta rhymes and tyra banks. on the night they stay michael picks the right time to come home and start a big killin spree all over again (suprise suprise) after takin out the slut, nerd, jock etc The masked nutter trys do bump off the virgin but busta rhymes comes in to save the day with some high flyin kicks and some one-liners like 'im gonna bust your white ass' you know the routine. A few high flyin kicks later we have some gasoline spilled on the floor and a fire is started busta and the girl escape but michael stays whilst caught in some wires. After burnin in hell we follow him to the hospital where he eventually WAIT FOR IT!! Wakes up! and the film ends there.Dont be fooled by film critics this is one of the best films you will see this year!! "},{"Title":"not the best, but still a good sequel","Date":"27 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Ive only recently been introduced to the Halloween series of films, I saw it when I was in America and then back home when it came out. havong seen most of the other films in the series in between, i can say that this sequel is a good one.The opening of the film is interesting. it begins with miss Strode in a sanatorium, of course Michael comes to get her.  PLOT 6 people sign up to dangertainment in order to become 'famous', all they have to do is spend a halloween night in Michael Myers house. Michael being Michael decides to kill each one. Not as good as Halloween 2 (my favourite) but its still good and definately worth a watch. So go and watch it, or buy it, just see it!!(9/10) "},{"Title":"Better than expected !!","Date":"31 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I cannnot believe how entertaining this film was for a sequel. It has had bad buzz from the start and turned out to be awesome. Just a few things though. After this sequel it should finlly put it to a rest. Jamie Lee Curtis' character Laurie Strode has fianlly been killed off and thats that. The plot of this movie was interesting to see because it led the series into something new. The characters were Ok not great though. The music was really good. I now have the soundtrack to the film because of the new Halloween theme. It was awesome. It wasn't to orchestrated and kept the score easy and quick. The film was actually funny at a certain extent. I honestly thought that Busta Rhymes would mess up this sequel, but I was wrong. He did pretty good and made me laugh espescially the one scene when he and Michael are face to face and he tells Michael off. The entire theatre laughed at that scene and myself as well. The death scenes were pretty cool and not to gory. I had heard that one of the reasons of the re-shoots of this film was because of some of the over-the-top cheesy death scenes and the ending. But really the death scenes and ending were fine and pleased me very much. Some of the dialogue is cheesy but oh well. It didn't bother me that much. Overall, this film was damn good and much better than 'Jason X'. That movie was terrible, absolutely terrible. But I liked this film very much and I'm sure I will buy it when it hits DVD shelves. One thing, I seriously hope that they stop at this one because, if they keep going with it, it will mess it up and start to get dumb. 'Halloween Resurrection' = 9 1/2 stars "},{"Title":"why comedy?","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I am not disappointed with this movie but I am not overly excited with it either.  The whole comical relief with Busta Rhymes I thought was stupid, and they were reaching for ideas with the under the house living space. On a brighter note the slaughters were good and Michael went back to his roots (Halloween I, II, 4 (6 was good too)) with his slow and perdition killing ways, unlike in H20.  I did however like a lot how the beginning of Resurrection summed up the end of H20.  They did that very well.  But once again like in H20 the whole coming down from the ceiling with one arm was retarded.  The whole Laurie Strode thing upset me, but I won't go there. Overall the movie was good and I do recommend it to all Halloween fans and for any for anybody wanting to become a fan.See ya in the theatres> "},{"Title":"Entertaining","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  A fun entertaining slasher flick that for me works better than the last effort (Halloween H20). The opening teaser which returns Jamie Lee Curtis for one last cameo is unnecessary and rather sad... but after that things pick up with an energetic group of college students recruited for a reality webcast from inside Michael Myers house. The casting was good, the gore is creative and the film touches all the bases for fans of the genre... This one was a blast. GRADE B "},{"Title":"An awesome sequel!","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  'Halloween Resurrection' was one of the most anticipated horror flicks, just like 'Jason X'. But where Jason failed, Halloween succeeds. 'Halloween Resurrection' is a continuation of 'Halloween H20', taking place 3 years later. Laurie Strode is residing in a mental institution from the events of the earlier film. We find out that Michael Myers is still alive, & we find out how this is (note it's a pretty convincing twist in events, which keep him alive). After *visiting* Laurie, Michael heads back to his home, where some events are taking place there. A internet businessman & his partner set up a contest where 6 winners will stay the night in the old Myers house. The house is rigged with cameras so all of the events that take place are televised. But there is one problem...Michael Myers is there as well. Decent effects & good direction help make this a worthy Halloween sequel. "}{"Title":"I'll see you in HELL MICHAEL!!!","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  A great Halloween movie to be included in their series.  Everything that's comfortable with the series is there.  A few sets, many killings, screams, stupidity rampant at times, horrific jokes and of course, the music.  Going along with the times, Michael gets to see computers, he kills with a digital camera tripod and he's stalked by the internet which watches almost every move of his.  And in keeping with previous Halloween movies, Michael's mask is somewhat changed and shows a little more of Michael's expressive facial gestures.  And of course the movie ends with the eyes of Michael looking straight at us and the assumption that Laurie Strode survived her fall.  It may be a long time before Laurie sees Michael in Hell!  "},{"Title":"It's a different Halloween this time around.","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Halloween Resurrection or Halloween 8 to some people. Most times an eight installment of a horror franchise usually is one of the worst in the sereis, not this time. Halloween 8 gives us enough thrills, chills and laughs all the way through. I really call this movie Halloween 4, why you ask ? Jamie Lee Curtis wasnt in those sad poor excuses of a movie 3 4 5 6 so they dont count bye bye. My Halloweens begin at one and continue on through this one. The movie surronds a bunch of college kids who enter the childhood home of the famous killer. Now I really dont have to explain what happens next because you kinda already know. Halloween Resurrection was very entertainig all the way through, no boring dialouge or tomany cheap scares, Resurrection picks you up at the beginning and never lets you go. ***1/2 out of ****  "},{"Title":"Somebody please check my pulse!","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was amazing!  I went into the movie theatre hearing two different sides of the story...some said that the movie was terrible and then some said that it was better than the original.  I must say that both are extremely wrong.  The movie was nowhere near terrible and it totally kicked the originals explatively deleted.  I am a huge fan of the original and the whole series for that matter and I want to give major props to all involved.  It was pulled off very well and it gave me the biggest scares that I have recieved in a long while. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Creative","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I was surprised at how good the movie really was.  Though there was one plot point that I found sad and depressing.  Other than that it was the best since the first two.  There was a excellent creepy atmosphere to the film. The camera work was the best since the first two.  Michael was played really well by Brad Loree.  I would say his performance was the second best behind Nick Castle's chillingly effective performance in the original. The was a nice build up to the carnage with scenes where Michael stalked and teased but did not kill.  And when the killing started Michael was both creative and traditional.  Busta Ryhmes brought a charm to film with his character that was refreshing.  The plot of the film was original and not just someone killing people.  The plot had a modern twist to it that brought suspense and excitement; something that has been missing from the series since Halloween 5.  Rick Rosenthal did a wonderful job with this film and it was just as good as Halloween II.  Which was also directed by Rick Rosenthal.  The acting was bad either.  I mean the acting was not amazing but it was just the right kind of acting that film needed for it to be effective. Overall, this installment in the enormously successful franchise is creative, suspenseful, exciting, fresh, fun, and most importantly scary.  Even if your not a fan of the series or only saw the first two or just the first one GO SEE IT!! You'll have a great time. "},{"Title":"Evil Never Dies","Date":"11 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The whole picture is great and it really freaked me out,  but I would like to point out that the best part of this movie is the 15 minutes opening sequence with Jamie Lee Curtis. It was fantastic, unexpected and reminds me of the unique terror atmosphere that you would only find in the classic Halloween I.Marco "},{"Title":"Okay","Date":"15 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This Movie was Okay, but definitely not one of the better Halloween Sequels. As a matter of fact, I would say this is the second to worst one (only part 3 was worse). For the most part, the scares were cheap and the moves were predictable. Also, the web cam and chat ideas were stupid. I would not recommend this movie but would recommend others in the series (except for Part III)I give it 6 out of 10Fans of Horror Movies like this should Check out Puppet Master, Skinned Alive, Sleep Away Camp, and other Full Moon Pictures flicks. For other recommendations, check out the other comments I have sent in by clicking on my name above this comment section.  "},{"Title":"Awsome","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was so cool it was the best sequal of them all it followed H2O perfectly! Also the director did 2 real good things 1. He made room for another one  2. He kept on scaring you with the loud noises and with the good death scenes "},{"Title":"Great","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I like the movie a lot.  I like its' graphics for one.  I also like this movie a lot because it follows the Halloween series and I feel that the producer has managed to grab the plot of the movie unlike Halloween Season of the Witch 3rd movie of the Halloween series. "},{"Title":"Excellent )","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this movie opening night and was very very impressed. As a huge halloween fan I did expect a lot but I was not at all disappointed. The heory and the plot is great, being in the house of Michael Myers and the webcam thing...it was really cool If you are a halloween fan you'll laugh at some parts, be shocked at some parts and leaving the theater wanting to watch it all over again! "},{"Title":"Best movie I seen.","Date":"28 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  HalloweenResurrection is my favorite movie and is the best I seen, I hope they make Halloween 9.I can't wait until It's on DVD,i'm going to go see HalloweenResurrection at the movies again, I was hoping their be a box set for all the halloween movies. "}{"Title":"THE BEST MOVIE EVER","Date":"28 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This was the best halloween ever but i think they should stop here 8 is enough. But i loved this film as soon as it comes to video i will be getting it. I think the actors did great in this one its to bad that Jamie died.The story was great to and the locations i liked the old house what they did with it. I gives this film a 10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Ooops! They did it again!","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Like JASON VORHEES, Michael Myers is impossible to kill. I didn't like this one very much because it goes to show you that an evil like Michael is unstoppible and the movies won't stop. I am sick of them (HALLOWEEN and HALLOWEEN H20 are the best!!!). The beginning is interesting of how Michael is still alive (I undertood it completely!). This movie has NO good actors except for the girl who played Sara and the guy who played Myles (DECKARD). All in all, this movie blows. "},{"Title":"Excellent.","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I really enjoyed this latest sequel in the Halloween series. Everything that makes a good, scary movie great was there namely scare factor, comedy and a new twist on an old story.  I'll definitely pay the $8.25 and see this again. "},{"Title":"This movie is AWESOME!","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I just saw this movie yesterday and I still can't stop thinking about it! This is an awesome sequel to the other Halloweens'.  This movie is NONSTOP scary, funny(at some times), and gorey, ohh and did i mention SCARY?? I am a BIG Halloween fan and this was a great treat for me! I am thinking that this movie will come out on video around Halloween. Well if you havent seen it go see it NOW! 10/10      "},{"Title":"Great Sequel (Spoilers)","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  What can I say, they did great.  Great deaths, great ending, great music, great direction.  I couldnt have loved it more.  Jaime Lee Curtis gives a knock out performance for her last Halloween.  She gave it her all.  Proud to see a good sequel.  Cant wait for H9!!!! "},{"Title":"2nd best sequel","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  this movie is alot better than some people make it out to be. ive heard great reviews and ive heard bad reviews. i personally think this is the best halloween sequel ive seen since halloween 4. it might even be better than halloween 4. it never dulls or slows down, gets straight to the point, gives us a believable story as to how michael couldve possibly survived his beheading in H20, and the ending isnt fantastic but it works. decent acting and great directing/camerawork. "},{"Title":"Halloween H24 24 yrs later (from 1978-2002)","Date":"16 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Halloween Resurrection (2002) In 1978 Louride had to escape from her brother Michael Myers, then 20 years later she had to kill him (Halloween H20 20 years later), but found out it was the wrong Michael Myers, now 4 years on shes in a hospital, never spoken a word or taken her pills, this time it's over for her as she tries to kill her brother, but it turns out that she dies instead, killed by Michael Myers,her brother, The Halloween saga goes on again for the 8th time. Be afriad to watch the movie, more gore and violence.  "},{"Title":"Excellent part of the Halloween series","Date":"19 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  First off I just want to say I was one of those people who read others reviews on this movie and didn't think this movie would be any good. Boy was I wrong. The first 15 minutes were awesome, edge of your seat thrills, and scary. The rest was just as scary. I was on the edge of my seat the whole time. My favorite Halloween movies are now Halloween the original, Halloween H2O, and now Halloween Resurrection. The rest of them aren't that great. The music was creepy like usual. The acting was good. I although had a little trouble with Sean Patrick, and the guy off of American Pie. I would watch them and think of Save the Last dance, and American Pie. But other than that this was such a great movie. I understand why people would be upset about what happen to Jamie Lee Curtis in the movie, but honestly if her brother can live through all the sequels why can't she. And plus the ending of Resurrection has an opening for another Halloween film. It would be so cool if Michael and Laurie Strode were in another Halloween Film and this time they duke it out one last time. You never know. it could happen. But moving on. This was an excellent sequel. I recommend this movie to anyone who loves the whole Michael Myers movies, or a good horror movie.   "},{"Title":"Why?","Date":"20 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The film starts off good with a nice, atmospheric, suspenseful sequence involving Jamie Lee Curtis.  Then it falls apart.A bunch of kids from Haddonfield University decide to stay in Michael Myers childhood home (for scholarship money) overnight and find out why he was the way he was.  Michael somehow finds this out and decides to put a stop to it.  Also all the kids have little video camera on their shoulders so the film annoyingly keeps going back and forth between video and film. Basically, it all turns into just another slasher film.  The script is horrible--lousy lines along with cardboard characters.  All the acting sucks and I hated every single character.  Still, the deaths are loud, violent and bloody and some of the stalking scenes do deliver.  Also the sound in this film is great and there's a nicely updated version of the score.So, it has it moments, but not enough.  A 2. "},{"Title":"Halloween Resurrection","Date":"28 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" From director Rick Rosenthal (Halloween II), I had heard a few things about this sequel, I guess I just wanted to see what I thought and whether I agreed with the critics. The film starts three years after the events of H20, with Laurie Strode (Jamie Lee Curtis) in psychiatric care after chopping the head off Michael Myers. In a small series of flashbacks you find out that it wasn't actually Michael (Brad Loree), it was another man in his costume (which makes no sense whatsoever). He manages to get back to Laurie, and in attempt to kill him she and he end up falling off a roof, with Laurie getting his knife in her chest. You'd assume Michael would stop killing once his sister is dead, but no, TV producer Freddie Harris (Busta Rhymes) is setting up the reality TV show DangerTainment inside the house that young Michael grew up in. A bunch of thrill-seeking volunteers have agreed to live and be filmed by various cameras inside this house, with no way out. The volunteers are Sara Moyer (Bianca Kajlich), Rudy (Sean Patrick Thomas), Donna (Daisy McCrackin), Jen (White Noise 2 The Light's Katee Sackhoff), Bill (American Pie's Thomas Ian Nicholas) and Scott (Billy Kay). Obviously not long after they have entered Michael shows up to murder all the volunteers, and Freddie was planning to scare them dressed as Michael, and it takes a while for the viewers of the show to realise what is happening is real. In the end, it looks like Michael Myers is killed in a fire started, but when he is taken to the morgue his eyes open, so he could be alive (of course!). Also starring Luke Kirby as Jim, Ryan Merriman as Myles Barton, Tyra Banks as Nora and Rick Rosenthal as Professor. The violence is limited, Curtis has a pathetic final appearance, the performances are all dull, the camera work looks like a crap attempt at The Blair Witch Project in places, it is just a boring attempt at a revamp for an already dying series. Poor! "}{"Title":"contains the most illogical and utterly ridiculous explanation for bringing back a dead character ever seen on film(2.5/10)","Date":"11 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" this is probably the worst movie in the Halloween series.so far,it's the last of the original Halloween series.unfortunately,there will probably be another installment.for me,i think i've pretty much had enough of Michael Myers.the last one(H2O)wasn't great,but at least it ended in a way that guaranteed the death of Michael Myers.yet,in the most stupid and unbelievable plot twist i have ever seen in any movie,they find a way to bring him back.i still cannot believe the ridiculousness of it all.beyond that though,this movie does have a bit of excitement,but it's mostly dumb and even more contrived than you would expect.i'm not sure if it's as bad as the Curse of Michael Myers,but i think it deserves a lower rating,due to the dumbest reason ever to explain the return from death,of a villain,or any character,for that matter.i doubt i will live long enough to see anything as utterly stupid and illogical as that.for me,HalloweenResurrection deserves no more than a 2.5/10 "},{"Title":"This movie kicks ASS!!!!!!!!","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I love Halloween Resurrection!!!!!!! It's so awesome. I really thought it was going to be like the other Halloween 3-6 and before H20, but it really is a scary, interesting movie. Sure some of the deaths are kind of gross and nasty but it made me want to yell GET OUT OF THE YOU MORON or DON'T DO THAT and OH THEY'RE GONNA DIE. I said a couple of those during the film, but I also scream a lot too. The scene with the guy in the clown mask scared the crap out of me, and Jamie Lee Curtis in her that's it your going down act was awesome. She played a crazy person quite well and Bianca Kajlich; even though I've never heard of her she's a really cool scream queen. One thing I wish they had answered was. Why is Michael like that? They sent 6 people in his house to answer that question but they never did. Oh well I can wait for the next one. I hope there'll be a next one it needs to live on. I was introduced to the Halloween series through one of the 3-6 ones but I wanted to know the origin of it, now I can't get enough of it. So I think the teens of my generation who are into this genre would like this series. I know lots of teens that like these kinds of series like Jason, Freddy, and others but Michael Myers is the one who scared me the most, it's the white face with the dark eyes. I would absolutely recommend this movie. It kicks Ass!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Awesome","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Go see it, Michael at his best!!!Michael and Lauries confrontation is very good. Rick has directed a good movie with a tight budget. Curtis gives an excellent performance. Best since original. Busta Rhymes also gives an excellent performance. GO SEE IT NOW!!!!! "},{"Title":"I liked it!!","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  CONTAINS SPOILERS!!!!Ok everybody seems to either like this movie or hate it with a passion!  I however am in the 1st part of that crowd I LOVED IT!! I have seen all the Halloween films, all at the theater.  And I say with out any hesitation that this is a great flick!!  The opening finally killing off Jamie Lee Nice a semi surprise I guess, You had several things that made this a good movie 1.Good acting, 2.A good story line and 3.Its a Halloween movie that should speak for its self!!  I thought it was great!  I do agree with you all who say it is not as good as the first but then again few movies are!!  I would say after the 1st two films and maybe H20 this one would be next on the list.  Go see it!! "},{"Title":"4 Ups 2 Thumbs and 2 Toes !!!","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  At first I didnt expect a quality movie what so ever. The only real reason I wanted to see this was because I am a true fan to the Halloween series. It's a good thing I went because this movie was awesome. It starts off with Laurie Strode in the hospital, because she chopped of an innocent man's head off. So Michael comes to the mental facility and decides to search for her. He does a heck of a job on finding her. Well it turns to a wild ride, and results in a great movie because, Michael doesn't care who anyone is, because people are in his house. I will say one thing Busta Rhymes is the shiznit!!! "},{"Title":"Without a doubt, the best Halloween Sequal!!!","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie's trailer looks ok. When i actually saw the movie, I was still scared after i left the theatre. Not only is it the most gory Halloween sequal, but it's the best. Everyone should see it. I was suprised of how good it was with all the talk of how dumb it was and all thew delays of release. It's a really great movie. I can't wait to buy it!! "},{"Title":"Wow","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I've seen every Halloween movie made and I would have to say that this one was one of the best ones. At first I was afraid that it wouldn't live up to the original story, that it would be some sex filled teen movie, but I was wrong and so far its my favorite movie this year. The plot line, being in the house with the web cams, was a great idea although it wasnt entirely original. But that was definatly the way to go to get people to come see it. It was so good I might see it again today! If you havent seen it yet, I suggest you go because I recommend it and as Siskel and Roper would say, I give it 2 thumbs up!! "},{"Title":"Genuine Horror Movie","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is by far, one of the best Halloween movies in the series. Every scene is filled with terror and excitement, and leaves you in the edge of your seat. Halloween fans will be very impressed with this movie. Very good killing scenes, pretty good plot, and of course an infamous sex scene, necessary to any horror movie. I recommend Halloween Resurrection to all horror movie fans! "},{"Title":"Michael Myers is back and better than anyone could have hoped.","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Upon going to see Halloween Resurrection I had somewhat low expectations. I've always loved the Halloween movies more than any other series and I expected a drop off in quality. What I got was easily better than H20 and most likely better than Halloween II.I never expected the movie to be as good as it turned out to be. H20 was scary and suspenseful. Resurrection is twice as scary and twice as suspenseful. Michael Myers continues to be clever and more than a mindless slasher. The mask is clearly the best one since the original.My only complaint about the movie was the lack of an explanation concerning Laurie Strode's son, John (played in H20 by Josh Harnett). Myers whole motivation for killing is the pursuit of his family and while I thought it was excusable for him to clear the invaders from his home as a means of plot, I think we need to know what happened to his nephew, John.From the conclusion of Resurrection I would gather that there could, and I hope will, be a Halloween 9. Now that this little side journey of Myers has been catalogued we need to get back to his primary target, John Tate. I only hope Harnett doesn't think another Halloween is below him. "},{"Title":"my favorite movie","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  i saw Halloween Resurrection today and i just have to say,  whats the deal with these critics? i mean the movie was perfect and plus they did a damn good job explaining how michael was alive.   i am pleased with this movie and i think that it will be in the top three this weekend because the theater was packed and i mean PACKED.   "}{"Title":"Above average sequel with a cool premise...","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Let's just start by acknowledging the obvious; there was really no need for this sequel, or any sequel after Part 2 of the Halloween series.  But, they were made, so we might as well enjoy what we were given.  HalloweenResurrection (it's not really a resurrection because Michael Myers never died) starts with everyone's favorite scream queen confronting Michael for one sad, final time. We are then introduced to a group of teens who are selected to spent he night in the childhood house of Michael Myers and have it broadcasted live over the internet on Halloween night.  Needless to say, after offing Laurie Strode (his lifetime ambition) Michael returns home and is not a bit happy to find these pesty kids intruding his home.  That is where the murder and mayhem begins.  Each of the characters are stalked and slashed on the live webcam broadcast via The Blair Witch style.  I found this movie to be incredibly gory, which surprised me with how strict the rating system has become.  The sound is excellent and there are some genuinely creepy moments.  Let's face it, nothing will ever live up to the original, but this is a well directed, honest effort.  Really, the only complaint I have is the performance of the lead heroine, Bianca Kiljach towards the end of the film.  Her fear is not believable for me and the ways she delivers her lines during the chainsaw fight is almost laughable.  Other than that, a solid effort that will past about 90 minutes.  Now one questions remains that MUST be asked How many of you REALLY think that Laurie Strode actually died??  If you ask me...I smell another sequel in the works......... "},{"Title":"You need to go see this movie!!","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Man, Michael Myers is back all right!! He is more brutal and deadly than ever, And the revenge he has planned for his good ole sister- man o man!!Michael, Michael, Michael is back! He rocks in this movie and more scenes on him than ever. You actually see his face?? hmmmm great movie eh?! "},{"Title":"Great Movie!!!!","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I just got back from seeing this at the theater, it was awesome!!  I would say the best Halloween film since the first two, and I am a big H20 fan.. The movie sizzles from open to close, we were in a sold out theater and people were screaming and yelling at the characters on the screen it was a blast, pay the money go see it I guarentee you if you like these type of movies you will love this one!! "},{"Title":"Awesome movie. More than i expected, A++","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I attended it today. The day it opened on July 12th.  I must say that this is one of my favorites in the series.   I agree also with the other person who said that Myers was brutal in this one.  The action started off right away.  There was a little bit of comedy in it also which made it enjoyable to watch.  For this being a low budget film it sure seems they tried really hard to make it look good and in my book they did it.  The start of the movie kind of surprised me but then again who knows, (cant say what happens).  Only thing i wish was a bit better were the death scenes but we all know if a movie is to violent they may not allow it to go to theaters. Overall i give this movie an 8.5 out of all of them.  Much better than H20. The plot was sort of  cool too with how it starts and ends.GO SEE =) "},{"Title":"Beautiful","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I had my doubts when I heard about the plot and Busta Rhymes playing in it, but when I actually saw it, i was just shocked. This movie was just amazing. Its more focused around Micheal Myers rather than any of the charecters. I also loved that it took into consideration the sequal before, in which Jason X did not do, but i still love ya Jason! Myers is just an evil killing machine in this movie, the way it must be. The only problem with the film is busta rhymes, he kind of spoiled it with his terrible humor, but myers makes up for that. I hate all modern horror flicks like scream and urban legend, but this movie is beautiful because it worries more about the main man of the film, Myers, and not the teens. Kill Them All Myers!!!! "},{"Title":"the BEST sequal of them all!!","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  If you are a Halloween fan, or just a horror movie fan, this is a MUST see. Okay people, lets face it, nothing will ever top the first Halloween. Halloween 2 used to be the best sequal, but Resurrection easily tops it. The movie was absolutely brutal.  I swear this should have been made in the 80's when the REAL horror movies were made.  The deaths were fantastic and they were all done with makeup effects. There weren't any computer graphics. That alone is worth seeing this.  One other thing, this isn't a spoiler or anything, the movie was shot from Michael Myers point of view.  I mean he still sneaks around like always, but the camera sticks with him a lot of the time.  I give it a 10 out of a possible 10.  GO SEE THIS MOVIE!! "},{"Title":"The Most Frightening Movie You'll Want To See This Summer!","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Halloween Resurrection is the eighth installment in a series started by director John Carpenter with his sinister and ground-breaking 1978 film Halloween. The first film, was a milestone in horror. Then it got stuck with a long line of sequels - some good, some awful. The last entry, Halloween H20 Twenty Years Later was a pleasant surprise. It was both clever and suspenseful.The Halloween franchise was supposed to end in 1998 with H20. The cast featured original scream queen Jamie Lee Curtis, who starred in the first two movies. Her character, Laurie Strode, sister of Myers, resurfaced as a divorced, alcoholic headmistress who stopped her homicidal brother, once and for all&#133;or so we thought.In the prologue that gets adrenaline pumping, the long-suffering Laurie is catatonic and locked up in a sanitarium after having decapitated an innocent man at the end of H20. We discover Laurie hasn't been taking her medications and is ready for an escape or a showdown with her brother.Myers has tracked her down and enters the building. On the run, Laurie lures him up to the roof, where she lays a trap and has him dangling from a rope by one foot. In a twisted gesture of sympathy, she attempts to unmask her brother and he seizes the opportunity for freedom.Then the real movie starts. Six Haddonfield University students, Sara (Bianca Kajlich), Jenna (Katee Sackhoff), Rudy (Sean Patrick Thomas), Bill (Thomas Ian Nicholas), Jim (Luke Kirby), and Donna (Daisy McCrackin) have made the cut to appear in a live Internet broadcast.Dangertainment - the online company's concept is based on a combination of familiar reality TV shows. The students are locked in the childhood home of Myers on Halloween night and wear cameras so the viewers at home can see everything that happens.The show is run by Dangertainment's proprietor, Freddie (rapper Busta Rhymes), who has the place loaded with hidden cameras and fake props. Although the reality thing is pretty much burnt out at this point, the whole Internet angle and webcams were cool.There's also a subplot involving Sara (Bianca Kajlich) and a teen, Myles (Ryan Merriman) flirting via palm pilot (it ends up being an awesome plot device during the tenser stalk sequences). The broadcast is being watched by students crowded around a computer at a costume party.  Soon, Myles begins to suspect the murders are not staged but real.Screenplay wise, this has to be the scariest of most Halloween sequels. The dialogue isn't lousy, but the lead characters are a bit underdeveloped, but not a screenwriting crime. Why is Tyra Banks' character Nora, Freddie's assistant, in this movie? She's absent most of the time.At least our heroine, Sara (Kajlich), is vulnerable, yet strong. She's likable and a worthy predecessor to Curtis' Strode. To be honest, I dug Busta Rhymes' Freddie. I enjoyed his performance that gave the movie some comedic relief. He did some over-the-top martial arts gestures and also had a few tough guy lines. Brad Loree (Michael Myers) comes on strong as the masked maniac. His subtle moves and his eyes projected evil. &#133;the man is scary!The original film built suspense by revealing emptiness where you thought Myers might be. Halloween Resurrection has fast paced editing, the on-screen presence of computer technology and multiple views of stalking and murders. It gives the series a modern feel and makes it enjoyable.Halloween Resurrection also marks the return of Rick Rosenthal, who directed the thrilling second installment in 1981. Rosenthal does a solid, impressive job and generates tension in many scenes. He handles the web cam P.O.V. (Point of View) shots well, the murders are slick, and he manages to intensify the screen with the shadows of the dark location.Its premise is smart, and the final scene is frightening. Halloween Resurrection delivers suspense, many creepy moments, the murders are gruesome, Myers is an unstoppable killing machine and the pace is quick at 85 minutes.I can't say that I was bored one time. Fans of the horror genre, the Halloween franchise and Michael Myers should be pleased with this one.  "},{"Title":"Should have been the sequel...","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I will admit, I went into the theater tonight to see Halloween Resurrection thinking that it was going to be a waste of my 8 bucks, but, as a faithful horror watcher, I figured I should watch the movie for the same reason I saw Jason X (which I will NEVER do again).  From now on, I will ignore any instinct like the one I had tonight.  I knew something good was happening when the first show we went to see was actually sold out.  We ended up having to catch the latest possible showing of this movie, and hey, better late then never!This was the greatest Halloween movie since the first one.  They should have just skipped over the travesty that was Halloween 2-7 and just jumped to this one.  This movie had everthing that was missing from the other ones.  It went back to the old days when horror movies were actually about scaring the hell out of people.  There hasn't been a movie that has been able to actually make me jump out of my seat and scream since Friday the 13th, which I saw 10 years ago at the ripe age of 9.  Yes, the plot is a little worn out...spending the night in Micheal's abandoned house, Micheal's there, blah, blah, blah.  But honestly, when was the last time a truly original plot has been seen in movies, be it action, drama, comedy, etc?  The one thing that this movie had that previous horror movies didn't was smartness, and of course, great jump out of your seat and scream scenes.  (The one that got my friends was the flashback in the beginning).  It also had some pretty funny scenes too.  (My favorite, along with everyone in the theater was the whole Micheal meets Micheal in the hallway scene 0D)  All in all, without giving away the plot, this movie is excellent and you should go see it riiiiiiiiight now ) "},{"Title":"The best sequal since Halloween II","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Halloween Resurrection is the best sequal since Halloween 2. The dialogue isn't bad like some stupid person said below, it's great. Bianca Kajlich does a great job replacing Jamie Lee Curtis in this sequal proving that she can not only act but can scream too. Jamie Lee Curtis' short but sweet cameo was brilliant and her acting was Great. Brad Loree was extremely terrifying as Michael Myers and gave me more then goosebumps. Busta Rhymes and Sean Patrick Thomas kick butt and provide us with some comic relief. Ryan Merriman was also good as Miles. The score was brilliantly done by Danny Lux. And the film was well directed by Halloween 2 director Rick Rosenthal. All up this film is great, but a bit of warning for fans of 4-6 this movie ignores them much like H20. "},{"Title":"Michael is Back! A spoiler free review!","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Ok here is a sequel with peaks & valleys, but I am HAPPY to say many, many, MANY more peaks! There are quite a few high points in this film, and it does a helluva lot right! Let's start off with the good stuff-Michael himself 1st off- The mask is awesome, & that is OH SO important to me! (you can imagine my dislike for the mask in part 5 UGH) 2nd- Brad Loree. I've read in the latest FANGO that he watched all the Halloween movies to prepare for his role as The Shape and good god does it show! My hat is off to him! He was amazing! DEAD ON! He delivered perhaps the best Michael in 20 some odd years. Brutal. Machine like. Unstoppable. This man did his homework. Thank you Mr. Loree, you have ALL of my respect! Michael's @ his head tilting, admiring his handiwork, hiding in the shadows best!Jamie Lee Curtis She is wonderful! Her + Myers = Magic! No question! The onscreen time that they share together, (even though its not very long) ignites the screen. Memorable to say the least!The Music I want to personally thank whomever was responsible for the decision to use not just the main theme, but to use almost ALL of the original music! It's just about all there & sounding better than ever!Rick Rosenthal He brought all of his tricks with him from part 2. There's is NO question in my mind. This man knows how to do Halloween. Some really smart camera work & GREAT usage of the internet theme (something I was REALLY worried about btw) makes for a VERY entertaining bit of film making! The last half an hour of the film is fast paced & as intense as you could possibly get. Great job Mr. R! Please continue your work in the genre!The Killings Brutal, bloody, fast & furious! The Rage Michael has inside of him has NEVER been more apparent. The blood flows freely but is in no way overdone.The Opening Scene For a little over a minute long opening sequence it manages to somehow tie the series together in a very pretty package. Again, great stuff from Rosenthal.Now the not so good-Busta Rhymes While for the most part he pulls it off, there are some lines that he flubs horribly, & his fighting scenes with Michael came off kind of Goofy at times. This is due to him making these kind of mock Bruce Lee fighting screams during the fight. Although i'll say this, Michaels reaction to Busta's posturing is priceless! The two also share one of the most memorable scenes in the entire series together.The storyline The Laurie Strode stuff aside, this is without question one of the weakest plots of all of the Halloween films. Yet, IMO it's still way better than the silliness of parts 5 & 6. I never dug the whole Michael is the enforcer of some druid cult thing. The makers of those movies went out of their way to explain why Michael was evil. Why he was evil never mattered to me. I like it better just having him as a killing machine without the backstory. As I stated before Michael is back in TOP FORM!The script Some lines in this movie are PAINFUL! I needn't quote any, you'll hear them for yourself!All in all, a worthy entry in the series & easily one of the best sequels to date. Halloween fans will not be disappointed by this one, although i'm certain some will find alot more things wrong with it than I have. You can't please everyone. Once again, Michael has come home. More vicious than ever. I'm putting out the Welcome Mat & running for my life!  "}{"Title":"Very Original!  Very Good!","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The people of Halloween lived up beyond my expectations and created a decent horror movie with great scares and camera movement/editing.  The acting may not be the best.  Busta Rhymes could have done better.  But the story made it much better.  It makes you want to watch H2O all over. "},{"Title":"Way to Go!!!","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This was one of the best Halloween movies i've seen, equal to the 1st. Very intense, good acting, cool killings and Michael is truly back.  My thanks to the writer and director.  Awesome movie.  Can't wait to see the Ninth installment. "},{"Title":"Mikey's back","Date":"11 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Definitely One of the Best sequels!!!! Mikey is back!!!! And he is Better than ever! I think the mask looks good in this one! "},{"Title":"One of the Best Sequels!","Date":"4 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  CONTAINS SPOILERSThe film starts off at Grace Anderson Sanitarium where two nurses tell stories of Laurie Strode. They say she decapitated a man. Laurie is all beat up, dirty, and basically in bad shape knowing her brother, THE SHAPE, is coming for her again. We find out that the man whose head was chopped off was really a paramedic who had his larynx crushed by Michael before they got to Laurie. Back at the sanitarium, she sets a trap for him in her room. She puts a fake her inside her bed and when Michael gets to the dummy, Laurie hits him with a lamp and shocks him a little bit. She hides and sends him up to the roof, her following. She says some strong dialog (rewritten since the internet draft) about how he has failed (although not said, she gives you the idea). He is lifted by his ankle upside down with this crane thing. He drops his knife. Laurie picks up the knife and goes to unmask her, to make sure it really is Michael. He grabs her and brings her off the side of the building. Michael's knife goes into her gut in the process. She does something really sweet before Michael pulls the knife out and she falls into some trees below (really cool shot) and then Michael does a really shameful thing. Now we're at the Haddonfield University where we meet our six main characters, Bill, Jim, Rudy, Jen, Donna, and Sara, who are six teens who are going to go into the Myer's house for a internet thing with Dangertainment, entrepeneur Freddie Harris' company, along with his assistant, Nora Winston. Halloween arrives as they explore the house. They all have mixed opinions about the house, but they can't leave till the next morning, and they get scholarships for doing this. That night, after we get to know more about our characters, Freddie plans some Michael Myers fun, with his own costume and mask. When the real Michael Myers shows up and everyone sees both of them, something really funny happens. The real Myers begins to kill most of them, and only a few get out alive. When Sara escapes to a shed outside, she cuts some electrical wires and cases a big fire around the Myer's house. Myer's gets tangled up in some electrical wires. I'm not going to spoil the ending, so go see the move. It's one of the best Halloween films ever (although there are some points they could have worked on a little stronger), and anyone, even those who haven't seen any other Halloween movies should see this (they explain most things in the opening monologue over the credits). "},{"Title":"probably best sequel of the series","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  i attended the premiere here in LA 2 nights ago and i must say that it was awesome! i am a huge fan of the series and was so stoked to see michael myers at his best in this film. he was absolutely brutal. no messing around with victims like in H20 and he wasn't soft like in H20. the movie starts out amazing with Jamie Lee and the storyline is well directed and they do not bore you with cheesey subplots and bad dialogue. the good stuff gets started almost immediately and doesn't let up. all in all, it was just plain awesome. 5 out of 5 "},{"Title":"MICHAELMYERS.COM","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  ok this movie was really good thats all i have to say.the plot was perfect the murders were perfect and they picked the perfect actors like daisy mckrakin,thomas ian nicolas, sean patrick thomas, bianca kajclike, trya banks and the other wonderful actors.ill say halloweeen h20 was a little bit better but besides that this movie rocked. its basically about 7 college student making a live broadcast over the internet , trying to figure out why michael myers became bad. as the night goes on the student start dropping 1 by 1 by the murderous MICHAEL MYERS.who will  live who will die. SEE THIS MOVIE. I GIVE IT A 10/10 "},{"Title":"Myers Little Eye.","Date":"12 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" In order to wring one last drop of blood from this extremely tired series, the makers of Resurrection come up with a really moronic reason for Michael Myers to be still alive, after which they ill-advisedly proceed to kill off Laurie Strode (sacrilege!) and then set-up the lamest possible excuse for yet another teen slaughter&#x97;the filming of an internet reality show in the old Myers house (still standing after all of these years).Now I thought H20 was bad, but this chapter in the Halloween franchise hits an all time low a dreadful cast (featuring Busta Rhymes and Tyra Banks, ferchristsakes!) pointlessly struggle to make the most of their awful dialogue; the ridiculous plot introduces some truly inane developments (do many suburban houses have a secret network of tunnels running beneath them?); and director Rick Rosenthal chucks in just about every cliché going plus a few dumb ideas of his own for good measure.Busta Rhymes doing kung fu on Michael is pretty idiotic, but for me, the worst thing about this whole film is the fact that the producers of a reality show go to all the trouble of organising auditions, setting up a website, and installing all manner of electrical equipment, but use cameras that give a picture quality worse than a 10th generation VHS tape that's been left next to a powerful loudspeaker for a week. However, I'm sure you'll find your own favourite reason to dislike this mess there's plenty to choose from.3.5 out of 10, rounded up to 4 for the gratuitous bewbz and some brief chainsaw action. "},{"Title":"Such a bad concept for an Halloween movie.","Date":"14 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" What were they thinking. Reality shows of course were a big and still new thing at the time of this movie but that doesn't mean you should drag the Halloween-series down to this level. The movie picks a story in which a group of young people participate in a reality show in which they must enter the birth-home of Michael Myers. They entire world can watch it online but nobody seems to be worried when people start to die pretty quickly on already. Also not the crew of the show, which seems to consist out of 3 people only for some weird reason.It's of course not also really a very original concept to begin with. I mean it has been done many times before, in one way or another- and also a lot better in previous horror movies. Besides it doesn't really provide the movie with any exciting horror moments, mostly because it's being predictable all.Halloween H20 20 Years Later was not a perfect movie but it still was a decent enough reboot for the series, which introduced the Halloween movies to the more modern present style of horror film-making. With this movie they totally seem to abandoning this approach again and they pick a totally different approach again, which needless to say, doesn't work out very well.It was an horrible choice to kill of Laurie Strode in this one. Jamie Lee Curtis returned to the Halloween series in 1998 with Halloween H20 20 Years Later and she reprises her role again in this movie but she is only in it for the first 5 minutes or so, in which she gets killed off by the Michael Myers character.This movie doesn't introduce some very hopeful new characters. I hope they were not thinking that Sara Moyer could be a good new main character for the series. It seems like a poor choice that the movie mostly decided on casting in youngsters, no doubt in an attempt to attract a new crowd of young people to the Halloween-series. The last movie had LL Cool J as a comical relief, this time this questionable honor goes to Busta Rhymes. He's just being Busta Rhymes though, pretending to be an actor. It must be said though that his characters works out better and more useful for the movie than LL Cool J's did in the previous movie.Funny though that the movie is being directed by Rick Rosenthal, the movie who 21 before this movie also directed Halloween II. Other than that he really hasn't directed a lot more movies throughout his career.Halloween Resurrection is a very simplistic and lazy written movie, that focuses more on attracting a new young audience than it thinks off the older and faithful fans of the series. A failed and so far last attempt in the long running Halloween-series (not counting in the new remakes).4/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Why Do People Dislkie This One So Much?","Date":"19 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" No Halloween Resurrection is not the best one in the series. However it is not the worst. In my opinion Halloween I, II, 4, and H2O are better. And 3, 5, and 6 are worse. But this actually as a good plot with the whole spending the night in his house. And it has some familiar faces Tyra Banks, Busta Rhymes, and Sean William Scott and I can't believe they have this many African Americans in a horror film. Plus I also liked the girl I think looked like Gwen Stefani. I was happy to see Jamie Lee again, she's always good. And I was absolutely shocked at the beginning, I don't want to ruin it for those who haven't seen it. The only thing I disliked was the guy who played Michael Meyers, he wasn't too good. So why do people always act like this is the worst one? It has a lot of chilling moments and good pop outs as well as chase scenes. "},{"Title":"A Summery and a review by me.","Date":"9 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" It has been 3 years since Laurie Strode (jamie Lee Curtis)decapitated the wrong guy with an Axe thinking it was her psychopath brother Michael Myers, who wants her dead. she has not said a word since. now she is in a insane asylum, waiting for him to come. when he does, she leads him to the roof were she has been planning a trap for him. the trap doesn't work and Micheal stabs her in the back and lets her fall to her death. then he returns home, to plan who he will kill next.Freddie Harris's (Busta Rhymes, Shaft) carrier is going down the toilet. he is the Creator of the hit internet show dangertainment. he has ran out of ideas for the show. then he comes up with having six college kids go inside the old Myers house with small cameras and try to find out the secrets of Michael Myers while people watch live over the internet. Freddie selects Sara Moyer (Bianca Kajlick, Bring It On), Rudy Grimes (Sean Patrick Thomas, Barborshop 1,2), Bill Woodlake (Thomas Ian Nicholas, American Pie 1,2,3), Jen Danzling (Katee Sackhoff), Jim Morgon (Luke Kirby, Mambo Italiano) and Donna Chang (Daisy McCraicken). After seeing they're interviews, Freddie realizes that he gathered up a bunch of boring idiots, so he decides to dress up as Michael, go in the house and scare the hell out of them. after they are in the house, locked in, they all start to try and make it a fun night by scaring each other. the Bill and Jim try to get the Donna and Jen to flash them and the Donna and Jen tease the Bill and Jim, while Rudy and Sara walk around looking for clues. while everyone is having fun, Sara isn't who is uncomfortable being in a house where a girl was murdered. Michael realizes their are uninvited people in his house, so he picks up the knife and goes hunting.I am sick of hearing people badmouth this movie, it is a pretty good movie. I wasn't bored at any time of this movie when I first on opening day at the movie theater and I have seen it dozens of times since then and it is just as entertaining.This one is my favorite out of the series, yes I said it, Halloween Resurrection is my favorite. I liked it even more then the 1st one. It has great characters and a great plot and they finally killed off Laurie who was a pretty boring character.This one is way better then 2,4,5, and 6. Those ones were just violent and stupid with characters I despise like the guy obsessed with his car in 5, and the guy who hosts the radio station in 6, plus all the Strodes in 6. And this one unlike H2O, not only shows the people die, but has a bigger body count of 10 people. I liked H20 a lot anyway. It had great characters and didn't get boring just like Resurrection. H20 is my 2nd favorite out of the series. So basically this one is way better then 2,4,5 and 6 despite what people say.This one also has a lot of familiar faces. Thomas Ian Nicholas from American Pie and Rookie of the Year (who sadly doesn't last long against the wrath of Michael Myers) Sean Patrick Thomas from the Barbershop movies, Rapper Busta Rhymes, Model Tyra Banks, Ryan Merriman from the Disney movies.Bianca Kajlick had a role in Bring It On, Billy Kay plays the baby in Three Men And A Baby, Dan Joffre is in every bad movie I can think of My Bosses Daghter, A Guy Thing etc., and the security guard who gets his head cut off also gets his head cut off in Freddy Vs. Jason. I will say the movie has its downfalls their is some bad acting, mostly foam Busta Rhymes and Bianca Kajlick. But this is they're 1st time as leads, they have never done leading roles. Plus their are several goofs but its still a pretty good movie.I want the 9th to be like this one and H2O, not like 2,4,5 and 6. Those were B movies that tried to rip off the Friday the 13th's deaths, and they did a pathetic job. I would probably like to see more sequels after 9, and the series has introduced enough surviving characters to do so.Rated R for Violence, Languedge, Brief Nudity, and Drug Use. "}{"Title":"TYRA MEETS MICHAEL","Date":"3 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The highlight of this film, TYRA BANKS of course! Actually this is a pretty good entry into the Halloween series. This film has laughs, thrills, and chills. The creepy sets and classic music really add to this film. It's always good to have Michael back in action. I highly recommend this film. And if you love DVD's, the DVD release of this film will thrill you. Loaded with extra's to keep Halloween fans happy! I give this film a perfect 10. Check it out soon. Have fun!! "},{"Title":"Terrifying! Hugely Entertaining!","Date":"23 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Halloween Resurrection was a great installment to the Halloween series.The casting in this film is also perfect we even get an appearance from the survivor of the original film Jamie Lee Curtis.With the stage set (Michael Myers' House) and all the young people hell will break loose when Michael comes home. The deaths are newly imaginative and fun. This one is much much more darker and sinister than the rest. Michael has been delivered to the new year safely. The best in the Halloween Series. Brilliant! "},{"Title":"Hey, at least the series isn't sinking as precipitously as the Hellraiser series. Just kidding. This movie rocked. Seriously. You're hearing this from a dedicated Halloween fan. Resurrection deserves to be w","Date":"26 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I read another reviewer's comments about Halloween Resurrection, and one of the things that he said in his review is that hardcore Halloween fans will be disappointed. On the contrary, I think that hardcore Halloween fans, a brilliant group of movie buffs with whom I proudly associate myself, are among the few that will really be satisfied. The Halloween that John Carpenter released in 1978 is among the most well known horror films ever created, which is why people who are not so familiar with the series (and the fact that the original will never be topped or even matched) are the ones that will expect a horror movie experience of some incredible mangnitude, and when they realize that no sequel can never accomplish that, they'll walk away shaking their head in disillusionment.I, on the other hand, with the benefit of a very in-depth understanding of the Halloween series as a whole, realize that any sequel to a film as good as the original Halloween is made for entertainment purposes only, and for the most part, this kind of entertainment doesn't include many real scares. If nothing else, I enjoyed this movie just because of the film score, which remains one of the best and most powerful horror film scores ever recorded.Granted, the movie trips over itself almost immediately. It contains a scene very early in the film which is so ludicrous that it threatens to set the stage for an hour and a half of no-brain horror, but luckily the movie is able to turn itself around. There is a stereotypical scene in horror movie lore, and I don't know if it really has a name yet, but this is how it goes. There is some goofy and contrived conversation that leads to one person being in a high-risk room (this is a horror movie term) alone, while the other person (who SHOULD have been there at the time) lags behind doing something stupid (in this case, eating a candy bar from the vending machine).The moron finally catches up (I'll give a spoiler warning here, even though I'm only about to spoil a scene within the first ten minutes of the film), and notices that a running dryer is making a suspicious amount of noise. He walks up and finds a severed head inside the dryer. The problem here is that we know there's a head in the dryer as soon as the guard slows down and looks at it, but the dryer is drying a load of WHITES and there's not a DROP of blood on a single garment. I hope I'm not the only one picking up on the discrepancy here.I've gotten a quarter of an inch cut on the top of my head (from a water-skiing incident that I won't get into) that bled so much that it covered my face and chest and completely soaked my swimming shorts (the lesson I learned that day is that head wounds bleed a LOT), so I ASSUME that a SEVERED HEAD would bleed at LEAST as much. Okay, let's overlook the bleeding head thing (this is the kind of thing that comes up when you're analyzing a horror movie, so hear me out here), you still have to deal with the fact that, while the guard nervously creeps up to the drying machine that contains not a single solitary drop of blood, he evidently didn't notice the headless body of the other guard, which was so close to him when he was peering into the dryer that he tripped over it when he stumbled backwards in shock. Was this guy so curious about what was in the dryer that he stepped right over his friend's headless body?Before you answer that, let me just tell you that the rest of the movie doesn't operate at QUITE that level of sheer stupidity, so feel free to check it out. I was a little dismayed at first when I realized that Busta Rhymes was in the film, if only because he so viciously mutilated an Ozzy Osbourne song a few years ago, but he proves me to be an idiot by delivering an excellent performance as one of the heroes of the film. I'm a die-hard Ozzy fan, but even after Busta ruined one of Ozzy's songs, I am willing to forgive him after seeing his performance in this film.One of the things that I liked about this movie, that I should have seen coming given the sheer magnitude of horror films that I've watched (REAL spoiler warning) is that Michael Myers was not brought back to life by some goofy Evil-Can't-Be-Killed crap, but by the simple fact that he disguised someone else as himself in the previous film, and so Laurie Strode decapitated someone who she thought was Michael Myers, but was really some poor guy with a crushed larynx and three kids. At this point, by the way, I'd like to point out that if you're revolted by the fact that a guy withthree kids getting killed is a RELIEF, you may not enjoy the Halloween films.I'm still a little confused by the fact that Laurie gets stabbed and apparently killed (I'd like to reiterate my spoiler warning here). I assume that her `death' (see my X2 review if you think I'm referring to an actual death here) is just another sign that yet ANOTHER Halloween film is inevitable, but I was expecting her to jump out at some crucial moment when some helpless teenager was about to get killed.Oddly enough, I think the internet portion of the film was remarkably effective, since I've seen total trash like Dee Snider's Strangeland, and realize how easily this kind of thing can be totally screwed up. The movie contains the obligatory element of romance, and like almost not a single other film that I've ever seen, the two characters involved in romance never meet each other. For that alone the movie deserves some commendation. There is a little bit of a Can't Hardly Wait element as two geeky freshman go to a party supposedly designated for people older and cooler than them, and they wind up heroes without forcing us to suffer through any cheesy romance scenes beyond the heroine thanking her hero on television. When was the last time the hero and heroine made contact only through television? Am I wrong to think that the movie deserves to be rewarded for at least trying something new?I am not a fan of endless horror movie sequels. I have yet to see Jason X, but having seen all 47 or so sequels of Friday the 13th, I know that unless they come up with something as fresh and entertaining as Halloween Resurrection, the series has long since passed away. I am also, I might mention, not at ALL a fan of rap musicians covering classic rock songs, but even though Busta Rhymes did that and screwed it up just as badly as they all do, I really enjoyed Resurrection, as well as his individual performance in it. It is Halloween 8, a sequel number that holds no distinction other than the fact that it is the only one in years worth watching that goes beyond being worth watching just because you're a fan and are obligated to see them all. This sequel undoubtedly stands above the rest, I can only hope that it sets a trend.  "},{"Title":"The Movie That Made Me A Fan","Date":"17 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This was the first Halloween movie I saw (with the exception of part of H2) and I actually saw Halloween Homecoming, not Resurrection, and I loved it!This movie made me want to see more, so I bought H7 and H8 and rented the rest and now I'm a big fan of the series!EQUATION FOR SUCCESS  Unique Concept + Killer = Success With Me!(I thought they tried too hard with the gore in this movie though) "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"15 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  i think that this film was good but i don't agree with them killing off lorie strode. I thought that this film was an up to date slasher film but i think that the Scream trilogy was better. When is michael myers going to die. 8 movies and hes still not dead i think that they have taken it too far. Overall this was a good film to watch. 8/10  "},{"Title":"Not bad...","Date":"28 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Despite of some infuriated fanboys'(and critics')reviews-they claimed that this film is the worst Halloween ever-I rented it last night and you know what?It was good.I have seen much worse Halloween films.Halloween #3,#5 and #6 were much,MUCH worse than Halloween Resurrection (2002).There were many things that I loved in this movie.Firstly,Michael(Loree)gets a lot of screen time.There are revelations made here,and the characters(although admittedly one-dimensional)are likeable.The performances range from good(Jamie Lee Curtis,Brad Loree)to very good(Busta).OK,I made the last one up.Jamie and Brad Loree are very good,and the other folks are...just waiting in line to be killed.In my opinion,Busta's performance wasn't exactly good,but he did deliver many funny one-liners,and his is the only other character that comes to mind after watching the picture.My review contains many spoilers,you've been warned.Here goes...The title is misleading,'cause Michael Myers was not killed in the previous installment.So,he doesn't miraculously come back to life here.He follows his sister's footsteps,which lead him into their final(?)confrontation.He then heads back home,in Haddonfield,where he finds a bunch of kids playing around in his house,while the whole world is watching by the internet,Big Brother style.After that,the movie can be described simply as The Blair Witch Project IIIEnter Michael Myers.Michael apparently doesn't like this idea very much,so he slaughters the poor kids.I won't describe how the kids ended up in Michael's house,but I will say that they were promised fame and fortune by a rapper.'NUFF SAID!Everything that you can ask for from your horror films is hereHead crushes,blood,mild nudity,gore,cheap scares,decapitations...even kung fu action!One guy gets pinned to a door with 3 knives,and after he's done with him,Michael casually opens the door(with the guy still hangin')and walks out.Now please,don't get me wrong,but I was laughing so hard that my eyes nearly popped out of their sockets when that sequence finished.My only complaint is with the ending,where an un-dying hero saves the day.Nevertheless,give Halloween Resurrection (2002) a chance,and you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Michael Myers is back","Date":"2 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Unlike most believed, this film is by far one of the best sequels to date. Like the film before it (Halloween H20) it ignores the storylines from parts 3-6 (which in this case is a good thing), but still manages to bring fresh things to the series. We finally are told Michael's whereabouts throughout the last 20 some years, and we also get a stuntman worthy of playing Michael. Not only did the producers finally give us a good looking mask, Brad Loree's potrayal of Myers is the best to date, even better than Nick Castle in the first film. The walk and pace is right, as is the head tilt (finally returned from the first film). This film may lack some qualities, but it is nice to see Rick Rosenthal return and give us a worthy sequel. I give it 8/10 stars because (after watching it a few times) I was able to notice a whole lot of goofs! Other than that, good film, especially some of the shots in the opening sequence. Danny Lux's score is AWESOME! "},{"Title":"Great add on to the series","Date":"15 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  After getting halloween 2 and resurrection on dvd i noticed that rick roshental is one lousy directorhe used most of the things from 2 and put them into resurrection (michael gettin burned etc)SPOILERS!we start with laurie strode who is in a mental hospital narrating about a tunnel and where it leads then she sees big bro outside he comes in kills a few guards then comes after laurie she gets to a roof where she lays a trap (rope around michaels leg pulling him up) then she thinks its not him trys to pull the mask off and falls to her deathThen we have to go to haddonfield where freddie and nora are setting up a webcast which for one night only is gonna film six teenagers in big michaels house when they get in although they are not allowed out viewers see michael is home and bloodthirsty you can guess the restRating 7/10(Would give it 8 if they didnt kill jamie lee off) "},{"Title":"'Resurrected' the franchise","Date":"31 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  ** 1/2Starring Bianca Kajlich, Busta Rhymes, and our favorite William Shatner masked psycho.A group of six college students are selected by a money-hungry entrepreneur to stay one night at the Myer's house and investigate what drove him to insanity.  But Michael is in the house and the teens must save themselves from the knife-wielding psycho.The movie is fun.  It has some good scares and some good humor.  But some of the dialogue was laughably bad.  And when Busta started to make Michael look like in idiot fighting him, that was just plain stupid.Still a fun movie that possibly resurrected the franchise. "},{"Title":"How scary is this one? Definetly keep the lights on!","Date":"30 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  HALLOWEEN RESURRECTIONSTARRING Jamie Lee Curtis, Busta RhymesPicture This 6 Teenagers put into the house of a monstrous serial killer to make it a popular 24-7 Reality TV show on Halloween. The  only problem is the monstrous serial killer is none other than Michael Myers, who's known for being simply and purely evil. Michael Myers is also known for not being able to die, no matter how many Halloween movies they put out. The great plot has now struck the nerve in die hard Halloween fans when the rival of Lorie Strode played by Jamie Lee Curtis and her brother, Michael Myers, comes to an end. Or has it?This movie is full of more scares, surprises and gasps that's sure to keep jumping out of their seats from the minute the lights go out until the end credits begin to role. This is one of the top 3 out of the Halloween series I wouldn't watch alone.I give this movie **** out of ***** "}{"Title":"One of my favorites of the series!","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I think this movie is really good.  I think it is better than Halloween H20 and Halloween 4 The Return of Michael Myers.  So this is probably the best of the series besides the first.  Many don't want them to come out with a Halloween 9.  But I can't wait.  This is the series from best to worst( not counting Halloween 3 is doesn't even deserve the Halloween name).1. Halloween 2. Halloween Resurrection 3. Halloween 4 The Return of  Michael Myers 4. Halloween H20 5. Halloween The Curse of Michael Myers 6. Halloween 5 The Revenge of Michael Myers 7. Halloween 2 "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"21 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  this film is the best out of them all i was  more scared on this film than on any other film and i think that mm is a really good killer as i keep on getting nightmares with him and i think that this halloween is more realistic as it is like big brother, Excellent!!! "},{"Title":"not that bad!","Date":"10 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  i don't think that this movie was that bad, i thought it was pretty entertaining and suspenseful.  i've seen better horror movies but this wasn't horrible.  so atleast watch it before you judge it.  i give it a 8/10. "},{"Title":"Easily the 2nd best Halloween Sequel!","Date":"9 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Nice spin on the slasher film with the Big Brother style plot, also they did a great job on explaining how Myers had returned. (much better then I expected)Ive never been a great fan of the Halloween sequels (after rubbish like androids in the awful part 3) and after seeing Busta Ryhmes in the cast list, I expected the worst but was suprised as its actually a good slasher!... much better then Jasons last outing too! "},{"Title":"Michael is still the best","Date":"27 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Movie was as good as H20 and I loved H20. I went into the cinema with high expectations and came out thinking only one thing I want to buy another ticket. Halloween Resurrection should easily win horror of the year (or even decade) especially when compared to Jason X. Jason X which was a bad horror movie because it tried to go comical, but Halloween has lasted out and remained serious. I LOVED THIS FILM and i'm definately getting the DVD. Out of 10 I'd say 10. I'll leave now with this one last lineBRING ON HALLOWEEN 9!!! "},{"Title":"Excellent!","Date":"26 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Halloween Resurrection is an excellent movie! I went to see it at the Cinema last night and was scared out of my boots! The movie is very scary (which I like), and Michael Myers is once again the scariest Killer of all time! I wasn't happy with what happened to Jamie-Lee Curtis, but these things happen, it didn't spoil the movie. Anyway, I HIGHLY recommend this movie to anyone who loves Horror Movies, but not to people who get scared easily! Kevin. "},{"Title":"A movie award winner!!","Date":"13 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  A great must have movie.It is so great and thrilling you really need to see it.I saw it 4 time over at the movie's it should come out sometime in October on video.I CAN'T WAIT!!!!!.As you can see I'm the biggest Halloween fan.I've seen every movie except the 3rd one.SEE HALLOWEEN RESURRECTION! "},{"Title":"One of the better Halloween sequels.","Date":"29 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Halloween Resurrection starts with the not so shocking revelation that Laurie Strode (Jamie Lee Curtis) didn't decapitate her homicidal brother Michael (Brad Loree) at the end of Halloween H20 20 Years Later (1998) but an unfortunate paramedic who Michael put his mask on so he could make his escape, it's been three years since then... It's modern day America & the craze for reality TV is at it's height & Freddie Harris (Busta Rhymes) has an idea, he intends to audition for teenagers to spend Halloween night in the now empty run-down house where notorious killer Michael Myers lived in Haddonfield & broadcast they're every move through the internet using small cameras attached to the contestants. Sounds like a winner, right? Anyway, friends Sara Moyer (Bianca Kajlich), Jen Danzig (Katee Sackhoff) & Rudy Grimes (Sean Patrick Thomas) are all picked along with Donna Chang (Daisy McCrackin), Jim Morgan (Luke Kirby) & Bill Woodlake (Thomas Ian Nicholas) who think they can become famous if they play along. Unfortunately for them the Myers residence is far from empty, I mean even homicidal undead killers have to live somewhere, right? It just so happens that Michael doesn't like house-guests either...Directed by Rick Rosenthal who also appears in the film as the college professor Halloween Resurrection was originally titled Halloween The Homecoming & is the eighth film in the series which stopped individually numbering them in the title after part 5, I have to admit that I thought it was one of the better sequels but that isn't saying much is it? The script by Larry Brand & Sean Hood takes the topical notion of the reality TV show that is proving so popular even now with the likes of Big Brother, Survivor & I'm a Celebrity get me Out of Here in the UK & uses the basic concept as it's main story. It sort of feels OK actually & I quite liked the idea even though not much is made of it other than some The Blair Witch Project (1999) style shaky hand-held camcorder type shots. Having said that at heart it's a straight forward predictable slasher that in reality isn't any different from dozens of other's which litter video shop shelves & congest obscure cable TV station schedules. For it's type it's OK but nothing spectacular, it's one of those films I found watchable but almost totally forgettable as soon as the end credits started to roll.Director Rosenthal was responsible for probably the best Halloween sequel Halloween II (1981) so he has the dubious honour of being the only person to direct two Halloween films, I'm sure he's very proud although to be fair to him they are two of the better entries. Here he does an OK job, everything looks decent enough, there's the odd stylish moment & the kills are pretty good. On the negative side there are just too many pointless, dull & frankly boring shots of teens wandering around in the dark, Rick mate it becomes tedious very quickly so if you make a third one bear that in mind OK? After the totally anaemic previous entry pleasingly Halloween Resurrection has some decent kills & some OK gore, someone gets a spike through their throat mounted on a camera tripod in a scene that rips-off/pays homage to Peeping Tom (1960), someone is impaled on a spike railing, someone has a kitchen knife stuck in their head, there's a cool decapitation, a slit throat, a severed head in a washing machine & someone's head is crushed.With a supposed budget of about $15,000,000 Halloween Resurrection is generally well made with decent production values. The original Halloween theme is still cool as well. The acting isn't up to much & Rhymes gives a terrible performance. According to the IMDb's 'Trivia' section apparently leading lady Bianca Kajlich cannot scream (?why!) & she had to be dubbed in post production, to be honest considering the role & film I'd have thought being able to scream would have been an iron clad requirement.Halloween Resurrection is an OK slasher in a cinematic world already full of them, it passes the time & is watchable but nothing special or to get too excited about. There are better slashers out there but there are worse ones as well, the choice is yours. The series started with Halloween (1978) & was followed by Halloween II then came the totally unconnected Halloween III Season of the Witch (1982), Halloween 4 The Return of Michael Myers (1988) brought Michael back, then came Halloween 5 (1989) & Halloween The Curse of Michael Myers (1995) which is when they stopped numbering them, Halloween H20 20 Years Later was next before Halloween Resurrection. It doesn't stop there though, a remake of the original Halloween (2007) is set to be directed by Rob Zombie sometime soon. "},{"Title":"Big Brother is Slicing You!","Date":"12 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Surprise, surprise! It wasn't Michael Myers' head that got chopped off by Laurie Strode at the end of Halloween H²0... It was all just a terrible mix-up and some poor random bloke got decapitated by accident! After re-watching that film recently, I was wondering what explanation they would come up with to attach Michael's head back onto the rest of his body. The first ever successful medical head transplant would have been a little too grotesque, even for a desperately long-running slasher series, so I guess this twist is the most acceptable excuse imaginable for yet another sequel &#150; number eight already &#150; in the franchise revolving on the unstoppable Haddonfield killing machine. Nobody asked to 'resurrect' the premise yet once more, and apparently it's the least popular entry in the series, but still a very watchable slasher with very few depth, but quite a lot of gory murders. The film opens inside the walls of a mental institution where Laurie awaits the inevitable return of her murderous brother. During a too obviously forced confrontation on the institute's roof, Jamie Lee literally kisses the franchise that turned her into horror's most legendary scream-queen goodbye once and for all. Michael returns to his childhood home in Haddonfield where he's lucky enough to receive a new shipment of victims without even having to leave the house. Hyperactive TV-director Freddie Haris (Busta Rhymes) recruited six teenagers to spend Halloween's eve in the legendary house where 6-year-old Michael killed his sister and broadcast everything they do and say live on the internet... Even if that includes getting stabbed repeatedly, impaled, head-crushed and decapitated. Personally, I hate the whole concept of Big Brother and similar reality-TV shows with a passion, so I secretly hope that one day they'll all follow the rules of Halloween Resurrection. Just put all the sad attention-seekers together in one ramshackle house and unleash a homicidal maniac upon them! Let's see how many losers will then still volunteer to have their pathetic lives displayed on camera. The film itself is pretty lousy, with absolutely no efforts to build up tension or to properly introduce the players. The dialogues are horrendous and endlessly stretched to connect one violent slashing with another. Very much unlike it was the case in Halloween H²0, since that film featured almost no graphic gore in the first hour. The girls are extremely pretty (even super model Tyra Banks makes an appearance) and they can scream really loud, the boys are a bunch of hopeless nerds and the script contains all the obligatory internet/chatting room clichés. Worth checking out if it comes on TV. "},{"Title":"Halloween; a series that didn't need resurrecting!","Date":"30 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" What do you do if you're planning on making a sequel to a franchise that was tired six sequels ago and can't think of a plot line? Just stick the internet in, of course! What we have here is another completely redundant instalment of the boring Halloween series, which once again sees dreary killer Michael Myers slashing his way through a bunch of stupid teenagers. The only difference between this and all the other Halloween films is that this one focuses on the ridiculous idea of having the dumb teens skulking around Myers' childhood home in aid of some show being broadcast via webcam. The film ties in to previous Halloween films by way of Jamie Lee Curtis' character - an actress who obviously appears in the film for a big paycheck, and the fact that she won't have to be in any more Halloween tedium. The main reason I've never been a fan of any of the Halloween movies is because the murder scenes are never up to much; and indeed, all we have here is Myers slashing his way through kids with a knife, which doesn't take long to get old. Normally when a film stars a rapper, that rapper is the worst thing about it; but not here, as because the rest of the film is so dull, Busta Rhymes actually increases the overall entertainment value. Nothing about this film particularly stands out at any point, but Rhymes does have an absolutely hilarious line of dialogue towards the end. Overall, this, like the rest of the Halloween series, isn't worth watching and you'd do well to miss it! "}{"Title":"Not As Horrid as its Rep but Still Not a Good Film","Date":"30 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Halloween Resurrection (2002) ** (out of 4) The sequel no one wanted but got anyways has some producers getting the bright idea to send six teens into the childhood home of Michael Myers on Halloween to see if they can come up with any evidence of why he's so evil. The house is rigged with cameras as are the six teens and they've got a group watching online but it doesn't take long for Myers to show up and start slicing them. HALLOWEEN RESURRECTION isn't as horrid as some have made it out but there's no denying the fact that it's pretty lifeless, useless and in the end it really wasn't needed. Director Rick Rosenthal, who also helmed HALLOWEEN II, doesn't do that good of a job here but I don't think he can take the full blame. One of the biggest problems is the actual screenplay that once again gives us an incredibly stupid story that simply makes very little sense. The movie starts off informing us how a sequel is even possible and the way they change the events that happened in HALLOWEEN H20 was just downright stupid and this opening twenty-minute sequence is just so bad, so lacking in scares and so silly that it really ruins the rest of the film. This first portion is pretty much its own separate movie as Laurie Strode (Jamie Lee Curtis) is in an asylum and Michael comes to visit. I found this entire sequence to be lacking and in the end it was really a horrible way to end the character. Once we hit the reality webcam stuff things don't get much better. The screenplay once again doesn't give us any characters to care about and most of those in the house are just downright annoying. The entire subplot with some party people watching it online really adds nothing to the movie. The way the film bounces back from actual footage and the webcam stuff grows rather annoying as things go on as well. Performance wise no one is all that memorable but Busta Rhymes gets the top-billing and doesn't do too bad of a job. It's rather sad seeing Curtis in the opening scenes because she and her character should have made their exit in the previous one. I understand the producer's need to make more money but the Laurie story should have been closed up or at least brought back in a better way. The killings are a tad bit more graphic this time around as well. HALLOWEEN RESURRECTED is a film hated by many and I really can't blame them. As mediocre as everything is in the movie there's still some weird charm that comes from it. It's certainly not the worse in the series but thankfully it all ended here. "},{"Title":"HALLOWEEN RESURRECTION (Rick Rosenthal, 2002) *1/2","Date":"10 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" The Michael Myers saga was always more respectable than that of Jason Voorhees - not that the immediate sequels to the classic original were any better than its myriad clones or the typical slasher! Anyway, I only managed to catch up with 3 of the sequels a couple of years back - but did get the opportunity to watch the above-average 1998 outing, HALLOWEEN H20, during its original run; I'm not able to get a hold of nos. 5 and 6, so I had to make do with Halloween 8 - directed by the man who brought us the atrocious first sequel! After a pre-credits sequence depicting the final confrontation between Laurie Strode (Jamie Lee Curtis) and her homicidal sibling, the film takes up a premise that showed promise (sort of bringing the saga up-to-date with a Blair Witch Project perspective) - a Reality TV show set inside the ill-fated Myers house. While the heroine is adequate (though still made to share an icky relationship over the Internet with a whiz-kid teenager), the rest of the participants are the usual mixture of the bland and the obnoxious (particularly her publicity-seeking best friend); the cast also includes the two black producers of the show - with foul-mouthed (and top-billed) Busta Rhymes eventually engaging in an idiotic karate fight with The Shape!! Besides, the unattractive color (simulating the look of Digital Video) doesn't help...though John Carpenter's simple, effortlessly eerie Halloween theme still manages to generate the required response whenever it comes on! The DVD includes a few worthless deleted scenes and even 3 alternate endings (a sure sign, if any was needed, of the film's general dissatisfaction). "}]