[{"Title":"Amazing Performance By Eric Bana!","Date":"26 July 2005","Score":"44 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":" CHOPPER (3+ outta 5 stars) Nifty little character study of a notorious Australian criminal... well, notorious in his own mind, at least. The jury is still out on how much of the autobiographical details of the life of Chopper read are real and how much is fake... but it does make a compelling story either way. Eric Bana gives a great performance in the lead... nothing else I've ever seen him in prepared me for how good he really is. The character he plays is nasty, repellent, scary, ill-tempered... and still full of charisma. After a violent stint in prison (his motto appears to be do unto others before they do it unto you) Chopper is sent back out into society. With no other skills besides his knowledge of crime, Chopper offers himself to the local police as a special undercover agent. They, of course, want nothing to do with his boneheaded scheme but he pretends that they do anyway. Inflicting pain (on himself *and* others) seems to be what he is best at and he gets plenty of opportunities to show his stuff. Amusing though it may be at times, the movie is not a glorification of violence... the ferocity and suddenness of it keeps the audience constantly on edge. "},{"Title":"Difficult, Fascinating and Fun","Date":"6 January 2004","Score":"44 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I have to disagree with those that say this is for Aussie's only.  Chopper is an amazing piece of filmmaking in nearly every regard and goes beyond the limitations of vernaculars.  I had to laugh at the review that dismissed it as sophomoric tripe and attempts supporting his argument citing the film's lack of realism in violence.  Although based on a real man this is storytelling cinema not documentary.  There is an obvious element of gross exaggeration in most of the scenes of violence in Chopper, which serve a purpose (or, more specifically, several purposes).  Chopper is obviously incapable of telling the truth &#150; or even hearing the truth. It is, at first, difficult to figure out why so many are drawn to Chopper (and not at all difficult to see why so many wish him dead).   Within the first few moments Eric Bana establishes Chopper's character in a way that reveals the off kilter charisma that some simply cannot resist.  Those Chopper seems to get along with best are those on the periphery, those who don't invest too much whom he seems intent on impressing.  Those too involved with him are locked into his doom because simply no one is able to keep up with the mythological figure Chopper has created himself (or tries create himself) into.  Darkly humorous, brutal, yet not without pathos the film rightly focuses on its central character and lives up to the unlikely hero's motto never let the truth get in the way of a good yarn.  Chopper is a fascinating film filled several amazing performances even in smaller roles (e.g., Jimmy's chain smoking, junkie, white trash, pregnant fiancée stumbling to the floor to pick up a sawed off shot gun in the hallway). Not for everyone, but those who get this sort of thing will be richly rewarded. "},{"Title":"Say Goodnight To Uncle Chop","Date":"22 November 2000","Score":"55 out of 78 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie was not intended to be solely funny, but with Eric Bana in the lead it was always going to make you laugh. His denial of pain and causing injury while at times hard to watch is also hilarious. Chopper's laugh often steals the show, coming at what appear to be inappropriate times.It's a brilliant movie with great direction and performances. I'll go an 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Chopper; rough title, intense movie","Date":"16 March 2002","Score":"38 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Chopper is a great film.  Andrew Dominik, the director, did a splendid job.  The film seems so realistic, the brutality, the dialogues, the places, the characters, it's all so well adapted to the kind of movie that Chopper is.  The acting is really amazing, especially from Eric Bana, who plays Chopper.  This man has the talent to make every single feeling of his character visible, and realistic.  The violence, while being pretty graphic and brutal, isn't gratuitous or exaggerated (except for some scenes with too much blood letting).  The violence hits the viewer, just like he was feeling the pain, it's very well reproduced.  The character of Chopper is interesting, as a man who's trying to be a real tough criminal, but still has some feelings...it's Natural Born Killers with nuances...With funny moments, great acting, nicely-written scenario and one very interesting character, Chopper delivers that Dark humor, attaching characters, great scenario, violence (for the people who like it), and it's a very nice movie.  Eric Bana has a lot of future in acting...and Andrew Dominik is a great director that should definitely continue in this business.  Chopper is very enjoyable.  I give it 8/10. "},{"Title":"Fact or Fiction? The film is still great!","Date":"6 April 2006","Score":"27 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Mark Brandon Read, nicknamed Chopper, was a notorious criminal in Australia who after spending most of his life in prison, went on publishing books with anecdotes of those years becoming a successful writer of Best-Sellers. While he has been accused of exaggerating things about his life in his books, the stories presented still are realistic and shocking, and give insight about the mind of this complex and often-troubled man, regardless if if they are real or fiction. Chopper, the movie, is not based exactly on Read's life, but in the series of anecdotes he wrote in his first books.Eric Bana plays Chopper and gives one of his best performances to date, capturing the very essence of the living legend Chopper has become now. It is not a surprise that this film gave him recognition out of Australia and turned him into an international star. but even when the movie is centered around Chopper, Simon Lyndon and Kate Beahan's performances shine in their roles as Chopper's cell mate Jimmy and Chopper's girlfriend Tanya respectively.Like Read's books, the movie is not exactly a biography, but a collection of tales surrounding the now-mythical figure of Chopper, presented in a way that perfectly mixes strange surrealism with harsh realism. The gritty semi-documentary look the film has enhances this feeling as well as the cold way the violence is presented. Like the real Chopper, the film walks the fine line between fact and fiction, and that's what makes it very appealing and interesting.It could be said that Director Andrew Dominik painted an accurate portrait of Chopper the legend, not of the real person; and that's probably what the real Chopper may prefer. Domink plays with the moods, going from serious drama to awkwardly funny scenes in this character study that presents us a charming yet dangerous man, who probably has been through more than what we would like to do, yet less than what he would likes us to believe.The film is very intense and tough, and very good at it; Bana is perfect as Chopper and shows great promise as an actor. His characterization makes very difficult to don't like this common man with a very uncommon life. Director Dominik makes a straight-to-the-face film that stays true to Chopper's persona (fictional or not), and does it without being pretentious or manipulative. It basically lets Chopper's charisma speak for itself playing with the audience's fascination with crime and violence.If as flaw was to be found, it would be that it never tries to go beyond its goal or push too much the envelope. It is not much of a flaw, as the results are still brilliant, but leaves one wondering at how far could it had gone considering the talent of those involved. Anyways, Eric Bana and Andrew Dominik are set to a bright future and this film is a brilliant start for these two new talents. 7/10 "},{"Title":"A well directed and written film with a balanced view and a great performance from Bana","Date":"16 May 2004","Score":"30 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Mark Brandon Read, aka Chopper, is a small-time criminal who is violent and unpredictable. During one of his many stays in prison he is betrayed by his friend Jimmy &#150; who stabs him repeatedly in an effort to kill him for a bounty. When Jimmy fails, he claims Chopper attacked him and Chopper does the time while Jimmy gets free. Released years later Chopper leaves prison still his jovial, friendly, brutal, violent and unpredictable self.In this review I will not even bother getting into a debate over whether or not it is right or not to make a bigger celebrity of Chopper than he already is &#150; the book is out, the film is made and it's a moot point. The film does a good job of being reasonably balanced &#150; it shows Chopper's action in such a light that it is hard not to be disgusted by him and his sheer disregard for human life. There is of course an element of the film liking him, but in fairness that may be the truth &#150; he may have been the nice bloke at heart that the film presents him as; most of us will know people from clubs and pubs who are salt of the earth and will call you 'mate' all the time until they take offence at any little thing then they'll be fighting before you know it. The film is amusing and shocking in equal turns and manages to be engaging even if the plot is more of a character study than a plot.In this regard it really works, because the film captures a great deal of his character and not just his actions &#150; he must be a horror to know and it is this that stops it really glamorising him. The script is really well done and it allows us to feel a strong fear and dislike for this man without ever being turned off him to the point that we stop watching or stop being interesting. Bana is a big part of this and he is really good in one of his earliest roles on film. He manages to make this man both a monster and charming in a blokey sort of way, but he also brings out the inner fear and loneliness that Chopper has &#150; and the sheer basic immaturity that drives him.This is not glamorisation, this is a fair look at a man who few of us would want to ever meet. The support cast are also good but it is Bana's film and he shows why Hollywood picked him up in the first place.Director Dominik may be a little taken by his subject, but he makes it balanced and actually presents a character rather than just a hyperkenitic comedy killer that Chopper could have become in someone else's hands. Certainly if this had been a Hollywood film it would have made Chopper much more of an anti-hero and would have dropped the character a bit in favour of stuff that targets the Tarantino teenage 'killer-cool' audience. He does add a great deal of style as well and there are plenty of scenes here that are fun and stylishly directed &#150; however his biggest contribution is bringing out the bad side of Chopper rather than just making him a killer who is funny.Overall I wasn't sure what to expect from this &#150; I'm not generally morbid or interested in people who are just thugs, even well known thugs, but I did enjoy this film. The direction is cool and stylish but the script brings out a Chopper who is unpredictable, childish, lonely, insecure and brutally violent &#150; if you met him in a pub you would run if you had any sense. Bana takes this and gives a great performance to keep him charming but never hide the fact that he is a dangerous and thoroughly unpleasant man.  "},{"Title":"Great acting by Eric Bana lifts this above your average gangster flick","Date":"7 February 2006","Score":"17 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I want to start by saying that I hate gangster movies. I thoroughly dislike being asked to identify with murderers and criminals and to treat organised criminals as anti-heroes. With this in mind I was quite surprised to find that I really enjoyed Chopper.As previous reviewers have said, this is essentially a character study rather than a story. The reason it works so well is that Mark Brandon Read is a compelling character beautifully impersonated by Eric Bana. Anyone who's ever seen an interview with Read himself can appreciate what a close impersonation Bana achieves; his sudden guffawing laugh and light-hearted way of talking about his really unpleasant deeds being perfectly copied. The movie manages to do what I'm sure Read himself has achieved in real life - it tricks you into liking him before revealing that his hair-trigger temper and propensity for paranoia and violence make him a dangerous person to be around. The thing that keeps you watching is Chopper's jovial nature but also his unpredictability. In circumstances where other gangsters would have gone on a killing spree, Chopper just shrugs and takes it in his stride. But likewise, in throughly innocuous circumstances, his paranoia can kick in at any moment and send him on a violent outburst. "},{"Title":"Bravura Film Making - With Aussies!!!!!","Date":"11 November 2002","Score":"22 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Mark Brandon Read (Bana) gains a fierce reputation as a hard man and the sobriquet Chopper as a consequence of 'hitting people just to get himself a name'.  A very accurate observation even if 'Chopper' himself maintains his only victims are 'low-life drug dealers' and their ilk.Excellent example of film as story telling.  I saw this 'indie' film on the same weekend as A Beautiful Mind and, my God, the lessons that shambles could have taken from this.  Chopper is economically and crisply written with the sweetest doses of irony; marvellously directed with a plethora of techniques that only ever serve the film and it's grossly engrossing story and acted by an ensemble high on talent and clearly working for one another.  Bana is a stand-out as the bright, troubled and dangerous hard man making a pathetic journey to emotional as well as physical incarceration; walking a dramatic tight-rope of comedian/homicidal-maniac as he does so with admirable skill and thoroughly believable integrity.  Worth viewing by anyone who thinks they like all the ingredients of film and art to come together in the same project.  Not worth viewing by anybody who thought the same things came together in A Beautiful Mind! "},{"Title":"Demented, disturbed and delightful","Date":"19 January 2006","Score":"23 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Look at Eric Bana, he is a hot, studly Hollywood actor. I know this because I have oogled over him in his post-Chopper movies. I only discovered Chopper after seeing him in such movies as Troy and The Hulk, and I'm glad I did. What a treat it was to see him in this fabulous indie film before he became a Hollywood sex God. No, he was not the handsome, dashing Aussie fellow that American females have been drooling over since his role as Prince Hector in the cheese-filled film Troy, but instead he showed us that he really can act and take on a very difficult role and do it with real grace. The physical transformation he underwent to play Chopper is insane. Imagine that just a short time later he was playing a fit and sexy Delta boy in Black Hawk Down. That, in and of itself, it quite impressive. I've always been a fan of the demented and dark comedies, and love movies like Pulp Fiction, but Chopper takes the cake. This movie has all the comedic violence of Pulp Fiction, but portrays it in a grittier and more subtle way. This movie makes you think, and it's more than just good fights and death scenes, it's really artful. Eric does such a wonderful job making you love this truly despicable character. "},{"Title":"Chop, chop, chop, little Chopper chops","Date":"19 May 2005","Score":"26 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Thruth and fiction blend in a fun and in some places gross story about the most known criminal of Australia, Mark Chopper Reed. Now, I am not Australian, nor have I read Choppers books, so I really can't say how accurate this movie is to towards it's sources but what I can say it does work quite well as a movie.And as it is stated in the film, the story isn't a salute towards crime, so it doesn't try to be truthful to the maxChopper (Eric Bana) is a man with a dream to become most notorious man of Australia. This he tries to achieve by doing crimes, looting and murders but not drugs. He also exaggerates his stories, so no-one actually knows what he has done and in what extent. This give possibilities to tell same stuff from the point of view of other occupants.Good film, mostly because of brilliant acting by Bana. Defintly his best movie (as an actor) to date. "}{"Title":"Best portrayal of a psychopath since Taxi Driver","Date":"10 July 2006","Score":"15 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Not for the faint of heart this movie gives a grim insight into the mind and life of a career psychopath. Many of you will know or know of people like 'Chopper' and most of you probably cross the road when you see them coming. Based 'on fact' some portions are a bit too over the top to be fully believed but the movie makes apology for this from the outset. Eric Bana's performance is simply awe inspiring and the supporting characters and performances throughout are believable, convincing and multi-layered. Despite 'Chopper's obvious mental problems, his manipulative charm, animal cunning and the intelligence behind the insanity all shine through Bana's eyes. Direction is tight and non-intrusive, almost documentary style and i must say it works really well. Its one of those films you very quickly forget your watching a movie. While i do enjoy flashy and creative camera usage some films don't need it, this is one of them. The story is funny, sad and shocking in almost equal measure and this is one 'little' movie i'm very glad i stumbled across, thoroughly recommended viewing, i give it a 9/10. Congratulations to all on worked on this, you made a rough diamond. "},{"Title":"Eric Bana Is Gonna Be A Megastar","Date":"8 May 2004","Score":"11 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Eric Bana is an Aussie ? I knew this before I saw BLACK HAWK DOWN . If I hadn`t I would have been totally convinced this guy was from the Southern states , Bana`s deep south accent was absolutely flawless in that movie unlike some of the British cast members . Since then he`s appeared in the blockbuster release of THE INCREDIBLE HULK ( Which I haven`t seen yet ) and he`ll be playing a major role in up coming mega-blockbuster TROY . After seeing him as Mark Read in CHOPPER I was totally struck by something - Eric Bana is gonna be a megastar very soon Watching CHOPPER is somewhat like watching the young Deniro in TAXI DRIVER Bana`s performance more than makes up for the flaws in the movie , he`s not an actor playing a character - He is that character , he is Mark  Chopper  Read . Chopper puts on weight so Bana puts on weight , and I`m loathe to ask what Bana did in order to er ... how can I put it , that scene in the bar ! Did Mr Bana get a surgical extension ? That no doubt explains the title of the movie Like I said there are some flaws to this movie which revolves around Chopper Read starting off as violent criminal to becoming best selling author ( A sort of Aussie Jimmy Boyle ) but his writing is only referred to within the last 10 minutes of the movie and I`m none the wiser as to what his books are about . One thing`s for sure but - His bestsellers can`t be half as bad as anything JK Rowling has scribbled . I also liked the poem sequence at the end though I guess just as many people will loathe it as like it I do admire the producers honesty in pointing out that much of this screenplay is invented and I do wish more producers would do this , a pity that those of us such as myself who had never heard of Chopper Read have no idea what bits are true and what bits are fiction though . I guess that the way Chopper is written and played our sympathies should go out to him though we can`t condone what he`s done in life . I found it difficult to sympathise with this violent nutter myself but I guess anyone who asks Who did you f*** while I was inside ?  only to be met with the reply Everyone . I work in a brothel don`t I ?  can`t actually be responsible for much of their own actions . Indeed Chopper is painted as a sad pathetic idiot though thankfully not as some type of victim So I found CHOPPER to be violently disturbing and laugh out funny in equal measure , just like the first time I saw TAXI DRIVER . Have I mentioned that Eric Bana is going to become the world`s biggest movie star ?     "},{"Title":"Bana deserves better","Date":"18 September 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This smattering of incidents in the miserable and violent life of an Australian criminal is essentially worth watching only because of the charismatic performance by Eric Bana, whose work here explains why he started appearing in mainstream Hollywood productions from TROY (2004) onwards-the man is cinematic gold, a born star, and talented too. He actually manages to make a scary character charming enough to hold our attention for ninety minutes. Writer- director Andrew Dominik's depiction of this sociopathic individual is not without style but at the end one wonders why he bothered What insights, what information have we gleaned by dipping ourselves into this murky pool of vice and degradation? The fact that the character's exploits have made him a best-selling author is nothing new. Such material has been presented to us twice already by Scorsese (Taxi Driver, King of Comedy). The icy, blue depiction of ironically performed acts of bloody horror dates back at least to Cronenberg's Dead Ringers. At least those films contained at least two or three characters with some human appeal. But this film's collection of human wreckage is unrelievedly repellent except for the amazing Mr. Bana. "},{"Title":"Original and disturbing","Date":"3 December 2000","Score":"18 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is an intelligently made, if at times very violent, film providing a fictionalized account of a real life Australian murderer who went on to write best selling books about his own life. that in itself raises some unpalatable questions, but although Chopper is not a movie for viewers with weak stomachs it is nevertheless an original contribution to independent film-making. "},{"Title":"Fun, intense, thrilling ride that never stops","Date":"17 August 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This film is very well done. I can see why a lot of people compare it to Refn's Bronson. Both revolve around psychopaths who spend the majority of the film inside of a cell block.As expected with Andrew Dominik, the dialogue and cinematography are extremely well done. His transition shots are damn near flawless and the tongue and cheek dialogue is fun while keeping the audience interested. He also does some neat little things to allow the audience to see the film through Choppers perspective. Eric Bana gives a stellar performance (better than Munich in my opinion). With all the weigh he put on, he seems larger than life on the screen (with credit also going to Dominik for the Larger then life personality of Chopper). Fair warning though, Their are some parts that are not for the light stomached, but definitely a movie I would suggest to watch. "},{"Title":"An unusual, intriguing, entertaining bio-pic","Date":"9 January 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":" In telling the story of Mark Brandon Chopper Read, one of Australia's most famous criminals, the script combined Read's own autobiographical bestseller with what actually happened, which makes for an interesting, sometimes confusing blend of reality and invention. That mix makes for a very interesting watch, even if there's not enough material for a satisfying film; it could have been a thirty-minute film and achieved about the same level of success, and it doesn't leave you with any clear notion of what you saw. Chopper doesn't quite work out as a biography or even a character study, but it's an intriguing document on violence and violent people, and about what makes the same people land in trouble again and again.On top of that, it's also pretty entertaining. Eric Bana is terrific in the lead. Not being from Australia myself, I first became aware of Bana as a leading man in American mainstream films like Troy and Hulk, where he always struck me as dull and uncharismatic, but finding out that he was a successful comedian is his native country first makes a lot of sense after seeing his disturbing, layered and very funny performance as Chopper. It's difficult to call it a comedy - don't expect a crime farce like Snatch, because there's very little of that going on. But Chopper's character is outrageous enough to be entertaining throughout. "},{"Title":"Uninflected Psychological Character Study, or Detached Sensationalist Biopic?","Date":"7 February 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Australian actor-comedian Eric Bana, who we know from Hulk, Black Hawk Down and Munich, believably fleshes out a violent extortionist so formidable and yet so dense and hurt. There's a scene where he is shanked by his confidant, and continues appearing to be in no pain at all. His lack of concern is shocking. He looks down at blood pouring from his torso like someone else has been injured, and then up at his assailant as if conveying sorrow that it should've come to this. Then there's another scene where he shoots a drug dealer and then considerately drives him to the hospital.The movie, which I'm completely unsure it finds what it's looking for, is either 1) shrewd or 2) too eager to get to the prurient in not depicting an elucidation of Chopper's aggressive depravity. Regardless, it does give a hint in the way he's separate from criminal gangs and has no partners. He's not a gangster, if that word entails a line of work, but a brutal psychopath taken by impulsive frenzies. There is a surprising moment during a passing stint on the outside of prison, when he re-examines old hangouts and old friends and appears gracious and appeasing, until his rabid side lashes with unrestrained wrath. The earlier amiability was not a put-on to throw people off their guard. He actually was feeling welcoming, and did not essentially expect the blasts of rage out of the blue.How this initially shocking, then bleakly funny, then merely repetitive cult biopic uninflectingly illustrates its subject is as a row of disturbed emotional states and thought processes. Perhaps a clinical mood disorder case reared in a society not bound to notice or care, or equip him with the ability to do either himself, he's just seized by these agitated episodes flanked by comparatively normal behavior despite being a violent, oversexed criminal. Nevertheless, the rapid alternating, which is sometimes played for perverse laughs, or suspense, or surprise, though it's more fascinating portrayals occur near the beginning as mere exposition, sometimes leads to what is either delusion and hallucination on his part, or stylistic flourish by Dominik.I'm guessing the latter, though I enjoy Dominik's fascinating use of camera speeds in depicting the influence of cocaine, or the multiple perspectives of Chopper's shooting of a man and the intentions of both later on. But around the time of this shooting, there begins to set in an unforeseen sorrow that elevates this flashy cinematic drill, which, if nothing else for sure, is certainly a revelation of Bana's talent. "},{"Title":"Outstanding movie, all around!!!","Date":"8 January 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Highly stylized and violent, this has remained one of my favorite movies of all time, and is one of the few movies I'm holding onto as I continually downsize my DVD collection. Eric Bana's portrayal of Chopper is excellent, and really shows what a talented, high-caliber actor he really is. Anyone who enjoys movies about Psychopaths, Sociopaths, Killers, Criminals and the like, such as Taxi Driver, Natural Born Killers, Devil's Rejects, etc. should really be into this. The character Chopper is pretty much completely crazy but still intelligent, funny and likable. He is a criminal that really only victimizes other criminals and other scalawags, and his behavior is generally disturbing and amusing at the same time. I saw it on a whim after seeing Bana in Blackhawk Down and this movie really put him at the top of my favorite actors list. The story is well told and the cinematography is unique and interesting. Overall, a very, very good movie. Highly recommended! "},{"Title":"Chopper Read cut down to size, in both a physical and observational sense as the life and times of a hard bodied man is explored.","Date":"28 February 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Chopper begins with a group of men huddled in a cramped prison cell watching a television that it would appear has been placed especially within. They're watching a programme about one of the three men; that man is Mark Brandon Read, an Australian made somewhat famous for his infamy and who goes by the nickname of Chopper. Eric Bana's steely gaze as the convict dominates the sequence, the film lingering on his expression in close up format as he himself remains locked on a TV programme detailing his very exploits. Through lingering on Read's expression, a sense of glee at his actions as one of his victims explains how the very onlooker once harmed him, the audience are invited to realise a viewpoint, or perspective, of the man; one from the point of view of a victim whilst systematically cutting to the guy for what he is, sitting there in the flesh and watching on. The film is more interested in the figure of Chopper than the news report, essentially setting up what Andrew Dominik 's 2000 film is all about the getting to know what made Chopper who he is away from all the television and the media opinions.The film is mostly all of one long flashback, one that'll begin in 1978 therefore allowing us to observe ourselves mostly everything that made Chopper who he is up to that point in prison, circa 1991. In introducing Chopper as a jail-dwelling; steely eyed; tattooed individual whom watches accounts of men he's maimed in the past on TV informing everyone of how bad/evil/nasty he is, the film sets up a pretty stone-wall image of the man during the early exchanges. What follows is a film that doesn't' excuse what Chopper did or what he is, but rather explores how he came about obtaining both his physical and media-driven image and aura. When the film has come full circle and we end up in the prison cell again, there's a moment one of the guards appears sad that the time has come for the TV report to conclude; both guards to leave and for the door to be slammed shut and locked. The guard looked sad, but there was an additional degree of acceptance in his face - Chopper Read may well be a funny, charismatic and involving guy but he's done what he's done in the past and that time which arrives that'll see the jail house door slam shut is a sad realisation that he's there as a result of his flaws more-so his enthusiasm for what he does.When the tale of who he is, why he is begins in Pentridge Prison in the late 1970s; the film waits for all of about five minutes to use this frightening and unhinged aura about the man it built up by way of all the talk in the opening. Chopper's a violent man and the film is accordingly so, with one of its more gruesome scenes playing out in the tough manner that it does because it's blood-letting and maiming which is self inflicted by way of a third party. Whilst not a direct action of one character on another, Chopper's drive to get out of the prison division he's in and get relocated sees him take measures that see him loose parts of both ears.Chopper is the sort of film that'll see a person stab another, several times whilst in prison, before have the pair of them sit down some years later in an apartment and just talk. Chopper's like that, there's a really odd atmosphere about it; a brooding sense that there'll be an emoting of anger just around the corner all put across by way of an odd blue tint that drowns out most other colours and emphasises the grime and the dark most locations possess. The film presents Chopper as a distinctive figure, whereas most of his prison inmates in the early scenes sport long hair and huge moustaches; Chopper doesn't have any of anything. His shaven head and minimal facial hair aid in our association with him as this alienated figure from everyone else, to the point it appears his own friendships have run aground. Chopper's physical appearance in his hard, muscular and tattoo-clad body further pushes him away from his fellow inmates as this tale of how a society; a culture; a nation eventually bordered on a kind of infatuation with the man.Just as Chopper's body is put through a wringer of stab wounds and ear mutilation, his mind goes through a similarly rough period of anguish. Once out of prison in the 1980s, and out with girlfriend Tanya (Beahan), he eyes a man named Neville (Colosimo) who he believes was seeing his partner during his time inside. The camera sticks with Chopper's face complete with stare, again in close up format, as a series of strobe lights flash across his face &#x96; a storm brewing on the inside, a series of explosions built on rage going off behind the steely face. The film will use the three primary colours of red, green and blue to blend together to create a spectrum of hate; threat and supposed forgiveness at various times; maintaining a blue tint throughout with, later on, a mini-bar at Neville's home being drowned out by some blood red lighting as further tempers fray and hatred reaches a peak. This, as Chopper's conversation with a former best friend-turned-betrayer and consequent enemy is covered in a green tint, suggesting calm or neutralness as they sit amidst drug infused squalor and talk uneasily. Chopper's an interesting film; a combining of smut and grot with some odd sequences of a post-modern sort channelling an aesthetic akin to something like 1996's Trainspotting. Dominik would later revisit this idea of studying a menace to society in his 2007 Jesse James film; but Chopper's detailing of a guy with a bizarrely attuned celebrity status plus violent streak is worth seeing by itself. "},{"Title":"greatest Aussie movie of all time","Date":"12 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":" this movie is truly fantastic. Eric Bana as Mark Chopper Read is one of the most chilling and disturbing acting in film. i don't rate Eric Bana that good, this is the only film i think he's amazing in. its a true story about Mark Chopper Read's life, it starts with him in prison. he then stabs a rival and then he ends up being a marked man. he has a large contract out on him and his friend takes it, once they got chopper on his own his friend stabs him over and over again which is one of the most chilling scenes I've ever seen. Chopper takes these stabbings like he cant even feel them. he then takes his friend that was to court. he gets out of prison and he works for the law, killing people. thats a slight overview on the film but id advise anyone who wants to watch something really dark, gritty and chilling to watch this masterpiece. this is a brilliant film directed by Andrew Dominik, i'm not so much into the assassination of Jesse James film which he also directed. Chopper is daring cinema but needs to be watched........ 10/10.......j.d Seaton "}{"Title":"The Art of Story Telling","Date":"3 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Andrew Dominik writes and directs his film debut of Australian crime legend turned best selling author, Mark Chopper Read (who can't even spell and claims to be nearly illiterate as he spouts a big mocking laugh right in the faces of everyone). Bana in the title role completely owns this character and goes through a gaudy transformation, producing one of the most fascinating performances you will ever find. A performance that should be as legendary as the real life character in which it based on, is sadly overlooked and missed by many. A movie this low budget and this relatively unknown hinders the level of praise it will receive from fans and critics alike, but it's one that should be sought out by anyone with the least bit of interest because it doesn't disappoint. Bana gives the performance of the year and one of the best the decade has to offer. He truly captures the charisma of Read. He's also convincing when he puts a bullet in someone's knee or head, or stabs them to death and leaves them in a pool of their own blood. Completely driven by paranoia, jealousy and speed, Chopper corners himself into a room and finds a nice cozy spot all by himself. He's pitted against anyone and everyone, which is beautifully captured in the films final moments. Out of fear he's forced to kill or be killed. He has no friends, and the friends he does have attempt to kill him because of the dire circumstances he puts himself in. He has a sense of charm and infectious attitude that attract people to him when he's sober. He's seemingly incapable of murder, until he's struck the wrong way at the wrong time, then anything is possible. Whether it be the guards in the prison, the media, or the people of Australia, Mark Chopper Read is as fascinating as they come.Dominik really has shown to be extremely interested and captivated by the art of storytelling, and how fact and fiction can become blurred or distorted. We see multiple scenes where an event will unfold, then we'll hear Chopper tell the story of what happened, then we'll hear someone else tell the story in a completely different manner. One thing Chopper loved to do was tell a story. He loved to fascinate and make people laugh. Sometimes he had to bend the truth and make certain events a little more entertaining, or more intense, because that's what storytelling is Bending the truth and amplifying certain facts while downgrading, or disregarding others. This is way when Chopper tells Read's story the audience feels all the emotions he felt during that time. Dominik captures this beautifully. One great scene portrays Chopper getting stabbed by his own friend, and the pure shock that he felt by getting stabbed by his friend is illustrated in a way that's incredibly unusual and surprisingly hilarious. Like Chopper, we can find humor in some of the most odd and unexpected places. Chopper is one of the best films of the year, and Bana gives the performance of a lifetime. "},{"Title":"Essential viewing!","Date":"24 June 2001","Score":"12 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is the best Australian movie EVER. And I'm Australian so I should know. Even more than that, it's the best movie made ANYWHERE this decade, and up there with just about anything you care to name. Chopper manages to mix violence and humour in ways only Tarantino and Russ Meyer have previously touched, and performs a miracle - mostly on the strength of Eric Bana's performance - makes you actually empathise with 'Chopper' Read without sugarcoating his psychotic behaviour. A lesson for Hollywood in how to make a challenging, provocative movie about violence that treats us like a THINKING ADULT who doesn't need to be spoonfed. What a concept,eh? "},{"Title":"Fantastic performance by Bana.","Date":"22 April 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I usually don't write reviews, but I have to comment here on how frighteningly well Eric Bana portrays Mark Read. Everything from his seemingly good-natured sociopathy to his mannerisms and way of speaking jumps out at you and grabs your attention.I never considered Eric Bana more than a handsome face, but he clearly is. This performance is mesmerizing.Other characters are also portrayed admirably well by a supporting cast that is unfamiliar to most non-Australians.The movie as a whole suffers a bit from it's untraditional structure and some experimental choices that does not improve the end result. Being based on Reads own writings the story does not follow a traditional arc, which is both a strength and a weakness.In my opinion the producers have gone a bit overboard with the bleak/grimy blue, green and red filters, and to me it becomes distracting rather than providing the mood intended.All in all Chopper is well worth the watch just to see how good Bana can be when he is actually challenged. "},{"Title":"Bana Rules","Date":"14 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Chopper is the nickname of Mark Brandon Read, a notorious real life criminal whose crimes were chronicled in a best selling book by him. Eric Bana plays Read to perfection. An early scene brings to mind the Michael Madsen ear slicing portion of Reservoir Dogs. The camera stays on Bana for 90 percent of the hour and a half running time; and not a minute is wasted. The style is similar to the equally vicious Bronson, which also deals with an infamous Australian criminal. Both are must see movies for anyone who is a fan a the crime genre. The sardonic humor is the sort typically associated with films from Down Under. Just to watch Bana chew up the screen with the look of an actual sociopath, is worth the price of the DVD rental. The New York Times of April 13, 2013 has a profile of Mark Brandon Read which is an excellent companion to this adaptation. Do not miss Chopper. "},{"Title":"Choppy","Date":"5 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":" In an Australian prison, knife-wielding Eric Bana (as Mark Chopper Brandon Read) slashes a fellow prisoner in the jugular. Possibly, this is because Mr. Bana does not like his victim's hair. He has covered bald spots with shoe polish. The man bleeds to death. Soon thereafter, Bana's boyhood pal and jail buddy Simon Lyndon (as James Jimmy Richard Loughnan) repeatedly stabs Bana. This scene appears to symbolically copulate Bana and Mr. Lyndon, who has very nice hair. Bana survives penetration super-hero-style and then chops off his ears to get out of maximum security. Out of jail, he hooks up with old acquaintances and decides to shoot some of them. He pulls out both his pistol and his penis. All of this is nicely acted. The character Chopper comes across well, but the film manages to say very little intriguing about him.****** Chopper (8/3/00) Andrew Dominik ~ Eric Bana, Simon Lyndon, David Field, Daniel Wyllie "},{"Title":"Never let the truth get in the way of a good yarn","Date":"25 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is basically the movie that pretty much made Eric Bana, and while it has been suggested that it is not supposed to be a comedy, there are quite a number of parts where you just cannot help but burst out in laughter (such as the scene where he shows some woman him member in the bar), even after having seen the movie at least four or five times previously. In fact, it is one of those movies that even though you know what is coming up, the scene itself is still very amusing.I am sure everybody in Australia knows who Uncle Chop Chop, or Mark 'Chopper' Brandon Reid is, but for those international people who don't believe that there is anything of relevance outside of their borders, he was basically a Melbourne standoverman who pretty much made a packet (legitimately) by writing a series of books while he was in prison. As he says in the movie, he is a best selling author, and he can't spell, so there are probably a bunch of university graduated English majors who are fuming. My thoughts are more power to him, particularly since what he writes about (and shame on me for not actually having read any of his books) are things that people actually want to read.The question really is whether the events in this movie are true or not. Well, to be honest with you, as Chopper says himself, the movie is 100% true and 100% rubbish. The one thing that crims, especially those like Chopper Read, is to take a true story and embellish it so much that nobody can actually use the story itself to prove that what actually happened is true or false. Mind you, most of the scenes in Pentridge (with maybe the exception of the stabbing murder of one of the Painters and Dockers leader) are probably true, namely because there are corroborative sources, but then most of those scenes do not implicate him in anything anyway. Still, the murder probably did happen as described, but then again we will never know.However, there are parts of this film that are not true to form. Granted, Bana plays his role brilliantly, right down to the fact that you can actually believe that he is some paranoid, drug crazed, standoverman, however Chopper actually took offence at the suggestion that he actually beat up women. To be honest, there are aspects of the criminal world that would not stand for that type of behaviour. They say that there is no honour among thieves, but that saying is actually as flawed as some of the stories in this film.As is suggested, Chopper never went after or assaulted an innocent person, and this is very much the case among the professional underworld. They are not interested in innocent people. Those who commit muggings and break and enters of random houses then to be young street kids, those that the professional underworld considers expendable. The professionals actually don't care about these people, namely because there are more important fish to fry when dealing with the underbelly of society. Mind you, while the criminal underworld intrudes into every aspect of our lives (you can be assured that the local pub is probably paying protection money to somebody) those of us who are not involved in it, probably don't need to worry about having some professional killer come gunning after you. "},{"Title":"A bit of the old chop chop, will send laughs aplenty","Date":"19 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This movie is a surprise in just how funny this really is, although it's mean to be serious. It was much funnier than the disappointing Wog Boy. Bana, as you've no doubt heard so much about already, delivers a landmark performance that totally eptomizes the real Chopper Read, although Heath Franklin is closer to the mark in his standup comedy. Alongside him are a great bunch of actors, a list in fact too long to mention. We follow Chopper, a few years before his release back in 86 (where he takes his share of knifings in the cell) to his next stint back in prison in the last ten minutes, when he has a big interview, such a show pony. His books have sold millions, his success an enigma. This unexpected comedy is a hoot all the way through, mostly on Chopper's part. The violence is very realistic, some of it, quite hard to take, the ear hacking scene, and the repeated stabbing of Chopper's arch enemy, Keith George. Chopper's story is one hell of a tale. The story is formulated brilliantly, and so is it's writing. The actor who plays Jimmy Lachnlan is great, and Vince Colosimo, isn't bad either, as Choppers ex friend, Neville Bartos, where him and Lachlan conspire to have him wasted, only it doesn't work out the way they wanted. Bana totally absorbs the character, one moment sane, the next, a full blown nutter, a performance he won't ever surpass. If as a tease, one shot, has the real chopper being escorted into a police car. A hell of a night's viewing of comedy, rent Chopper, although you might not find it in the comedy section of your local DVD outlet. "},{"Title":"Brutal, dark and funny portrayal of an Australian thug... Bana is magnificent in this fierce and inglorious film","Date":"12 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Andrew Dominik writes and directs this film adapted from the semi-autobiographical books by Mark Brandon Read - nicknamed Chopper by the Melbourne underworld because of torture tactics he used to employ while interrogating and collecting money from drug dealers. Chopper is a dark, brutal and often times funny film about one of Australia's most notorious criminals. Read has since left his life of crime behind, and as the film states at the end, he is one of the best selling writers living in Australia at the moment (And I can't even spell!). Chopper Read himself recommended that Eric Bana be the actor to portray him... and what a choice he made. He couldn't have picked anyone better. Bana spent time with Read and gained loads of weight for this truly manic and searing performance. It's like nothing I've ever seen before... he is truly magnificent. The make-up for the transformation of Chopper from a young man in prison in 1976, to an older and bigger man in 1991, was amazing. Bana is unrecognisable because of this. The film begins in 1991 with Mark Brandon 'Chopper' Read sitting in a small cell watching himself on TV talking to an interviewer about his life, and she interviews some of his old friends and enemies. The arrogant and cocky Read boastfully laughs and applauds himself, while the two guards watching it with him watch on in amusement. We then go back to the 1970's, at a maximum security prison, where a young Read is having an on-going feud with another inmate. Read brutally murders the man, and it isn't long before he has no friends in the prison, and a bounty is put on his head. His request for a transfer to a different part of the prison prove to be futile, but he cunningly hatches a disgusting and awful plan - he gets another prisoner to slice his ears off. This sets the atmosphere of the film to come... and we are then brought up to the 80's, when Chopper enjoys his freedom. The man is truly crazy... he states that he doesn't inflict pain on normal civilians... only scumbags and drug dealers. Which brings him back into the brutal Melbourne underworld, where he begins working with the police, who give him a 'green light' to exterminate scumbags.I never thought I would enjoy this movie. Probabably because I had seen a similar film called Bronson which I thought was a diabolical, self-absorbed and glamorous portrayal of a lunatic. However, watching Chopper, I realised that Bronson was a sorry wannabe. Chopper is superb... It's dark, brutal, often times violent and also quite funny. When I say that it is funny, I mean that Chopper himself is quite a character. Bana delivers many memorable one-liners. Chopper is funny, but he is a man I'm sure many people wouldn't want to meet. In the film, he is unpredictable. He could be talking all nice and calm to someone one minute, and the next minute he could have a gun drawn aimed at them. Dominik never attempts to glorify the man. All he does is attempts to add some humane aspect to him, which I'm sure, despite all his short-comings, he still had. Bana plays him well; in a role that inevitably got him to Hollywood later on. Chopper is a dark and disturbing film that wouldn't be suited for everyone, but if you enjoy films about psychopaths and gangs, then it's worth watching. From having his own ears sliced off to driving a drug dealer he shoots in the leg to the hospital (Which he denies doing later on) Mark Brandon 'Chopper' Read is certainly an interesting and crazy character. "},{"Title":"Portait of a Killer with a Sense of Humor","Date":"12 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Eric Bana (The Hulk, Blackhawk Down, Troy) began his career in Australia on a sketch TV Show called Full Frontal. Mark Brandon Chopper Read was an Australian criminal who extorted money from other criminals, basically by being more dangerous and psychopathic than anyone else. He wrote a book detailing his life in the Melbourne criminal underground during one of his prison terms which became a massive bestseller in Australia. In fact, Read became the bestselling Australian author with his series of violent yet comedic books and when a film was to be made of his life, he recommended Bana play him, based on a recurring character Bana had been doing on his sketch show, an obnoxious macho ignoramus called Poita &#x96; yabbo-speak for Peter.The choice was inspired. Bana is magnetic playing the complex Read, witty yet terrifying, intelligent and sadistic. His behavior is so extreme and button-pushing, it really forces you to examine Western ideals of masculinity. Is Chopper admirable or horrifying? He is fearless and seemingly impervious to pain. At one point, he has another inmate cut his ears off in order to be transferred to another wing of the prison. He is a really funny and likable guy in a brash in your face sort of way. Yet he is a cold blooded killer who makes his living terrorizing other people, who just happen to be criminals, specializing in cutting their toes off to compel them to pay his extortion, or killing them outright. He justifies his behavior through his code &#x96; he claims he does not hurt civilians &#x96; only other crooks.Not for those with a weak stomach. "},{"Title":"Chop Chop Chop","Date":"17 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Australian director Andrew Dominik makes his directorial debut with this violent and profane character study. Eric Bana is utterly convincing as real-life standover man Mark Brandon 'Chopper' Read, and he gained a substantial amount of weight in preparation for this role.There has been quite a bit of debate as to whether Read's numerous gruesome anecdotes are actually true; perhaps we will never know. But he never comes across as arrogant or as someone suffering from a severe case of narcissism. I was watching him in a documentary the other day entitled 'Fatbelly' which was very interesting. He is a charismatic man who does not glamourise or excuse the things he has done (or allegedly done). And he likes to paint! 'Chopper' is a very bloody affair but, like 'Goodfellas', the violence is contextual and never violence for the sake of violence. Chopper inhabits a dark and sleazy underworld peopled with shady characters such as weaselly junkie Jimmy Loughnan (Simon Lyndon) and gangster wannabe Neville Bartos (Vince Colosimo). As soon as the film begins, it is clear that we are in for a decidedly rough ride within the first ten minutes, Chopper - who is incarcerated at the beginning of the movie - launches a frenzied attack upon fellow prisoner Keithy George (David Field), stabbing him repeatedly in the neck.There are quite a few memorable scenes in this film. The aforementioned opening attack upon George is one; another sees Chopper have a fellow prison inmate hack off his ears with a razor blade so that he - Chopper - can get a transfer to another part of the jail. Upon release, Chopper pays a visit to Neville Bartos and extorts money from him. Later Chopper, his body covered with scars and prison tattoos, calls upon Jimmy Loughnan, who is living in squalor with his fiancée and young daughter. Chopper's avuncular approach to their daughter sends a chill down the spine. Looking around the filthy flat, Chopper remarks to Loughnan, 'Well, this is swank, mate. This is plush. Who says crime doesn't pay, eh?'. Then there is the shooting of Sammy the Turk (Serge Liistro) outside the Bojangles nightclub, for which Chopper gains a very odd, sick kind of fame when fans of his come from all over the world just to be photographed outside the notorious nightspot. And then there is the scene in a pub in which Chopper demonstrates a very to-the-point method of getting a desirable young woman's attention.'Chopper' is just another reason why Australian film is so great. It is up there with other dark and graphic Australian films such as 'Ghosts of the Civil Dead' (which also starred David Field) and 'Head On'. Andrew Dominik went on to make the brilliant 'The Assassination of Jesse James By the Coward Robert Ford' with Brad Pitt as James and Casey Affleck as the socially inept but ambitious Ford. Like fellow Australian director Alex Proyas, Dominik has made the transition to Hollywood; both directors continue to excite and challenge. Check out 'Chopper', but only if you have a strong constitution. "}{"Title":"Diary of a Fool","Date":"16 May 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is 94 minutes of watching Chopper wander about town and shooting people at random. It becomes clear about 15 minutes in to the movie that Mark Read is as deluded about his self- importance as the film is about it's ability to say anything interesting.Eric Bana does a nice job of delivering the BS that constantly flows from Read's mouth. He comes across and eloquent despite the shallow material.Cinematography is well done. Colors are wrong in almost every scene of the movie as if it was filmed in the wrong light or with expired film. It emphasizes the insanity of Read's world while also making it feel like personal snapshots of the world in which he lived. "},{"Title":"Energetic, stylish and witty story about an Australian legend","Date":"5 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Andrew Dominik's account of the turbulent life of Australian criminal Brandon  Chopper  Read is one of the best crime films of this millennium. It is funny, stylish, witty, well-acted, well scripted and very entertaining.It begins in a bleak Australian Prison (where I believe Chopper spent most of his 20's incarcerated) for abducting a judge. Here we are greeted by a youthful chopper minus the weight and the beard. We learn that he is just as troublesome in prison as he is outside. He continuously picks fights with other convicts and these other convicts normally belong to bigger and dangerous gangs. He is always wanting to prove that he is bigger and better and more dangerous than every one else. This culminates in Chopper stabbing another prisoner which in return turns choppers friends against him. The section following this based in the prison provides a delightfully funny and insightful look into the mind that is Chopper Read. We find out that he seen as a parasite and hated by the general prison population. But he has a friendship with the wardens and the governor. In this part we witness one of the events that leads up to Chopper slicing his own ears customizing his head forever. On the outside of prison we also get to see another side of Chopper that is quite alarming. He is constantly angry and is prone to violence on petty whims and this violence does not stop with drug dealers, but other loved ones in his life feel the full brute force of it too.Andrew Dominik's script and direction are superb and is one of the best from a first time director and writer. His experience before this involved music videos and certain scenes in this film reflected this. His handling of the violence brutally honest and at times very disturbing. However with his use of lights and crisp dialogue and stylish camera work we really get a good insight into Brandon Reads mind and we never leave that once the entire time we are watching this.Eric Bana was an actor that I had never heard of before I had seen this film. I have read that it was on Chopper Reads own advice that Bana was cast. Bana is fantastic in the role of Chopper he gives it his all and he is not afraid to love the flamboyancy of such a notorious real life character. He is also not afraid to give 100 percent to the violence at the start of the film. He really gets into the skin of the character and to separate Eric Bana from Brandon  Chopper  Read. He has many fine scenes and his is backed up by a fantastic supporting cast who also give 100% to their roles.Chopper is a great viewing for any one that has an interest in real life crime figures or just crime stories in general. It is not in the same vain as Scarface or Goodfellas but it is very entertaining and original. It is to be honest the kind of gritty and realistic film that I would expect from Australian film industry and it does not disappoint me. "},{"Title":"A lovely film.","Date":"4 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  For a long time I avoided this DVD at the video store. I was worried I'd be wasting my time and money by renting it. When I finally did see it I enjoyed it a lot - enough to watch it again with the real Chopper's commentary switched on (special DVD release).From the very opening scene I was impressed by the style and raw energy. Quite disturbing to think that its based on a real character and real events. Sure there must have been poetic license here and there (nothing wrong with that). But from what I've heard, it's mostly true.Watching the film, I got the sense that it was a professional production. Camera work, sets, lighting, dialog, sound, acting all good. Eric Bana surprised the hell out me. I doubt anyone else could have done that role as well as he did. I can't wait for the Incredible Hulk.   "},{"Title":"Eric Bana break out!","Date":"26 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Perhaps the best film to come out of Australia in the past memorable years, Chopper is unrelentingly funny, quick, and full of potential. Eric Bana takes hold of this role, as the real life Mark Chopper Read did with the Aussies' attention. The film begins with Read incarcerated for an attack on former friend Neville Bartos, played by the equally engaging Vince Colosimo. Moving back in time to his first prison stay, the character development of Chopper takes place through various relationships and violent encounters. What stays with us is the ironic guilt Chopper holds for his actions. Always remorseful, ever charming Mark Read commits acts of aggression against himself and others with an unusual penchant for humor. Whether with the flick of a pistol or the switch of a blade, Chopper moves through life with what he perhaps believes is control. All evidence would prove contrary as space only exists between his times in jail and not in-spite of them.Skewed and out-of-sorts, the film along with its main-character bounce through the tumultuous crime riddled years of his infamous career. Overwhelming at times the picture achieves success through following Read closely, revealing his nuances and tastes... which seem to end just beyond animal instinct. Though that's the Chopper Read you most certainly love to love! And we do love him. In a very up-front and honest way his character is precisely the type of criminal one would hope to know, if one had to know one. Forthright with his intentions we are never lead to think he wants anything out of life... excluding loyalty, and your money of course. Perhaps the only thing getting in the way of him being the nastiest of Australian thugs is his need to amuse those fans he has found by default. Ultimately leading to a best seller on the Down-Under book shelves, Read is refreshing in that he admits to all his crimes. Though he's only ever prosecuted for one of them.Chopper is a terrific film for the independent fan. Winner of the Sundance film festival, and catalyst for Bana's current popularity here in the US Chopper is at times too much for the average movie-goer... though if you're on the look for a movie in the way of Reservoir Dogs or any ultra-violent, black comedy then Chopper is for you. "},{"Title":"Certainly worth watching","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Chopper is a cruel, clever and interesting hit movie about Australia's most famous criminal Mark Chopper Read. It's cruel because of the extremely clear, brutal, savage and dreadful violence. The notorious ear slicing scene of Quentin Tarantino's legendary crime classic Reservoir dogs is suddenly just for little kiddies if we compare it to the similar scene in Chopper. It's clever because of the most enjoyable and even intelligent script. It's interesting because of the main character, because of the twisted personality behind Mark Read.It's exciting to observe how his mind works. Just look at the way he reacts when his cellmate keeps on stabbing him with a knife all over and over again. He's a sick psychopath with a totally violent nature but he can also be a charming fellow. He apologizes his victims so sincerely it's quite confusing. Acting is surprisingly good, terrific even. Before I watched the movie I had never even heard about Eric Bana, the guy on the leading role but I have to admit he was very impressive and I hope I'll see him again in other good roles. Chopper was a splendid experience. Watch it if you dare and if you got the stomach for it. "},{"Title":"good as good gets","Date":"26 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Chopper was a good film.  Never really fell into excellent or brilliant but had its chances to be a classic.  The performance of Bana was significant in the judging of this film.  He was magnificent and was really scary and apologetic after most of his crimes.  His paranoia was hard to bring out in the picture and this is why is stays in good.  You try your best to like him and understand why hes doing what hes doing but at times you feel quite puzzled.  But overall, underated Bana and some fine co-stars(especially the guy who's his friend and is so petrified of him).CHIPTHEFILMDUDE rating  8.5/11 "},{"Title":"A movie with balls","Date":"30 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":" First the performance of Eric Bana. Reminicent of young Brando absolutely remarkable. The cinematography, art direction, lighting all first rate and done with loving care. The subject matter although very sordid and repellant transends itself with great intelligence and humor. The only film i've seen recently that can stand up to Chopper is Sexy Beast. Both films deal with crime and humor  and style beyond any efforts of Guy Richie or Tarentino. Chopper is a masterpiece with balls. "},{"Title":"Not for everyone, but outstanding.","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The subject matter of this film would make it unappealing to some people, but it is well worth watching.Eric Banas' performance is outstanding.  Those who remember Eric only from Full Frontal will possibly find it difficult to reconcile that comedian with this actor.   Or if it's his performance in Something in the Air or The Castle that stands out in your mind...  be prepared for a huge shift. The character he portrays here is something entirely different.  Totally unlike anything he's done before and he does it really well.This film was nominated for several AFI awards and deservedly won three Best Director, Best Lead Male Performance, Best Supporting Male Performance.It's worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Best I´ve seen in a while","Date":"27 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is a great little movie that deserves more attention to it. All around great acting and directing, funny as hell and brutal as hell too. I wish that I could get my hands on Mark Read´s books because this was definitely up my alley. "},{"Title":"It's a difficult task to try and condense someone's life into a movie","Date":"5 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  It's a difficult task to try and condense someone's life into a movie and Dominik warns us at the beginning that he takes liberties.  Although it was a surprise to find that some incidents I had heard about prior to the movie were either only reported or omitted as the film starts quite late in Chopper's life.Perhaps Dominik's choices were valid but while we are clear what the character of Chopper is like we are not so clear as to how he got to be that way.  Although the interaction with his father goes some way to explaining.The tension is mainly about whether the paranoid Chopper will act on his paranoia and do someone in rather than in tension  arising from the plot but the screen does crackle as you hear the cogs in Chopper's tiny brain whirl round.The violence is realistically done and not for the squeamish.  But it is far better it is done this way than the more dishonest cheerful cockney crime caper way.Dominik remains non-judgemental throughout the picture - which is to his credit - but comments obliquely.  Some focus is given to his popularity, perhaps another comment, by showing how his idiotic fans travel to the venue of his most notorious crime and pose with toy guns.Eric Bana's extraordinary performance in the title role keeps you watching but as the closing credits rolled, I knew no more about Chopper than I did at the opening titles.  "}{"Title":"Brilliant Bana.","Date":"11 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Watch this if only to see one of Australia's better known comedians cast that tag aside and put in one of the most outstanding dramatic performances by a male in years.  This stands alongside Geoffrey Rush's portrayal of David Helfgott as one of the best spot-on performances of a living person I've ever seen.  Subtle and yet exaggerated at the same time if that is possible Eric Bana keeps you glued to the screen.  At times the story lags but boy oh boy you come away from it not remembering the story but this wonderful powerhouse of a performance.  Those who have not seen the real Chopper Read should do everything they can to see an example of his antics after seeing this film.  You'll be absolutely amazed. "},{"Title":"Good performance but embarrassing idolisation","Date":"10 April 2009","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I just watched this and was expecting a deeper portrayal of a demented, simpleton who found power in violence. Maybe a smart, master manipulator perhaps. Someone with more confidence than morals. Of course. Eric Bana does great job. Saves the story. Yet, it was just a diary about a life of an idiot. Where was the analysis of his decent into crime and psychopathic behaviour? But what's the saddest thing, is that this evil character is portrayed as a hero and has become some sort cult figure and whats more, Australia's biggest selling author! That says a lot about it's nation surely. A nation whose history and heritage largely made up of convicts, and then this person becomes their hero. Sad. Very sad. "},{"Title":"Just a normal bloke who likes a bit of torture","Date":"1 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Easily the best film produced in Australia for years, Chopper is superbly served by a talented cast and an assured debut from writer/director Andrew Dominik. Mark Brandon Chopper Read is a well-known, larger-than-life criminal/author who's roots in Melbourne's underworld scene go back to the 70's. Read's notoriety has long been legend in Australia, while his unlikely success as a best-selling author irks some who feel he has profited from the pain of others and the crimes he's committed. Yet his pithy crime-tales still sell like hot cakes. Read himself has often countered that the type of people he has inflicted his psychotic tendencies on in the past are the very people that the 'average' man and woman fear and loathe in the first place, fellow criminals, particularly drug dealers...Andrew Dominik has brought key events and moments from Read's 'career' to life in a stylish and entertaining way. The script is more 'case study' than a cohesive plot, but Dominik's understanding of the material allow's him to stitch together a series of scenes focusing on a genuinely psychologically complex person to produce a well-rounded view of Chopper, the man and the myth.Eric Bana has rightly been praised for his work in this film, and I honestly don't think he's done anything better subsequently, but to overlook the contributions of the support players would be to sell them way short; Vincent Colosimo is hilarious as high-rolling drug dealer Neville Bartos, Simon Lyndon excellent as shifty Jimmy Loughnan and Kenny Graham comes across oddly chilling as Read's father, with his humourless laugh. Skye Wansey steals all her scenes as heavily-pregnant and heavily dosed Mandy, she is the very definition of 'Bogan Moll' in her small but hilariously observed role.Dominik's stylistic touches are clever and not overdone, sickly colour washes dominate the Pentridge Prison scenes, whilst garish neons and orange filtered light permeate the nightclub scenes - Jimmy Loughnan's flat is a nightmare, lit with a nasty fluroescence... A number of IMDb reviewers have noted and appreciated the fact that the use of amphetimines was visually augmented with time-lapse photography, another neat trick ...Dominik's dialogue sparkles and is dead-on; his use of Prison Slang, Bogan-talk, Aussie colloquialisms and pitch black humour is clever and avoids cheap parody.Examples of the p iss funny dialogue Chopper  Beethoven had his critics too Keith, see if you can name three of themExamples of pitch black humour Choppers slightly over-ambitious plan to 'ice-pick the spines' of every inmate in his H divisionChopper head-butts his girlfriend Tanya's Mother, then chastises Tanya Have a look at what *you've* gone and done without a hint of ironyJimmy Loughnan asking smacked-out 'fiance' Mandy to put her little girl Shazzy to bed, and a half-unconscious Mandy irritably snaps but I don't wanna go to bed ! - Not *you* Tanya !! Chopper's nonchalant comment to the Prison Guards that Keithy seems to have done himself a bit of a mischief after they arrive to find inmate Keith George lying in a biiiig pool of blood.A reporter asks Chopper what exactly he 'likes' about cutting people's toes off - Choppers reply  'oh, I dunno, I just like the way they pop off' .... Funny stuff ... "},{"Title":"Bana is Electrifying But Overall Story Wanders","Date":"30 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Chopper is the dark side of the Antipodes. How could I not go out of my way for a movie when reviews were comparing the lead actor to young Russell Crowe in Romper Stomper? Eric Bana is electrifying as Mark Chopper Read, a sociopathic murderer and he physically dominates the screen like the fascination for the abomination (but I did have to turn away from the screen a few times). From Chopper's autobiographies, writer/director Andrew Dominik creates a stylized, cinematographically heightened, highly charged and scarily unpredictable portrait of violence exploding. But his point is? That Chopper's surrounded by junkies, alcoholics and low-lifes and prison makes it all worse? Maybe Dominik hasn't been able to see the TV series Oz or Henry Portrait of a Serial Killer that have covered this territory already?And how come Chopper keeps getting out of jail? I was probably hampered by not getting some of the very heavy, working class Australian accents and slang so that I really didn't understand much of the closing monologue by Bana which probably gave an ultimate run down. (originally written 4/14/2001) "},{"Title":"Excellent and possible close to fact","Date":"4 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The film was as good as the hype suggested. Eric Bana did a terrific job on this one. Has a realistic feel about it. Keep an eye out for the scene at the rear  of Bojangles. Chopper is such a caring soul and it shows especially in that scene.  Overall excellent "},{"Title":"Hooray for Uncle Chop-Chop","Date":"3 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Mark Chopper Read is perhaps the most notorious criminal in Australian history behind Ned Kelly and now the big screen adaptation of his life shows us the reasons why. Comedian Eric Bana, portrays Chopper as a psychotic prison inmate who'll do anything to get his mug on TV. From outbursts towards his fellow inmates to taking the drastic measures of cutting his ears off to get out of prison, Bana shows us why this nutter was feared by all. This film is very slick, haunting and Bana's portrayal of Chopper is eerie. Check this movie out it is absolutely brilliant and will leave you speechless, chalk up another one for Uncle Chop-Chop! "},{"Title":"Great performance from Bana","Date":"15 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Crime movies have traditionally been criticized for glamorizing their subjects, and often with justice. There has long exsited a tangled relationship between fictional and actual crime, with real crooks basing their behavior on fiction at least as often as the other way around. The Australian film Chopper is particularly relevant to these issues, for it depicts a real-life criminal who has become a sort of twisted media personality Down Under by writing a series of bestsellers about his violent exploits. You could say that a movie like this is profoundly immoral in how it publicizes a scumbag like Chopper, who is said to have gained his nickname by cutting off his victims' toes. To the degree that the movie avoids this, it is due to the visual scheme and Eric Bana's performance as Chopper. Chopper makes Joe Pesci's psychotic GoodFella Tommy look like a model citizen. Bana was a stand-up comedian before being cast in the film, and he brings to the role a likable, jovial heartiness that makes Chopper's sudden shifts to savagery all the more chilling. Chopper often apologizes to his victims after attacking them, and the most bizarre- and funny- thing about his apologies is that they're sincere. In a prison scene, after mutilating another prisoner, he then tries to justify his actions to the man, who is lying on the floor in a puddle of blood. Later, when Chopper's best friend repeatedly stabs him in retaliation, he doesn't even react to the pain, and instead acts emotionally hurt by the betrayal. Not just Chopper himself, but the whole criminal subculture shown in the movie, is sleazy and repulsive, without a hint of glamor. Though the movie's sordid quality, paradoxically enough, is morally satisfying, it also isn't very entertaining. The director, Andrew Dominick, employs flashy visual tricks to effectively limited use, while filming most of the action in a restrained, austere style that reinforces the banality of the characters. Consequently, the movie starts to feel somewhat repetitive and dull. Dominick shows some talent, but in the end, it's Bana who carries the show. "},{"Title":"Move over Taxi Driver, Chopper is in town!","Date":"19 June 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie was so interesting.  I had no idea Eric Bana of HULK fame could act so well!  He did the austrailian thug perfect and was almost reminding me of SEXY BEAST in how angry and unpredictable he would become!!!  I thought it was funny when he would shoot somebody and then feel all sorry for them, by saying are you ok mate?  Yes, move over DeNiro's TAXI DRIVER, The Chopper is in town!!  Chopper is called CHOPPER because he chopped off his ears (I guess that's why I think he's called that).  Perhaps I am wrong.  I was expecting a much more gory movie.  What I got was a non gory movie that had great acting!!  Way to go Eric Bana!!!I just hope that Eric Bana doesn't do anymore strange characters like the one he did in Black Hawk Down. "},{"Title":"Extraordinary film about a unique character","Date":"30 July 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Chopper is not your run-of-the-mill film. It's a brutal, sensitive and brilliant look into the psyche of a disturbed mind.Eric Bana plays the role of Mark Chopper Read, one of Australia's most notorious criminals. Chopper is a man who, through circumstance and necessity, uses violence as a tool. He is a man of intense emotion - most of the time he is torn between fear, remorse, horror and despair.Film at its best makes think and makes you uncomfortable. It explores emotions and feelings which the viewer understands but wants to comprehend. This is such a film.Chopper is an intelligent man but lacking in classical education. He has learnt his way on the streets where he grew up. He is a man of character and morales and is angry at himself when he has to compromise on what he believes in. He wants to be loved and this is the reason why his life has become infamous. There are many evil criminals out there but few have captured the imagination quite like Chopper.Bana's portrayal is, quite frankly, amazing. The DVD contains footage of an interview with the real Chopper Read which shows just how accurate Bana has been in capturing the essence of the man. All the extra footage and commentaries are essential to get the most out of this film.Is Chopper a real psycho? Are his actions justified? Is he a reaction to the society around him? Is he a good manipulator of the truth as a means of survival (in the film and real life)? These are questions asked by the film and, like all good movies, the answers are left to the viewer.If you are expecting a glossy Americanesque documentary you will be disappointed. This is a real film examining the very real phenomena of human nature and nurture.This film made me shudder, squirm and laugh often all at the same time. I can give it no higher compliment. "},{"Title":"A little more detail would have helped...","Date":"21 October 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Chopper is an interesting biopic of Tasmania's least favourite son, Mark Brandon Read. It shows in unflinching detail why Mark is still one of Australia's most notorious criminals, as well as the fact that something is seriously wrong with Australia as a society. Australia likes to tell itself that it is the greatest country on Earth, and every citizen has everything they need. The mere existence of Mark Brandon Read, as well as the confirmable facts of his life story, is a direct slap in the face to people who buy this myth.Kudos are also due director Andrew Dominik. A lesser director would have portrayed Read in more glowing terms for fear of angering the man himself, but this film elevates itself by sticking to the facts between certain birthdays that occurred and can be verified, portraying them with an objective viewpoint. The film is neither pro-Chopper nor anti-Chopper. It is just, as the title indicates, Chopper.The film covers three distinct periods in Read's lifetime. The first is one of his early incarcerations as a young man. Here, a gang war turns nasty when Chopper kills a rival in the daily power struggles that constitute prison life. Anyone who thinks that Quentin Tarantino has a clue about depicting violence of any kind, leave alone an ear-removal, would be well-advised to catch this section of the film. The accuracy with which stab wounds and impromptu amputations are depicted is really quite frightening. The second part of the film depicts Chopper on the outside, and it is interesting to see how just because he doesn't live behind bars anymore doesn't mean he doesn't behave like a caged animal. The third phase shows Read back in prison, closing the film with a rather despairing shot of Read, as impersonated by Eric Bana, sitting el solitary in his prison cell. They say crime doesn't pay, but this is the first film to make the message so hard-hitting.The only real problem of Chopper is that it doesn't go into enough detail about who the characters are and why they do the things they do. Everyone in the Australian audience knows who the title character is, but the other characters, and by extension the reasons why Chopper kills some of them, are left vague. This is okay if you know who these people are and what they did, but to understand that under any other circumstances, you would probably have to read the books. It is also important to remember that a lot of the characters in the films are combinations, rather than renditions, of different people from Chopper's accounts.Still, if I can go through an Australian film and only find a single fault, it's amazing. Chopper is highly recommended as long as you don't take it seriously (as some of its critics seem to be doing). The man himself says never let the truth get in the way of a good yarn, and I am inclined to agree. I gave Chopper a seven out of ten. "}{"Title":"Great depiction of an Aussie cult figure","Date":"29 July 2004","Score":"15 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":"   I just wanted to quote this review,as there are several things I wanted to comment about- Chopper is a simple-minded flick which tells a tall tale about an Aussie man who not only is a self professed murderer but also a best selling pulp author who penned a series of Chopper novels. Regardless, the film is mostly fiction and very simple-minded in its approach with the Dominik obviously getting off on having people get hurt without the expected reaction. EXAMPLE Chopper gets stabbed several times and the hugs and consoles his attacker. EXAMPLE A guy gets shot in the head point blank with a 4-10 gauge shotgun and wanders around with a hand over the wound before keeling over. EXAMPLE Chopper has part of his ears cut off while he sits calmly bleeding like a stuck pig giving instructions since he apparently can't do it himself. Etc. In the final analysis, Chopper is a dumb movie with poor production value and little going for it as it flounders near the bottom of the B-flick barrel in that vast wasteland called broadcast. Recommended only for Aussie crime junkies or fans of the players. (D+)  The whole idea of Chopper consoling his victims,or suffering ridiculous pain is part of the mystery and many contradictions within the man-and is likely embellished, something that is made clear throughout the film.Never let the truth get in the way of a good yarn.This is a man with little if any consideration for human life-do you expect his recollections to be exactly as they happened? It heightens the drama of a good story,so that's what he does when recalling his life.And that's what Mark Chopper Read enjoys doing.The contradictions displayed within Read's character make an incredible performance even better,in that they could have merely portrayed him as a mindless,one-dimensional thug.However,Read is not that and this film clearly illustrates this notion.Simple-minded? Hardly. Poor production values? Mate,this is an Australian film we're talking about.There's hardly the Hollywood $$$$ available,and it's gritty style perfectly fits its themes and characters.The film's sets and characters appearances are right on the money.It captures the Australian underworld better than any other film I've seen.    Only for crime junkies? Obviously you could tell that you are American merely through reading that comment.Chopper is a cult figure who continues to fascinate people in this country.He puts such a unique spin on the idea of an anti hero and makes us question why we are interested in media-driven and self-promoting celebrities in the first place.If you were Australia you would understand the context of the film and the pure fascination with him better.If you know anything about the character you would realise that Bana ABSOLUTELY NAILS every aspect of Read. Every Aussie adult should see this film.You don't have to be Australian to enjoy this film,though.The film has themes that are relevant to all societies.  "},{"Title":"Great Australian Classic Film for the Gangster collection","Date":"22 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Chopper is one of the most iconic Australian films to have been made. With not only an amazing work of the Cast, but also the very dedicated job of the entire team behind it. From the writers to the extra's. Chopper delivers on every single category of great classical films.Eric Bana plays the role of Mark Chopper Read, one of Australia's most notorious criminals. Chopper is a man who, through circumstance and necessity, uses violence as a tool. He is a man of intense emotion - most of the time he is torn between fear, remorse, horror and despair.Film at its best makes think and makes you uncomfortable. It explores emotions and feelings which the viewer understands but wants to comprehend. This is such a film.Chopper is a man of morals and is angry at himself when he has to compromise in what he believes in. He wants to be loved and this is the reason why life has become infamous to him. There are many criminals out there, but few have captured the imagination quite like Chopper did.Some people criticize the film because it is obviously not an exact account of events, they obviously didn't read the films tag line The truth, the whole truth and nothing like the truth! This film was intended to be a dramatization of events and was co-written by Mark Chopper Read himself. And he never tries to hide the fact that he makes up a story or two. "},{"Title":"A difficult film to like, let alone classify","Date":"30 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Humour, strong violence and an art-house style plot line (weaving flashbacks with present scenes, fantasy and other memories) make up this cult Australian hit of a movie which helped bring comedian Eric Bana (BLACK HAWK DOWN) to worldwide fame. This ruthless, darkly-written tale charts the ups and downs of Bana's life as Chopper, a notorious criminal who kills people in cold blood and has his own ears cut off in one gruesome scene.My sole problem with the film is that it feels a bit unfocused &#x96; it's more of a portrait than a story and doesn't really progress anywhere. Characterisation is also limited, and it's mainly Bana's winning performance that livens things up. Saying this, the humour comes thick and fast, there are some great one-liners, and realism is top-notch. It's just a pretty difficult film to like or classify. "},{"Title":"The myth","Date":"5 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is all about a myth this charismatic deviant creates about himself and the film kind of documents his sick action without judging and that's so incredibly interesting, the level of realism it maintains in the light of sheer sickness of its protagonist. At many reviews I've read that only Aussie audience can get this, well its complete BS, I did not have any knowledge of this person beforehand, I enjoyed it tremendously, the lead acting is superb, sometimes I found myself laughing and then felt embarrassed because you really don't laugh at those kind of things, but in this film, you just can't help yourself. Just go see for yourself, it is a dark dark comedy and would be a shame if it remained ignored. Yeah and the storytelling man, at at least three moments I had to rewind to see what the fook happened - many times there are flashbacks of certain key situations told from the perspective of various individuals involved and it's really fun to make out witch parts of what is true and then collect in your mind the big picture and that drags you into the movie big time. And I must tell this one more - Eric Bana was BRILLIANT. And yes, it made me go to amazon and order the book right away, "},{"Title":"Complete waste of time","Date":"23 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I watch a lot of noir, 'B', and independent films - perhaps 5 a week, certainly more than 200 a year. I try to avoid the stinkers by watching only those rated 7 (maybe 6 if the actor or plot is of unique interest). Most are fair-to-middling. Some are diamonds in the rough. This is in the other category. I could not finish it, the story line and acting were so bad. This puts it at the very bottom of those I deign to watch. Eric Bana plays a psychopath but as good an actor as he is normally, he either can't overcome the high-school script, or, was allowed to improvise way too much. His actions are not the least believable, and the reason i stuck around for most of the film was I had to believe it was a spoof, Unfortunately, it isn't - too bad. Save yourself an hour and a half and pass this one by.This isn't comparable to other, well- known portrayals of psychos. I must have been watching a different film than the one some of the other reviewers raved about. "},{"Title":"Oddly chilling","Date":"12 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Eric Bana is really great in this. Like, I'm surprised his work here doesn't seem to get mentioned much. Or maybe it's just not that seen. Regardless, it's outstanding work, the kind of work Tom Hardy was tying to hit in Bronson but didn't hit the depths that Bana did. The film is good, definitely nothing compared to Dominik's masterpiece The Assassination of Jesse James by the Coward Robert Ford. But Bana makes it truly worthwhile, even if his film threatens to fall under its own ambition. It's not a great film, but it's a great effort at one and it sometimes shows, maybe too much. But I definitely recommend it, it deserves to be seen and one day maybe it will hit the mainstream. "},{"Title":"A Best Seller And He Can't Even Spell...","Date":"29 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":" If there's really anything to take away from the movie Chopper, it's Eric Bana's extraordinarily gripping performance.Based on the late Australian prisoner Mark Chopper Reed, he had became a very prolific author through autobiographies and fictional crime novels throughout his lengthy sentence. But saying that, well that's just it. The movie simply follows Reed's inevitable descent back into the shady underworld, and his obviously well known prison sentence. The supporting cast do a terrific job, and the very dim lit area's help bleed atmosphere into the lens.Final Verdict It's a hard sell, one which will ultimately grip you thanks to Mr. Bana's hard man mannerisms and sinful likability. But as far as movies based on prison life and criminals go, this is one you'll wont come back from entirely smarter or all too satisfied. 6/10. "},{"Title":"Eric Bana displays solid acting CHOPS in Chopper","Date":"10 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Before this film, I didn't know anything about Mark Chopper Read or his notorious background, so I just looked at this as entertainment and nothing more, not anything educational.As a piece of entertainment, Chopper definitely works. The language, the culture, the style is all very prevalent and established by the filmmaking and acting, and Bana more or less carries the film with his performance.If there are any complaints, that would be it, there aren't enough other noteworthy characters in the film, nobody who commands the scene and attention like Chopper, but I suppose that was the point.It's more subtle and realistic than many crime flicks, with not many shootouts and a few very clever ways to convey the events of this part of Read's torrid and insane life. Even if it's not factual, Bana definitely gives you a sense of how this man just cannot stop getting himself into trouble. He's lovable yet awful, an interesting thug, and definitely memorable. If you're looking for a good character piece, go with Chopper. "},{"Title":"Brilliant character","Date":"12 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The movie thrived on the excellent character work Bana did in his interpretation of Chopper. It made the film, no doubt about it. The beginning was great, it really portrayed chopper's intensity and charismatic way of going about his insanity. This continues to develop perfectly as he muscles his way about the incoming event's caused by his own demented actions. Still keeping my interest through to the end i did find it went in somewhat of a strange and almost off topic manner. This all leading to a mildly unsatisfying and weak ending. Although it is understandable considering its based off of a real story. And forgivable because it was extremely entertaining. all in all it was an excellent movie. "},{"Title":"An Eric Bana show playing Australia's most notorious showman","Date":"6 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":" You don't see Eric Bana playing the protagonist, instead you see a maniacal mad man with a twisted sense of humor and a sadistic approach towards life in this biopic of Australia's notorious Mark Reed. Bana made the character his own only occasionally mimicking the half giggle half laughter that generates so much fear and hostility. While most people who knew Reed and author himself has already claimed that truth was never allowed to come in the way of a good yarn, the writers cleverly placed Reed's habitual lying trait into the story that evokes even more unpredictability confusing the audience as to what to believe as a fact and what is not. It would have made Indian film makers proud or even inspired by the attitude of the protagonist in an initial ambush scene.Chopper is loosely based on the autobiography 'From the Inside' written by Mark Reed when serving time which is again loosely based on events in his life. This is not a Shawshank's redemption kind of story about survival in the harsh prison conditions for a crime you have never committed, but about one of Australia's notorious criminal who embraces the prison life often being the troublemaker. He claims more crimes than he is accused for, made more enemies than friends (an understatement) and still in the end came out the winner.Eric Bana must have worked a lot to get his mannerisms right since it does not come naturally to him based on most of the other characters he has played where he comes off as a mild mannered, less talky serious person. Here, he wouldn't shut up. Always up to something, doing bad for someone and habitually lying on every event that takes place. Though the gore and graphic violence is pretty frightening and plays as an advert to stay off prison, the screenplay is very mixed - a lighthearted exchange is followed by an intense cruel episode. A sequence when Reed and some of his acquaintances get high was innovative unlike similar scenarios dealt in other movies. All supporting actors do an excellent job. The cinematography is quite inventive as the visuals are dark and bright at the same time.An Eric Bana show playing Australia's most notorious showman. "}{"Title":"Eric Bana is the only thing good in this overrated movie.","Date":"21 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Chopper, is the story of Mark Chopper Read, a notorious(so I am told) Australian outlaw. The movie is supposed to be based on a best selling book that he wrote while in prison.The Good Eric Bana does an awesome job playing Chopper, and this movie shows why he came to Hollywood to make real movies ala Russell Crowe and Mel Gibson. Also the beginning 10-15 minutes sets this movie up to be outstanding, full of violence and even humor. Also the director goes back to making good scenes in the last 10 minutes. So watch, fast forward, and watch again.The Bad If you subtract the first 10-15 minutes and the last 10 minutes, it is just another boring, low budget Australian movie. I read a bunch of good reviews about this movie, and some compared it to the movie, Resevior Dogs. Well, I guess who ever said that must have been watching a different Resevior Dogs than the one I watched. I think everyone must have watched for 15 minutes, fell asleep, and woke up in the last 10. There really is no explanation other than that.Again, it starts off really promising and I thought, Wow, this is going to be a great movie. Wow, was I disappointed. Eric Bana was the only reason I continued to watch this one and he was truly great. I guess other than a few odd scenes I found almost no real good humor. There are a few mildly amusing moments but nothing worth raving about.I guess there is a small amount of action, but it is sandwiched within so much bad writing and directing that when it does happen you really could care less. All scenes except the prison ones were poorly lit and filmed. All the supporting actors were horrible, except for Kate Beahan, who played Choppers prostitute girlfriend, but she was gone after only a few scenes.I give it a 6 out of 10, and that is for Bana alone. All you people that are jumping up and down giving this movie high praise really need to get out and watch more movies. You all set me up for a giant letdown. "},{"Title":"Fine film making that isn't a documentary but storytelling in cinema form. Also a fantastic performance by  Eric Bana","Date":"18 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is a entertaining prison flick that revolves around a tough as nails prisoner. Even if not all of the scenes takes place in prison. In fact I was shocked to find out a lot of the scenes don't take place in prison. Although this movie came out before The Assassination of Jesse James by the Coward Robert Ford which is another movie directed by the same director. The movie about the last days of Jesse James was shot very well with some of the most beautiful cinematography I ever seen. I found this movie to be more entertaining and gritty, even the cinematography looks gritty intentional or not. It's mainly because of the way it went with the lighting, especially the prison scenes. Now although this film is a bit more entertaining it lacks the noteworthy performances from other cast members and scenery with some great music The Assassination of Jesse James by the Coward Robert Ford has. But this movie still excels in other departments. Now prisoners aren't people that deserve praise, but the way Chopper is portrayed in this movie makes him sort of likable, well sort of. Even if the movie isn't a biography like the film states in the start of it all. Now I have no idea the characteristic and personality of the real Mark Brandon Chopper Read, but Eric Bana made this character believable. His acting in this was fantastic and it's what really drives this movie. On a negative side, the movie isn't crafted and put together all that well and feels all over the place at times. But it's still a pretty good film making, it's a dark and yet somewhat humorous film that does a good job of showing Chopper as it's main attention and center of it all. This has a good blend of fact and fiction in it and isn't one of those movies that it's better to just pass on.7.8/10 "},{"Title":"So this is why Eric Bana has gotten the attention he has","Date":"14 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I've never seen a better portrait of a criminal ever, bar none. Not Cagney, not Brando, not anyone in memory. Eric Bana is completely convincing and so dead accurate, it's a little disconcerting. How is this even possible? There's no way this could happen if Bana hadn't seen and known the real thing sometime in his real life. This explains a lot. I frankly didn't understand why he was winning as many major roles as he has. But this one early role (2000) is so masterful it's in a league of its own. The setting is Australian, and for me that means putting the captions on. Bana is at least 30 pounds heavier than you've ever seen him but there's not one false move, look, or gesture out of him the entire film which is a sort of chronicle of the middle part of this criminal's life. I was completely flabbergasted. and ultimately in awe of this film. I did not expect this at all. This is not a humorous take, or a showy action-packed one. It's a straight on view into the life of a famous Australian criminal that you will never forget. I'm going to assume its available on DVD. Rent it one night when your neighbors are making too much noise. "},{"Title":"A morally dubious yet fascinating account of one of Australia's crooked legends","Date":"11 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Since the fairly recent release of Bronson, a bio-pic.,chronicling the life of one of Britain 's most notorious criminals. It would be easy to have forgotten that it was a mere nine years ago at the turn of the century that the similarly themed Chopper hit cinema screens. A character study of one of Australia's most notorious and consequently, revered thugs. The dubious legend that is, Mark Brandon Chopper Read. The film helm-ed and penned by native Australian film director Andrew Dominik. It also had the distinction of being the cinematic work that initially brought actor Eric Bana to a wider world wide consciousness inevitably bringing him to Hollywood. And with his jaw dropping magnetic, metamorphic performance in Chopper It's not hard to see why. Opening with a grim, cold exterior view of Pentridge prison to the strains of Frankie Lane's melancholy rendering of Don't Fence me in, presenting immediately an indication of Dominik's, subversive technique which is partially utilised within the film. It's from there on that the writer/director is pretty expedient in establishing the complex walking contradiction that the man is. An unpredictably, violent, reprehensible show boat. As well as openly conveying a bemusing remorse or apologetic nature for his actions. It's with this in mind that with brief shots of newspaper articles as well as the recognition that the man receives. As well as the eventual testament of his notoriety and fandom, through fan mail that the unlikely celebrity, inwardly validates his flagrant self promotion. Having, no other motive, for his mind-less, actions other than to make a name for him self. As well as a shallow, pathetic need for adulation or love. Which is hinted at upon the release of the older although arguably not so much wiser Read, which affords us to view his prickly relationship with his, at time's verbally acidic, morally reprehensible father(Kenny Graham). A man with which Read seems to have a pseudo loving, relationship with, mirroring slightly the unconventional affiliations and relationships he has with the supporting antagonists/protagonists. His prostitute girlfriend Tanya (Kate Beahan) with whom the Aussie crook has a more, prickly and verbally abusive co-existence with. Small time drug baron, Neville Bartos (Vince Colisimo) and his cronies as well as two members of the local constabulary, (Bill Young, Peter Hardy) who Read is covertly recruited and employed by as an informant. While not forgetting the roguish sociopaths visit to former prison cell-mate and recruit turned turncoat and now junkie Jimmy Loughnan (Simon Lyndon). Now married to the heavily pregnant and obnoxious, loud mouth spouse Mandy (Skye Wansey). All characters and actors effortlessly bounce of Bana/Read, their reactions to the man reflecting the audience's bemusement. But how much is fact and how much is fiction is something to some extent isn't of too great importance. As Read quite knowing points out early on. Never let the truth get in the way of a good story. And it's something that Dominik most likely adheres to. Conceding that with the man,(who himself wrote several auto-biographies)you never quite knew how much truth behind the myth there was, which lends a nice, ambiguous touch and contrast to the man. The duplicity which is the man that is Mark Brandon Read, and his dubiously, legendary personae. With the inevitable conclusion that Reads unpredictable nature eventually makes him public enemy number one (look out for a wickedly sublime moment where Chopper attempts to extort money from Bartos in his luxury home). It also cement's the bizarreness of Reads contradictory personality in a sublime moment of eccentricity, the rouge aids in spiriting the drug baron to seek medical attention at hospital. True or false it is part and parcel of the folkloric image behind the villain. Shot in mainly dark, dim lighting which beautifully evokes the mood of the movie as well as the murky morality of the man as is the media attention he receives. And It's to some extent that the movie in It's self is not above scrutiny. After all, although not necessarily attempting to glorify Read there is something questionable about basing a movie around a person who is for the most part without any real ethics or moral code other than to bathe in the light of his permissible celebrity. Not to mention that several light hearted moments, namely a scene where a subversive moment where in the events of a shooting are retold. Recited as a black nursery rhyme by three cast members, to the strains of Old Lang Sine. It's professionally orchestrated and yet with some of the black laced humour of the movie. It is in danger of being misinterpreted as flippantly playing down the severity of Reads actions. An error which it can be argued can be easily made in other cult movies which chronicle the actions of protagonists with questionable scruples. I.e. Trainspotting, The Krays.The end result is a film that is both at turns a fascinating insight, all be it a flawed one in to the mythological as well factual account of one man. One who arguably should be exempt from any attention or interest he may receive. But in a world where the media and the skewered perception of certain people hold's sway. Sinners can quite easily be turned in to saints and vice versa. In this respect Dominks film is quite apt and in some small way as in Oliver Stone's Natural Born Killer's. Is something that the writer/director is striving to highlight. "},{"Title":"I grew to like Chopper","Date":"11 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Chopper is one of those cult classic movies that people bang on about to the point where you just want to watch it to get over and done with. From the very start all I can say is that Chopper is far from a sightly or pleasant human being. His actions are also reprehensible and clearly indicate the the behaviour of someone who is clearly mentally troubled but however in the end Chopper's wit and cunning and his ability to out smart the police are what make him well likable in his own way. Top notch deliverance from Eric Bana , who was almost completely unrecognisable as Chopper.CHOPPER 8.1 OUT OF 10 "},{"Title":"A Real Eye-Opener","Date":"13 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I have just finished watching Chopper for the millionth time, I can't seem to get enough. It is unlike anything I have seen before, a severely dark, almost comedic movie, which illustrates just how ruthless one guy can be. With that being said, Mark Read Chopper, played unbelievably well by a younger Eric Bana, has an alter ego which is much more human. As he says himself, the average man doesn't fear him, he only took out drug dealers and murderers apparently. But from start to finish this movie had me captivated, so interesting and graphic, about as real as violence gets in front of a movie camera. This movie did for Eric Bana what Romper Stomper did for Russell Crowe, and he gave such a realistic portrayal of Chopper, having seen interviews with the man himself. The only film for me that comes close style-wise is an Irish movie called The General, well worth checking out. Finally, the only reason it gets 9 instead of 10 is the fact that it only lasts 90mins, cause I could watch a 3hr version no problem. "},{"Title":"Eric Bana delivers one of the best performances in cinema history! EVER!","Date":"13 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":" It is a disgrace that this film did not get more worldwide recognition at it's time of release.Chopper really is a fantastic film full of memorable moments that you will remember and laugh at again and again for years to come.The film is based on the life of one of Australias most notorious career criminals, who allegedly killed almost twenty people and only ever went on trial for one, for which he was acquitted.Some people criticise the film because it is obviously not an exact account of events, they obviously didn't read the films tag line The truth, the whole truth and nothing like the truth! This film was intended to be a dramatisation of events and was co-written by Mark Chopper Read himself. And he never tries to hide the fact that he makes up a story or two.If you haven't seen this film yet, make sure you do! 10/10 "},{"Title":"Manages to fully develop its infamous protagonist","Date":"31 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Chopper is one of the most audaciously original films I've seen in a long while. It proves once and for all if you have a good script you don't need a high budget. The film was obviously made on the cheap but it hardly matters. Even though its not flawless, Chopper essentially has a story to tell and tells it very well. The films only flaw is that it seems to rush his rise to fame towards the end a bit (for once I wish the filmmakers had added on a half hour). Still, it manages to fully develop its infamous protagonist. This is as much a character study as it is a crime drama.As Chopper, Eric Bana is revelatory. Bana perfectly delivers the hilarious script by Andrew Dominik. He alternates between childlike naivety and extreme brutality. Bana makes the character believable despite his intense and unpredictable mood swings and manages to avoid going over-the-top. Giving a ludicrous portrayal would be very easy to do for Mark Read, who is a larger-than-life individual. Fortunately, Bana is completely perfect. Its obvious from the start the man had talent.The direction and writing by Andrew Dominik are very good also. The film is always entertaining and quickly paced and the dialog alternates from hilarious and charming to chilling and dangerous, just like Chopper himself. As I said earlier, the film seems a bit too condensed and should have been longer, but what we have is still one of the finest films of the decade. I'm looking forward to Dominik's future projects. (8/10) "},{"Title":"CHOPPER - Australian Icon","Date":"17 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Chopper is a household name now, just as Ned Kelly, and the film is brilliant.!! Only problem i have is i beg you all to go and read his books, it'll explain so much and you'll totally understand whats really going' on, grab the first 4!! I've met Chopper twice now on his tour, and his shows are funny as hell, and gross. But back to the movie....what can i say that hasn't been said, Eric Bana plays him brilliant but in a more comical way, Simon Lyndon done an excellent job and with the budget the filmmakers got they done it turned out great.I know all about Chopper and cant help but wish for certain things they should have added for the film every time i watch it, or tell the person next to me how things happened and what didn't happen. But once i see past that all, Chopper is one of the best made and well acted movie's in Australia and I'm proud of it!!!10/10 hey Keithy!!! "},{"Title":"Aussie classic","Date":"20 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Worldwide acclaim for an Australian film is uncommon in recent years. Chopper is a deserving of all praise received. Brilliant performances and screen-play stand out in this true story. Chopper would not be an easy character to play but Eric Bana succeeds and presents a realistic portrayal of Chopper with toughness, insanity, brutality and vulgarity in perfect balance.A resultantly flawless film would have been achieved if not for a few flaws. Some characters are not constructed well and quality acting is missing in some performances probably as a result of casting limitations.Chopper is a love-hate film which would not suit all audiences due to the freakish violence and storyline based on thuggery, drug abuse and evangelism. "}{"Title":"Must See Film","Date":"16 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is one of my favourite movies of all time. I am Australian and live in Perth and if you aren't Australian and want to watch the best Aussie film ever made-this is it.For those of you who aren't in the know, and i will assume thats anyone who does not live in Australia, Mark Brandon Read (Chopper as we know him) is an infamous Australian criminal. Less well known for his actual crimes, he made a name for himself by having his ears CHOPPED off whilst in prison. He also is hard to miss, having extensive tattooing all over his body. Lastly, most well known after writing around 10 best selling books again whilst in prison.This movie is a semi-biographical look at Chopper and his life. Many of the things in the movie are mixtures of real events that Chopper claims to have happened, however, the things that he says happened are open to discussion as he has no proof. Usually the most shocking parts of the film are the ones that have actually happened.To understand Australian culture is to understand this movie. I will say that yes, in some circles Chopper is a legend. he is definitely an Australian Icon whether Australia wants him to be or not. Brief history of Australia will cement the fact that we look up to criminals-look at Ned Kelly. So yes, Chopper is a part of Australian culture.After seeing the film and having read several of the books, i was interested in meeting him. Many people who live in Melbourne have met him as he lives there usually. Luckily i didn't have to wait long, as he toured not long after, and he still tours every now and then. Well his tour consists of him going to the local pub to talk about his life, share some stories, answer some questions and then sign Chopper memorabilia. (books, dvds etc) After getting my autograph and having a quick hello, my image of the man was shattered as yes the real thing is a disappointment. He does not like women. I am a woman. Otherwise he was true to form, everything Eric Bana portrays is to a T!Speaking of Eric Bana, he is an amazing actor, a great export from Oz. See the movie, it is sick and funny and scary. This man does exist. People look up to him. Though i might say he was not born like this...he has had Electric Shock Therapy and i believe he was made into a monster.I'm just a bloody normal bloke. A normal bloke who likes a bit of torture. Chopper Read ENJOY! "},{"Title":"Aussie bloke kills a lot of people","Date":"3 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Eric Bana excels in this film about Australia's most notorious criminal. Bana plays the weird and wonderful Mark Brandon Chopper Read, a larger-than-life character who spent his life either in prison or committing crimes that put him back inside. A truly fascinating film, Andrew Dominik explores the bizarre mentality of a ruthless killer and petty criminal, who appears to kill people for no reason whatsoever, but then makes up and exaggerates stories afterwards so that by the end the audience are left wondering what actually happened, and if it even did happen.Despite his arrogance and his self-righteousness it very easy to be captivated by Chopper, something which is largely down to Bana's superb performance. The film flows incredibly well, and although we can never be sure of the accuracy of the stories, Dominik has shown that side also. A good film that offers a different side to the crime genre. "},{"Title":"mad chopper","Date":"21 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":" i thought the chopper film was good because if you have read the books you just really want to see a film made out of it. the film its self could have been a lot better if someone like Tarentino had directed it i still think there is a lot more room 4 more movies to be made. what happened was i brought the book thought it was very funny and mad.sorry if your reading this chop chop but u r an absolute nutand needs serious metal treatment your a gangster serial killer in 1 of his books his says he beat up a man after the mans mums funeral. your not as loyal as you make out . anyway the book and films are good but the film could be a lot better there's so much more to do out of all them books. any i think your funny but you are an evil chopper. sorry if the spelling is bad "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"13 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Andrew Dominik and Eric Bana have created something which is unusual, a perfect film. Their work, with its tension humour and passion challenges modern cinema. It is a multidimensional piece which doesn't attempt to synthesise its artistry into an easily digestible form, it refuses to let itself exist in compromise. The film is both dark and light, funny and terrifying. The good guy is the bad guy. Those of you who have access to the DVD format will have the joy of witnessing Eric bana and Chopper repeating the story of 'Hookey the Cripple'. Chopper's dialogue merges into Bana's with uncanny ease and symmetry. One is almost unable to distinguish who is mimicking whom. If you have not seen this film, I urge you to do so. "},{"Title":"Bana's Brilliant.","Date":"11 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is a film that defies all expectation. It seduces you with humor, and craft. The performances, especially Bana's, are absolutely brilliant. This is a filmmaker with an extraordinary sense of tone. I look forward to what he will do next, and I am a Bana fan for life. "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"1 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Eric Bana is superb in this very sharp and very funny take on the life of Mark 'Chopper' Read. It's not a film concerned with telling the truth nor challenging Chopper's way of life. It's an indulgent and wicked film not to be taken too seriously. It's quite short for a biography but then this isn't like any other biography I've ever seen. An under-rated classic. "},{"Title":"A good introduction in australian movie culture","Date":"17 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I've seen this movie in Derby, WA, Australia. This place is somewhere in the middle of nowhere. My australian friend Jess said you have to watch CHOPPER. And she was right. An amazing movie about an amazing story. A real story !A must see, for anybody from overseas who wants to understand a bit more of the australian culture ;-)  "},{"Title":"10 out of 10","Date":"1 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  'Chopper' is a fantastic film. its another great classic to come out of the australian film market along with, Adventures of Priscilla, Queen of the Desert and murials wedding. again just proving that big budget CGI filled, hollywood movies arent the be all and end all in movies Eric Bana is brilliant in 'chopper' and after seeing him in 'Black hawk down' he is definetly an actor to watch out for.  "},{"Title":"STAR MAKING TURN BY ERIC BANA!!","Date":"19 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This film has 'cult classic' written all over it! Relative newcomer Eric Bana steals the show playing Australias most notorious criminal. This very dark comedy is as shocking as it is funny, with some truely unforgetable moments along the way! Played with gusto and directed with real style, this is one film you most definately don't wanna overlook.......... 9/10 FANTASTIC!!! "},{"Title":"Really sucks you in","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I loved Chopper.  I saw this movie for the first time at the cinemas just when I was really beginning to get a bit depressed about the kind of movies you see in cinemas 'these days', and Chopper just blew me away (so to speak).This film effortlessly mixes a stark and bleak depiction of prison and underworld life, naturalistic conversation and convincing character portraits with highly stylistic, theatrical sets and backgrounds.If you prefer characterization, plot, dry wit and black humour over high-budget special effects and regurgitated, sappy movie plots, watch this film.  It's not always a pleasant experience, but it's well worth the trip. "}{"Title":"Just see this film!","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  One thing many people might not know is that 'Chopper' is not only a brilliant film, but is based on the happenings of real life Melbourne crim Mark 'Chopper' Read! Not only that Chopper is still alive and kicking! Unlike most gangster films, 'Chopper' is based on facts!  Find this film and see it! Eric Bana is a find!  "},{"Title":"One of the better movies I've seen in a while","Date":"22 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  A friend of mine had picked up this DVD based on the fact that Eric Bana was going to play the lead in the big screen adaptation of one my favorite comic book characters, The Incredible Hulk. Roger Ebert presciently noted that Bana would probably show up in a special effects picture.The movie is so brutal. It doesn't pull any punches or artfully suggest anything. It is literally balls out (i.e. the scene where Chopper has his junk hanging out while talking to the cops at the public bar.)I really enjoyed Andrew Dominick's take on being high on cocaine, everything slightly sped up but the sound normal and in synch. I had never seen anything quite like it. Most filmmakers have taken to copping Scorsese's licks when it comes to this, cameras whizzing, pushing in and out incredibly quickly.I liked how the main character makes no apologies for himself and doesn't ask for our pity.(Compare to Blow)He makes for an interesting persona. I don't know that I'd ever want to meet the guy personally. To tell you the truth, he kind of scares me. But if I ever find this DVD or any of his books I'll be sure to pick them up. "},{"Title":"The best Aussie movie ever!!!!","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Awesome script, brilliantly shot, kick-ass cast - EVERYTHING about this film is EXCELLENT.  Eric Bana does this better than anyone could and hopefully will kickstart a successful movie career for him as he has great potential. Great humour for a film which is quite gruesome in spots.  "},{"Title":"Holy guacamole!!!!!!","Date":"3 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  faded out colors, an amazing story, and Eric Bana! I am shivering. Spooked me to the core. The use of color to offset this tale is so well-managed that I had trouble driving home. This is better than Henry, Man Bites Dog, and The Cook the Thief. Makes Payback look like a walk in the park. I am amazed! Well worth seeing.  "},{"Title":"funny, brutal, chopper is an all round good lad.","Date":"28 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This film is really good watching and you don't get much better one liners, This is a real insight to how a criminal mind shouldn't work. The film had me laughing from start to finish,  i recommend that you watch this film. "},{"Title":"Fantastic film","Date":"28 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Eric Bana's sociopathic performance is truly magnificent. He is a gifted performer.  Though extremely violent, the film is genuinely funny, intelligent, and totally original. The use of time lapse and fast-motion photography are particularly stunning. If Eric Bana doesn't become a superstar, it will be a crime.  "},{"Title":"Romper Chopper","Date":"14 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Chopper, Andrew Dominik's fictionalized movie about real life Australian crazy Mark chopper Read is a strong visceral film with many dark patches of black humor throughout. This is a tough and sometimes difficult film to watch because of the unreleting violence that spills out from the screen and the general nastiness of not only Chopper but all of the characters in the film. This is not a film for everyone, which is a shame, because its one of the best films (if not the best) of 2000, and anyone interested in film and acting must see it. This is outlaw cinema for real, and I have to wonder what the hell Andrew Dominik the director & writer of the film will do as a follow up. To me on the basis of this first film of his, Dominik appears to be one of the more original filmmakers around, but I fear that like many of his fellow Australian movie makers he'll be gobbled up by Hollywood,which might be exactly what Mr. Dominik is hoping for. Based on the life and career of the bigger than life criminal and murderer Mark Chopper Read, the film begins in prison where Chopper is serving jail time for trying to kidnap a judge. The raw and shocking violence begins here, and continues as the film follows Chopper after he gets released from jail. At one point he tells his low life junkie whore girlfriend that he would like to have a normal life and watch the sunsets like everyone else, this is said right before he goes into one of his rages, and beats Tanya to a pulp, and knocks out her mom when she tries to get him to stop. This is just one example of the stuff Chopper pulls, and is one of the milder scenes in the film. You laugh as you cringe. Dominik uses short and taunt scenes to tell this strange fierce story,he doesn't want to bore. The editing is sharp and fast, the acting is fine and Eric Bana as Chopper gives a great and stunning performance, this is a star is born role, he's that good and new. You can't take your eyes off him, even though you want to turn your face away from all the havoc that he wrecks. "},{"Title":"masterpiece","Date":"13 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Without question one of the finest films ever made. Every aspect of this film works, not least the masterful script and performance of Eric Bana. Personally, I put this film above Taxi Driver. It is black, and funny and entertaining and ultimately, true. I am also very proud to say - very AUSTRALIAN. "},{"Title":"Geez, this is plush!","Date":"6 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Probably the best Australian film in years, Chopper is the story of Mark Brandon 'Chopper' Read, convicted criminal and best-selling author, whose stories about his life in and out of prison are now best-sellers. Eric Bana gives, in my opinion, one of the ten best performances ever given as Read, and the supporting cast do a fine job with their roles as well. Brutal, compelling, and funny as hell at times, Chopper is an instant classic, probably the best Australian film since Mad Max 2. Unfortunately, it has warranted an NC-17 classification, which will limit people from seeing this truly excellent film. "},{"Title":"What a great film from OZ!!!","Date":"25 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is definitely one of the best films i've seen in a long time. I like to class it as a comedy but there are violent scenes that are not for the squeamish. Wicked camera work and cinematography. Classic line (as Chopper works himself up in a club) I'm gonna nip this in the bud. Has to be seen for effect. Class!!!  "}{"Title":"The best Australian film I've ever seen!!!","Date":"25 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This film is beautifully acted, written and directed, it both shocked me and had me laughing in hysterics at the same time. For anyone with a love for black comedy I highly recommend this picture and for anyone who wants a highly intense well directed movie check this out.    "},{"Title":"Quietly brilliant","Date":"30 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  A hugely promising debut from music video maestro Dominik, Chopper is in my opinion a contender for best film of 2000.Comparable with Fight Club for its superior balance of style and substance, Chopper is a film that almost defies description, and contains (in my opinion) one of the finest central performances I've seen in over a decade. Australian comedian Eric Bana is absolutely astonishing as Chopper. The film could have simply rested on his shoulders, and still it would've been absolutely riveting. Luckily it doesn't, and Chopper remains a clever, funny and ultimately sad biopic of a truly unique human being.  "},{"Title":"Good film - bad man!","Date":"28 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  If you are a fan of the black comedy (Man Bites Dog, Clockwork Orange) then you will know not to take Chopper too seriously, though it seems quite disturbing that this film is based on an actual person (Mark Chopper Reid). All too often these ultra violent black comedies suffer from bad taste humour and lack of good screen writing - however this film doesn't fall into this category. Brilliant performances by Eric Bana (Chopper) and Simon Lyndon (Jimmy Loughnan) and moments of brilliance from the director (Andrew Dominik) make this film well worth seeing. I would say this is the most visually violent film I have seen in many years and honestly made me turn from the screen on several occasions (Reservoir Dogs hasn't got a look-in for the ear chopping stuff compared to this!), however the brilliance of this film along with it's performances is it's clever script and sharp dialogue - the most stubborn viewer will find it hard to resist  laughing at some of the most shocking scenes in the film basically because the dialogue and characters are so funny in this film. I think this film should be viewed as a triumph of good film making and not a triumph of the main character Chopper (even though you can't help but like him in the film), I'm giving this film 8/10 but my only concern is that the real Mark Chopper Reid is sitting in his cell right now feeling like a superstar and all pleased with himself (even though the film shows Chopper sitting in his cell at the end of the picture with a look of sadness in his face) because the events of his life have been shown to the public through film. "},{"Title":"Eric Bana should win an Oscar","Date":"15 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Chopper is a draining but fantastic movie. The star, Eric Bana, should seriously be considered for an Academy Award nomination for Best Actor. Maybe this is small pond insecurity on the part of an Australian, a long way from The Academy but if this was an American film featuring a recognised American actor, Bana's performance would be receiving rave reviews. Not only is his portrayal of real life former hit man Chopper Read a chilling and multi-leveled performance, but in reality Bana is a quiet, shy comedian, ... meaning the role is 180 degrees from the man himself. As a piece of pure acting, it is a must see.  "},{"Title":"Amazing!","Date":"15 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is the most original movie I have seen for ages. Everything about it was so different and wonderful - lighting, cinematography, direction, script, characters, plot...everything. And the most amazing thing is that if Chopper wasn't a real guy the movie would be ridiculous - no writer would get away with creating a ficitonal character as bizarre, outrageous, revolting, hilarious and all together over-the-top as Chopper. Eric Bana is just brilliant and I can't wait for this directors next film.Go see this! "},{"Title":"Entertaining, biopic of an Australian Legend","Date":"8 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I went into the movie expecting to find out about Mark Chopper Reid, I came out not knowing a lot more except the fact Chopper was cool, and that is what the filmmakers wanted you to take out of it anyway. Despite a real lack of plot it doesn't matter because you are so entertained by Chopper. The writing is great, there are so many memorable quotes I was still thinking about them for days afterwards. You should see this movie at least to see the other side of Australia "},{"Title":"Witty, gritty, gruesome, great!","Date":"7 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":" 'Chopper' would have to be one of the finer film offerings to come out of Australia this year. Superbly cast and directed with the utmost sense of believability close at hand, it is a fast-paced, often humourous, often violent, often jaw-dropping look at one of Australias most notorious criminals.Eric Bana plays the role of Mark 'Chopper' Reid to perfection, after reportedly working very closely with the man himself in the weeks leading up to the shoot. The film focusses solely on his character, and Bana is able to give a flawless and realistic portrayal of a fairly extreme man.There are several scenes of strong graphic violence which may not be suitable for some peoples tastes, earning the film a local 'R-rating'. But so long as you go into the film understanding that you are about to see a film based on actual crimes, people and events, then the extremity doesn't seem to exaggerate nor detract from the story at all.A fantastic film, full of quirk, wit, action, and a whole lot of tattoes... 10/10! "},{"Title":"A monster, a rogue, a killer and altogether fascinating","Date":"31 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  While it may seem morally questionable to make a movie about a criminal who has spent much of his life in jail and claims to have murdered 19 people the story of Mark (Chopper) Read makes compulsive viewing. As written and directed by Andrew Dominik and portrayed by Eric Bana, Chopper is a monster, a rogue, a tell of tall stories, a killer and altogether fascinating. Bana delivers a tour de force performance, possibly the finest by an Australian actor in the last 10 years. This is a violent, confronting movie that will shock and dismay. It is also extremely funny and moving and it delves into the psyche of this at times terrible individual. Those concerned the movie is a glorification of a criminal need have few concerns. After watching Chopper I doubt anyone would want to live the life Mark Read has lived.  "},{"Title":"Australian psycho","Date":"2 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Cinema's fascination with serial killers often seems overdone are such freaks really so interesting? But 'Chopper', the story of an Australian psychopath, is an immaculately made film, and a terrifying portrait of a man utterly unsocialised, but completely human. Eric Bana is superb in the role, and the underside of Australin life is depicted without any glamour, although the film itself, by its very nature, can only add to the real killer's mystique. And with no point of emotional attachment, one is left wondering, what is this film actually for, beyond the mere depiction of awfulness? Perhaps the Choppers of this world are really best forgotten. "},{"Title":"my opinion of Chopper","Date":"20 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Eric Bana as Chopper has to be the best, most excellent role of his acting career. With the added bonus of having comedic experience behind him,Bana makes the whole film a joy to watch, and personally, I couldn't stop laughing all the way through!! The Real Chopper Read is an excellent character to base a motion picture on, partly due to his colourful background, but also due to the absolutely laughable situations he has found himself in throughout his life. I have the enhanced DVD version of the film, which features some clips of The Man himself - a useful insight to the inner workings of a murderous mind! It might seem like Chopper is just another thug; but in all honesty, he is so much more than that - he set out to be the most-feared stand-over-man in all Australia & I think we can safely say he has achieved his goal! "}{"Title":"Explicit and Disturbingly Funny","Date":"24 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I'm normally squeamish, but it was my roommate, a big guy who prides himself on being unflappable, who was squirming while watching Chopper. Maybe it was the Australian accents saying unexpectedly nasty things (Aussies, contrary to Qantas and Outback Steakhouse advertising, are not all nice!), maybe it was the graphic violence with realistic, slowly bleeding consequences - whatever it was, he could barely watch, while I was fascinated. The clever cinematography, and the sly stylization of the film really enhanced the content. It's rare that a film based on books can get that weird, idiosyncrasy that comes with autobiographical writing, but I think that's what was so entrancing about the film. It was scary because it felt like Chopper, rather than just being about him. It's well worth seeing; however, if you can deal with movie violence, but not depictions that try to get at the sickening, banal evil of the real thing, this won't be for you. Oh, and get ready to be disturbed by how funny you find it. "},{"Title":"For those who take their comedy black with no sugar...","Date":"20 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  *MINOR SPOILERS*I've never really been a fan of violent movies.  So it was with some trepidation that I finally sat down and watched Chopper about six months ago.  I've watched it two or three times since, and it's only since Eric Bana has become the latest Hollywood it boy that I felt compelled to comment.  Because, very simply, Eric is the star of the show.  It's a masterful piece of acting.At the end of the day, career crim Mark 'Chopper' Read it presented as a bit of a sad git.  He's paranoid and has a serious anger management problem.  In Pentonville prison, he stabs one of his many enemies in the face with a pair of pliers, then offers him a cigarette by way of apology.  In the movie's most disturbing scene, we watch as he instructs a fellow inmate to hack off his ears.  There is no rhyme or reason to Chopper.  He dances to the beat of his own drum.When he's released from prison, he has a few scores to settle.  Or does he?  It becomes impossible to separate fact from fiction.  Chopper is a teller of tall tails!  He spreads rumours about himself, then denies them.  Is he working for the police?  Do half the drug dealers in Melbourne have a contract on his life?  Or is Chopper just some sort of paranoid schizophrenic?This is Eric Bana's movie.  Supporting characters come and go, we aren't given enough information to care about them.  Bana's screen presence is incredible.  He IS Chopper.  Whenever he's on screen, he commands attention.  A lot of detail is left out- the screenwriters seem to assume that the viewer will be familiar with Chopper's story.  Most of us here in Oz are, but I can imagine overseas audiences being a little mystified.  His writing is thrown in ten minutes from the end as almost an afterthought.  His connections to half the people he antagonises aren't fully explained.Something that surprised me is how funny this movie is.  I was laughing out loud for most of it.  The most amazing part of Bana's performance is that his Chopper is likable.  You're actually rooting for him!  He's portrayed as a bit of a larrikin, a genuine down to earth Aussie bloke.  This is a man who punches his girlfriend in the face, then headbutts her mother.  He's fond of waving his gun at people.  He exposes himself to women in bars.  The fact that we don't find him completely reprehensible is a testiment to the subtlety of Bana's performance.  He has Chopped down pat.  His voice.  His mannerisms.  His genuine but slightly off kilter charm.  You're invited to almost feel sorry for him.  He loves the media circus he has created, but the final scene is of him sitting in his prison cell, alone and cut off from a world in which he is really nothing but a novelty.It's not pretty.  In fact, in places is downright disturbing.  But the comparisons to movies like Lock Stock and Two Smoking Barrels are justified. "},{"Title":"Hilariously Funny, Dark and Violent","Date":"2 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  One day my Film Studies teacher never turned up for our lecture so the whole class was bored as it was a miserable day till one of the students in the name of Rhys who is actually a French Director bringing out a independent film next year called `Les Amis' let us watch a film that he had rented the night before and it was Chopper.   I heard of the film but I had never seen or even knew what it was about.  All I knew was how extreme it and funny it was all at the same time.   Eric Bana was also a name that I had never come across apart from what I saw of him in black Hawk Down and even then I didn't know him but Chopper was his big break.    The extra's on the DVD are just hilarious when you watch the real Mark Chopper Read in action and when he was demonstrating to Eric Bana how his ears were cut off and what he was saying when it happened.   What was most funny when the real Chopper couldn't believe how long it was going to take for the actual film to be released.   In the eyes of the public and Chopper of course  movie take a year or so but the interview took place in 98 and was told that the movie was to be officially released and his words `The Year 2000, I'll be dead by then'.   That's how he is, just a big paranoid schizophrenic. From watching Mark Read in the extras Eric Bana plays him down to a tee. The Violence is top notch and just as disturbing as any other film but it's the dark humour which keeps you from thinking that this really happened but it did and that's what scary about the film.   If you come across Chopper then don't think about watching it just do it because you will not be disappointed and you will laugh your ass off all the way through it but for the wrong reasons. "},{"Title":"Greatest Criminal Film Ever","Date":"27 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Chopper is one of the best films ever made. It shows what actually happens in a criminals mind. The scene where he has his ears hacked off is one of the most graphic pieces of cinema I have ever seen. Also when Jimmy Loughnan Stabs Mark in the cells Eric Banna brings that scene to life when you see the hurt on his face, not from the knife but from the pain of being betrayed. How ever the tables turn when later in the film chopper goes to Jimmy flat. Whenb Jimmy answers the door you see the fear flood in to his face for he does not know the purpose of Marks visit. There will never again be a film with such realism in it ever again. Some people might feel that I am going over the top but those people obviously have not seen the film or even read the book!  "},{"Title":"Undecided on this entertaining mix of fact and fiction","Date":"4 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Chopper is the life (or selected highlights) of Mark Brandon Read, Australia's second most notorious killer and provides no story other than the popularised myth; including a disclaimer to that effect, and very entertaining it is too.  Eric Bana exudes charisma as Read, his crimes may be horrifying but when he drives his victims to the hospital after getting what he wants, how can you not like him?  And though I found it enjoyable, that's also the problem with it.Chopper is portrayed as a real life Mr Blonde, glamorised as a witty killer (the commentary track suggests that having had his own ears cut off, he should have been Tarantino's Ear Cutting Technical Advisor &#150; `They don't stop bleeding') but the thing is, Mr Blonde is fictional.  The film follows the trend of West end gangsters releasing books that recite with pride the gory details of their crimes and the ethics behind them, as if `I only killed other criminals' should validate cold blooded murder.  When tall tales are told in Big Fish, they don't do any harm.  Here, Choppers theory of `Never let ting the truth get in the way of a good yarn' isn't sufficiently conveyed to an audience that might well take it all as gospel.   It would be obtuse to complain about the violence in a film about the life of Chopper Read, he is unrepentant, in fact proud of his crimes (convicted or not), so you must expect and accept a certain level of bloodshed, which I do.  But a little background would have gone a long way, the scant scenes with his father could have been expanded (another commentary nugget is that his dad was never more than an arms length from his shotgun) why don't we get more insight into what made Chopper what he is?7/10 "},{"Title":"A bizarrely true account of a notorious criminal","Date":"17 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Chopper is a brief study on Australian criminal Mark Brandon Read, a/k/a Chopper (intensely portrayed by Eric Bana).  In the course of ninety minutes (which isn't enough to tell Read's life), viewers see how Chopper earns his reputation from his prison days to his release in the eighties.  The criminal underworld, the police and even the media takes notice of Read, thus propelling him into an unorthodox celebrity.        The docudrama fails to show Read's modus operandi, how and why he enters the criminal milieu.  It purposely begins with his incarceration in the seventies.  What is lost from the story structure is gained by the gritty visual style and, most notably, Bana's performance.  It is no wonder why he has made an impression with American audiences lately.      Chopper is definitely not for the squeamish.  I recommend checking out the DVD for commentary by the director & Read and interview footage of Read.  (3/4)  "},{"Title":"Eric Bana ROCKS","Date":"17 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  After reading the rating for this movie i've buyed it on DVD. Best thing about this movie is eric bana's acting work. The aggression, paranoia, and the low IQ, are all perfectly set up. I'm impressed what a great actor eric bana actually is after seeing this movie. just WOW! "},{"Title":"Fantastic!!!","Date":"8 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Chopper hits you straight to face!!! The incredible brutality and simplicity makes this film one of the best (can i say portrait) that ever has been done. No fancy s***, just life. Normal life of an average person!  I think best issue in this film is that it's not been done like Hollywood movie Maybe I have seen those too much, and I'm so very tired to see people that Wont do any mistakes, Things just roll like everybody assumes. Nothing ever happen in those films. Nobody won't ever be insecure or unstable. Well, Mark chopper is!!! And confident also.. In a good way ) And the Acting of Bana, Lyndon, Field, Wyllie and Kenny Graham... Just Awesome!!!  ..Just Awesome. I Just couldn't stop laughing while watched this film.. Very entertaining!!! "},{"Title":"Eric Bana break out!","Date":"26 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Perhaps the best film to come out of Australia in the past memorable years, Chopper is unrelentingly funny, quick, and full of potential. Eric Bana takes hold of this role, as the real life Mark Chopper Read did with the Aussies attention. The film begins with Read incarcerated for an attack on former friend Neville Bartos, played by the equally engaging Vince Colosimo. Moving back in time to his first prison stay, the character development of Chopper takes place through various relationships and violent encounters. What stays with us is the ironic guilt Chopper holds for his actions. Always remorseful, ever charming Mark Read commits acts of aggression against himself and others with an unusual penchant for humor. Whether with the flick of a pistol or the switch of a blade, Chopper moves through life with what he perhaps believes is control. All evidence would prove contrary as space only exists between his times in jail and not in-spite of them.Skewed and out-of-sorts, the film along with its main-character bounce through the tumultuous crime riddled years of his infamous career. Overwhelming at times the picture achieves success through following Read closely, revealing his nuances and tastes... which seem to end just beyond animal instincts. Though that's the Chopper Read you most certainly love to love! And we do love him. In a very up-front and honest way his character is precisely the type of criminal one would hope to know, if one had to know one. Forthright with his intentions we are never lead to think he wants anything out of life... excluding loyalty, and your money of course. Perhaps the only thing getting in the way of him being the nastiest of Australian thugs is his need to amuse those fans he has found by default. Ultimately leading to a best seller on the Down-Under book shelves, Read is refreshing in that he admits to all his crimes. Though he's only ever prosecuted for one of them.Chopper is a terrific film for the independent fan. Winner of the Sundance film festival, and catalyst for Bana's current popularity here in the US Chopper is at times too much for the average movie-goer... though if you're on the look for a movie in the way of Reservoir Dogs or any ultra-violent, black comedy than Chopper is for you. "},{"Title":"Absolute rip-snorting brilliance!","Date":"24 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Not immediately evident whether CHOPPER's greatness originates principally from Bana's ballsy interpretation of the real media-loving criminal fruitcake who's biography this work is loosely based on, or courtesy of director Dominik's creative flair. Whatever, the film is without argument (why?  because I decree it thus!!) up there in the top ten Aussie movies of all time (Hey, wouldn't THAT provoke some dissent?)Mark Chopper Read is a one-off, in his own words Just a normal guy who likes a bit of torture.  This film neither glorifies, judges, analyses or even comments on, his rare life-style. It simply entertains in a curiously violent/comedic manner. That such excessive brutality can be made to provoke gut-wrenching laughter is a tribute to a director with obviously much yet to produce. Bana takes over, fascinates and generates every last viewer-emotion from repugnance to pathos as he hands down a portrayal of a man from the shadier parts of town, one you really WOULDN'T want showing up at your daughter's 21st birthday party!Many decried the latter part of the film, claiming the makers had run out of ideas and spontaneity. I disagree. The closing scenes of Chopper happy in the very simplicity of his limited environment, I thought were exceptionally well handled and appropriate!Tremendously powerful and reflective little gem! "}{"Title":"A minor disappointment","Date":"12 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Chopper could've been very intelligent and great satire/black comedy but unfortunately it fails to be that way. There is this real life person/criminal Mark Chopper Read of whom life this film is based on even though this is not a biography as we learn at the beginning of the picture. The film is pretty close to Natural Born Killers and although these films are not masterpieces, they are not definitely bad and uninteresting either.I was pretty annoyed with the violence in couple of scenes. The brutal stabbing at the beginning of the film and the hitting of a lady later in the film are gratuitous scenes of violence and do nothing to the story and to the film itself. I can't understand why they had to make those scenes so brutal and disgusting; that's why I'd like to hear the DVD's commentary track by the director so if he could say something about those scenes. It seems like they only wanted to throw some fake blood as much as possible in the first scene and it becomes too repellent, even though the film tries to be funny during that scene. Brutal and horrific violence can be an important element in a piece of art, if violence is used wisely and it has a meaning and a message can be seen through it. Films like this are for example Kazuyoshi Kumakiri's Kichiku dai Enkai, John McNauhgton's Henry Portrait of a Serial Killer and Pier Paolo Pasolini's Saló o le 120 Giornate di Sodoma. Those films are disturbing in their imagery but they are one of the greatest pieces of art among cinema. But Chopper is not all bad film definitely and the message during the film is that how society can allow this kind of thing to be entertainment and why this sells so much and interests people? The same themes as in Oliver Stone's Natural Born Killers. Chopper is also genuinely funny at times but I would've rated this film higher if it had had more brains instead of gore and (sometimes stupid) laughs.Also, worth mentioning are couple of extremely original cinematic styles and techniques which show that the first time director Andrew Dominik has talent and is an interesting new film maker. The colours during the whole film are incredibly beautiful and effective and it adds to the potential the film has. So I think that the director deserved all the directing prices he had but the film itself is not worth prices, I think. Now I'm waiting to see more from that director/writer and wish all the best for him.But I'll recommend this slightly to people who want definitely to see this (as I wanted) but don't expect it to be too intelligent or outstanding. And for gorehounds who only want to see shocks and intestines, this is not THAT gory as you may have read but to the mainstream audience, this may be too much to stomach.Great potential, but a minor disappointment, but definitely not a bad film, so 6/10. "},{"Title":"Not A Motorcycle Film","Date":"29 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is such a weird, terrific movie, completely original and often very funny.  The colors and lighting are so sick, so creative, they work in perfect tandem with Chopper's odd, have-another-pint character.  I had no idea this was based upon fact, nor did I expect the movie to be this entertaining and frankly, such an engaging portrait of a very dangerous, schizophrenic guy.  Chopper's mood swings are titanic, and I found it fascinating that after committing a hideously violent or near-violent act, he would withdraw and realize what he'd done, begin to feel bad for it, then simply move on.  Every now and again you meet folks who come on like this, and your best instincts tell you to stay the hell away from them.  Here we follow one of these fellows around for a while, in prison and on the street in Melbourne (yeah, we Yanks know that it's Mel-Burn already).Like other crime movies of the last 10 years, Chopper does a stellar job of putting a human face on very bad, twisted people, and at the end (spoiler), when Chopper is back all alone in his cell after the television program, without an audience, without anyone to intimidate, without anyone to have a paranoid reaction to, I kind of felt sorry for him.  Okay, I did feel bad for him.  I really wondered what the guy was going to do next.Lots of good moments (here come more spoilers, watch out!) too.  Very funny when he gets his wang out in the bar while carrying on his conversation with the police (?), and it's an odd twist that though there is some bloodletting involved in the story, most of that blood is Chopper's (well, except for that nemesis of his at the beginning).  The sped-up motion during the brief scene involving cocaine was clever and funny in a shameful, familiar way, and what's better than a young, pregnant junkie stroking a shotgun, then spying on a murder in the wrong (!) parking lot of a night club. Well...truth, fiction, you know.Eric Bana is in every frame of this movie and he's terrific...I just saw him in Ridley Scott's outstanding Blackhawk Down (which did a fine job of staying true to what happened and what was in the book...an acquaintance of mine was a Ranger in Somalia in '93 and wounded in that operation) and I thought that Bana's Delta character had all the best and appropriate lines in that movie.  I mentioned it to my buddy and he told me to check out Chopper.  He gets a beer.I don't recall this being out in the States at all, but I'm sure it wouldn't have made a dime.  Too creative, too original, too clever, too bad.  It's so seldom that creative filmmaking with interesting characters gets the attention of mainstream U.S. audiences.  If you're in the States or otherwise, check it out, and (spoiler) if he's knocking outside your door, just make sure he throws in all his firearms first. "},{"Title":"Interesting at first, but gets rather boring after awhile.","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Spoilers??Since I keep shoving movies I rent on my dad, dad gave me this movie.  Not wanting to turn down a movie.  I did watch it.  It's got lots of blood in it.  His best friend starts stabbing him and he doesn't flinch.  O_O But it starts becoming more narration than I can take.In fact, I found the real Chopper more interesting to talk than the actor who plays him.  (dvd features)6/10Quality 7/10 Entertainment 4/10 Replayable 2/10 "},{"Title":"failed to reach its full potential.","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  It is a good film, but not a great film. It is never boring, it just never really grabs you the way a good bio-pic should. It is too short, and sheds little light into the real life of chopper. The plot never really goes anywhere, and you do not really become absorbed into his world. I give it a 5/10. "},{"Title":"Chop-chop","Date":"14 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The first twenty minutes of this film are funny if gruesome. There is an amusing running gag involving Chopper begging associates to let him gain entry to their premises against their better judgement only to inevitably pay the price later. It fizzles in the second half because at the end of the day there isn't much of a story to tell. "},{"Title":"How To Shoot Friends And Influence People","Date":"4 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  i was too young to remember chop, perhaps if i had lived somewhere near to where he had done his dirty work i might have known more about him, but i did not, so all i knew about the man was what the papers told me and my dad saying he would not support the man by buying his books or seeing his damn film. so anyway, i don't give a toss what people think of him or what i think of him, i'd heard an interesting film had been made with one of my favourite comedians as Chopper Read. so i saw it, and it is a mighty fine film we have here. eric bana is almost unrecognisable, not that many people reading this would have any idea who eric bana is seeing as how you are mostly americans. now, americans, i cannot blieve this made no money in america. if it had gotten decent advertising i guarentee this would have been a hit. it is so wonderful, very moving, funny, exciting and frightening. i do not know how close the movie chopper is to the real chopper, but the movie chop is by far one of the most fascinating characters to ever grace the silver screen. the direction and script is wonderful. there is not much plot, but it is not a film about a plot, it is called chopper, not the story of chopper. this is a film about a man and nothing else. it is a film that pulls this off perfectly thanks to some wonderful acting. eric bana deserves an oscar for this. deserved, to late now. the direction is very interesting. sometimes cold and detached, sometimes loving and caring. if you want to get an idea of what kind of film this is, imagine the flare of tarantino with the cold, hard realism of aronofsky. a film that must be seen at least once. brilliant. 10 out 0f 10 "},{"Title":"Best Aussie Film Of 2000","Date":"18 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I can't recommend Chopper highly enough. Even if you hate the guy in real life, but there's no denying that Eric Bana puts in a flawless performance. For everyone overseas who has seen this film, I really wish you had seen the real Mark 'Chopper' Read so you could compare Bana to the real thing. It's hard to spot the difference. As for the film, it's funny, chilling, disturbing and enjoyable all at once. See it. "},{"Title":"Too Good for Hollywood","Date":"22 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I won't go into a detailed explanation of the movie or wonder whyMark Reads reasons for what he did weren't better explained (whydo so many people seem to feel uncomfortable when the reasonsfor a persons complex nature aren't spelled out by the screenwriter?)   I would just like to say that this is a very good film that is probablytoo good for the Hollywood mainstream audience. I saw it lastnight at the beautiful Aero in Santa Monica and there were onlyabout fifteen people in the audience on a Saturday night. If thismovie would have been made in LA you can be sure that all of thereasons for Marks behavior would have been bundled up in a niceneat package and the story would have been about a troubledrogue cop (played by Tom Cruise,) who caught him and broughthim to justice.  The story was handled beautifully and the ensemble acting waswonderful. Everyone who had a hand in the making of this filmshould be very proud. But most of the credit for this films successshould be given to Mr. Bana. This has to be one of the mostdimensional acting jobs I've seen in a long time. Compare hispost ear cutting off behavior to his first entering the night clubbehavior. Bana is like Jack Nicholson at his best. By that I meanhe could have his back to the camera and you'd still know what heis thinking. A total physical/behavioral performance.  And one that I'm sure will barely make a ripple in Hollywood. "},{"Title":"When a great movie doesn't get its due","Date":"14 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  As picture-perfect in its way as John Boorman's similarly themedTHE GENERAL, CHOPPER is that rarity--a movie that feels at least99.9% authentic. Telling the story of Australia's most notorioussociopath--a random erupter into violence who's terriblty contriteafterward, and sniggers manfully when his prison foes arescissoring off his ears--the director, Andrew Dominik, makes boldstylistic moves, such as an extreme use of color-coded lighting,and yet every inch of his territory has a felt-by-the-hands, lived-indocumentary realness. Chopper--known, so says Elmore Leonard, for his habit ofsnipping the toes off delinquent money-borrowers--is a stocky,biker-looking dude as covered in tats as Bradbury's IllustratedMan. With his chockablock neck, Ray Bans, and fake ears (theyseem to have come from a costume shop), he looks like HenryRollins as an Australian prison rapist. Only we don't see Chopperdoing any raping--we just see him perforating the face and chestof an enemy with a shiv as rapidly and carelessly as a drunkspilling a drunk on someone's lap. And then being as apologeticand self-head-punching afterward as a mood-swinging drunk. Ashaggy-dog-tale-teller and a bombastic charmer, Chopper is morecomplex--at least in our relationship to him--than Tony Soprano.The structure of the movie largely consists of scenes in whichChopper visits a friend--and it's never clear, until the last beat ofthe scene, whether this friend's going to get a shiv in the eyeball,too.Eric Bana's performance as Chopper is so extraordinary it willalmost certainly go unremarked. There's absolutely no feeling of aperformance--it seems as if Chopper Read, like Evel Knievel andMuhammad Ali back in the day, got to star in the movie of his life.With the exception of the performances of Chopper's weaker-linkcellmates in the early section of the movie, there's not a damnthing wrong with this movie.So why hasn't the U.S. press gone nutso? Because they'resuffering from Tarantino Fatigue--and anything that involves a guyspilling out large, oil-leak quantities of blood on a prison floor justinnately feels so six years ago? Like THE GENERAL, CHOPPER isso self-contained and flawless it doesn't give movie critics much torun with. (I notice they tend not to like this.) In brief give AMORESPERROS a pass--at least till next weekend. Discover CHOPPERbefore it vanishes into the ether of late-night IFC. "},{"Title":"Eric Bana has arrived","Date":"18 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I think we will be seeing a lot more of Mr Bana on the big screen in the near future.  If the American's weren't so formulaic in their tastes, I would have said that that the US would have scooped him up, as they have with other Australian actors.  We will see.The movie was a real treat.  Very gritty.  Very earthy.  Very entertaining. "}{"Title":"Classic scum performance!","Date":"23 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  CHOPPER, based on notorious real-life Aussie criminal Mark Chopper Read, is a tight gangster film from down under that packs a lot of punch.  It was one of the highlights of my trip to the 2000 Toronto International Film Festival.  I'm a connoisseur of movie villains (good guys get the girl ... bad guys get the one-liners) and am happy to announce that star Eric Bana (a stand-up comedian by trade) has earned a place on my elite Scum of the Earth All-Star Team with this role.  It's a bravura over-the-top performance about one TWISTED fast-talking career criminal who eventually became a best-selling author despite being functionally illiterate.The film is set basically in two chapters ... one of them during an early prison stretch, the other years later, when he was out of prison for one of the few times in his adult life and facing a contract death for being a police informant.  The framing device is him doing a television interview from prison, recounting his various exploits.It's hard to know where fact and fiction part ways in this film, because Read was a notorious B.S. artist who was only too happy to engage in colorful braggadocio to enhance his notoriety.  (Never let truth get in the way of a good story, he quips at one point.)  But there can be no doubt that he was one colorful cretin, and Bana captures him as such perfectly. The film is not for the squeamish but if you could appreciate previous classic scum performances (Michael Gambon in THE COOK, THE THIEF, HIS WIFE, AND HER LOVER, Dennis Hopper in BLUE VELVET, and Benoit Poelvoorde in MAN BITES DOG, to name three), it's WELL worth checking out.  I hope that the film can find an American distributor or at least get released on video.  I'd certainly like to see it again sometime.  "},{"Title":"Excellent performance by Eric Bana","Date":"15 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Eric Bana's performance as Chopper was nothing short of excellent.  At times it is truly chilling.  The film itself has some excellent scenes that could be regarded as ground breaking for Australian Cinema.  A little simplistic at times, but Bana's performance lifts the film into the must see catagory. "},{"Title":"wow","Date":"7 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I thoroughly enjoyed this movie, Eric Bana acted very well. He honestly deserves some sort of accolade. As for the way in which the movie was made, many congratulations to the director. Now, what I liked best about the movie, is that after reading the books, Chopper glorified himself, the movie DOES NOT glorify Mark 'chopper' Read. One of the best aussie movies I have seen! "},{"Title":"breathtaking","Date":"4 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  eric bana, the funnyman from full frontal, puts up the performance of his lifetime, as violence obsessed Chopper Read. This film is a journey through the brutal mind of Chopper and searches through the individual psyche of this madman. This dark film, is excellent and if you can put up with 93 minutes of violence, you will love it. Strongly recommended. "},{"Title":"Outstanding","Date":"19 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  i just say this film this morning as an advanced preview, and couldnt wait to get home and mention how good it was... overall the cinematography was outstanding... and what a great performance by eric bana...well done! "},{"Title":"A gem - But for aussie viewing only","Date":"4 November 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  A classic aussie drama. Not doubt about it. This is the cake after the icing was delivered many years ago in a Bryan Brown flick called 'Stir.'  I have read the comments of our viewing from outside Australia, and all I can say is this. You have to be an aussie to appreciate this movie. This accent, the slang, it's all gonna be lost on the overseas viewer. While this movie was no blockbuster even in Australia, let me say this. It launched the career of it's star, and the actual Chopper Reed the movie is based on recently displayed his paintings at a show in Melbourne Australia. The whole collection was sold out on the first day. If you're an aussie reading this and thought the movie was a bomb, then you are wrong. Watch it again. I don't know what it is, but this movie has something...elusive..but it has it. "},{"Title":"A Little Disappointed","Date":"26 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Although I was impressed with the production of Chopper, I felt the storyline went nowhere.  I was waiting the entire movie to see why Chopper was such a well known Australian criminal, and from what I did see, it is rather obvious, but I did expect a lot more.  A wonderful performance by Eric Bana, although very forced at times.   "},{"Title":"This movie is just fantastic.","Date":"30 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Eric Bana gives a performance of Oscar quality. Reality and unreality become as one. I was totally astounded by this movie. Chopper the man is a conundrum. This is a must see film. Australia has given us Bana and Russel Crowe.Thank you, Australia. Is the man evil or just a good story teller. One will never know. There are so many scenes with so many points of view the viewer is constantly questioning his own sanity. Chopper wrote a best seller and perhaps he will mystify his readers with other prison stories. He has such a fertile mind and imagination. Genius describes the man and performance. This film is being added to my library. "},{"Title":"An interesting and weird film.","Date":"15 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This has the feel of a made-for-TV documentary at times but manages to be entertaining most of the time.Bits of it are very funny, more from strangeness than wit but funny none the less.Chopper comes across as either schizophrenic or retarded which produces some very surreal moments where he does a bad thing and then apologises as if he is genuinely sorry.This isn't a study of a gangster in the way 'The Krays' is, it is much lighter and easier going film and he is a far pettier crook.It stops short of making him into a lovable rogue or folk hero by displaying a few unprovoked vicious moments but doesn't show him as a villain either by displaying some likable characteristics.The film leaves you with a quite ambiguous view of Chopper, you wouldn't want to meet him on a dark night but it's hard to hate him. "},{"Title":"Amazingly realistic","Date":"29 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Chopper is a great film.  Andrew Dominik, the director, did a splendid job.  The film seems so realistic, the brutality, the dialogues, the places, the characters, it's all so well adapted to the kind of movie that Chopper is.  The acting is really amazing, especially from Eric Bana, who plays Chopper.  This man has the talent to make every single feeling of his character visible, and realistic.  The violence, while being pretty graphic and brutal, isn't gratuitous or exaggerated.  The violence hits the viewer, just like he was feeling the pain, it's very well reproduced.  The character of Chopper is interesting, as a man who's trying to be THE criminal.  This reminds me of films such as C'est arrivé près de chez vous (or Man Bites Dog, in english).  This has a part of the anti-media message of Natural Born Killers, many similarities to the acting from Goodfellas and Casino, and a very personal touch, that you won't find in a lot of films.  I had a great time watching this, and if you want to have a good one too, see it! I give it 8/10 (and an 8½ would have been better).  Andrew Dominik and Eric Bana...check them out, they have future!   "}{"Title":"No slipping on the overacting Bana-na skin","Date":"3 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Playing larger than life characters can often be a difficult task for any actor. The over the top performances of De Niro in Cape Fear and Pacino in Scarface are a case in point. The need to underplay characters especially those prone to sudden outbursts of violence can be a tricky banana skin to avoid.  Pleasingly this has not been a problem for Eric Bana who gives a bravura performance as Aussie criminal cult figure, Mark Chopper Read.With a stare, twitch, eyeroll or fidget, Bana displays perfectly the idiosyncrasies common to those members of our society who can erupt at any given moment into displays of savage intensity. He both repels and attracts as the audience, especially those not familiar with the Chopper Read tale, shifts uneasily in their seats.The cinematography in the Bojangles Nightclub effectively adds to the uneasy tension which emanates from Chopper's presence. Equally creative was the speeded up sequence which appeared to come from under a corpse's body, showing the different law enforcement officers approaching for examination.However, Chopper is far from a perfect movie. The real (if we are to believe what was written in Mark Read's first book)life of the man is colourful enough without making artificial links between characters and subsequent events. Moreover, there was little evidence provided as to what Chopper Read had actually done prior to being in prison for the opening scenes of the movie. This would have been extremely helpful to explain his paranoia on being released from prison. We needed to see how he had created terror in the Melbourne criminal fraternity to know why he was such a marked man later on. The scene with the painter and docker in prison alluded to this but wasn't enough.Ultimately, the strength of Chopper lies in the performance of Eric Bana and on the creativity of the director, either of which make it a must see movie. "},{"Title":"Choppy","Date":"15 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Chopper (Bana) is a small time hood who dreams of greatness as a gangster.There is a rule that says if you make a movie in English, that English-speaking people should be able to understand the dialogue. The dialogue in here was extremely hard to understand at times. Oh, you get the gist of things, but sometimes the dialogue may as well have been in Chinese. Chopper is in jail acting like the Big Man on Campus, and next he is getting stabbed by his friend Jimmy. Chopper just stands there and doesn't fight off the stabbings. What is going on? I thought it was a ploy to get him to the infirmary. Next up is a hearing of sorts. Next thing you know he is out of prison and going after people who he thinks did him wrong. He shoots some people and acts like a man out of control, then he becomes somewhat stable. Last scenes show him back in jail and apparently he writes about his life and becomes a famous writer in Australia. Choppy, choppy, choppy is all I can say. Okay, to be fair, maybe the book wasn't as choppy as this movie. Now, how much of all this is true and how much is made up we have no way of knowing, but we don't really care. At first when we see Chopper in jail and the bizarre language he uses, I briefly had the thought that this was going to be a comedy of sorts or a satire, but this was not any of those. There could have been some comedy when Chopper tries to get the police to let him be an informer so they would look the other way for his crimes. Those scenes with the cops could have been funny, but alas, they were not. There is no flow to any of this. We watch Chopper and cannot figure out what he is going to do next. Is this suspense? No. Apparently, the Editor of this didn't know what to do next either. Chopper doesn't commit any crimes except to Off or WOUND his&#x85;&#x85; let's call them associates, not friends. And, calling them associates appears to be too chummy. So really, what we have here is a man out of control, who writes about being out of control, becomes famous for that behavior and everyone says Great Job. I don't buy it. The acting by all is fairly good. Eric Bana does do a credible job as Chopper. He's the whole show but to be honest, it's fairly easy to act like a person out of control and some would call that excellent acting. I am not one of them. And, if you look closely at the scenes the cast was involved in, most characters are in mortal fear of their lives from Chopper and again, those are easy performances the way I think. Is this tension? I didn't feel any. Australian movies used to be very, very good (Picnic at Hanging Rock, Master and Commander come to mind) but somehow they seemed to have lost their way and have become almost non-existent and maybe have run their course. Maybe they are working on learning Mandarin. Violence Yes. Sex No. Nudity Yes, and Chopper exposes himself in a night club. Language Yes. "},{"Title":"Senseless... in every way","Date":"9 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Now, this is another one of those movies where the critics and I beg to differ. Most of the comments I have read on this movie from film professionals are either full of praise for it or at the very least, positive. To put it bluntly, in my opinion this film was poorly constructed, scripted, acted and filmed. In short, a waste of time.Yes, the film is violent and realistic, but all this serves no purpose since we don't get any insight into what is happening and why. To me, this was just a blurred patchwork of violent scenes that make no sense whatsoever as a whole. It proves that violence can be senseless; so what's new? "},{"Title":"Awesome adaptation","Date":"4 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is such a great movie. This is one of those movies you actually look forward to hearing Chopper's voice on the informational viewing of the movie. It's awesome. Eric Bana is a movie star who is and has been so underrated. It's too bad this movie is so well known in just Ausralia and not anywhere else. I found out about it from living in Oz. If you liked Chopper, check out Romper Stomper with, omg I just went blank....the guy who played in the Gladiator. Anyways, Chopper, a truly awesome movie, AND even though it's just an adaptation, everything but ONE thing is true about the entire movie. So, check out the version of the movie with Mark Chopper Read chit chatting along with the movie and find out which part isn't true! It's kind of funny. "},{"Title":"A bitty film which seems to have chosen the poorer part of the Chopper life story","Date":"25 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This was a bit of a disappointment for me as a few friends had recommended it to me and have continued to remind me of it whenever they can. So when I actually saw it I really felt it didn't live up to their recommendations. They had really made it out to be a violent and over the top movie showing the life of one of the most violent criminals there has been, and that's not what I saw.It was a good movie, but it felt quite loose in structure and seemed to leap a lot of the life of Mark Chopper Reid and go straight onto the latter years. It also portrayed him more as a man battling with his anger and paranoia than a criminal. It even tried to show him in a more appealing light as a likable, bur clearly violent rogue.None of this worked for me, and I really want to read the book to understand what the real story was and where the film went wrong in it's portrayal. There seemed to be no real progression or development to the story, and other than a few earlier scenes it concentrates on an already developed character who is just falling apart.Saying that, the acting by Eric Bana is fantastic. Watching the real Chopper on the DVD it was quite astounding how close Bana had managed to make his portrayal and capture the quirks of the character. He was brilliant, edgy, scary and just had a very psychotic look to him. "},{"Title":"CHOPPER (DIDIER BECU)","Date":"7 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Chopper tells the story of a certain Mark Read, an extreme violent man who's been accused for several murders and who happens to be one of the Australian leading writers. We see only some time in Chopper's life (so it's not from birth to death) namely his time in prison and some time after he's been released. Chopper has his own way of thinking. Some will say it's primitive but it worked for me...and that's thanks to Eric Bana who plays a role which he probably can never top. Eric will be linked with the famous green monster but it is in Chopper you notice that he can act. Some will be extremely offended (headbutting your mother-in-law isn't exactly the way of good behaviour, not?) and some better close their eyes for some scenes but Chopper is superb in its own ways. "},{"Title":"Best Aussie Flick Ever Made","Date":"30 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Top notch film. A rare film that can make you cringe then laugh out loud all in one scene.And it's great to see an Aussie flick without Abba or Cross Dressing in it. "},{"Title":"Eric Bana is God and this movie rules","Date":"27 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Chopper is that rare movie where you need to watch it more than once, several times actually before it's brillance begins to sink in. Eric Bana is a incredible actor and when The Hulk comes out he will finally get the attention that he very rightly deserves. Bana does an excellent job of portraying Mark Brandon Chopper Read. When you watch the interviews with the real Chopper that are included on the DVD release, you realize just how good of a job Bana does. He looks, sounds, and acts just like Chopper.If you know anything about the real Chopper then you know that he is the perfect anti-hero. Psychotic, violent, and dangerous though he may be, you can't help but like the guy. Turning his heinous exploits into bestselling books is one mark of his intelligence, even when he can barely write. The movie features a wonderful soundtrack and strong supporting performances from the Australian cast. The style in which this movie is filmed is very interesting and there is hardly a scene in the whole movie in which it isn't being shot in a different hue of light. Blues and reds dominate the screen and bathe the actors in a otherworldy aura. You get the feeling that the movie takes place in some seedy netherworld (some of it does). This film just gets better with every viewing. Bottom Line I love this movie and I think that every serious movie fan has got to watch this at least once. This movie deserves to bask in all it's DVD glory on your shelf or preferably in your player. Feed yourself to the Chopper. "},{"Title":"Best Australian movie of all time","Date":"5 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie leaves Muriel's f***ing Wedding and Pricilla Queen of the f***ing desert for dead. Chopper is by far the best Australian movie ever made and is in my book right up there on a global scale.This film has integrity - the likes of which Hollywood can only dream about these days.The copper with the massive fake moustache is the only worry for me... the rest is 10/10. "},{"Title":"Simple And Direct","Date":"1 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Eric Bana delivers a star-making performance in Andrew Dominik's very good feature debut, a true story about Mark Brandon Read, Australia's most notorious criminal-turned-celebrity. Bana is a whirling dervish of violent emotions that frequently crossover into the psychotic, but he's careful (complicit with Dominik's spare, simple but well-constructed script, based on Read's books) not to reveal too much verbally about his character, letting only the occasional existential thought slip out. Instead he lets Read's violence--which includes self-mutilation as well as murder and maiming--do the talking because as random as it appears, each violent act has a point, a means of moving Read's life forward toward his goal of superstardom--it's almost as if he's a man who considers violence his job. Bana is galvanizing--appealing and frequently hilarious--but doesn't allow respect; it would be a disservice to his character, because though he inspires fear in those around him, everyone's looking to get even and while they don't succeed, they keep on trying. Dominik spans two decades of Read's life with strong pacing and a great sense of place, and while he frequently gets a little tricked-out (Danny Boyle is the obvious influence here) he still has made a mature, thoughtful film about violence and how it's seen by the perpetrator.   "}{"Title":"I wanted to like it...","Date":"26 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":" ...But alas, I just couldn't find much here that grabbed me. Chopper kills a couple people, delivers a handful of one-liners, punches his girlfriend, goes back to jail, the end. Not being familiar with Read's legacy, when the movie is over I didn't really have any better understanding of why this was someone who needed a movie made about him. This is neither an intimate look at why Chopper is the person he is, nor a an entertaining, whirlwind greatest hits flick. There's some good dialogue, some good dark humor and some interesting things done with cinematography, but in the end it just doesn't add up to much, either as docudrama, (which it states up front that it isn't) art, or entertainment. It feels like a made-for-TV movie with cursing and a few bloody scenes. I wanted to like this film, but in the end I just can't see what the point was. Maybe the film resonates more with Australians, Chopper's story being more familiar to them. "},{"Title":"Who is Chopper?","Date":"6 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Who is Chopper? Scary bloke but well funny too. Enjoyed this film a great deal.Dialogue was sharp,fluid and brilliantly executed by the cast. Never heard of Chopper, neither has my wife who spent 18mths in OZ, but we know now and can't help liking him! The speeded up photography worked well...much better than any Guy Ritchie effort. Maybe the film lacked plot but it didn't degrade my interest as the characters were so interesting...(loved Chopper's Dad). Eric Bana was wicked;again i'd never heard of him but will keep an eye out for him now. Where is Mark Read now?Jail?Grave?Hollywood? "},{"Title":"Episodic crime drama","Date":"17 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Chopper, while released to general acclaim, did not satisfy me as a film. Visual and technical beauty are one's first impressions of Chopper, however, as the film progresses there appear large gaps in the narrative line.  It is clear from the loosely thrown together collection of scenes that there were a number of strains within the production, the result is a structure which is episodic to say the least.  This structure may be interpreted as writing outside the conventional three act structure or perhaps is an accurate representation of Mark Brandon Read's writing, either way  the format is simply too incohesive in the film.  Despite these criticisms I would say that the individual scenes and sequences work well, although what one takes away from the film is more a feeling of understanding for Mark Brandon Read as a person and not a satisfying story. "},{"Title":"WOW!!","Date":"10 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie has no plot, no neat twists and no great special effects. What it is crammed with is great characters, some great one liners and  a great central performance from an Australian comedian (SORRY I FORGET HIS NAME).Chopper is violent, bloody, funny, and altogther entertaining, just don't watch it with the local priest.If you like films like Tarantino and Hard Boiled you'll love this. "},{"Title":"Controversial yet meaningful.","Date":"7 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  CHOPPER (2000) Rating 8/10Based on the shockingly true story of Australian killer Mark `Chopper' Read, Chopper the movie had a lot of controversy around the world. Being given R18 ratings and NC-17's as well as leaving audiences jaws dropped, surprisingly, people still liked it. I was one of those people, Chopper left me stunned, informed and sick. It's a great achievement for Australian cinema, but not for filmmaking in general. The flaw I found in this film that is major enough to put in this review with probably be the fact that the audience doesn't at all times get the interpretation of what just happened. What, is she dead? What'd that guy do to him? Um, is he in jail now or what? I mean, you don't have to be an absolute genius to work it out, but maybe the script had more or less supplied the facts about what was going on, the film could've earned a higher score, possibly become brilliant. However, the film really sticks in your head and makes you want to find more about this intriguing and violent character played by Eric Bana who gives a genius performance really brings the film to life. So just pay lots of attention and look for the good stuff in this well-made Australian movie and you'll enjoy it.  "},{"Title":"If you are tired of television on a big screen, see Chopper.","Date":"12 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This was a great movie. I'm ordering the books to learn more about the thought process behind the bizarre action. This movie is worth a dozen of the Planet of the Rush Hour ll's. "},{"Title":"The story of a complete head case.","Date":"21 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Chopper is the story of one of Australia's most notorous criminals. (although i cant say i have ever heard of him). We see different times of his life and how he handles being a wanted man. While this film is slightly funny in parts i wouldnt go as far to say it was a comedy. It is very violent and the language is very blue but that is part of the attraction of the film. On the cover of the DVD they compare Chopper to greats such as Reservior Dogs and Pulp Fiction. Lets get one thing straight,this film does not come close to these classics. It even has the cheek to say Puts Guy Ritchie to shame!!!. I cant see how , it is no where near as good as Lock stock or Snatch although some of the way it is directed can be described as Ritchiesqe. Dont get me wrong Chopper is entertaining and eye opening and i would recommend it to people who like gangster type movies but if your favourite film is The Sound Of Music, give this a miss.     "},{"Title":"One of the best movies ever!!","Date":"19 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Wow!! I just saw Chopper today and I was blown away by it! This is one very black, funny, violent movie that is perfect in both form and content. This true account (well, almost true account) of psycho Mark Chopper Read is compelling and intelligent viewing, with Australian's stand-up comedian Eric Bana giving a bravoura, Oscar-worthy performance, managing to be both sad and endearing, while at other times being utterly scary, repulsive and lethal. The film is beautifully shot and edited, while the story moves along at a (too) brisk pace, well incorporating the non-gratuitous, but shockingly violent outbursts of Chopper. My favourite scene? There are just too many, but the one where Chopper pulls out his d**k in a crowded bar just to shock (or is it impress?) the other customers is a real hoot, and surely something you will never see in an American R-rated movie!Chopper? One of the best movies ever!! "},{"Title":"A confronting, but important, film","Date":"27 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I've read Spleen's review of this film on this site and think that to counterbalance his review, I should say some good words about this film. I don't feel that it is irresponsible to make a film about a real-life violent person, although done in certain ways it could be. I think the valuable function of this film is that it holds a mirror up to Australian society and serves to highlight the role violence plays in social interaction. Where the film works is in showing down and out criminals and junkies for the type of people that they really are - like the heroin-addicted traitor Jimmy and the drug-dealing Neville. It's true the film is extremely difficult to watch at times - especially the ears bit - but it is also evocative and really brings home the futility of crime. It also works well as a document of Australia in the 1980s - a society on the make where everything was new and developing but people were far more mono-cultural and intolerant. I think the film is worth watching - not likeable but stirring.  "},{"Title":"A gem - But for aussie viewing only","Date":"4 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  A classic aussie drama. Not doubt about it. This is the cake after the icing was delivered many years ago in a Bryan Brown flick called 'Stir.'  I have read the comments of our viewing from outside Australia, and all I can say is this. You have to be an aussie to appreciate this movie. This accent, the slang, it's all gonna be lost on the overseas viewer. While this movie was no blockbuster even in Australia, let me say this. It launched the career of it's star, and the actual Chopper Reed the movie is based on recently displayed his paintings at a show in Melbourne Australia. The whole collection was sold out on the first day. If you're an aussie reading this and thought the movie was a bomb, then you are wrong. Watch it again. I don't know what it is, but this movie has something...elusive..but it has it. "}{"Title":"Grimmer than its black comedy reputation suggests.","Date":"18 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  'Chopper''s opening credits, over Cole Porter's 'Don't Fence Me In' features grim images of prisons, fences, barbed wire, surveillance towers, monumental images of incarceration, division, involution.  These images are not filmed with stark realism, but speeded up, and with heightened colour, as clouds scud with unnatural speed, bits of paper caught in the wires flapping in an hysterical breeze.  The pre-credit sequence shows us Chopper in prison watching, with initially unidentified mates, Chopper on television, bragging flippantly about his latest criminal outrages.  Two Choppers.  Later, he tries to explain his violent, paranoiac outbursts to his girlfriend as schizophrenia - these two Choppers, one literally media-ted, the other 'real' in the world of the film seem to confirm this.  But is this second Chopper real; in this scene, as throughout the film, the mise-en-scene is highly stylised, in terms of angles, Chopper's bravado, and the queasy colour which veers from dull blue, to neon olive to blood red to sickly green, but never into something recognisably 'real'. Indeed, the most realistic scenes  seem the most stylistically contrived; for instance, when a jealous and paranoid Chopper finally blows his top at a nightclub.  Any nightclub will have this kind of jagged strobe lighting, it's perfectly realistic.  And yet, this realism produces the utmost stylisation, seeming to hyperactively chop up the action, perhaps an expression of Chopper's unhinged mind, just as he colours the other, less realistic scenes.  Is this what that credit sequence was, then, a visualising of Chopper's mental unbalance, someone who can't see the world clearly, calmly, but as a seriously perverse Tex Avery cartoon; alternately trapped, locked up, literally when he is in jail, but also in his paranoia, his personality and persona, his violent instincts; and free, capable of transforming his environment, his dead-end identity, nature itself, the society that would see him (censoriously or not) as a psychopath.  Because ultimately Chopper is free - we will never know how many people he has killed, we will never be able to sift the 'truth' from the good yarns Chopper spins; the colour and stylisation in the film never pins him down.  This is not necessarily the freedom he wants.The best bits in Chopper are those that emphasise performance,  Chopper playing a role, whether in action, or in telling stories, replaying scenes differently.  In the case of shooting the Turk, for instance, there seems to be a 'true' account, the first shooting, followed by three differing accounts, all subjective and motivated by hidden agendas.  But if the film takes place in Chopper's head, than even the first is totally unreliable.From friends, reviews, and trailers, I'd gotten the idea that 'Chopper' was some kind of black comedy, so I was surprised to find it so grim.  No matter how stylised, the violence is quite shocking, and Chopper's character quickly becomes monotonous.  There is enough trickery to keep one intersted throughout, and any scene with the lame Neville is hilarious.  The prison stabbing scene is beautiful and homoerotic - stab-stab-stab; hug; lie down; post-coital cigarette.  There is an interesting dichotomy between Chopper's paranoia and the seeming lack of surveillance in the prison. But I could have done without the Freudian-Oedipal stuff and the violence-and-the-media cliches.  It is very important to tell stories like Chopper's, I guess; I prefer 'Taxi Driver', from which this film borrows heavily, except its sense of narrative; or 'Seul Contre Tous', a real nauseating trip down the 'wild' side. "},{"Title":"Painful and pointless","Date":"15 August 2000","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  So who is Mark Chopper Reid?  Some thug.  That's all I knew when I walked in, and that's all I know now.  If you think there's something morally wrong about modelling a work of fiction on a real - and still living - celebrity criminal, you're absolutely right - and I don't buy the defence that it's okay because it's not meant to be sensationalist.  It's not MEANT to be sensationalist...  But even if it really isn't, I don't see why they couldn't have made much the same film about someone who DIDN'T exist.  It's not as if Chopper's story, in all its precise detail, is such a good one that THAT'S the story they had to film - in fact the story is rather ordinary, so much so that it's doubtful there's any story at all.  Nor do they adhere to precise details in any event.  Before the film begins we're told that it's based LOOSELY on Chopper's life, that it isn't a documentary - a cowardly thing to say we KNEW it wasn't a documentary; this is just the film-makers waving a get out of critical scrutiny free card in front of our faces.Anyway, this aside, it's painful to watch.  That wasn't a compliment.  (Well, OBVIOUSLY it wasn't a compliment, but I'm afraid the film-makers might take it as one.)  It's not the subject matter, it's the presentation.  Every other scene is filmed in such a way as to make us look away.  (Rather defeats the purpose of the cinematographers art, I would have thought.)  The first half hour is just a repulsive - and creative, which makes matters worse - bloodbath, recorded on that cold, grimy, high-contrast, high-resolution film stock that makes human flesh look like animated wax.  The blood-letting more or less ceases after half an hour, but it's still not very easy on the eye.  Too many scenes take place in a nightclub under the intermittent glare of a strobe lamp - somehow this is even harder to endure on film than it is in real life.  Then there's the scene where Chopper and friend snort cocaine - in itself, something to avoid looking at - and everything moves jerkily.  There's also an ugly moment with a syringe.I struggled through all this looking in vain for a narrative thread, or a point.  When it suddenly ended I didn't know whether to feel relieved or cheated.  By the way, there's something dishonest about that final scene.  Chopper is chatting away with some prison guards in his cell, having a merry old time; then the guards say they have work to do, say goodbye, and (naturally) shut the door behind them.  Suddenly the light temperature drops to a dismal blue, and the camera pulls out to show Chopper sitting there - alone.  How sad, we're meant to think.  But ANYONE who has just bid his guests goodbye and is about to go to bed will be left alone like that - it's an everyday occurrence, not a penetrating comment on the nature of Chopper's existence.It's obligatory for Australian critics to mention how surprised they were by Eric Bana's masterful performance as Chopper.  Previously he had been a comic on a (dismal) sketch show called Full Frontal.  One of the reasons he was so unfunny was that all he, or the show, ever did was mimic things; I never thought he was particularly good even at that.  I STILL think he's a lousy mimic.  But it turns out he's a first-class actor.  It just goes to show...Not that the acting, or the moments of humour here and there, can redeem Chopper.  Even if the film had been good it shouldn't have been made, and it isn't good.  It's positively rotten. "},{"Title":"tabloid tv comes to the theater","Date":"29 June 2003","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  At first I thought this movie was meant to be funny; the brutal, grisly, violence is so over the top that you laugh in that sort of crazy disbelieving way.  But after a while you realize that it's not meant to be funny.One the one hand, not knowing anything about the real person Chopper I wondered why anyone would want to make such a non-judgemental movie about someone who was obviously very messed up.  Then after watching the bonus material on the DVD I realized that the movie makers were just cashing in on his notoriety.  Apparently Chopper was very popular with the low brow types who are entertained by weirdo misfits out in left field.  And the pseudo arty types love to think that doing movies about misfits is true art; it's so much easier than doing something that requires true creativity.It's a great movie if you love tabloid tv; Oprah interviewing some messed up person who was sexually abused by her parents, Jeraldo interviewing neo Nazis, etc.  It's not a movie that makes you think; it simply titilates those who like to sift stuff out of the gutter of life. "},{"Title":"Thuglife in the UK","Date":"14 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  A look at crime the underworld and the criminals that live it in modern day UK.Even though the script isnt always tight the movies very intertaining and to the point.Rate 8/10 "},{"Title":"Chopper is choppy and pointless.","Date":"3 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Chopper is a film that has no point. The title character remains inscrutable from beginning to end. Perhaps you could have a better understanding of him by reading one of his books, but watching this movie will get you nowhere. The script is very limited in its perspective, giving you only a small glimpse of Chopper's life, and the director's stylistic tricks, although often interesting, offer no insight into the character. However, there are some individual scenes in the funny/bloody Pulp Fiction mold that do grab your attention (like the early scene in which Chopper gets stabbed and at first doesn't ever realize it; I had to watch it twice!), and certainly none of the movie's faults can be blamed on Eric Bana, who does his best with a poor script.    (**) "},{"Title":"ohhhh, what a shame, not even a comedian playing a criminal could save this one.","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  well, right up there with pulp fiction is this one. What a dud. Lame acting, pathetic storyline (actually only covers about 2 days in the life of....)acidic attempts at getting a laugh, unbelievable scenario's (somebody can be stabbed at least 3 times and still stand up and speak coherently? without getting ticked off?) and dreadful props. At least the technical aspects of the film were adequate. Maybe he should be called Eric Banal !!  "},{"Title":"A little disappointed","Date":"10 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I was expecting a better movie than this from other reviews I've read. I thought it would be a lot more violent, but the violent scenes seemed more comedic than anything else. Like Chopper gets stabbed several times by his bud in jail, and he just stands there. I mean, I think someone would fall over after that.  And then the guards at the jail act like they don't care  and aren't concerned when there is an attack in the jail.  I mean, that was just unrealistic.Eric Bana played the character well. But in most of the movie, it is like he's wearing a fat suit and some kind of prosthetic on his face to make him look like a chipmunk.  Also, I'm sure I would have thought it was better if I was from Australia and had heard of this guy Chopper before. The movie would have made more sense then.  Plus, I didn't like how one moment Chopper is in jail, then after getting his ears cut off, it jumps to him out of jail. Well what happened. Was he sent to another part of the prison for a couple of years before being released or what. The movie didn't explain it.FINAL VERDICT  This was OK. At least it is better than some mind numbing explosion filled brainless action flick.  I would recommend it to those who like unique independent films. It does have its good points. "},{"Title":"Absolutely horrible.","Date":"29 May 2001","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This has to be one of the worst movies I have ever seen, were I not with several friends I would have walked out within the first half hour. This movie is unnecessarily grotesquely violent, lacks any kind of plot, any kind of character development, any kind of story, or any redeeming qualities of any kind for that matter. This piece of garbage was 2 hrs of my life that I'll never get back. "},{"Title":"Chopper","Date":"8 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The opening disclaimer says that the story has been tampered with, so it is not a biography, I don't mind either way, it is a great Australian film. Basically the film tells the intense story of legendary criminal Mark Brandon 'Chopper' Read (Hulk's Eric Bana) sentenced to prison for 16 and a half years, and in that time making more enemies than admirers. After his own childhood friend Jimmy Loughnan (Simon Lyndon) stabs him, to be transferred out of H Division, he cut his own ears off, gaining recognition, and eventually release. Being out of prison, he visits both friends and old enemies, with not much difference between the two, and reuniting with former girlfriend Tanya (Kate Beahan), who he suspects of being involved with someone. He is killing pretty much anyone in his way and on his tail, this only results on being sent back to prison, where he writes a best selling book and a television interview. Also starring David Field as Keithy George, Daniel Wyllie as Bluey, Bill Young as Detective Downie, Vince Colosimo as Neville Bartos and Kenny Graham as Keith Read. It should be mentioned that the real Mark Brandon Read suggested Bana, then a stand-up comedian, Bana lived with Read for two weeks to get a better understanding of how to play him, and he spent two weeks eating junk food to gain the extra weight needed, extraordinary details to make a film happen. Bana is brilliant as the film's protagonist, he actually makes the character quite likable, even with the ultra-violent outbursts, which by the way make this film even more watchable. Very good! "},{"Title":"Poor quality VHS video","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Based on the great comments from my fellow IMDB'ers, I rented this VHS. It looked to be a very interesting movie except the audio quality was very poor.  THe audio was very uneven.  This was worsened by the Aussie dialects.  Also, there was no closed captioning to turn on for help.  So, I could only understand about 25%.  Look for the DVD version. "}{"Title":"Sophomoric tripe","Date":"13 October 2003","Score":"4 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Chopper is a simple-minded flick which tells a tall tale about an Aussie man who not only is a self professed murderer but also a best selling pulp author who penned a series of Chopper novels. Regardless, the film is mostly fiction and very simple-minded in its approach with the Dominik obviously getting off on having people get hurt without the expected reaction. EXAMPLE Chopper gets stabbed several times and the hugs and consoles his attacker. EXAMPLE A guy gets shot in the head point blank with a 4-10 gauge shotgun and wanders around with a hand over the wound before keeling over. EXAMPLE Chopper has part of his ears cut off while he sits calmly bleeding like a stuck pig giving instructions since he apparently can't do it himself.  Etc. In the final analysis, Chopper is a dumb movie with poor production value and little going for it as it flounders near the bottom of the B-flick barrel in that vast wasteland called broadcast. Recommended only for Aussie crime junkies or fans of the players. (D+) "}]