[{"Title":"Loved it!","Date":"30 April 2006","Score":"18 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I know people have their problems with this movie, but I happened to catch it at the perfect time in my life. I think every young gay male should watch this movie and see that there is life after coming out. It's nice to see a gay movie that isn't a GAY movie. The main characters all happen to be gay, but that is not the focal point of the movie. There is no sub-plots about AIDS or dealing with same-sex marriages or disapproving parents. The movie starts when all that stuff has already happened. It really makes you think. Two thumbs up! The cast is superb. Although not superstars, the movie has some well seasoned actors; including Fraiser star John Mahoney. Zach Braff does an excellent job as does Andrew Keegan, Dean Caine and of course Timothy Olyphant. Kerr Smith also has a small cameo but well worth it. This movie begins to break down the stereotypes of gay men and comes up with some great gay lingo that my friends and I have adopted. "},{"Title":"This movie changed my life","Date":"14 April 2005","Score":"19 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The day I was finally able to admit to myself that I was a gay man I rented this movie. That first viewing changed my life. It helped me envision a life a hoped was ahead of me. During my first year of being out I watched this movie so many times and still watch it about once a year.The first time I saw it I thought it was one of the best movies I had ever seen. Time has dimmed my view of it but it still a must see for any newly out (newbie) gay man.The script is well written. Some of the direction is a little off but it was a low budget film. It is also fun to see all these mainstream actors like Dean Cain, Timothy Olymphant and Andrew Keegan playing gay. "},{"Title":"Worth Joining","Date":"25 March 2004","Score":"16 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Greg Berlanti's film is worthy of a lot of praise in a society where gay men tend to only fulfill certain stereotypes. A character, Howie mentions how he would like to see gay men being represented as something other than the woman's best friend, the hustler, the aids victim or the sex addict and this film does tend to try hard to avoid these stereotypes. The script is brilliantly written and sparkles when it is at its peak. At its worst, it may be a little bit cliche ridden but hey..it also has originality ( I have taken Meanwhile and now its commonplace down ere!) and is not afraid to portray gay men as just a group of lads who are falling in and out of relationships, liek any other group of young men. However certain characters do tend to bring the pace down a little and it does sometimes seem to have the sentiment that gay men have got it so bad compared to everyone else in the world. Timothy Olyphant stands out here in an able cast, made up primarily of TV actors. My only grumble was the inclusion of the lesbian couple who seemed to only be there to represent the ladies and also to give Howie a meatier role. 4/5  "},{"Title":"I can't decide if my friends are the best or worst things that happened to me.","Date":"7 January 2002","Score":"20 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  That statement is part of what makes this is a terrific film about love, friendship and betrayal -- betrayal of friends, the people you are supposed to care most about and ultimately yourself. This is also a film about facades, lying and truth telling.From the opening montage of `Gay or Not Gay' in a supermarket this is a film with many laughs and people that you want to care about.A true ensemble cast, ostensibly headed by Timothy Olyphant as Dennis, is only part of what makes this a fine piece of cinematic work.Dean Cain (Cole) as the pretty-boy actor at one point says about his obvious good looks &#145;It's my way in ... and then I have to prove if I have the #@%* to back it up.'  Mr. Cain proves that he does have the ability to back it up.  Matt McGrath (Howie) as a man searching for love and doesn't realize he has it within his grasp, has a Mathew Broderick look that is very engaging.The always-interesting John Mahoney is outstanding as the coach of the `Broken Hearts Club' baseball team that wears the uniform of his restaurant and bar where the perennially losing team goes after their pathetic attempts at playing baseball.Colour becomes a character as embodied by Robert Arce as `Purple Guy.'  He speaks only once in the film -- but it is worth listening to.There are many outstanding actors -- many currently in television series -- John Mahoney (Fraser), Zach Braff (Scrubs), Chris Payne and Ben Weber who have both done time on `Sex in the City.' But it was particularly nice to see Jennifer Coolidge who will always be Stiffler's Mom in the `American Pie' films. Andrew Keegan as Kevin the `newbie' is exceptional -- learning about himself and life in West Hollywood whether he wants to or not.This is very much writer/director Greg Berlanti's film -- these must be people he knows and so writes about.  At one point one of the characters says 'they should make a movie about us.'  Well, Mr. Berlanti did and it is quite an accomplishment because even though the characters are gay the lives they lead, the questions they ask, the problems they face and the joys they experience are universal.  "},{"Title":"Fine ensemble cast ignites OK comic drama","Date":"5 March 2005","Score":"14 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" THE BROKEN HEARTS CLUB A ROMANTIC COMEDY (2000)Aspect ratio 2.391Sound formats Dolby Digital / SDDSThe lives and loves of an LA softball team, comprised entirely of gay men.Greg Berlanti's heartfelt drama seems a little timid in the wake of confrontational entries like Queer as Folk, but the former producer and co-writer of TV's gay-friendly Dawson's Creek makes an otherwise auspicious directorial debut with this familiar account of several gay friends looking for love and companionship in vanity-driven Los Angeles. As one character puts it Gay men in LA are a bunch of 10's looking for an 11. Essentially the tale of a Queer sports team comprised of staff and management at a popular restaurant run by elderly patriarch John Mahoney (Frasier), the film's paper-thin narrative is roused by a combination of lively dialogue and well-defined characters, played to perfection by a terrific cast, culled mostly from the New York stage Ben Weber is the 'Plain Joe' whose inability to attract a boyfriend is due more to his lack of self-esteem than absence of personality; Dean Cain (Superman himself!) is a hunky aspiring actor who leaves a trail of broken hearts in his wake; punk-style Zach Braff portrays a gym-queen, wilfully blind to the dark side of gym culture; Matt McGrath and Justin Theroux are ex-lovers who can't seem to let go of one another; and Andrew Keegan is the cute new kid who stumbles into this disparate group whilst struggling to come to terms with his burgeoning sexuality. The unofficial pack-leader (Timothy Olyphant) is smart and sassy, and increasingly aware of the personal opportunities he's sacrificed in his relentless pursuit of casual sex with strangers.The actors invigorate a fairly routine scenario, though Olyphant (whose demonic good looks have typecast him in too many villainous roles) dominates proceedings as a young man standing at the crossroads of his life, seeking confirmation of his own personal value. Mahoney is funny, wise and dignified as the Shakespeare-quoting softball coach, and Broadway singer-actor Billy Porter gets some of the best lines in a role that otherwise amounts to little more than comic relief. Beefcake is provided by supermodel-turned-actor Michael Bergin (Baywatch Hawaii) and Christian Kane (semi-regular on TV's Angel) in cameo roles, and the lovely Kerr Smith appears briefly in one of the movie's best scenes. Watch out, too, for a memorable appearance by Jennifer Coolidge as a 'helpful' hair stylist who brings the house down with a single line of dialogue! However, a subplot involving Weber's sister (Mary McCormack) and her attempts to become a mother with long-term partner Nia Long is underdeveloped to the point of redundancy (memo to gay movie makers if you're gonna include lesbians in these otherwise all-male offerings, do 'em properly or not at all!), and Cain's much-publicized 'kiss' with Keegan is coyly hidden by the angle at which it's filmed, a hideous cop-out (the eminently straight Olyphant has no such qualms - he kisses his male co-stars with reckless abandon!). Shot on location by cinematographer Paul Elliott (AND THE BAND PLAYED ON), the movie has the look and feel of a widescreen TV show, dominated by closeups and medium shots which invalidate Berlanti's use of the scope format.Gay cinema doesn't really need another romantic comedy, but while Broken Hearts doesn't offer anything new, it's salvaged by snappy editing, a quickfire pace, and first-class performances by some of America's finest young actors. And thanks to a clever, throwaway bit of name-dropping, the movie offers fleeting confirmation - at last! - of the role played by sex-god Antonio Sabato Jr. in the fantasies of hormonally-charged gay teenagers everywhere! Been there, done that... "},{"Title":"The Broken Hearts Club is a masterpiece","Date":"19 January 2005","Score":"16 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The Broken Hearts Club is one of the most genius films I have ever seen. I love the way each character is conveyed differently, proving the homosexual male stereotype wrong. This movie is very warm and heart-felt bringing a connection to the viewer and the characters.This film is smart, and a well put together comedy that will definitely have viewers laughing, crying, smiling, fussing, and cheering until the very end. I recommend everyone have an open-mind and see this film. There are few films that I would say won my heart after seeing it but The Broken Hearts Club did just that. This film shows that homosexual males go through many similar situations that heterosexual males also go through . This movie sends many different positive messages to it's audience. I definitely respect this film 100 percent. The Broken Hearts Club A Romantic Comdey deserves a standing ovation. "},{"Title":"Been there, done that. . .this is true to my experiences. . .","Date":"22 June 2004","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Quick evaluation  this movie does reflect my experiences of the past 25 years.  As a nearing-50 gay man, I can relate to nearly all the principal characters, both personally and as they relate to my friends and acquaintances.  Yes, at various times in my life I've been the cute, promiscuous one; the lonely one; the gym bunny (no drugs, though); the (self-perceived) ugly one. . .all those have helped me to become a better, more self-actualized person.  Seems there are too many self-loathing queens commenting negatively on this film here. . .maybe they can't see themselves in the characters, but if they were to be honest, they'd realize that they do indeed exist in one or more of these characters.I enjoyed the film, laughed a little, cried a little.  As I said, been there, done that. "},{"Title":"An intelligent comedy","Date":"20 September 2006","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" As a mature (61) gay man, I enjoyed the hell out of this film. At least there was a diversity of stereotypes. I guess it would be boring to show that most gays lead regular lives in all kinds of workplaces. The angst was, thankfully, less Dawson's Creek and more universal. The experienced straight actors helped it flow along nicely, a cut above the usual sloppy, Indie-style gay movie. The Lesbian subplot should have been expanded--or left out! I recommend this movie to all young lesbians and gays facing a still altogether ignorant homophobic society---but one that has improved since I was their age. Kudos to the people behind the camera too! "},{"Title":"OK to be Gay!","Date":"7 October 2000","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film gives gay men a meaning beyond stereotypes and the roles usually seen in gay movies. The theme is universal friends stand by you to assure you that you are OK as you are.Some of the dialog is hilarious, and the characters ring true even though many of these people are played by straight actors. There is an amusing glossary of gay terms given on the screen from time to time so that straight audiences will understand the lingo of the gay subculture.The touching elements in the film include the loneliness of what one character describes as 10s looking for 11s. The recognition that a person can be gay and average is the only antedote for this loneliness.We follow a group of young gay men, under the matronly supervision of John Mahoney, connecting and disconnecting as they try to find themselves in a world that doesn't seem to care who they are. It's a story of human beings. The fact that they are gay is incidental -- and this is a major step forward in gays being depicted in movies. "},{"Title":"Amen, sister","Date":"19 January 2004","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  How un-promising does a gay male Sex In The City sound? This one took me quite by surprise. It's a frequently very funny romantic comedy, that only occasionally dips into cliche. Why America remade Queer As Folk when they already had this is beyond me. Is Queer as folk ever an expression over there? Anyway, this includes Frasier's Dad and Superman amongst its gay baseball team, so it's good in my book. "}{"Title":"Good nostalgia","Date":"6 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I enjoyed Broken Hearts Club primarily because it was good nostalgia about coming out as gay, making friends, etc. Its feel-good elements are reminiscent of Queer as Folk and Love, Valour, Compassion (though less heavy than the latter.) The lead character of Dennis, played by Timothy Olyphant and the character Kevin (played by Andrew Keegan) were the most interesting, as they seemed the easiest to relate to. Other characters (and the relationship challenges they deal with) were interesting as well. Some of the humor and content are a bit cliché and the film is occasionally melodramatic. Overall, however, it is a feel good movie and I would recommend it to gay audiences. "},{"Title":"The first truly mainstream gay film","Date":"1 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've no idea how many of the actors in The Broken Hearts Club are actually gay.  From what I can determine, not many, yet they all turn in very convincing performances.  Essentially an ensemble pic along the lines of The Big Chill we get a look inside the lives and loves of a group of gay friends in West Hollywood.  Not as raw as Queer As Folk or as tame as Will & Grace this movie is your basic young people in angst as featured weekly on FOX, UPN  and the WB, the only difference being these young people (and a wonderful older John Mahoney) are gay. The R rating for language, drug use and sexual situations (which are only suggested) almost seems a bit of overreaction. As one of the few gay themed films NOT dealing with AIDS this is the perfect gay feel good flick and for a wild juxtaposition try it as a double feature with The Boys In The Band       "},{"Title":"Sweet, slight, and very funny","Date":"14 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Any movie that opens with Sammy Davis, Jr. warbling, cocktail lounge-style, Got a Lot of Living To Do from Bye, Bye Birdie can't be all bad.  And The Broken Hearts Club, a very amusing glimpse of group of gay male friends in oh-so-gay West Hollywood, is a very solid, often very funny mix of tears and laughter.  I'm not about to suggest that anything in it is remotely original, and, true it does parade out just about every cliche of gay life in America (but how often those cliches prove to be stingingly true!), but it is well-acted, witty, heartfelt and really very enjoyable as an evening's entertainment.The cast does a good job, though a few of the supporting roles are rather underdeveloped.  Timothy Olyphant as Dennis, an aspiring photographer beginning to question his very enjoyable but rather pointless life in a gay ghetto (I'm 28 and the only thing I'm good at is being gay!)carries off most of the acting laurels.  Dean Cain, once TV's most recent Superman, is very well cast as an ambitious actor and heartless lothario, but it would have been nice to get at least one shirtless shot of him.  On the other hand, the film's apparent reluctance to exploit the good looks of its actors is rather refreshing.  We get pre and post-coital scenes, but little else in the way of overt homoeroticism, which slots in well with the rather down-to-earth lives of the characters.  (And I wouldn't characterize Olyphant's life or character as fabulous.  He's a talented but undiscovered photographer working as a waiter.  Allright, the restaurant looks like fun and he does have a cute little house, but it's nice to see gay characters who don't all have six figure incomes and exciting jobs.) John Mahoney (Frasier's Dad on TV) is on hand to dole out some sage advice as the group's eccentric employer and mentor.  Matt McGrath has the best-written of the supporting roles, playing a neurotic character who realizes, almost too late, the value of a relationship he's tried his best to sabotage.The script is punchy, with an abundance of wit and a few lines that are real zingers.  There's also a nice use of visual humor (especially in the softball scenes) and a good soundtrack featuring, among others, the songs of The Carpenters (!).  Fortunately, we are spared one overworked element of recent gay themed films  lipsinking drag queens connecting the film sequences.  Overall, the cinematography in Broken Hearts Club is most attractive with a good use of montage and cross-cutting.Is this THE classic gay buddy movie to end all gay buddy movies?  Probably not.  It's a tad on the pat side, a bit lumpy in the plot area (it gets melodramatic, but then, so does real life), and it probably tries to cover too much ground and too many characters for its own good.  But it's a funny, poignant, and very entertaining film.  Does it give short shrift to some of the less savory aspects of gay life?  Does it avoid the pain and suffering (not to mention AIDS)?  Yes, but for every Greta Garbo you have to have a Sandra Dee.It's hard to knock a carefree film viewing experience such as The Broken Hearts Club.  I'd highly recommend it.  "},{"Title":"The boys in the  Santa Monica softball team","Date":"22 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" We watched this film when it first was released. On second viewing, thanks to the IFC channel, The Broken Hearts Club looks a bit dated since more daring films and television series have come out of the closet recently. It must have been a courageous undertaking by its director, Greg Berlanti, in 2000, at a time that gays were not as prominent as now. The director shows a positive side of the gay life that is not seen often, in that all the characters have values and integrity, something not often seen in mainstream films.The film is an excuse to bring together a group of young men trying to cope with their lives in that environment. There are different stories that mesh well together. At the center of it all is Dennis, a photographer that seems to have his feet well planted on the ground and knows what he wants. The friends are united by Jack, the restaurant owner, who has taken most of the guys under his wing, at his bistro and as a coach them in the softball team.We watch the different situations and how the guys react to whatever comes their way. The acting is good, in general. Timothy Olyphant makes an impression as the serious Dennis. Zach Braff, a film director, himself is good as Benji. Dean Cain is the fickle Cole, who loves a variety of lovers, rather than quality mates. John Mahoney appears as Jack, the older influence on the group in an impressive performance.What director Greg Berlanti succeeded was in presenting young men that appear not to be clichés as in other films of this type. The film is pleasant without breaking new ground. "},{"Title":"Purple Guy, Crew Guy, Newbie!","Date":"3 May 2004","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" OK, so the movie may p**s a bunch of people off because of the subject (GAY) or because it looks like a bunch of hotties that just want to mess around (isn't that what all gay people do?) My offering is, isn't that what most people do, gay, straight, or bi? The film works because the characters are real, the druggie, the pretty boy who sleeps with everything and anyone, the one who has the wonderful marriage to the guy who is screwing around. Don't we know people like this all the time?So the guys in the film remind me of my husband's crowd. And the main character reminded me of when I said, NO MORE to the bar scene and just screwing around to be screwing around. I especially liked the scene with the movie star where he says, Wait ten minutes before leaving and make sure nobody sees you. How many times had I been told that line of bull? Several. So who am I, probably Purple Guy. The movie accurately portrays all those jerks who line the walls on Friday, Saturday and Sunday nights claiming they want a relationship when all they want is to get into a Newbie's pants. "},{"Title":"Saddening","Date":"13 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film about the friendship of a group of friends, whose friendship with each other is constantly under strain due to various arguments and fights.The Broken Hearts Club is not quite a comedy as it appears to be. I find it full of sadness. The characters are all superficial and in fact unhappy deep inside. They back stab each other, hurt each other in almost every possible way. It's really sad to see that they call themselves friends, when they can't support each other. It brings me down. In addition, the film is full of clichés, I don't really find it so enjoyable. "},{"Title":"A club worth joining","Date":"18 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" *The Broken SPOILERS Club* It's the story of five gay friends, Dennis (Timothy Olyphant), the soft-spoken photographer and main character, Benji (a blond Zach Braff) a gym bunny, Patrick (Ben Weber), constantly grouchy, Cole (Dean Cain), the one with the Matinèe Idol good looks, and Howie (Matt McGrath), a psychiatry student who seems to have problems relating to people, as his relationship with Marshall (Justin Theroux) attests.The friends also play baseball in the 'Broken Hearts', the absolute worst baseball team in the world, under the watchful eye of Jack (John Mahoney) and his lover, the Purple Guy (Robert Arce). Coincidentally, the 'Broken Hearts' is also the restaurant where the guys hang out the most and where some of them work.One day, young 'newbie' Kevin (Andrew Keegan) enters the picture and big queen Taylor (Billy Porter) is dumped for 'a punctuation mark' by his boyfriend.That is just the beginning of a season of change for each and everyone of the Broken Hearts Club's card-carrying members, including African-style living rooms, sad deaths, rushes to the hospital, lesbian sister and lover asking for brother's sperm to make a baby, 'therapy sessions', sex with supposedly straight movie stars and more...It was finally refreshing to see a gay movie where they say 'Ok, they're here, they're gay, movin'on'... and touch on relationship with a realism Howie would be proud of.Well, seeing who the director and writer is I shouldn't be surprised, but Everwood's Greg Berlanti managed to do exactly that.He also is aided by a very good cast and crew, who make 'The Broken Hearts Club' a heartwarming flick that can speak to any man, whether gay or straight.The Broken Hearts Club 9/10. "},{"Title":"Slight, but of historical interest","Date":"12 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" To paraphrase one of the characters in this slight but enjoyable movie of the week, it's not enough to be gay, rather you should be an interesting person who happens to be gay. And that's basically the problem with this movie - it's about being gay, being gay, being gay... and not much else. I suspect however that it will ultimately find a place in the history of queer cinema as an example of the homosexuality is good/healthy period, as contrasted with all the gay stereotypes in movies up to the late 90's. It will also form a sharp contrast with subsequent cinema, in which the banalization of homosexuality returns the focus to drama (where it should be) not sexual orientation per se. "},{"Title":"Queer Angst","Date":"3 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" If the romance genre has created its own sub-genre that translates to light and breezy -- one that we've come to baptize as chick-lit, gay romance can now claim its own. THE BROKEN HEARTS' CLUB A ROMANTIC COMEDY takes its cue from earlier films about gay men (LONGTIME COMPANION, for one source), squeezes all the juice from it, adds quite a whopper of filtered water and fructose syrup, and throws in Dean Cain for some necessary eye-candy even though he is never seen in anything but clothes and more clothes to boot while playing what amounts to quite an unlikable cad.In short, this is a very artificial movie, full of calories and not much dramatic weight. I would assume that in light of HBO's Sex and the City, Hollywood would make an attempt at doing a gay version (not that it was needed; the HBO series is in its own right about four gay men -- they're just played by women). Here we're introduced to widely different young men (and one older queen played by John Mahoney, easily the best part of the movie, hands down) and their struggles through love and disappointment in a very deep place called West Hollywood.Of course, it can be rather difficult to feel anything for characters who in a heartbeat throw a potential date out of the house due to the fact they don't like, or are acquainted with, Karen Carpenter, or when one a relationship counselor practically stalks his ex-lover (not before dispensing tidbits of advice that hint at a reconciliation). Zach Braff at least fares better his character has a hilarious moment as he tries to pump up in order to catch the attention of the gym bunny who he has the hots for. The same goes for Ben Weber who plays the male version of what Cynthia Nixon did in Sex and the City even though his cynicism does wear out its welcome later in the film. (He does have a great moment of total bewilderment alongside Mary McCormack who plays his lesbian sister who gives him a tight deadline to decide to donate his sperm so she and her partner, played by Nia Long, could have a baby.) It's a movie with more pluses than minuses, however. Take it as the latest paperback that you might find in your local drugstore or supermarket of choice -- nothing that will amount to a classic, but a quick, entertaining read. And that's always welcome. "},{"Title":"Communal Look at WeHo Boys Yields Laughs, Sighs and Some Raised Eyebrows","Date":"27 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" First-time director/screenwriter Greg Berlanti has done a facile, intermittently entertaining job in looking at a group of twenty-something gay friends in West Hollywood. I am grateful that that he saw no need to make grand statements about AIDS, gay marriage or any number of pertinent social issues to the gay community. Instead, the 2000 movie feels a bit like a role-reversal riff on Sex in the City with the men bonding and bickering as only close friends can. The focus is primarily on Dennis, an aspiring photographer who views his 28th birthday with trepidation as he feels entrapped by his clique to the expense of both long-lasting love and a career on hold. He waits tables at a restaurant owned by Jack, the unofficial den mother to the whole gang who hang out there. Dennis finds himself attracted to 23-year old Kevin, an inexperienced newbie who finds himself also entangled with Dennis' housemate, Cole, a narcissistic actor and bed-hopper extraordinaire thanks to his good looks and supreme confidence. Other subplots are interwoven so that the net effect is a lifestyle tableau that alternates soap opera turns with observations that bounce between astute and glib.Many of the performances help the proceedings starting with a surprisingly fey Timothy Olyphant as Dennis and a swaggering Dean Cain as Cole. Both show greater depth than I anticipated from their roles, as does Andrew Keegan as Kevin. A punked-out Zach Braff effectively plays Benji, a party boy with a penchant for muscles and drugs, and avoids the pitfall of condescending to stereotype. A bespectacled Matt McGrath portrays nerdy Howie, who is ambivalent about his feelings for Marshall played by Justin Theroux. The most predictable subplot seems to take its cue from a Friends episode with the cynical Patrick being courted for his sperm by his sister Anne and her angry partner Leslie. Ben Weber is irritating as the self-pitying Patrick, and Mary McCormack and Nia Long are given precious little to do as Anne and Leslie. In a turn that reminded me of his colorful starring role in John Guare's The House of Blue Leaves on Broadway, John Mahoney makes the most of a cliché-ridden role as Jack. The sadly underused Jennifer Coolidge shows up as the gang's indifferent hairdresser. It's a loquacious film but at times, a touching, insightful and funny one, too. "}{"Title":"A Collection of Good Dialogue in Search of a Motif","Date":"21 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movies has a lot of very good moments (and I do mean moments), and many fine and amusing lines of dialogue. There are actually gay men, in towns small and large, that do talk like this. No, they aren't the majority. However, no one ever said that this money (or any other money) needed to be representative of the gay community. On the other hand, typical of these types of movies is the need to cram all the elements in this movie into what is a very short movie. The plot would have been better served to cut out some of the many secondary elements and to build up some of the more major ones (i.e., the story of the newbie, or the story of the actor and his promiscuity, or the story of the gay man who's sister wants his sperm, etc.) In real life, no men, no matter how witty and gay, have all these things happen to them (or their circle of friends) in the short period of time defined by the film. Perhaps if the writer/director through he might never get to do another gay movie, it makes sense to include all these elements, but that is what contributes to the weakness of this film.Some of the performances are good. Most are above adequate in the television sitcom way. None are truly bad or unacceptable. However, for all the good dialogue, the actually plotting is what is the weakest element of this film. Ultimately, it does not really say anything more than what would be a collection of comments on some gift cards and that's never the point of a story, merely an element (and a small one at that). "},{"Title":"I love this movie from start to finish","Date":"17 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A lot of people have written bad reviews of THE BROKEN HEARTS CLUB. I have to disagree with them. When I first saw this movie I loved it. It was about guys who just happen to be gay, living life. Its about family, friends, and relationships. Both gay and straight people can relate to the story line.I thought the acting was very good. Dennis was well played by Timothy Olyphant. OK most of the actors that worked on this film were straight, but played gay very well. I'm sure there is at least one person that you can relate to in this movie.This movie has its high and low points which what makes a good movie. I watch it whenever I feel down, and it makes me feel better.The only thing wrong with this movie is that it is too short, running for 90 min Believe it or not (no pun toward Dean Cain) This movie will go on my list as one of my favorite movies. "},{"Title":"People decrying the stereotypical gay characters","Date":"2 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Alright, alright, so it's all very progressive or whatever to shout these characters are just stereotypes, real gay people aren't like that! It very dutifully tries to combat the evil heterosexist assumptions and pigeonholing and yadda yadda yadda. But... come on, girls. I've been out seven years, I've been involved in all kinds of activism up the yin-yang, I've met more gay people than I can shake a stick at. Stereotypical as the movie's characters may have been, *most* of the gay friends I've had in the last 7 years has born at least a passing resemblance to one or them; or maybe some blending of any given two or three of the characters. At different times I've been a lot like a couple of the characters. And not because I was trying to, and in the case of my friends it isn't because they try to. It's because they become comfortable enough with themselves that they aren't worried about seeming 'stereotypical.' The point is, there's a danger in refuting the gay stereotypes just for the sake of refuting. It seems to have become popular to say that gay people aren't really like that, because then it attaches a stigma to the gay guys who *are* like that. Face it a lot of us become comfortable enough with ourselves to reclaim the 'stereotypes.' I decided years ago that I could call myself a fag to other people, because by making it 'my' word, other people can't use it to hurt me. Well the same goes for the stereotypes. I'm not afraid to be campy, or slutty when I'm single, or neurotic when I'm not single. Sometimes I'm any of those things, sometimes I'm not. Just last week a co-worker told me she wouldn't have guessed I was gay; I told her she just hasn't seen me with my best friends yet. Because when a few of us get together... yeah, it can be a *lot* like the coffee shop scene in the movie. And we aren't ashamed of that, and these ladies don't protest too much, because it's no big deal. Let people think what they like. I think the disdain some gay guys have for 'stereotypical' gay men is just another expression of internalised homophobia. We don't *have* to try and be like straight people! Consider how screwed up a lot of straight guys end up, trying too hard to conform to their masculine 'straight stereotypes.' Heteros haven't quite cornered the market on healthy, integrated, harmonious identity expression, we aren't obliged to try and emulate their foibles at the expense of our own.  "},{"Title":"A great party movie. Okay, maybe not so great, but a good party movie.","Date":"8 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a movie, with the right direction, could make a great television series. Think about it, a diverse cast, granted some common stereotypes, but we all need to indentify with someone. A great location for a series, West Hollywood, where else would the gay man for the US Heartland want to be? And actors who throughout the movie developed quite nicely. It was a shame it had to end.This movie had it's cliches, it's stereotypical gay characters, but what is wrong with a movie, in which it creates an atmosphere, in which you truly can forget your own worries, and somehow become good-looking by association?This movie will be as close to any gay, big-budget Hollywood production you will see in a long time. Rent it or buy it for simply the J Crew guy. Man, I wish we got to see more of him. "},{"Title":"4 out of 5.","Date":"6 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I liked this movie. Alot of people slated it for being too fakey. But sometimes even life seems to mirror a sitcom. The acting ranged from passable to excellent, I particularly liked Benji, played by Zach Braff. I know it's kind of a cliched storyline, but I thought he carried it off pretty convincingly. The sister and girlfriend could come across as being quite token, but the comment about the party where there were 2 women, the parrot got more attention that her is quite telling (and true!)It did suffer a little from having so many characters, and it was difficult to care about a few, especially Howie and Marshall.Overall, its a good slow afternoon movie, with a few tears and laughs. **** of ***** "},{"Title":"The superficial complexity of modern gay life","Date":"31 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Far be it from me to critique this film as not holding a mirror up to modern L.A gay life. They do it different in West Hollywood (as the characters never tire of implying); it's rather more desperate and low budget here in the UK. But from my forays to Boystown in the past it could well be the right cocktail of gyms, restaurants, hair appointments and recreational f*****g.Actually, that's an accurate reduction of the HOMOgeneity of gay life these days; travel anywhere in the (western) world and finding the components of scene life readily to hand and the transcendent self-absorption are as comforting as seeing the golden arches and smelling a Big Mac.There's something about BHC that is just a little too glib, a little too slick to fully enjoy. The characters, although true types in many ways are a little too compartmentalised and single-issued. Also, the idea that this spectrum of post-AIDS gay types would just happen to have gelled into such a bonded group is a little far fetched.Characters aside, the narrative veers towards cheese-in-a-can. The old queen dying of a heart attack and the touching eulogy from his 'silent partner'. Please... The cute, arrogant one getting his comeuppance from a cuter, more arrogant one. Purleassse.... The Nancy Reagan-esque screenwriting, where even a sniff of a bottle of poppers of course means being on a life-support machine by the end of the evening Purrlease! (and of course, all your best friends are there by the bedside to welcome you back to a safer world of cappucinos and comparing notes on cute guys). The bratpack directors of the 80s wouldn't have tried to pull off that number of cheesy stunts in a single movie.The highly episodic plot and attempt to cover too many characters, issues and epiphanies spreads the viewer's attention and engagement too thinly. Even that most poignant of gay character types - the one we can ALL relate too in some form - 'coming-out guy' (to use the movie's idiom) is a case of 'whatever?'. He kind of does it when we're not looking, and relates it in passing in 'good-looking sorted guy's kitchenHow did they take it? Oh, they were great about it...Okay, let's all go to the gym then.Some things particularly annoy the token lesbian presence which seemed to be included to alert us all to the fad for artificial insemmination if my sister was as insensitive as to request my sperm as a throwaway comment when getting out of the passenger seat, I think I'd tell her where to get off. Instead he decides to help impregnate her girlfriend WHO HE LOATHES. Excuse me?Also, the drag scene which was just mortifying. Any self-respecting gay man (of whatever age) who puts on women's clothing and performs would NEVER, go on with a vest (singlet) showing under his evening gown and without his wig on(and he's worried whether his tits are straight). That's just an affront to drag performers everywhere. Harvey, you must have been spinning in your slingbacks.Bitching aside, BHC has to be viewed for several good reasons gay mainstream movies are so rare and its nice to see gay guys on film out of leather harnesses once in a while (and in them too, if I'm being true to myself).Also, we need reminding how normal we all are; if we prick us do we not seek therapy, etc. and how great it is to be drinking warm milk on a Sunday morning and not tilting it out of a bottle (however vaccous and ultimately irrelevent that threatens to make our existences).So rent it out, soak in some rays, check out some pecs and keep saying - It's only L.A, it's only L.A... "},{"Title":"The Sweet and Sour of Gay Life","Date":"7 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  BHC is exactly what it is billed as a romantic comedy. We watch as a group of friends struggle with being young, being old, being gay, who they are, and where they are going.None of the characters are shining examples of humanity, rather each has their vices and personality traits. And each has to deal with their situation in the world. The story has very down-to-earth feel, with quite a bit of the story concentrating on relationships. In the end, some things are resolved, but its not so locked down that you feel like things were handed down on a silver platter.BHC has a surprisingly well rounded cast, including good acting from the likes of Dean Cain (whose 'Lois and Clark' acting failed to impress). Limited nudity and tasteful bedroom scenes add to the direction of the movie.I watched it on DVD and would definitely see it again. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable, but not highly original","Date":"20 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A good film about relationship dynamics, and self-confidence issues. Everyone should be able to identify with one of the characters, or even a bit of each. My only problem is the strong resemblance to the British version of the TV series, Queer as Folk. Recommended, some good one-liners and quoteable quotes.  7.5/10 "},{"Title":"(7/10) Enjoyable post-Y2k gay romantic comedy","Date":"28 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I enjoyed this film. A lot. Granted, it's not perfect - there is a lot of room for development and fine-tuning, but its a pleasant diversion - and one that would be a wonderful launchpad for many things, most feasibly a weekly one hour television drama series.I also enjoyed seeing such normal people on screen. Normal people, doing the things that normal people do today talking, laughing, crying, reminiscing.... Sure, writer-director Greg Berlanti remains within a defined zone in terms of his representation of homosexuality and homosexuals, but the group of men he explores are presented comfortably and confidently. They become our friends, because they are like people we know. We see ourselves in them. And we have to face the similarities between their stories and ours - and there are parallels for everyone, whethere hetero-, homo- or somewhere in between.A minor quibble - I think that the score would have been so much stronger had at least one of the Carpenters' classics been an original. Maybe We've Only Just Begun, since that is part what lies at the heart of this film.Jaded film buffs will not like THE BROKEN HEARTS CLUB. But so what? I don't think its targeted at that market anyway. BHC is a reminder that homosexuals are more than just 'gay' - there are people behind the labels - behind any label - and the challenge is for all of us to find that grain of self which is at the core of each individual's existence. "},{"Title":"Recognizable","Date":"11 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Although it's not the best movie I've ever seen, it is a very recognizable one. Maybe only gay (wo)men who have been in a similar situation like the guys in the movie can say this. Especially the moment when Dennis tells Kevin he's not ready for him I am 28 and at this moment the only thing I'm good at in life is being gay, there is nothing more. That is alright, I only came out when I was 25, so I had to do some catching up. But now, I want more. That personal search for your place in life, which is completely different for gaymen, which can be fun, exciting and fascinating is also very confusing, exhausting and very, very lonely without gayfriends.That message of the movie is the one thing only gaymen who have been there really understand. That's really a virtue of this movie. Therefore it's a pity that the characters and the plot are not a bit more developed. "}{"Title":"I'd watch this over Steel Magnolias ANY day","Date":"22 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I happened upon this movie recently and loved it.  It doesn't present any of the characters as martyrs or monsters, but as human, with all the lovableness and foibles that any one human can have, gay, straight, or whatever.  What can I say, I hate chick flicks, I hate 'feel-good' movies, and while this had qualities commonly assigned to both of those genres, particularly dealing with family and relationship issues, somehow instead of being obnoxious, it was simply endearing and entertaining without being preachy or sappy.  Two favorite moments  Taylor obsessing over the Joan Crawford revenge scene and Taylor not taking any crap from his teammates after he struck out playing softball against the firemen. "},{"Title":"Finally a gay film that's not about being gay, true ... but they certainly talk about it enough, then talk about talking about it!","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Fine comedy drama, debuting the directing talents of Greg Berlanti (a producer on the TV show Dawson's Creek).A funny script manages to feature gay characters that aren't there just to be the best friend of the female lead, or the victims of Aids, etc. - therefore doing its part to kill the general, smaltz cliches.One problem with the movie however, is that it seems smugly satisfied with itself for being a gay movie that's not about being gay; this is untrue though - the majority of the conversations in the movie revolve around the subject of being gay. They attempt to redeem this by talking about talking about being gay, as though to claim this is tongue-in-cheek in-jokes - or some such.Anyhow, all that aside, a fine movie with marvellous performances all round; particularly from Timothy Olyphant and maverick John Mahoney.A joy! "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this at the Chicago Gay And Lesbian Film Festival and didn't have high hope for it.  Since it was about the various dating lives of several West Hollywood men, I kinda steeled myself for cliched writing, superficial characters mixed with soft-core homoeroticism.  I was surprised at how much I enjoyed the film and it gets better with each viewing.  Some of the dialogue is sitcom-y (not a shock, since the writer-director came from TV), but most of the scenes resonate with genuine warmth, love and desire. Timothy Olaphant is simply hot and does a terrific job - his scene with Andrew Keegan with the birthday cake ranks as one of the sweetest scenes in memory. "},{"Title":"One of the best romantic comedies of the past decade","Date":"17 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I absolutely LOVE this film.Everyone seems to concentrate on the fact that this film is about gay men looking for love but really this is a film about everybody who has ever been single and has a close-knit group of friends, the characters just happen to be gay.The characters are well thought out and realistic (by realistic i do NOT mean camp!), Timothy Olyphant is fantastic, as are the rest.I cannot say enough good things about this film! Not since When Harry Met Sally has there been such an original, funny and touching film about the plight of single people looking for their match.Two very enthusiastic thumbs up! "},{"Title":"It's good to see gay guys portrayed as normal people","Date":"9 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A friend of mine actually recommended this movie to me. He told me he'd seen a preview for it and it was about a group of gay guys, and of course my being gay persuaded him to tell me about it. So i took his advice, threw my inhibitions out the window, didn't care for 2 minutes if someone suspected i was gay and hired it out. Quite frankly I loved it. It's great to be able to watch a movie with gay guys in it who aren't ridiculed and put down for being the way they are, or having the stereotypically gay traits that nearly all gay movie characters have and it's good to be able to actually relate to what some of the characters are going through. I found myself drawn towards Kevin (played by Andrew Keegan, who is quite the hottie I might add), because i haven't yet told many people, and it was good to see someone else going through the same problems as me, even though it was fictional. I give it a definite 10, the actors were outstanding, especially acting under those circumstances, proving themselves to be very versatile and highly skilled at what they do. WELL DONE FELLAS!! I'm waiting for a sequel!!  "},{"Title":"No curve needed","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the few gay-themed films I've seen where you don't have to give bonus points just for the subject matter. 'Broken Hearts Club' is a nice little movie that stands on its own. It's a little hokey at times, but so is 'E.T.' The cast of characters represent a decent range of gay society without turning evernyone into a caricature. I'd recommend it to friends, gay or straight. And I'd rent it for family members. "},{"Title":"Very entertaining","Date":"19 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  TIVO automatically recorded this movie for me, and I decided to give it a try.  I was pleasantly surprised, the story-line is interesting and the plot themes are universal.  It brought up issues about friendships, such as occasional doubts about one's social circle and its impact on one's life.  It's a movie about gay men that certainly appeals to straight as well as gay movie viewers.   "},{"Title":"A nice, life-affirming film","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Timothy Olyphant is so wonderful here.  His talents as an actor seem endless, as he effortlessly sums up the average, non-stereotypical gay male in America.  It's quite a departure from his rugged, smoldering, and twisted characters Hollywood has offered him in the past.  It's a good film, and if you're gay, it's a great film.  I wish mainstream America had this as an example of gay life, instead of that trashy Queer as Folk, every week on television.  It's honest and sincere, with solid performances from good actors who obviously believed in the work they were doing.  Great job, guys and gals!  Now if only there were a sequel, or better yet a weekly cable series, chronicling the continuing story of Olyphant's character, starring Timothy of course.  This film is an example of how real you can portray a gay person's life, without the rampant drug use, casual sex, and scenes of ridiculousness those Showtime scriptwriters conjure up on their cutting edge version of my identity.     "},{"Title":"Finally, a movie that portrays gay men as people.","Date":"4 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Finally, a movie that portrays gay men as people.  It was very refreshing to see a film with gay characters that had character, as well as hopes, dreams, flaws, and genuine emotion.  Definitely recommend this movie. "},{"Title":"I am in Love with this film!","Date":"27 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I am a film lover. A movie lover. An art of cinema lover. Guilty. Andnot really too critical sometimes. But occasionally a film comes alongwhich just gets under my skin and into my life (probably too often). Isaw this film ten times on its Sydney, Australia cinema release inApril/May 2001. I couldn't help myself falling under the spell of theseamazingly powerful characters whose personal revelations are bothtouching and even unsettling. But its also just so much fun and soenjoyable to see gay guys reaching out, having fun beyond sexual angst(though its still there of course) and trying to make lives forthemselves. Its reminiscent of classic group friendship films like TheBreakfast Club in its easygoing but dramatically sharp way. Its filmedlovingly and the care for these characters is immensely satisfying as analternative to the disposable human waste portrayed in so many hipfilms. There's one moment that jars when Howie does his speech on gayfilm but thats only because its out of place and a little too preachy.Otherwise, I can't recommend this highly enough to anyone looking for afilm about friendship, loving and learning about this big wide oldworld. Dean Cain is a revelation but Justin Theroux is the star for mein his understated support role as Marshall. Love this guy to death.Hope to see more of him. But the whole cast is brilliant and I hate toleave anyone out - so good. One interesting note the gay straightfilm star character in the film - Kip Rogers - has the same number ofletters in his first and second name as a real film star who shallremain nameless. Guess who? So much fun in this film. Please, please seeit. Share the love "}{"Title":"It is all about being gay (couple of spoilers)","Date":"21 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've read some of the other comments here with interest. A lot of people have said that they liked this film because it wasn't just about being gay, and that the characters weren't in the usual homo-angst that other films showed.Well, maybe I was watching a different film, but it seemed that almost every character in this movie had some sort of gay angst going on. All they seemed to do was bitch about how hard it was to find a good man while ignoring the possibilities right under their noses. The lead who gets a chance at happiness, sleeps with the newbie character and then goes off to Europe - and I didn't find his self-indulgent little justification speech to be at all acceptable. The only happy well-adjusted couple in the movie don't stay that way for long (one of them dies).While all of the characters were witty and pretty - they had problems which were to do with low self-esteem (not being pretty enough) or not being able to get relationships working (jaded or disengaged). These characters clearly found themselves a lot more fascinating than I did (witness the montage where they babble on endlessly to their hairdresser about their lives).If we think that this movie is portraying gay men in a positive light, then it's only because so many gay films in the past have been so utterly depressing that this one doesn't seem all that bad in comparison.Please - can we have a film with gay men as the central leads where they don't have all of this Dawson's Creek angst and just let them get on with normal or dare I say it, happy? relationships (and not die) or just be happy to be single. Oh, and how about NOT setting it in New York or West Hollywood.We really do need to start to move away from this genre, or at least start to explore ones which represent gay men as more empowered than this. "},{"Title":"A Kinder Gentler Boys in the Band","Date":"19 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  In twenty or so years of watching gay cinema, this is one of my favorite films. It's a kinder, gentler Boys in the Band. The writing is engaging and I admire the way Mr. Berlanti is able to choreograph so many characters through  personal crisis and on towards  satisfactory resolutions. There are only two things which I had trouble with. First, since when is a restaurant kitchen so quiet, clean and empty with a full dining room? Okay, granted it's a small point but anyone who has worked in kitchens will relate. My second problem is with the soundtrack CD. I like all the tracks but it doesn't include some of the better songs in the movie and does include many extended dance mixes that are not in the film. Its saving grace is that it does include the heartachingly beautiful remake of Close To You by Mary Beth Maziarz. See this film several times. To paraphrase a line from Benji, My Dad would like this film. "},{"Title":"Gay lifestyle portrayed in broad fabric","Date":"19 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film originally caught peoples attention because it is a first time effort by the director, and on a more limited audience attention span because one of the lead gay characters is played by Superman hunk  Dean Cain.  What really becomes the film is the intricate fabric of the diverse charaterizations of the gay community portrayed in the film. Every man has his own background, history, hangups and problems of dealing with love, life and friendship that all people, gay and straight can deal with. The only drawback of the film is that it seems to distinguish gay men as having closer friendships than the rest of the world.  That's an obvious illusion that shakes up the veracity of the storyline throughout the film.The best aspect of this movie are the players the actors have absorbed their roles, they are'nt all stereotypical model agency gay men, and outstanding is the reference to the couple of 20 years. Only 20?  My boyfriend and I have been together for almost 12 yrs and we're still Spring Chickens! "},{"Title":"a good one","Date":"13 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Whatever the producers might say, this IS a gay film. And what I mean by it being a gay film is that it revolves around the gay scene, the gay-being inside that gay scene and how does it feel to be gay amongst gays who expect you to perform your own gay stereotype.  Gays complain about the stereotyping, I personally could recognize every single one of the characters in people I've known through the years and people I see on the streets all the time act like that, call themselves bitches and do appear to have a certain need to act effeminate while in each other's company. To me, it was a very keen portrayal of how lots of gay groups interact specially in big cities(not only West Hollywood, this could be London, Madrid or Buenos Aires).  Instead of complaining about how bad this looks, all of the members of gay communities (I'm talking about places where there are large concentrations of gays and we all know what I mean) should be trying to expand what the community means and offers and not nurture those stereotypes that are so blatantly exposed in films(and of course sometimes exploited).We could obviously transfer the group of friends into a heterosexual lecture and we'll end up with the same conclusion. This group of gay friends do behave extremely gay and they accept it and some of them even mourn it. Straight groups that act extremely straight(say for example groups of high school cheerleaders or football players) or any group for that matter that asks you to follow a certain pattern of behaviour up to the dangers of depersonalization(think Philosophy students) can only be bad to your mental health and will leave you astray in a world where you are either strong, authentic and in touch with yourself or you'll end up(again) trying to hang on to a group of people for security and acceptance. This film is certainly about that, not about what it feels like to be gay regardless of your geographic situation(you should see Fucking Amal for that). But the director has taken the chance to comprise every aspect of the gay society and make a statement about it in a witty way.He obviously feels strongly about many issues and he's obviously tired of it too.   But then he also relaxes a bit and indicates that it's not really what you do or don't do, it's why you do it. A good example; John Mahoney in drag telling this other guy that he doesn't care whatever statement he's supposed to be making by dressing in drag badly, with armpits unshaved and a dreadful wig; he does it because it is great fun to him and his audience. Period. I'm glad this film was shot, it is certainly one of the few good gay films I've seen.  Good gay characters in films whose thematic is not primarily gay are left unnoticed. You want to see a good gay character who is not in a gay film?  Think Wes Bentley's father(Chris Cooper) in American Beauty. His character should reflect where you will find majority of gay men still. "},{"Title":"One of the best gay-themed movies ever","Date":"12 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was one of the more realistic gay films I've seen.  It is very believable that you could find a group of friends as diverse and yet similar as those in the film. Who doesn't know someone just like each of the characters?  How many gay men between 23 and 34 can't relate to at least one of the characters in this movie.  Strongly recommended.  "},{"Title":"Steel Magnolias with Gay Men!","Date":"1 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  As a gay man who's been out for some time, I found this film entertaining.  Its a modern day BOYS IN THE BAND and the cameraderie in the film is entertaining.The characters in the film mention STEEL MAGNOLIAS and I think the film's theme of friendship through adversity parallels that Julia Roberts (and others) film rather well.The scene I found most affecting was the young photographer's loss in the dark room developing a very important photo and his relationship with the newbie - which looked in the end like it might endure on a wholly different plane.If the Dean Cain character had done a little soul searching with his friends in the end of the film - there might be have been some more meaning...but I guess leaving the Hollywood type in the closet was a plot point.My final thought...I think many gay men lead quiet lives without a whole slew of caring friends.  I belong to a men's chorus in the area that recently disappeared in seconds (in the pouring rain) when a member's car broke down.  I would venture to say this is pretty much the norm.  The lets pull together and be pals sentiment is a nice one...but a bit unrealistic.  I wish I had friends like those in this film.Entertaining and none of the leads died of AIDS...thanks! "},{"Title":"Good Friends, Broken Hearts & Many Laughs","Date":"30 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Finally, a movie about gay men that feels more like an episode of Friends than a typical lonely gay man movie.  The characters are real and three dimensional, showing that even though people are typified into a certain catagory, they still can be a different as night and day. In all honesty, this movie is less about being gay and more about the complex friendships that form in a small group.  Thankfully, the characters are at different degrees of flaming (proof once and for all that not every gay man worships the music of Judy Garland) and can be considered a rather accurate portrayal of the sociology of being gay. Over all-- very funny, well written and acted and well worth the time to watch it. "},{"Title":"***  Charming little film","Date":"28 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The first studio film to feature an all-gay lead cast since The Boys In The Band isn't everything it tries to convince you it is, but it's really enjoyable all the same. Succeeding more in its comedic moments than when it tries to get too serious, I found that the director never really developed his characters enough for me to really feel there for them in their more tender scenes. However, it IS very very funny and there was nothing standing in my way of thoroughly liking it. Great cast with very appealing personalities.  "},{"Title":"The best gay film I've seen","Date":"16 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I recently saw this film as part of the Sydney Queerscreen Film Festival, in a packed cinema. It was one of the best laughs I've had in a very long time. Everyone in the cinema seemed to feel the same.This film succeeds in being true to the classic style of both gay and straight romantic comedies - funny yet very sweet - but it manages to elude many of the pitfalls that the genre suffers from, and even shows a bit of self-awareness as the characters analyze what it would be like if their lives were made into a movie(!). There are some very attractive cast members who all give very likeable performances, and Dean Caine is very convincing as a gay character (his infamous gay kiss is hidden from the camera, however!) The scenes about that wonderful time when a person first 'comes out' are particularly heartwarming.I usually don't like gay films because many of them are simply bad films. But I would easily put this film up against any mainstream film, for its quality, for its performances, and its comedy. I hope this film reaches mainstream release. "},{"Title":"An excellent film about gay men and matters of the heart","Date":"5 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Always looking for a film that looks at gay men and touches on points that are poignant to my life this film made me look at myself from a distance and see so much more.A touching and heart wrenching journey with a group of friends in West Hollywood, some with more depth than others.  As one of their friends die, they realise that there is so much more to life than having a good time. As one of the friends realises, it's not so bad being gay, and average, we're the strongest.An excellent film, well worth the $9. "}{"Title":"love is tough, regardless of gender","Date":"4 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Cheeky, amusing, frightening and real is my experience with this film. I saw it last weekend and it was touching. The cast was balanced with A-B players (mahoney, long, mccormack) and a solid character ensemble that would be interesting people in real life. A decent script and plausible plot without the over the top stereotypes were greatly appreciated and applauded. I can forgive some scene chewing, since it wasn't annoying. Take your friends and they will see why they are worthy!  "},{"Title":"A funny and heartwarming movie!","Date":"2 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw TBHC last thursday at the Verzaubert Film Festival in Cologne, Germany. I loved it. I'm straight, but I had no problem identifying with the characters in the movie and I loved the heartwarming sense of friendship and the hilarious witty dialogues. All performances in the movie were great, especially Dean Cain and Timothy Olyphant. When it is going to be released in Germany, I'm definitely going to see it again and I'll recommend it to all my friends. A must see movie!  "},{"Title":"one of the most touching films ever","Date":"27 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw Broken Hearts Club the other day, and I had to stay in the theater until almost everyone else had left, because I was sobbing so hard.I loved this movie.  Finally a movie about gays that isn't about being gay. The movie had just the right mix of humor, drama and relationships (tactfully done).The importance of friendship in the movie struck a cord with my own friendships, and I went home and called all of my best friends to tell them that I love them.What else can I say about this movie, except that it is one of the best movies that I have ever seen.  I am going back again this weekend. "},{"Title":"What's the problem?","Date":"4 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Every gay critic in the country has had to find something  snotty to say about this movie, and I really don't see why. I found it to be a sweet, good-hearted movie. Some of my more politically correct friends have complained that it was full of stereotypes. I didn't think so. I did think it was full of recognisable gay characters, but that's hardly the same thing as stereotyping. (However, the sole black character was rather a stereotype, which isn't to say I don't know several gay black men just like him.) Perhaps the  message of the movie is one that many gay men would not receive gladly namely, that the gay life is fun at first but it sours when you realize it's not going to give you what it purported to be offering. And Timothy Olyphant's realization at the end--that he's devoted so much energy and effort into being gay that he hasn't bothered to develop any of his other capacities--is one that many gay men run into at that time in their lives. Perhaps that accounts for the grumpy reaction. "},{"Title":"Great movie about friends!","Date":"25 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I loved this movie because it was more about friendship than anything else...  I went with all of my friends, and it was like watching ourselves on the big screen...  We all gave each other a big hug afterwards because we realized how much we appreciate each other ) "},{"Title":"A pleasant enough movie","Date":"23 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It's not the deepest movie, or even the deepest gay movie, you're ever going to see, but it's a nice enough way to kill 90 minutes, and it does explore some themes about gay life that I, at least, have never seen before our tendency to ghetto ourselves from the rest of the world, and our seeming inability to grow up.Dean Cain and John Mahoney (Zach Braff and Timothy Olyphant hadn't yet done Scrubs and Deadwood, respectively), as the only recognizable stars in the film, do very nice jobs as the West Hollywood equivalent of a Chelsea boy and the boys' fairy godmother, respectively. Billy Porter, who WOULD be a recognizable star if there was anything even remotely resembling justice in this world, is absolutely wonderful in his role. "},{"Title":"Simple and sweet","Date":"19 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A totally cute film about life.  Not gay life, not straight life, but universal themes in everyone's lives.  Granted the film is centered around gay men, but they are all dealing with issues which are easily universal. The best part no cliched AIDS deaths and no drag (ok, there's 5 seconds of it, but it doesn't count )  It's refreshing to see a well put-together cast and good acting in a film featuring gay characters. "},{"Title":"Best Movie of the Year","Date":"15 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Heart-warming, terrific glimpse of the lives of a group of friends.  It begins and ends with the same two sentences (paraphrased)  I can't remember when I realized I was gay.  But I do remember when I realized it was okay  When I met my friends.  This movie is a testament to the value of friendships, and while my own group of friends is a bit deeper than these guys are, I think we all share experiences with them. Some lovely points are made in this film. "},{"Title":"A nice surprise","Date":"10 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I really did not expect to like this film.  My buddies said it was the best depiction of gay men in films ever.  With a hype like that, the film had the odds stacked against it.But several minutes into it, I realized that I was wrong.  This is easily the most realistic portrait of the gay guys I have known.  Sure they whine a bit about their lovelives, but I haven't known ANYONE single and in their twenties who doesn't!  (Granted, the boys in Broken Hearts Club do it with more wit than most people, but it is a MOVIE, for God's sakes.)Very funny, moving, and a great cast to boot (Tim Olyphant and Dean Cain stand out in a very strong ensemble).  I highly recommend this film.  "},{"Title":"Fantastic movie that warmly portrays characters we are or know!","Date":"3 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is the most accurate portrayal of gay life at the turn of the century I have seen.  The focus on friends as an extended family hits home with a touching reality.  The one liners in the movie are a combination of things we've said, and things we've thought but never said.The acting is great and the writing/direction from Greg Berlanti clearly indicates that he will go far. "}{"Title":"A coming of age film that happens to be about gay men.","Date":"2 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I enjoyed this film very much.  The men and the culture in which they live just happen to be gay, but the concept of boys finally becoming men because of (developmental) tragedy(s) visiting their lives, is universal. However, this film portrayed the special bonding that gay men experience in a very accurate and sensitive fashion.I left the film caring about the characters and wanting to know more.  Of course I must admit my prejudice that I would drive two hours to see Dean Cain in a baby food commercial, but I thought that all the characters were well developed and sensitively portrayed.  I have been waiting for this film to be released ever since it was filmed at the Monsoon Restaurant two blocks from my house in Long Beach, CA. The theatre in WeHo, where I saw the film, was packed, as was the parking structure (one hour to exit).I plan to see this film again with heterosexual friends (Dean are you free?) when it plays at the Art Theatre in Long Beach, CA, where life is a little less hectic! "},{"Title":"A movie that finally gets it right!","Date":"30 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Finally, a movie about gay men that shows us as the ordinary guys most of us really are.  For once I wasn't cringing at any stereotypical moments or characters that seem to be in every previous gay-themed movie.  I found myself sitting in my seat crying when the movie was over, trying to stifle the audible sobs that wanted to come out.I was in tears because this movie reminded me of the wonderful friends I've had, and have, in my life.  Friends from the past, friends in the present.  Some friends I've lost touch with because of death, or just the passing of time, and the changing paths of our lives. This movie reminded me of these friends with love.  And that is a reminder we can all use, whether we're gay or straight. "},{"Title":"interesting","Date":"30 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Not a masterpiece - something like a good pilot for a sitcom - but very pleasant, genuine and fresh - good and sexy actors - If you are gay, you'll like it. If you are straight, you might learn a few things.... And it's a perfect way to understand why the 'Carpenters' are so important to the western culture.... "},{"Title":"Very entertaining, very funny","Date":"30 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Okay, the truth is that I ended up in this movie only because Best in Show was sold out.  However, I am pleased to say that my hour and a half was not wasted.  I tend to like movies about friends with lots of great dialogue, and this movie delivers on both counts.  It was very refreshing to see gay characters portrayed as normal people and not the traditional, stereotypical drag queen/friend of a single woman/supporting character.  The actors did a phenomenal job with their roles, to the point that I still want to know what happens next to these characters.  I want to be friends with these guys!  (Even though I'm a heterosexual woman.)  Everyone was completely likeable, even the self obsessed Cole (Dean Cain).  This is by far one of the funniest movies I've seen in a long time.  I saw it in a packed theatre and the audience was roaring with laughter.  The difference is that the jokes are based on witty dialogue, not disgusting toilet humor that most comedies resort to these days.  The directing is also very good, different from what I've seen before.    Overall, this was a super entertaining movie, especially in light of the awful options that most of the major studios are forcing on us these days.  I highly, highly recommend it!     "},{"Title":"A Good update of the Gay Buddy Theme","Date":"25 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  After its big splash at Sundance, this film has been screened at several Gay & Lesbian Film Festivals across the country prior to a wider release in the fall. We meet a group of friends in this movie that at once are likable and yet we are somewhat detached from them. A fine portrayal of friends, in general, and what the chemistry and interaction in a clique can be like. For the most part, this film leaves us happy, but wanting a little more. Just as the film touches on some serious topic, it takes a step back. I think the thought of selling this movie in Peoria affected some directorial decisions and its final editing.Overall, a pleasant turn on the drear-filled morbid stories of this genre there are no terrible psycho-scenes or breakdowns! We have all known people like these guys and in the end we feel at home with them. We approve or disapprove as we would with our own friends. It makes me want to know what happens to them in 5 years or so. "},{"Title":"Generally Enjoyable","Date":"14 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this film at the Philadelphia Gay and Lesbian Film Festival.  The audience seemed to respond well.  As did I.I thought in general the dialogue was good, generally witty.  Although it reminded of the line from 'Queer as Folk' when Vince is in the straight pub and says there are people talking in sentences that don't end in punch lines and no one seems to care.  It seemed like a lot of what was said had to end in a punch line. The script at times seemed to be too witty and it sounded forced.The performances were above par.  With some surprises, noticeably John Mahoney of Frasier fame.  I was so used to seeing him as Martin Crane the retired police officer that this was a nice change.  Timothy Olyphant (who has been a favourite since 'Go) and Andrew Keegan were two others who I feel stood out from the rest of the ensemble.  Also noteable was Matt McGrath's neurotic Howie, an all too familiar character.Towards the end it did move to the formulaic and shmaltzy.  A bit too sentimental.    Don't get me wrong I did like the film it was good, just not like last year's Festival opener. "},{"Title":"Getting over the gay thing","Date":"16 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was asked to attend a screening of this film without knowing what I was in for.  In hindsight, I'm sure my opinion as a straight male was a view the filmmakers wanted to hear.After the initial disclosure of the fact that this is a movie about gay characters, the sexuality just didn't mean anything anymore.  The story transcends oh look how gay we are and instead focuses on the HUMAN BEINGS involved.  When a character talks abut his relationship, it is done in a way that all audiences relate.  My friends and I compared it to films like The Breakfast Club and The Big Chill, both of which focus on peer groups facing emotional obstacles.Sure, AIDS doesn't factor in the movie much, but it doesn't really factor into the characters' story.  I'm sure every gay person doesn't spend his/her day concentrating on the AIDS crisis.  Does every WWII film need to focus on the Holocaust?  No, there's much more to it than that. Does every film about homosexuals need to be an educational document of the dreadful plague that has concentrated on this certain group?  NO. This is a romantic comedy. Imagine Tom Hanks beating Meg Ryan in their next film together.  Spousal abuse is a frightening, real situation, but does it demand a place in a romantic comedy?  Not any that I can think of.To me, this film is what it is A comedic look inside the lives of human beings very unlike myself, in circumstances I can still relate to. It's a character study with an insight I hadn't seen on film before. I bet that more heteros than myself come out of this film with similar views. I recommend this film. "},{"Title":" a story we all can relate to, it's a play on the ego...of acceptance.","Date":"9 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie in Sundance, and it was heartfelt, clever, funny and just an all around great movie. My friend and I still laugh about some of the lines today. We were hoping it would get a great buzz . My  comment to this movie is because of it's affect, I hope you'll see what I mean. It relates to our precious ego, of fitting in, going through the stages in life, and finally letting go and getting over the past. It's centered around these gay friends, but it's not the play on gay per se..it's a play on how we as people  act. "},{"Title":"finally, a gay flick that's not about being gay.","Date":"11 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Saw this movie at Sundance Film Festival with no prior knowledge of plot or theme.  I was VERY impressed.  Not only are the actors great, but the story takes an almost tired theme in movies (lonely gay men) and shows us the dynamics of friendship and love that apply to ANY social group. Great movie. "},{"Title":"An addition in knowledge","Date":"18 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A good drama films, except being enjoyable and entertaining, supposedly should have `things' to offer to it viewers. The story must be meaningful and make us think about the subject matter. Certainly, the film has not to be a hard or totally solemn film. Even a slight and easy film can manage be a good and crispy film.`Broken Heart Club' (BHC) is a slight film but have a good point of view about the gay life, especially in the United States. BHC illustrates almost every gay character and it makes an addition in our knowledge about their world.The plot revolved around a bunch of this guy in a group of friend by centering on Dennis (Timothy Olyphant). The film simply shows their daily life and conflict that happens to make their friendship in a test.Despite still have stereotype and cliché, BHC without doubt can move you and make you wonder how fragile their life really are. It does also make us grasp that no matters how are you or who are you, we must grateful to our life, because it is so precious and too beautiful to waste. Only one thing annoying me here, is flirting always be on they mind? Technically, BHC is an average film, but it does not reduce our benefit from to watch it. 8/10  "}{"Title":"Horrible dreck","Date":"24 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm watching this for the 1st time & cannot believe how awful it is! Can't American filmmakers turn out at one least decent gay film??? Can they not bother to rent Get Real, Beautiful Thing, etc???They should have just called this film How To Be A Professional Gay In 5 Easy/Cliched Steps.This film was nothing but cliche after cliche. Seeing the old man in bad drag was nothing but embarassing, the unnecessary drug overdose, film referencing to the point of obnoxiousness, a completely horrible score with bad renditions of Carpenter songs (for pete's sake, USE the Karen vocals, not some cheap knockoff!). If I remember correctly the actors were practically all homophobes and did nothing but trash gay lifestyles while trying to promote the film. Why did they even bother??? Also... Why do they each keep calling each other hag? It is so annoying!Fag hag? But isn't that a straight woman..not a gay man??? Poor writing, poor direction, poor film. 1/2 star out of 4 (and that is only for Zach Braff). "},{"Title":"Worst movie I have seen in a long time","Date":"10 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Now come on .... tell me realistically if this movie would have gotten such good ratings if it was about straight couples.  Where was the plot?  What was the story?  Where was the character development?  Think of the most boring plotlines from the most boring daytime television sitcom, then remove the women.  That is what this movie is about.  The only reason I watched it till the end was to see if anything even remotely interesting happened, or if maybe there were even some non-laughable acting performances.  Guess not. "},{"Title":"One of the finest looking casts in film history","Date":"3 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Of course that in itself is not a reason to see a movie. Luckily, there are many reasons to see this one. It's hilarious, sweet, smart, and did I mention SEXY? If you think all the good men are gay, you're absolutely right! And if Timothy Olyphant's performances in average films such as `Scream 2' and `Go' caught your interest, run to the video store for this movie. Free from the burden of playing weird, intense psychos, Olyphant finally gets a starring role as a normal guy, and he does a wonderful job of making the character true to life. The subtle change in his body language was mesmerizing. He left me wanting more. A great film about love and friendship. "},{"Title":"A Feel Good Flick","Date":"25 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A decent story about a West Hollywood softball team from a Gay bar, and a glimpse into their trials and tribulations off the diamond. Sure, there's more than a couple stereotypes (yes, all gay people are pretty well to do and wear fabulous clothes); yet there are some enjoyable stories and points pondered herein. I didn't buy Dean Cain's role, and personally, I thought the character got in the way. I did understand what I felt the writers message was, that being actors and actresses still clinging tight to their closets in mythologically liberal Hollywood. I felt the issue could have been explored better, or to make it a more integral part of the story. It was left in a symbolic limbo, of sorts. Also, John Mahoney's character and purple guy, their relationship seemed peripheral to the story, at best. As with many gay orientated movies, it was the heartbreaking hunks who were pushed to center stage. Again, a stereotype brought forth. At least we were spared the spectacle of a number of buff guys ruminating in angst as to Why are we so good looking? Yes, the film takes place in West Hollywood, and the film shows this from the onset. It would have been an interesting twist to have THE BROKEN HEARTS CLUB A ROMANTIC COMEDY take place in, say, Dububque, Iowa; Scranton, Pennsylvania or any small to medium sized city.   Overall, it is a good movie and will get people talking, which is more than enough to respect it on that point. Despite my aforementioned points, the film has some funny moments and will certainly entertain, within scope. Recommended.   "},{"Title":"Unbreak My Heart","Date":"11 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I'd like to say this recent purchase on DVD (sadly, no Bluray, yet) brought me back to my childhood, but that would be weird since I was 26 when it was released. It did bring back all my fond memories of that era of my life.This movie still holds up today &#x96; for me, at least. The characters, the laughter, the drama, the comradery, the dating&#x85;I could relate to all of what this film had to show. With each one individual gay stereotype after another, I both knew someone like these and was one of them at one point or another. Seeing this group brought back so many memories of my young gay youth.Normally, I might be offended by such clichés in any given group of individuals, but since they were so real here, and I lived this, it didn't bother me. With the addition of such actors who had such incredible chemistry and joy to be working with each other, it helped bring the story to life. Not to mention the film had an incredible script with snappy dialogue and deep meanings. Basically, this is a real-life soap opera of best friends either trying to hold onto their present or trying to constantly better themselves. Our main hero, Dennis (played by the fantastic Timothy Olyphant) is the central point of yearning for something more.Personally, if I could stay in this group until I was the age of Jack (another great performance by John Mahoney) I would. But, Dennis needed more and showed that.Back in 2000, when this was released, I did see this many times, but it got lost in the shuffle until recently and I wanted to revisit it after not seeing it for more than a decade. What warm memories this brought back and boy did it still ring true to my heart. I did laugh-out-loud again, relate again and cried at the appropriate times. Glad I purchased and wanted to become part of the Club again.And what an all-star club it is, if you look to see how many stars showed up to film this hilariously scripted gem. Definitely a recommendation to those of us who grew up gay in the 90s and early 2000s. "},{"Title":"Decent comedy/drama about a group of gay friends","Date":"5 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It ain't Shakespeare, but it's a pleasant enough movie. It happens to be about a group of gay men, but with a few changes in the plot/writing, it could have just as easily been about a group of straight men.What's most interesting is to see a few actors very early in their careers...some of whom made it, some of whom sorta disappeared.Ben Weber is one of those whose career didn't go very far...and I'm not surprised; here he plays a sort of out-of-place gay man who is having a lot of trouble finding his place. Timothy Olyphant is one of the ones who sorta made it, and he shows the personality to do so here, where he plays a rather confident and down-to-earth gay man. Zach Braff is particularly interesting...one of the one's who has been quite successful; here he plays a blonde gay man who is a bit on the shallow side. Dean Cain, who found his place as a successful television movie actor plays the hunk of the group; I always thought he should have been more successful. Andrew Keegan probably was the most talented (at least in this film), and while he isn't a household name, he's had a decent career; here he plays a not-out man. Billy Porter does nicely as the requisite Black character; he's been more successful on Broadway than flicks or TV. Matt McGrath has the deepest character here as a deeply troubled gay man; his career has been troubled, as well. And, perhaps the biggest surprise -- John Mahoney (yes, the father in Frazier -- as the gay everybody's father type that holds the group together. In other words, the writers set out to include every kind of gay character you can think of (except the wildest), and accomplished that.Of course, the film avoids many aspects of gay life...it's a bit sanitized. But it's a decent ensemble story...multiple subplots, but no main plot to follow. But, it's not all fluff. There's sadness and joy, heartache...and lots of everyday life. The one thing that is oddly missing from the film is HIV, although there is some drug action. There's something for everyone here "},{"Title":"Two Snaps Up!","Date":"16 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I couldn't remember if I had seen this or not, so thought I'd check out this 2000 comedy off HBO GO, and Two Snaps Up! Written and directed by Greg Berlanti, The Broken Hearts Club A Romantic Comedy follows the lives of a group of gay friends in West Hollywood, centered on a restaurant owned by the fatherly Jack (John Mahoney, Frasier's dad!) and the softball team he sponsors. The friends rely on each other for friendship and support as they search for love, deal with loss, and discover themselves. The film does a good job of portraying homosexuality in a normal context, just as any film dealing with similar issues involving straight friends. It was fun seeing Mahoney especially play this character. He was the one thing that made me think I had maybe seen this awhile back-??-but not sure. And I was ROTFLMAO during the softball game!! Timothy Olyphant, Dean Cain, Nia Long, Mary McCormack, and a pre-Scrubs Zach Braff round out the cast. "},{"Title":"everybody is soooooo gay","Date":"4 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It's a group of gay friends in West Hollywood. Dennis (Timothy Olyphant) is a photographer with an upcoming birthday. Benji (Zach Braff) is blonde. Cole (Dean Cain) is the charismatic manizer. The group also includes grad student Howie, Taylor, Patrick, Leslie, Anne and many others. Jack (John Mahoney) is the owner of a restaurant who keeps trying organize a softball team The Broken Hearts.Everybody is being so gay. It reeks of sitcom gays except it is so sincere. It is a gay rom-com. The comedy is pretty weak. The romance is fleeting. There are so many characters and some of them blend into each together. I don't feel for any of the relationships. I couldn't keep track of who's who and I don't really care about any of them. "},{"Title":"The Best Gay Movie Ever Made","Date":"12 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I saw The Broken Hearts Club when I was 25 years old. I had been out of the closet for 9 years already and had seen about every gay movie ever made. The vast majority of them were painful coming out stories that I couldn't relate to as my coming out was a wonderful time for me. My friends and family loved and accepted me.The reason this movie resonates with me is because it was the first gay movie I could relate to. So much was captured in the film that was a snapshot of my life. There was the way gay guys sit around all day talking about men. The petty jealousy of ex boyfriends who still want to sleep with each other. The thing that struck the strongest chord with me, however, was the way Kevin, after being so apprehensive about being with gay people, became completely acclimated to the group. It was my life when I was 24 exactly. To this day I still watch this movie ad it tugs at my heartstrings because it is the most accurate portrayal of gay life as I have known it.Before and after, no gay movie has been able to do what The Broken Hearts Club did so well. It portrayed the newness, the apprehension, the fear, the adventure, the heartache, the friendship and the survival that goes along with being gay. If you're gay, you should watch this movie to see that there are people who can relate to you. If you're not gay, watch it and understand what happens to many of us in our lives. You won't regret it. "},{"Title":"Don't wanna break your heart, wanna give your heart a break","Date":"4 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A big cable channel in Brazil displays The Broken Hearts Club with certain frequency, and last night I decided giving it a chance. I knew, from the get go, it would portray the lives of some gay dudes, but I didn't know this was the entire theme of the film. Anyways, it deserves a huge recognition for such professional cast. Filmmakers have chosen a bunch of straight guys to portray the homosexual characters, and that just proves how courageous are the actors involved in this project, mainly if considering that homosexuality wasn't an open theme in 2000 as it is nowadays. I guess these actors have suffered a lot of pressure from the media. The plot isn't anything remarkable; there are some common guys that face the old problems of sex without commitment and the friendship above anything else. Also, considering it referees itself as a romantic comedy, I believe they could've made more jokes throughout the story. The sperm donating scene, for example, could've had some jokes to make the story more enjoyable, but the writer seemed to be lazy whilst building that scene. Moreover, albeit the film has only 94 minutes, sometimes I felt like it was too long to deliver such needless moments. So, that's it The Broken Hearts Club is a nice movie to see once in your life, but it isn't going to surprise you in any aspect. For entertainment, almost only, it's worth it. "}{"Title":"How not to break eggs oops I broke the eggs","Date":"12 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It's usually a good idea to avoid the pitfalls your characters traverse in the course of a movie.The vacuousness of the vacant discoveries the cast make here makes it a movie that precisely showcases all the empty and blind lines of modern love itself.All these self involved men have the dream of being in a male couple but yet, they aren't even interested in the name of the other partner in the one long term male couple in their circle. He's treated like a joke and practically ignored when his lover dies. (Not a spoiler really; someone always dies in these things.) This is supposed to be a story about gay men finding and keeping love? At least our lead (though not the author's obvious autobio threads) couple (Olypahant and Keegan) seem to come to an almost grown up discussion about non-monogamy in a relationship. Too bad it's a relationship they won't be having.Otherwise it's the run-o-the-mill empty sex is bad morality tale and waiting is noble crappy advice that so many gay men are still buying into, even 14 years after this movie was made.Gay men will never break these heterosexual constrictions on themselves and their relationships when supposedly smart, gay, and with-it writers are furthering the groupthink of acceptable norms and the shame of where you put your genitals, when they so badly misread and misrepresent like this.-still worth it for camp value- "},{"Title":"Political Coup","Date":"14 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" As I watched this film I was amazed how so many straight guys were talked into playing gay characters so I did some research and learned that the fellow behind it, Greg Berlanti just happens to be a major television producer. He is also out. Put the two together and you get a film like this, a very clear political statement meant for the straight world. Does it work? I think it does. I haven't done any scientific study but I have the feeling that the straight hunks in this film should be enough to get people's attention when they are looking for a movie to watch. I can just imagine straight guys weeping and wailing when they discover the film is gay, leaving their lady friends to watch the movie on their own, their only consolation a cat in the lap. "},{"Title":"Good-Natured, Non-Sleazy Escapist Gay Romance","Date":"18 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Its always a challenge to make a film about gay men where the characters do something other than talk about their romantic dreams or sex experiences, and this film does not escape that trap, making it a kind of Steel Magnolias for the Romantic Gay Male.For a particular market, this is an entertaining and frequently amusing slice of life, with early cameos from actors like Zach Braff and Dean Cain that tend to light up the screen now and then, and veteran character actor John Mahoney as the Reliable Old Guy. The main character tends to be a big of a drag after about forty minutes, moaning about too many unresolved issues that become tiresome for a viewer who might not share them. The film's heart is in the right place, certainly, showing affection for some gay men who face their daily dilemmas with some humor and no little irony, and its not a sleazy wallow. For a young about to be or just-out gay men looking for escapist fare, this film is probably an excellent choice "},{"Title":"Fluff and Bubbles","Date":"14 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Broken Hearts Club is pretty much the exact sort of movie you can see on Lifetime or the Hallmark Channel but with an all gay plot. It's a slickly produced feel good movie with an attractive cast. And that's it. Great for Saturday evening viewing if, unlike the characters in the film, you're not out at a club. A shot or two of tequila or a few glasses of wine or a couple bottles of beer or all of the above will vastly improve your viewing pleasure.Since Broken Hearts Club doesn't think it's something it isn't it's sort of not fair to tear it apart. But if you don't like cliché characters, completely predictable plots, unfunny jokes, and ridiculous dialog don't watch Broken Hearts Club. "},{"Title":"Don't overlook this wonderful movie.","Date":"17 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" ￼ The Broken Hearts Club Director Greg Berlanti Starring Dean Cain, Nia Long, Timothy Olyphant, Zach Braff, Andrew Keegan, Mary McCormack, John Mahoney, Billy Porter, Justin Theroux, Ben Weber, Matt McGrath Every stage and age of gay life is here in this neatly packaged 'romantic comedy' movie which In all honesty was surprisingly good and oddly poignant. Written and directed by Greg Berlanti who had previously written episodes of the popular American teen television show Dawson's Creek, could have been kitchen sink teen soap drama material. However, this slice of American gay life focusing on a close-knit social group of gay guys in the hot and vibrant West Hollywood, California has much more depth that you would have thought possible. Throughout the movie, we watch as this group of guys with very different personalities, tastes and ideal support and care for each one another. There is Howie who just cannot seem to let go of his ex-lover Marshall, even after Marshall starts to date another guy. There is the dashing narcissistically challenged Cole who would uses men like play things, carelessly throwing them away as soon as he's done, until he falls for someone, who literally throws him away. Patrick is another member of this band of friends; he has self-worth issues and must decide if he can pass on his sperm to his lesbian sister and her partner. Benji works hard on being accepted at any cost by the muscly dudes he admires so much, but the costs are high. Just at the start of his gay life, coming to terms with his sexuality and heading toward his first gay experience is the adorably cute Kevin, who touches a few hearts. The various stages of a break up are all consuming for the charmingly sweet Taylor and all this is set against the local gay softball team from Jack's Broken Heart's restaurant. Jack is the father figure of the group but ultimately the real lynch pin holding it all together is Dennis. Now Dennis is an aspiring photographer with a great eye for a shot and a caring personality that the others sometimes abuse yet love. Tragedy strikes this wonderful little group of pals and they come together for support, for love and for strength. One of the best things about this film is the way it shows all the various stages of gay life, the important things we all seem to go through, from the coming out, the exploration of our sexuality and our feelings. There is the self-conscious period, the shag anything period, the times when a relationship just will not work, yet being single does not seem to work. A wonderful poignant yet funny film about friends who love, support and annoy the hell out of each other. The script is wonderfully written, with powerful and funny lines side by side delivered by a wonderful ensemble cast, including Superman Dean Cain and Frasier's dad the lovely and talented John Mahoney. It had a low budget and was shot at a very rapid pace, which perhaps shows in one or two places, however the enjoyment factor overrides these slight flaws. It's not a rite of passage movie, or a film about AIDS, nor are there drag queens at every turn and you'll be hard pushed to find embittered angry parents, which may surprise you, this being a gay movie and all. Yes, it is a romantic comedy, yes it is a gay romantic comedy and yes, it is a bloody good film. Read more and find out where this film made it in the Top 50 Most Influential Gay Movies of All Time book, search on Amazon for Top 50 Most Influential Gay Movies of All Time, or visit - http//www.amazon.co.uk/dp/B007FU7HPO "},{"Title":"A movie","Date":"8 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" About gay life style. Gray, red nuances and melancholic crumbs. Few friends and their circle. Small dramas and a new definition for normal existence. Same ordinary sins and expectations. Same need of the other and same desire to define himself. It is not a film about a minority. Or description of a society level. But a picture. Small, naive, complicated, with many shadows and young faces. A page. About beauties of life and the ways to have essence of its. It is not a case. Films about relationship between gays are a lot. But in this case special is the science to say the small facts not as sketch of damned people or strange little world but as mirror of ordinaries tensions, games or sadness. That is all! "},{"Title":"Late To The Game But Decent Movie","Date":"7 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" May Contain Spoilers I just got around to watching this movie a few days ago and I have to say as a heterosexual male it was a pretty decent movie. The story focuses on a group of homosexual males leading lives in LA. The movie does not focus on the stereotypical gay male. Many times when they are talked about the subject of AIDS, and sex come up but you never here about the average life like most people lead. Being gay is just a preference in partnership...it doesn't mean your any different in your life outside of your relationship.I originally stumbled across this movie because of actors Dean Cain and Zachary Braff. Braff in the beginning I thought was just a little too much but then I realized that each actor fit into the character he was playing and any other combination would have messed it up.Last but not least, the main point that I took away from this was not about the gay community but about how true friends come to you in a time of need. It may have taken a while for the characters to realize what kind of friendship they had with each other (and for Benji (Zach Braff) he almost kills himself,) but when the friends find out what kind of trouble he is in, they come running.8/10MSMITH "},{"Title":"Enjoyable, fun to watch, touching - I loved this movie!","Date":"15 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A lot of people reviewing this movie (both gay and straight) seem to feel either it's a bad movie or just not a very good one. I disagree. I loved this movie when I first watched it around 2001 and I still love it. True, it has a flaws (I'll get to them in a minute) but what movie doesn't? Let me start by saying my biggest gripe with this movie had nothing to do with the direction, screenplay or acting (all of which I liked) but with the soundtrack. To hear Dennis and Kevin talk about The Carpenters' music and what it means to them yet to hear the songs and it's not Karen's angelic voice or Richard playing the piano - well, what a bummer. But that is truly my only major complaint. I feel the lesbian angle could have been left out and Patrick's character might have met a nice guy who fell in love with him would have made a better story. The story has characters that are likable and real. Anyone who feels gay men don't sit around and talk about guys all the time is like saying straight men don't sit around and talk about sports all of the time. Or maybe sports and women. I liked that the characters were all so different, yet seemed to really about each other as friends, even with their troubles and disagreements. I don't think this is the type of movie straight people or lesbians will enjoy, but I would recommend it to anyone who plays on the team that this movie portrays. "},{"Title":"few flaws, lots of pluses, fine gay-positive entertainment","Date":"23 September 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I liked Broken Hearts Club from the first preview session in a local (Brisbane) boutique cinema. I've thoroughly enjoyed it several times since on DVD - including last night. The only flaw that really gets to me is in the opening scene where the gay friends are playing at acting straight and Benji is declared the loser for misusing the term girlfriend. Dennis adds one too many negatives when explaining why Benji has lost, saying There isn't a straight man in America who doesn't call anyone but their girlfriend 'girlfriend'. The intention was to state that straight men never call each other girlfriend, so he should instead have said There isn't a straight man in America who calls anyone but their girlfriend 'girlfriend'. It's a minor point to some, perhaps, but double negatives (especially when misused) give me a severe headache.Broken Hearts Club still gets five stars, because the other flaws are truly trifling and there are some excellent memorable lines delivered by all of the characters.Dean Cain (one of the most attractive, and contentedly straight, men in the world) utterly convinces in his role as gay bimbo Cole and seems to be having the time of his life.I have a similar group of long term friends, in whom our only common denominator is that we're gay - which is why we met in the first place. Just as with the guys in this film, its the genuine ongoing mutual support of our friends which makes us happy to be gay. Our group of friends in suburban Brisbane is in many respects radically different from the fictional group in West Hollywood - but on the heart and soul level we're very similar. I'm sure that experience is shared and celebrated by viewers world-wide. "},{"Title":"A delightful film!","Date":"30 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a very unique film for the genre. It doesn't follow the usual plot points of most gay films. And while many standard films of that nature are great, sometimes they tend to blend together. This movie has enough plot variations to keep it fresh and interesting with perspectives that aren't always seen about gay life. The characters cover many different aspects, and their stories weave perfectly together. The actors really knock their performances out of the park. In addition, the music was extremely suiting to the scenes. It made you smile for no reason just accompanying the great scenes, and provided moving score for the dramatic moments. If there was one flaw, and it was a small one, it was that you could almost feel the traumatic incident coming. And once you are aware that its coming, its not hard to guess what it will be. It did surprise with an unpleasant twist, which is a great addition. All in all this film is fantastic on nearly every level. Many of the actors are often considered to be very 'straight' acting, though their actual orientation has come into question before. But gay or straight, they portray their roles remarkably well. This film is a solid 8.5, or an A grade film. If you're a fan of the genre, give it a try. I doubt you'll be disappointed. "}{"Title":"Nice documentary","Date":"25 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I don't know who would call this a romantic comedy. Outside of the birthday cake scene,it is neither. Unless of course the comedy is that these characters would actually hang out together in real life. Or that a cute gym bunny would date a bleached blond drag queen wanna be.There is one redeeming line in this movie which saves it from being the most trite movie I've seen. I don't remember the exact words but something to the effect of things were so much different when you never talked about being gay and you could focus on the other parts of you.  The depth of every character are as shallow as they come. At least Stepford Wives had a plot.Nice documentary for those wanting to learn about big city gay life and those who choose to get caught up in it. No doubt it's a valuable transition in gay films/TV. Sad.  "},{"Title":"Did I miss something?","Date":"16 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This just was a film that thought it was a lot more funny than it was and a lot more moving than it was and just all around a lot more entertaining than it was. I really thought I was missing something because it has one of my favourite actors in it - Zach Braff on paper it should have been funny but there is only so many times seeing a lot of straight men act camp is slightly amusing and once that has worn off the appeal in this movie does too. This is confusing since I thought individually all the performances were okay it just lacked humour completly and had a script that was occasionally atrocious too but thought it was being moving. Though it had it's moments I liked very much where Dean Cain's character read the latest dumpee the speech from his hand and I liked the little cameo from Kerr Smith, but apart from that everything was just flat! "},{"Title":"St. Elmo's Fire for homosexuals","Date":"10 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A group of West Hollywood gay men talk, argue, exercise, date, have parties, play softball, pine over lost loves and new crushes, etc.A movie chock full of good intentions and well meanings that unfortunately falls short of what it wants to do  show gay men as ordinary people. Instead it comes off like a gay version of The Group or All the Fine Young Cannibals or even St. Elmo's Fire -except there's no camp.Good actors give it their best shot but the characters aren't really all that interesting.  You might do better with the 10 minute short Jeffrey's Hollywood Screen Trick. "},{"Title":"Not Bad....","Date":"20 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I thought this movie was great.  Nice coming of age flick with a bit of a twist.  We're used to watching the typical male/female relationship grow. This time, we're watching a circle of gay men grow.  It's really good.  I agree with other commenters that the scene with Andrew Keegan and the birthday cake is the best.  9/10 "},{"Title":"Was About To Stop VCR Recording,Going Into First Ten Minutes,And Then.......","Date":"21 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Yes indeed I clicked record on my vcr,without ever having seen this movie.Mainly because of it just being a gay film and the scarcity of pictures dedicated to the subject,even in these days.Recently I have come across some very well made films of this genre,such as Get Real,Like It Is,so my hopes when viewing this one were that it would be equally as good as them.I must admit that going into the first minutes of Broken Hearts,with all the mundane 'sissy talk' between the characters,talk I've been around much too often,in my gay life,that really makes a person want to throw up.I was about to pull the plug on my vcr.But then the atmosphere begin to change,the characters started hitting home,revealing their deepest thoughts,desires,hang-ups.That kept me watching.And I can tell you I am so glad I did make it past those first minutes,because this movie delighted me to the upmost.It's sincerety is basically what got me.I in my younger life was part of a group of gays very much like the one's in this film.The charatcter who reminded me most of myself was Kevin,a 'newbie',played by Andrew Keegan,a fine actor.In fact the entire cast was good.Great job done by the casting department imo.The story is packed with every day life situations and not just 'gay things' as some would expect.I truly did relate.I both laughed and cried watching this film.The picture was chocked full of 'moments' that will make anyone stop,reflect,and think.All in all this film is up there with the best on my list "},{"Title":"A mix and match!","Date":"7 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Just as in real gay life, we seem to be in and out of each other's closet and bed.  Written and Directed by Greg Berlanti, we have a group of so-called friends that do just that.  Or move in on their friend's ex-lover.  It was hard to keep up with names, so I might not be able to name the actor or character they played, but I'll try.  Dennis, Timothy Olyphant, was a very engaging young hopeful, looking for Mr. Right, but once he appears, decides it's too much for him to get involved.  Something about not liking himself and/or his lifestyle.  Too bad, as the young man in question was absolutey smashing and in love with him.  Only to end up in the beefcake arms of Dean Cain Superman who sort of loves 'em, and leaves 'em.  Cain, an aspiring movie actor, finds more thrills doing it with a famous star he works with as an extra.  The star, Kip Rogers, is a beautiful hunk by the name of Michael Bergin.  Let's see more of this guy.  WOW!  Then there's the guy with glasses who wants to get back with his lover, whom he walked out on, and does so in the last footage. And the blonde workoutoholic who plays around with the muscle guys at the gym inbetween rounds of drugs ending him the hospital on a near fatal overdose surrounded with his friends from the club a softball team, by the way.  And another guy who's into watching old Joan Crawford movies, notably as an axe murderess, to seek revenge for being jilted by his lover.  They do get back together again, however our hero could give a damn by that time.  Too much Crawford, I guess. And then there's veteran actor John Mahoney playing a bad drag queen and coach of the ball club as well as the emcee of their local gay bar. But then he dies of a fatal heart attack during the game.  And so on and so forth.  A sort of soap opera version of the lonely hearts club idea, in West Hollywood gayville, with a splendid cast of young beauties.  I give it a 7 out of 10 rating. "},{"Title":"One the best young Gay movies I've ever seen!","Date":"12 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have just got done watching this movie and i am in love with it from start to end. I loved all the characters especially Andrew Keegan, what a great actor and beautiful face! I never for one instant believed he was really straight. I loved all the drama the friends went through it reminds me of everything i go through and so many of us gay guys go through. I cant wait to buy it and show it to all my friends!! "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good.","Date":"10 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Down to earth.  Real.  Honest.  Fun.  It was a joy to watch.  If you want a movie that can be entertaining and take you into the world of struggling gays without all the drama of str8 life, this is the movie for you.  Watch as a group of diverse friends come together to become close and honest about their lives and their relationships.  It bridges the gap between comedy and romance.  This is a movie for those who want to see gays portrayed in a manner in which they could honestly be if you were to film them in the wild.  It was fun to have found it at the local video store in the suburbs. "},{"Title":"A story about the way things really are !","Date":"31 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I am glad to see someone finally tell a gay story about the way things really are in todays Gay society!Guys, Go see this Movie! It is the One of, if not the best gay movie I have seen.This is the way it happens!.. Be true to yourself and be a friend to those who have been a friend to you! "},{"Title":"No redeeming qualities","Date":"5 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" There is not much point in wasting more than one line on this film; it couldn't have been worse even if they tried. However, IMDb insists that I go on for at least ten lines. Let's see...every single idea in this film has been done before... and BETTER! Not only that, but they didn't even have the decency to give us one even mildly titillating sex scene. That's probably because no-one in the film was committed enough to the film to even dare to attempt one. Besides the fact that it was not funny (I think I smiled once during the entire film)there was no-one in the film that you could seriously care about. Even the worst of TV situation comedies comes across as more witty than this... I think they should have added a laugh track. At least we would have known what was supposed to be a joke. Have I done my ten lines yet? Please, let me out of here! I want to forget this film as quickly as possible. "}{"Title":"Typical American gay movie","Date":"22 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" 4 stars only for the very handsome guys. The movie has no imagination at all, no inspiration and the humour (if you can call it humour)is completely vivid. It gives you such a chill from the lack of cleverness. The plot and the acting were so boring. Nice to watch it with friends and laugh with the drama scenes (the only comic scenes), they are so American. You better watch Sex and the City (half of the cast appeared in sex and the city) or even better Queer as Folk the English version (original)or the American version, they are much better than this movie. If you want to see instead a good comedy/drama watch Jeffrey,very funny, very entertaining. "},{"Title":"I found it slow and disappointingly boring.","Date":"26 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The film was typical American wishful thinking. After the first 10 minutes I was almost dozing off but I convinced myself that it would get better. It didn't. "},{"Title":"Broken Hearts Crud","Date":"21 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I think these other viewers are a bit confused here. This is about the gayest movie I have ever seen. I haven't heard so much gay this and gay that in a film. These stereotypes suck, also. Every character pretty much whines throughout the whole movie. You can just go out to a homo club to see this type of drama. Lame attempts at cleverness and humor. 4 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Monkeys in cages!","Date":"14 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I live just outside of West Hollywood, California, where this picture is supposed to have taken place.  Every weekend, I drive into the city to see my friends and venture out socially.  We are all gay and around the same age.  Funny how when we're out and about, we don't recite dialog from `Auntie Mame,' `Steel Magnolias,' or vintage Bette Davis movies.  We don't call each other &#145;bitches,' nor do we camp it up by dressing in drag periodically.  If you saw us all together, you wouldn't think anything.  And why should you?  We act just like anyone else.Sadly, the writers of this film would make you believe otherwise.  I was very disappointed when I saw this film drag out all the old stereotypes, almost as if they had a checklist.  Even the gratuitous funeral scene (in every gay movie there has to be at least one!).Give me a break!  I'm tired of screaming queens representing the gay community in film!  Get a grip!  Why can't Hollywood tell the truth?  To the masses, we'll always be monkeys in cages, thanks to films like this.  "},{"Title":"Slightly amusing tale","Date":"3 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Broken Hearts Club A Romantic Comedy (2000) D Greg Berlanti. Timothy Olyphant, Zach Braff, Dean Cain, Andrew Keegan, Nia Long, John Mahoney, Mary McCormack. Slightly amusing tale of a group of gay friends living in West Hollywood and the struggles that they go through together, especially after an unexpected tragedy hits. This more than likely served as the mold for Showtime's QUEER AS FOLK, although the TV series is much better than this film. Although there are good performances by all the leads, the film doesn't really seem to have a plot and drags on towards the end. RATING 7 out of 10. Rated R for profanity and sexual situations.  "},{"Title":"Any similarity to actual persons living or dead is entirely non-existent","Date":"13 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I must heartily agree with those other learned reviewers who see this movie for what it is shallow, cliched pandering without a frame of truth or honesty to be found.  Geeze this movie really BURNS me up.I've never known anyone in life who talks the way these characters do. And, while that's not ALWAYS a bad thing (no one in real life talks like Tennessee Williams' characters either, but I sure wish they did) here it borders on the offensive.  These actors seem so PROUD of the way they act gay (at least a straight actor's perception of what being gay is) that they never stop praising themselves long enough to turn in a decent performance.The time when gays would respond to movies SIMPLY because they were about us is, thankfully, over.  We do NOT need to accept any more movies EXPLAINING us to straight society or BEGGING us to be accepted.  We also do not need to respond to self-congratulatory cinema that PRETENDS to be speaking to us, while in reality only serves to convince its makers that they are liberal and now.If gays and the gay life were anything like what is pictured here, then I might actually consider joining one of those crazy you can change groups. As it is, I'll just avoid trendy we're so hip cuz we're making a movie about gays crap like this in the future and I suggest you do the same. "},{"Title":"Second Rate","Date":"31 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Broken Heart's Club depicts the story of a group of 20-30s something gay friends and their attempts to create / build relationships. As the title suggests - this film attempts to be a romantic comedy - but I didn't find it funny.  Sure it has it moments - with some of the more camp characters having a few great lines here and there - but I just felt that this movie was a tad second rate.  I also felt it was displaying the characters as stereotypes (there was the spunky actor, the nerdy loser, the arty type, several queens, the gym junkie / drug fudged, the old gay guy who runs a piano bar complete with Hawaiian shirts, etc).  To me - the purpose of this movie isn't that clear - it's trying to be a romantic comedy, trying to provide some eye-candy, trying to be serious, trying to deal with gay issues.  So in my opinion - it doesn't achieve any of these effectively. Also - I thought most of the acting was second rate - most of the people in this movie are TV stars (sitcoms, soaps, etc)... There are better gay-themed movies out there. "},{"Title":"It's been done, it's been written, it","Date":"17 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Boys in the Band was groundbreaking because it was made in the 70s. The kids get laid all the time and noone talks about AIDS.   The guys are cute so it's fun to look at, and we all know guys like these, but, like, it has SO been done already, this story.  There was Diner for straight people.  There was the Big Chill for whiny old yuppies.   There was St. Elmo's Fire for whiny 20-somethings who thought they should be yuppies already.  Now we have the Broken Hearts Club same story, different demographic.  If that's what you're looking for, the original English Queer as Folk tells this same story so much better. And hotter! "},{"Title":"Just average","Date":"30 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is much better than many past gay-themed movies, such as Broadway Damage and Billy's Hollywood Screen Kiss.  The film makers obviously had more money to work with than usual and there is a first-rate cast.  However, it's a more-pleasant, occasionally funny variation on Boys in the Band or Love! Valor! Compassion, but it's basically the same thing the friendship of a bunch of gay guys.  There's no real story.  I prefer the giddy budding of a relationship in Trick. "},{"Title":"Mostly successful","Date":"3 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Some of the drama is overdone and some of the comedy is not funny, but when it was over I felt like I saw a movie.  I felt like I was in another place for 90 minutes and I had a good buzz. There were genuine moments of human interaction. The fact that the characters are all gay seems immaterial.All the acting is great but the best of the best are Nia Long, Timothy Olyphant and Andrew Keegan.  I like this light years better than Jeffrey, Billy's Hollywood Screen Kiss and the terrible Trick.  Its been described as a gay Diner and that seems like a fair assessment.  "}{"Title":"Dawson's Creek-like Cliche Ridden Brave Attempt!","Date":"26 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Well, well, well, where do I begin?I give this movie major points for TRYING, but I can only give this movie 5 stars out of 10 for the lame, cliche ridden screenplay.I realize that Greg Berlanti writes for Dawson's Creek, but boy oh boy does this script reek of cliches from that teen drama! First of all EVERY single character speaks in the exact same manner, doling out advice as if they had only so many minutes of TV screentime to settle their separate problems.I appreciate the work done by Timothy Olyphant (very brave) and of course John Mahoney makes any dialog sound good, but they are  fighting a losing battle against the new-agist-self-relevatory speeches they are forced to make.  Everybody in this film talks as if they had watched a 17 day marathon of Oprah and read every  single Marianne Williamson book in print.  NOBODY in the world has that much self analyzing going on!  If they did, who on earth would want to be their friend?Dean Cain and Michael Bergin are totally wasted, excuse me Mr. Producer, but with two gorgeous guys like this around, could you at least include a little more nudity???  After all, over half of the movie is spent ogling men and treating them like pieces of meat, you might as well provide us with a little bit of meat. God knows, we have to endure every starlet dropping her bra in most Hollywood flicks!The cliches truly drown the possibility of a terrific Breakfast Club for the gay set. (I won't say Big Chill since I feel we already had that film with Love, Valour, Compassion)I was most saddened by the misuse of Matt McGrath.  He is sensational, he truly attempts a real three dimensional character here, and his smart alecky brainy guy is the only character who truly comes off as self-aware.I cannot recommend this movie, I wish I could.  We desperately need a good gay buddy flick.  But this is not it.  I suppose you could do worse, but we definately deserve better! "},{"Title":"Broken beyond repair...","Date":"12 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" We're queer! We're here! Now, let us tell you about it in excruciatingly annoying detail.THE BROKEN HEARTS CLUB is not a movie about gay men. It is a movie about guys talking about being gay men. And talking and talking and talking. And they don't talk about their lives, but about their lifestyles. These aren't characters, but representations of characters. Watching THE BROKEN HEARTS CLUB is like watching one of those instructional films from high school; you expect there to be a stern-voiced announcer introducing each character This is the promiscuous urban homosexual male in his natural habitat, the dance club. Please note how he dances in artful slo-mo, a sure indication that he is on the prowl for sex. The film even has these cutesy title cards inserted between the sequences, offering little definitions of gay terminology newbie, gym bunnies, etc. These aren't people; they are specimens. It's like the film exists to teach straights just how real gay guys are The result is condescending to straight audiences and patronizing to gays. Ironically, the filmmakers think that by pointing out the clichés and the stereotypes that are inherent in films about gays that it somehow adds insight and poignancy to all the clichés and stereotypes that the film itself so blatantly trots out. Okay, the film doesn't have the straight woman who uses her gay friend as a pet (i.e., MY BEST FRIEND'S WEDDING), but it does have the gay man who is expected to act as a sperm bank for his sister's lesbian partner. It is a situation that is an oddity, but almost mandatory in gay films; it's like they are trying to prove that gay men can procreate just like real straight guys. Again, how patronizing. And there is the mandatory (but irrelevant) drag sequence and the moment of tragedy to show that all gay men are family. And, of course, the mandatory references to musical divas -- Bette, Barbra, Liza; and especially Karen Carpenter, whose voice is mysteriously missing from the soundtrack. They apparently couldn't get or couldn't afford the rights to her recordings, so they settled for other performers doing weak renditions of Carpenter songs.I think that it is safe to say that all the actors are straight, because they all play their characters so gay. Not quite swishy and lispy, but a bit arch and obvious. It is like they are appearing in the movie as a stunt, to prove that they can bravely play gay convincingly. Of course, the best way to play gay convincingly is by not playing the part gay at all.But worse is that these characters don't even represent an interesting array of stereotypes. One is a hunk and one is a nerd and one is black and one is neurotic and one is just coming out, etc., yet, they are all just slight variations of the same one-note character the promiscuous gay boy looking to settle down with that one true love -- Mr. Right instead of Mr. Right Now. And that isn't even a gay cliché. Indeed, the film goes out of its way to identify with so-called chick flicks i.e. If this were STEEL MAGNOLIAS, you'd be Shirley MacLaine! They're real men, but they're real women, too. The film is harmless and it certainly means well, to the point of being utterly irritating. But the film is just so easy to pick on, because it brings nothing new to the table. The time where the mere presence of a gay character was in itself a revelation has past. Likewise, demystifying the gay lifestyle is hardly new either, thanks to shows like Will & Grace and Queer as Folk. There is simply nothing inherently interesting about being gay; what is needed are films that offer interesting characters who just happen to be gay. "},{"Title":"We've seen ALL of this before!","Date":"15 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I commend the producers/director/writers on trying to bring a gay movie into the mainstream and to bring mainstream actors into the process.  But they could at least have tried to do something different with the concept.Most of these comments rave about how this film isn't about being gay. (Finally! they say.)  Nonsense!  That's the only thing this film is about. It's like a primer for newly out men.  Or, it's like the makers of the film are taking the viewer on a tour of gay cliche.First, take the cast.  Instead of well-drawn, rounded characters (like real people -- gay or not), we have a parade of different gay stereotypes.  The hopeless romantic boy-next-door, the gigolo, the intellectual, the troll, the druggie club kid, the young just-out guy, and the flamer (who doubles as the token minority character).  And yes, there are people that have these qualities in real life, but in this movie it is their only trait!In the course of the movie, we have lesbian mothers, a drag scene, a drug overdose, and a funeral.  The only missing was an AIDS patient.If homosexuals are going to be accepted and treated like everybody else, we must be portrayed like real people.  The ironic thing is, if you portray homosexuals as real people instead of stereotypes, how will you know they are gay? "},{"Title":"'Broken Hearts' or Broken MINDS?","Date":"4 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This year's Sundance premiere of 'The Broken Hearts Club' dished out heaps of sugary melodrama and cotton-candy characters with no redeeming esthetic or thematic qualities whatsoever. It's another sad example of how gay cinema in America is taking a flaming nose-dive into an utterly trivial and embarrassing abyss.Before stepping one foot into the theater, I sat with a friend over coffee to predict every mindless cliche 'Broken Hearts Club' was bound to include based on its photo and Sundance write-up. A struggle of promiscuity vs. monogamy! The sexy one is stuck-up! The brainy one is jaded! Casual sex will crush whoever just left the closet! One of them will battle drug addiction! Somebody will get called 'ugly!''Broken Hearts' proved us right on EVERY SINGLE COUNT. In fact, it surpassed our wildest imaginations by throwing in a death by heart attack and a drug overdose to boot!This is what happens in a country still hostile toward and uncomfortable with gays. Authentic representations of ourselves are marginalized to the independent cinema, which has usually been a bastion of great art.But if the relationships in 'Broken Hearts' were heterosexual, this film would fit cozily between 'Days of Our Lives' and 'All My Children.' The conflicts are contrived, petty and disengenuine. Crap like this pollutes art houses and film festivals.Can't we explore the human condition? Can't we be surprising, original and new on film? Can't we push the form and the content? Can't we craft a solid, unforgettable story? Can't we search for intellect, wit and politics with moral specificity?No. Gay directors in America want another no-brainer about a fabulous photographer living a fabulous lifestyle in fabulous West Hollywood complaining about friends who can't be as fabulous as he ('Broken Hearts' is identical in premise and theme to 'Billy's Hollywood Screen Kiss' and 'Punks').A prevailing faction of critics and gay men applaud the spawning of vapid, mindless movies with same-sex themes. Finally, a gay film that's not about being gay! A happy film without AIDS, victims or issues! Hatred, disease and tough drama have always haunted gays on film, so gay men nowadays want their fair share of saccharin. They cheer the death of deep thought.People who feel this way should FLUSH THEMSELVES DOWN THE TOILET. The provocative exploration of substantive issues is a measure of quality, not a nuisance. If we had a healthy balance of fluff and art, 'Broken Hearts' may not be so irksome. But MOST EVERY MOVIE directed by American gay men? THREE IDENTICAL FILMS? What the world needs right now is fresh ideas.'Broken Hearts' director Greg Berlanti defended his artistic integrity at Sundance by claiming that 'Broken Hearts' was the first all-gay character cast in a film since 'Boys in the Band' (which isn't true--maybe Berlanti only watches U.S. films with major distribution).But all-gay characters doesn't deserve a medal! What about art? What about story? What about engaging minds with experiences that can change a moviegoer for life? Greg Berlanti deserves a Daytime Emmy Award and a swift kick in the ass.You want smart and creative gay themes? Go see Boys Don't Cry. Go see Todd Haynes' stuff. See what directors like Wong-Kar Wai, Alain Berliner or John Greyson do in other countries. Even straight films like Magnolia or American Beauty do more interesting things with gay characters.You won't remember 'Broken Hearts Club' a week after viewing it because nothing important happens. Keep away from this film. Keep your money. Keep your lunch down!P.S.  'The Broken Hearts Club' will be enormously successful and universally praised among gay men and the gay press this summer. "},{"Title":"Hopeless!","Date":"29 September 2002","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A group of fickle, flighty gay men talk about their non-existent love lives while roaming the streets of Hollywood, CA. Aside from John Mahoney (as the only responsible adult in the bunch), the characters are jaded twenty-somethings who all speak in the same bitchy idiom. Their love lives are non-existent simply to skirt the still-controversial issue of showing two men in bed together. The film doesn't have the courage of its convictions and, though some of the one-liners might provoke a stray chuckle or two, the loosely-hinged plot isn't absorbing. This, coupled with a low-budget and an uncharismatic cast, makes Broken Hearts a chore to get through. * from **** "},{"Title":"Just a Bunch of Cute Guys Talking and Dating","Date":"12 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Broken Hearts Club tries to be a gay Sex and the City. but it's not as funny or frank or deep about relationships; if you've seen the previews you've seen the best jokes.Done by Greg Berlanti, a producer of Dawson's Creek, it features hunks from that show and other TV shows in chaste kisses that could pass a gay Haye's Code and feels like a TV movie that could go on at 8 pm. It's an ensemble piece featuring a lot of really good looking gay guys sittin' around dissin' including a discussion of gay role models in movies, wherein these folks seem to live in a part of L.A. that never gets foreign movies. I think the only jobs most of them had were working in a restaurant together, but I wasn't sure as we don't really learn all that much about the individuals outside their gayness and dates.There are a couple of fresh angles, with how the group deals with a newbie to being out of the closet, that's sweet and revelatory, and one guy dealing with growing up in a relationship that's virtually identical to what the John Cusack character in High Fidelity went through, one bounder getting what he was dishing out, and what another learns from hanging out with a different group of gay friends.(originally written 10/22/2000) "},{"Title":"The worst","Date":"20 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is possibly the worst gay romantic comedy i have ever had themisfortune to watch. Every character is a stereotype, no cliche isleft unturned. The token black character is also the token queen!It's impossible to believe that any of these people who speak toeach other, let alone be close friends. It's set in West Hollywoodbut is filmed elsewhere. Unfunny and offensive, Broken Heart'sClub is perhaps the nadir of my filmgoing experience. "},{"Title":"It's like two movies in one!","Date":"24 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The Broken Hearts Club is two movies in one the first part (right up to the funeral scene) has some great gay camaraderie; the guys aren't prissy (except for the annoying Billy Porter--- why, oh why, couldn't they get Taye Diggs). There's no obligatory AIDS death, no subliminal anti-drug messages (drug overdoses or bad times on drugs), no pining about lost youth or looks. The movie celebrates the gay existence, shows the challenges all us gay guys face and wraps some of them up well. It's really fun to watch Tim Olyphant as a gay guy. The scorching-hot Andy Keegan plays the fresh-out-of-the-closet Twinkie. The even-hotter Dean Cain plays a closeted actor who nails him. The only death in the movie is one of natural causes, and it's not a bad ending for a guy who led a good, long, fun life. If you turn the movie off right after the funeral scene, like I should have done, then you may walk away from this movie having enjoyed it. If, however, you stay for the second half, you get a whole different movie and it's pure crap. You get treated to the obligatory AIDS death, the none-too-subtle anti-drug messages (a one-two punch on this theme the guy who smokes pot once in a while instead of sucking down a dozen cosmos at the bar every night like his friends is, of course, a loser with no ambition who can't hold a job; the guy who snorts one bump of K ends up unconscious on the bathroom floor before getting carted off to the hospital for ---you guessed it--- all his friends joining hands in the ring-around-the-coma-victim hospital room tear-jerker scene). There's the I'm getting so old and ugly and nobody will love me guy, a forgettable performance by Matt McGrath of Boys Don't Cry. Ugh. I wanted to hit myself in the head with a hammer every time this guy came on screen. A lesbian couple makes an appearance for God-only-knows what reason (by and large, LA fags just don't hang with dykes). There's even a fag hag in there somewhere. This movie has more clichés then Cannonball Run but without being weighed down by all the humor. A good sex scene between Cain and Keegan would have rescued this movie for me. Without it, I give this movie half a star. Note this review was written for GreenCine.com and has been reproduced here for IMDb. "},{"Title":"Straight playing gay","Date":"15 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I guess it's the thing with actors these days. When you play your first gay role. It seems most of them have at one time or other. Sometimes they pull it off. Matt Damon in MR RIPLEY; Gayle Harrod in QUEER AS FOLK; Jude Law in WILDE. But there are times when it doesn't work as in this film. Director Greg Berlanti, who wrote and directed this movie, pulled a completely straight cast into the roles. I guess what bothered me most, aside from some of the typical gay themes we've seen over the past 10 years, is the lack of depth in any of the characters. A combination of bad writing and lackless acting didn't help matters.Of the cast Billy Porter pulled off some decent moments. At least I think he's the one. The yuppie type with glasses? Who found his ex-lover again in hopes of getting back to a real relationship. Veteran John Mahoney, of FRAZIER fame, had a small role, and didn't really show us any of his acting talents. Not much in the role, as written for him. Too bad. I would have liked to see more of his background and relationship with his piano-playing partner. The Purple Guy. However, he'll never make a drag queen. Too funny!Zach Braff came close to playing gay. Or maybe it was the bleached hair that did it. Far from his hit series SCRUBS. Timothy Olyphant, Dean Cain, Andrew Keegan, Matt McGrath and Justin Theroux, all straight, did not impress me. Good looking, yes, but no hutspuh. Then there's the beautiful Michael Bergin, fresh from BAYWATCH, looking gorgeous as a movie star we'd all like to spend some time with. It wasn't a question of being or acting gay. It was a fact of just being a handsome hunk.I know there are lots of comments ripping this movie apart and some praising it for it's honesty. I'm sort of in the middle, like the theme of the film.In the middle of representing gay characters and gay life. I wonder if anyone has ever thought of casting a gay film with gay actors. Would be interesting to see it's effect. "},{"Title":"OK but slight and superficial","Date":"23 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's watchable, but I can't really recommend this to anyone.  The story is VERY familiar (a bunch of gay guys in West Hollywood looking for love), all the characters are whiny and most of the dialogue is lousy.  The performances are very good (even Cain!) but I was always very aware that these were straight guys playing it gay (for the record, I'm gay).  I've never seen such unerotic kissing scenes in my life.  Also, it seems strange that when you have a hunk like Dean Cain in a movie he remains clothed the entire time.  Come on!  Just one scene with his shirt off would have been fine!  A very thin movie--almost worth seeing for the performances of Cain and Olyphant (ALMOST!). "}]