[{"Title":"What movies are supposed to be","Date":"8 October 2000","Score":"128 out of 159 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Pay It Forward is a prime example of what films are supposed to do  make you laugh a little, cry a lot, and profoundly affect you in a way that keeps you thinking about the movie for weeks afterwards.  I saw it at a special preview screening and was blown away.  My friends and I sat through the entire credits because we were so taken by what we had seen.  Kevin Spacey, Helen Hunt, and the phenomonal Haley Joel Osment once again give performances worthy of Oscars.  I only hope there isn't some retaliation of sorts because of their previous wins and nominations because they deserve it again this year.  But the big winner here is director Mimi Leder who has moved from action films into great cinema.  She demonstrates the fine tuned skills she showed while directing ER.  As I sat there, one eye kept a close watch of the story while the other marveled at the beautiful direction of every scene.  They have my vote for Best Picture, Director, Actor, Actress, Supporting Actress, and Screenplay.  Awe-inspiring!!!!  "},{"Title":"Unforgettable","Date":"16 May 2005","Score":"123 out of 151 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In our world helping other people is perhaps the most important we can do. Children are the ones who often teach us how to behave in certain unpleasant circumstances. It is not only a moving story but everybody who sees this film stops for a moment or more and think over the meaning of life. One of the best American films I have ever seen with lots of good actors. Kevin Spacey and Helen Hunt are wonderful. In secondary schools it should be a compulsory part of education. I am a teacher and when I want to talk about this topic I always choose this film and students find it a very good example, too. It has not got a happy ending like it often happens in life. It is not a stupid story, it gives us lots of extras. When I first watched it, at the end of the film I was full of emotions and just could not sleep for a while. To put it into a nutshell Try it and pay attention to Pay it forward. "},{"Title":"Excellent in Parts, All Right As a Whole.","Date":"5 April 2003","Score":"69 out of 78 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A deceptively dark film that seems light-hearted and somewhat fun on first glance, but just keeps on twisting as it progresses. A badly burned teacher (Kevin Spacey) wants his grade school class to come up with a project to make a difference in the world. Thus young Haley Joel Osment comes up with an idea to help three people in trouble and then have each of them do the same for three others in order to keep paying it forward. Osment wants a father and soon hopes that Spacey will fall in love with his mother (Helen Hunt). He also helps a homeless man (James Caviezel) who just cannot seem to say no to narcotics. For a while it appears that everything might actually work out, but Spacey's sad life and the return of abusive father Jon Bon Jovi (in a nice little supporting turn) just make Osment that much more tortured emotionally. The love that grows between Hunt and Spacey appears it will save the day, but sometimes nothing is the way it seems to be in life. I did enjoy Pay It Forward very much. I liked the elements of the production really more than I liked the entire movie as a whole. There are some really wonderful ideas here and in all honestly there are really two or three movies within Pay It Forward. All the performers are right on. Osment is the greatest child actor to ever live, hands down. Spacey is always a guaranteed performance and Hunt has grown as an actress in just the last several years. I was disappointed that Caviezel's (who struck gold in The Thin Red Line) did not have a little more time here. His character is quietly deep and complicated beneath the surface. The tone hurts Pay It Forward. I really expected a somewhat light-hearted film at the start after some situations that seem to be going for comedy. Some things just do match up with other parts of the movie. With all that said, I still think that Pay It Forward is a fine effort that stands a little taller than others might believe. 4 stars out of 5.  "},{"Title":"Despite the shortcomings - well played and at times inspiring","Date":"3 May 2004","Score":"75 out of 93 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I remember leaving the cinema, feeling very much let down by the end of Pay it Forward. Watching it recently on television I find myself far more forgiving since it's a movie with a sincere and important message, expressed with conviction. The quasi-religious ending probably will appeal to many, but from an artistic viewpoint, it seems unnecessary and not entirely suited to the tone of the film up to that point.Kevin Spacey is effective as the suppressed, sensitive teacher, while Helen Hunt is terrific, despite the role being far too close for comfort with her As Good As It Gets character. But it's Hailey Joel Osment's wonderful portrayal that gives Pay It Forward much of its power. He simply is perfect for the part. (Good to see Angie Dickenson, braving it in the role of a homeless alcoholic).At its best, this is a film which may just do the impossible inspiring one to good deeds, without expectation of reward or remuneration. That alone is a substantial achievement. "},{"Title":"Not for the stonehearted.","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"81 out of 111 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Pay It Forward is a movie that is aimed at one particular audience. The kind of audience that expects to have their life changed as the minutes tick by.And as a film that provides profound, poignant and tear-jerking moments, Pay It Forward will be perfect for this manner of audience. Unfortunately, harder, more expecting movie-goers will probably dismiss this movie as an oversentimental and perhaps unrealistic film.The film is centred around Trevor (Hayley Joel-Osment). An 11 year old boy, living alone with his dysfunctional, on-off alcoholic mother Arlene (Helen Hunt). One day Trevor is set a homework assignment by his new Social Studies teacher, the mysterious, slightly disfigured Eugene (Kevin Spacey). Eugene sets the class a difficult task; to think of an idea that will change the world and put it into action. Et voila!! Pay It Forward is born.Trevor is played with an endearing maturity and at times, unstable frustration by uber kid actor Osment. As an aspiring actor, I worry that an 11 year old boy can grab hold of such difficult roles and make them his, while I still strive to gain my Equity card!! What Osment promised in The Sixth Sense, he shows again here with a more difficult and emotionally charged role. Trevor is a boy not altogether happy with his life. He is lacking in a father figure, his Mother struggles to have any impact on him as she juggles two jobs to make ends meet, which leaves Trevor with nothing but his own intuition to drag him through life. For a child that can only be extatic and contented with HIS life, Osment does well to project such a fragile character on screen.Eugene is a character made for Kevin Spacey (although all his roles seem perfect for him). Intelligent, compassionate, slightly bitter and at times unpredictable, Eugene is a man that we, as an audience cannot help but engage with. The dialogue written for Spacey is much better than other characters in the film, and he puts it to good use. Spacey is at his best when doing two things; calmly and charismatically attracting attention to himself (Ordinary Decent Criminal, Midnight In The Garden Of...), and when he bubbles just below the surface, inviting audiences in so that he can devastate you with a single revelation (Seven, Usual Suspects, Swimming With Sharks). And his revelation in this film (he relives how he came to get his horrific scars), is so vivid, so intricately and harrowingly retold that you cannot help but feel a tear well up in your eye.Helen Hunt is fantastic as Arlene. Managing to achieve a look that bizarrely mixes trailer trash, run down alcoholic with vulnerable cuteness. She doesn't get the pick of the dialogue however, and the role aswell as the whole film would have been a whole lot worse off had Hunt not been on top form. You don't want her to be your Mother, but you really want to see her happy and for her to do a good job at being Trevors.The film falls short in little details. Supporting characters do little to affect the story (Jay Mohr as an almost non-speaking narrator??) and the whole thing feels flat if Spacey is off screen too long. Good actors like Jim Caviezel go almost unnoticed and you can't help but feel that a few more juicy characters would help the story become a little more...cohesive.The ending is a reinforcement of the atmosphere of the whole film. It is a sequence that heightens our emotion and should set the tears rolling.In short, see this film for three things; Haley Joel-Osment, Kevin Spacey and Helen Hunt. All three are fantastic, and it's obvious to see why so much Oscar gossip was being spread.If you like heart warming films with a little bit of edge, then watch on. If you're expecting an original, exciting, twisty or philosophical film...watch it anyway, at least the three leads are good. "},{"Title":"Life is pain","Date":"12 November 2000","Score":"55 out of 69 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Life is full of inconsistencies, and it is not without a sense of irony. There are people that have tried to make a difference in life and some of them have paid for it with their lives.  Some that come to mind are Martin Luther King Jr, JFK, Gandhi and Terry Fox.  It's not easy to change the world.  It takes a lot of hard work and determination.  And it doesn't happen overnight.  But then you see a film like this and you begin to question that rationale.  What if a concept like this really was implemented?  What if every single person that had a favour bestowed upon them was asked to pay it forward?  Is it possible that a Utopian world could be achieved?  I doubt it, but it certainly would go a long way to making this condemned world a better place to live.I don't think this is one of the best movies that I have ever seen.  I don't think it is even the best film that I will see this year (although it will make my top ten ) but the idea behind it is what has me intrigued. Believe me when I tell you this.  I don't think I have ever been as emotionally galvanized as I was in this film.  There is a raw power, a truth that rings clear in Pay It Forward and if there was one film that I would want people to see this year, it would be this film.  It is entertaining, it is superbly acted, and it the one true film, the one true idea that really could help make a positive and tangible difference in our society and our world.In some circles this film has been criticized for laying on the fluff.  It is too much like a soap opera.  And that is so far from the truth.  Let's recount the issues at hand and examine them.  Kevin Spacey plays a burn victim because of child abuse.  Helen Hunt plays a single mom that is having a hard time recovering from alcoholism and has a bad case of can't get her ex-husband out of her life and her bed.  Haley Joel Osment plays a wise beyond his years son that had to grow up precociously because of his mother that suffers from the above.  Every character in this film, including the bit players suffers from real problems.  If people have a hard time understanding this then just go to an average suburban classroom in North America and arbitrarily pick out ten kids.  Chances are you will find cases of alcoholism, child abuse, divorce and a plethora of issues that are not conducive to a healthy environment for a child.  So this film is just mirroring life.  That's all.The performances by the three leads is nothing short of brilliant.  Not as much can be said for the rest of the cast, but Spacey, Osment and Hunt all could be nominated this year when March comes.  All three bring compassion and depth to the three scarred people that they portray.  But especially intriguing is Osment.  He doesn't need to say anything in order for you to understand him.  It's a look, a twitch, a smile, a shiver.  Anything he does helps us understand who he is and why he is that way.  Osment is one true gifted actor and I really don't think he is going to fade away in the years to come like so many other child prodigies.  This is the real deal.  By following up Sixth Sense with a performance this real solidifies him as a true thespian.If you have not seen this film for whatever reason, and its box office suggests most haven't, then do yourself a favour and take a chance on it. Not only will it do you good, it really might help change you in some ways. And as Osment says in the film, maybe we may all see in some way that,  the world isn't really s**t.9 out of 10 ( and bring lots of tissues ) "},{"Title":"Broke my heart","Date":"15 June 2006","Score":"34 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In 2001 after the terrorist attacks on the World Trade Centers, the Pentagon, and the plane crash in Pennsylvania, my class and I talked about it and what was disturbing to us. I mentioned how everyone thinks it's impossible to make a better world, but is it? I told them that if one person can do something wonderful for another person, that it could pass on like a domino reaction. Everyone loved my speech and the teacher even said that we could all do one nice thing, so for that day after class we had to do something nice, hoping it would cause a reaction. Didn't happen.I recently watched Pay It Forward, watching it broke my heart because I felt for Haley Jole Osmond's character, hoping your idea would work and it didn't. Just wanting to make something better and you know it's so hard but you just have to try. This is a terrific movie that deserves more praise and I am hurt by a rating of 6.7. I think this movie is one of the best movies of 2000 if not the best. We could all learn from this film.8/10 "},{"Title":"A topnotch message heads a topnotch film","Date":"3 October 2003","Score":"40 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Pay It Forward Everyone says they want to make the world a better place and young Trevor McKinney is no exception. Only he isn't just using words, he is using an idea. What would happen if three people were given a favor and, instead of paying it back, they paid it forward? Trevor is an intelligent and caring young boy who has seen first hand that the world can be a very unkind place. When his mother, Arlene, isn't out working long hours she is home drinking her sorrows away. Trevor's father is an even worse drunk who has only taught Trevor the value of neglect and abuse. School is no picnic either, as the school bully sees little Trevor as a particularly good mark. Just when things couldn't look any worse for Trevor, something happens. While in class one day, Trevor's new teacher, Mr. Simonet, asks the class to involve themselves in a project, to find something that each of them can do to make the world a better place. While most children come up with heart felt but mostly implausible ideas, Trevor comes up with something special. What if he gave out three random favors to three individuals in need, and instead of paying him back they passed on three favors to someone else, and then those people did the same? Would it change people's lives or would the chain break shortly down the line? Eager to see his idea blossom, Trevor begins his project and thus starts a train of events with such impact that no one, not even Trevor, could have imagined its results. Kevin Spacey, Helen Hunt and Haley Joel Osment star in the big screen adaptation of the Catherine Ryan Hyde novel, Pay it Forward. Spacey is his usual golden self as the horribly disfigured but highly intellectual schoolteacher, Eugene Simonet. Although not a tremendous character actor, Spacey does have great screen presence and is one of the kings of emotional acting, as everyone has most likely already seen in such films as Seven and The Usual Suspects. In this film his acting is so real and emotional that for a while I was calling Mr. Spacey Eugene. Helen Hunt once again graces filmgoers with her role as Trevor's troubled mom, Arlene. I don't have enough time to go over how talented Ms. Hunt is, so, as to not get caught up in repetition, I will just say that her quality acting and perfect delivery are once again displayed in this film as she plays a very real woman with very real problems. Now I usually really can't stand seeing young children in movies as lead characters because I can't stand the fact of Hollywood constantly exploiting them for their cuteness, but this Haley Joel Osment continues to baffle me. I can't understand how, at his age, Osment can be an emotional acting genius. He surprised me in Sixth Sense but in Pay it Forward he blew me away. He understands the concepts of timing and emotion, and is not used to cuten up this film but to actually take charge of it, which he does just as well as any actor far ahead of him in years. Of special mention to fans of quality acting, Frequency's Jim Caviezel turns in another brilliant performance as a homeless drug addict who is taken care of by Trevor as part of the his Pay it Forward project. To compliment the talented cast is talented director Mimi Leder, whose earlier works include the George Clooney and Nicole Kidman thriller The Peacemaker, and Morgan Freeman's Deep Impact. In Pay it Forward Leder does a near perfect job of directing a story with a lot of depth and realism. Leder keeps the flow of the film interesting and doesn't let the film get caught up in boring or uninspired dialogue, but that could be because the material and ideas she had to work with were so captivating, either way I won't complain. Leslie Dixon should also be thanked because her screenplay was intelligent and really holds your interest and won't let go. The only two gripes I had with this film were that I didn't find enough attention was paid to the actual Pay it Forward idea, and a few minutes near the film's end really downed me and threw off kilter the film's feel good aspect. My final observation on Pay it Forward is that not only is it a more than worthwhile film, it also promotes a truly inspiring and powerful message that really reminds you about the good in the world and the changes just one individual can make. Seeing this kind of message is really something everyone can enjoy so, as can be told, I would certainly recommend this film to anyone. In my humble opinion, watching this great piece of film work truly seems a favor and anyone that takes my recommendation and agrees, please don't pay me back by thanking me for telling you about it, when your done viewing just tell three friends about it and Pay it Forward.Overall Rating 8 out of 10  "},{"Title":"A very moving movie","Date":"29 December 2004","Score":"38 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is one of the most moving movies that I have seen in years. The performances are excellent by all the cast members and the emotional tie you develop with the characters is so amazing that you start to feel what they are feeling and go through their good and bad times. This movie is inspiring and heart driven. I really enjoyed this movie because of the well written story and smoothly moving plot of this movie. The movie does not leave you confused as to what is going on or why. That's why I gave this movie a 10, because it is excellent. The odd thing is about movies, the ones that aren't really that good get the awards, yet the really good ones never get one. I have really never understood that. This movie should have been given an award. "},{"Title":"The ending reflects how cruel life really is","Date":"28 January 2005","Score":"24 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Trevor McKinney (Haley Joel Osment) is a boy troubled by the events in his life. With a violent and Alcoholic father, who has left the scene; and his struggling Alcoholic Mother (Helen Hunt), who is trying to make ends meet, Trevor feels alone and is fearful of the future.Eugene Simonet (Kevin Spacey) is his new teacher, who has a rare quality of caring for his students. He sets an assignment for his class, to come up with an idea of how to improve the world we live in. Intended purely to may them think, Eugene never expected any results, but Trevor has a revelation, a notion that that people are in essence good and he could use this quality to better the world. And so Pay It Forward is born, Trevor will do three favours for others and in return they must do three favours for others and so on.With a great leading cast and a good support from Jon Bon Jovi, Jim Caviezel and Angie Dickenson, the movie follows the failures and triumphs of Trevors idea and the life changing effect on both the world around him and on those close to him.A Journey of emotion and discovery, this tearjerker instills belief that we can all do some good in the world, with a little effort and commitment.A Warning for new viewers, the end is quite simply heartbreaking, it is incredibly sad, yet it does reflect how cruel life can be, and in my opinion it was brave to use such a shocking ending, that leaves you feeling down while at the same time adding an edge to the Film.Overall it was a brilliant film, although it clearly will disappoint those people who want a happy ending, but for me the ending was perfect.9/10 "}{"Title":"Just the Sort of Treacle I Wrote When I Was Eleven","Date":"7 August 2001","Score":"13 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This was not a bad film; in fact, it was fairly well done, for what it was. Unfortunately, what it was was emotionally manipulative.  Child abuse survivors, cute kids, recovering alcoholic mom working two jobs, this movie had it all.  Above all, the director's vision was muddled.  Life is sh*t, says Trevor (Osment); by the end of the film, we can see that life is not sh*t after all.  Or is it?  The dramatic twist at the end (I won't spoil it for you) seemed to revoke the entire message of the movie.  It had no apparent purpose, other than to lead up to the buy-the-world-a-coke, faux-heartwarming finale.  The movie was not a total wash, however, as the genuinely solid performances from everyone involved lifted it above the sappy little mess it could have been.  Osment is a gifted actor who manages to be a scared, vulnerable kid, without resorting to overt cuteness; he has a wary toughness which makes his performances very believable.  Although I am admittedly ambiguous about Helen Hunt, she did turn in a very strong, thoughtful performance in a role that could easily have been one-sided or overplayed.  Final analyss If you like sentimentality, Pay it Forward is worth the effort, but it falls far short of a classic. "},{"Title":"A touching film in these uncertain times","Date":"14 May 2008","Score":"16 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A film of surprising majesty mainly because of its sincerity to convey the tale of a young (American) high school student, touchingly and masterfully played by the then 12-year-old Haley Joel Osment, who, at the instigation of his new teacher's challenge to the class, comes up with a beautiful and simple plan to make a difference in the world, involving doing a good turn to not just one person but three, who then, in turn, return the gift themselves to three more people, thereby very quickly spreading goodness in both directions, in the giving and receiving, in the most unlikely places and ways. Warning a tear-jerker! "},{"Title":"More realistic than a pyramid money making scheme","Date":"30 January 2007","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" watched the movie over the weekend! And i really enjoyed the story. I haven't read the book but i think the idea deserves credit and well done on making it into a movie... greater potential to get people thinking even if it is just for 5minutes.It reminded me of the pyramid get rich schemes that some people promote... only this had more substance and seemed more attainable than the selling life insurance to people!!! I came across a review that said the movie was over sentimental and perhaps unrealistic. For those that have lost faith in humanity and ability to do a good deed for someone you really don't know ... perhaps it is unrealistic. But living in a developing context means that we are faced with that opportunity all the time.Irrespective, of linguistical, social, cultural or economic barriers we all have the capacity to recognise when the hand of support or help is extended... its tough to ignore! So for those of you that are extending/ receiving that hand .. Pay it forward! "},{"Title":"very good adaptation of the book.","Date":"19 April 2005","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I watched this movie, before reading the original book and surprisingly, i found myself liking the movie better! never have i had this experience before, but i must say, that the story behind Eugene's disfigurements was more interesting than Reuben (the book character's name) who was a war veteran. I also think that although the character of Reuben/Eugene was meant to be played by a black man, Kevin Spacey was perfect for the role and you could not have chosen a better actor to play it. Helen Hunt also did very well as Arlene McKinney and really represented the character how she was meant to be, based on the book, which is a rather difficult thing to do. I think that although the film and book differed to a certain extent (as all film adaptations do), the film kept the sentimental quality of the book and in the movie Trevor doesn't get to meet the president which I find to be more realistic rather than a story book fairytale idealism. Overall, i recommend both the book and the movie. "},{"Title":"It's hard to surprise me anymore but it happened.","Date":"22 May 2004","Score":"17 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  First of all, I liked this movie. I did enjoy it a lot. It pulled me in. It appealed to me for lots of reasons... but I didn't like the ending. I wish like the dickens that they'd have chosen a different one. The feeling that it left me with was wondering what anyone in that story gained by its ending that way. I'm sure there was something... some lesson, some high consciousness or something, kicking in to make the people better human beings... but I know how the viewer was expected to feel all through it and that said, they were rooting for the triumph of the main character, and it was coming along so nicely... then poof. You are left bewildered and mad.That's about all I can say about it. It disappointed me because I felt like they set me up for a happy ending. I know that lots of movies do that, and it's probably a noble thing for a movie to have the guts to have an unhappy ending, if there is a lesson to be learned from it. This one just left me feeling the same way Braveheart left me. I guess I'm Pollyanna-ish when it comes to some things. When there is a life struggle involved, I like to see triumph over evil or something. This time it just hurt.  "},{"Title":"Phenomenal heart-warming film","Date":"6 April 2006","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie has everything a great movie should have. A strong, original plot. Phenomenal acting and great performances. Powerful dramatic scenes with clever dialouge. It's thought provoking and has a strong message to convey. It makes you smile, laugh, cry and then cry again.The very idea of Pay It Forward, is a powerful concept.Most kindnesses in the world are done along the lines of 'I scratch your back, you scratch mine', thus perpetuating a circular cycle of favors among friends and family and the like. Yet, Pay It Forward goes way beyond that. It says do a favor and expect nothing in return. Do it just for the sake of improving this world. Start it and let it roll like dominoes. And don't just do any favor, help someone with something that they will never be able to help themselves with.Much has been made about the ending of the movie. Obviously, it's shocking and an absolute letdown. But I think, ultimately, that was the way the movie had to end, because that really underscores the very idea of the movie. It shows that the world is still not perfect, that it can be extremely cruel at times, but that's exactly why ideas such as Pay It Forward must continue and flourish. Moreover, to make a real difference in this world, that often requires the ultimate sacrifice. "},{"Title":"Don't pay it back, pay it forward","Date":"17 January 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" If somebody does something for you, don't pay it back, pay it forward. This is the quote that you can find on the front case. Trevor is a 7th grader who's teacher tells the class to come up with something that can change the world and then tells them to act on it.Trevor, unlike all the other kids, takes this project serious. He calls his project Pay It Forward. In his plan you must simply help three people with something they can't do on there own. After that, each of those people have to go out and help three others, thus creating a multiplying chain.This movie deals with many different emotions, and is not for the faint of heart. With a movie with a star class and a dark lesson on the faith on mankind, this movie will keep you up at night thinking. It'll hopefully motivate you to do something to try and change the world. "},{"Title":"An underrated, beautiful movie.","Date":"30 June 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Pay It Forward is based on a plot that makes you think almost about everything -both while watching and after. There are elements that make you smile and cry, and the cast is very good at delivering the superb scenario. Helen Hunt and Kevin Spacey surely do not disappoint and Haley Joel Osment performs perfect, giving everything one could expect from such a young actor. Jon Bon Jovi is the surprise among the cast and adds a nice flavor to an already delicious dish. From the beginning until the very end, the movie manages to touch somewhere deep in your heart, and although I did not the book it was based on, the plot makes a lot of sense in its entirety and shines with its originality. It does not come with numerous awards or an exceptionally high IMDb rating, but it really is a very good movie. "},{"Title":"A meandering, awful piece of rubbish","Date":"21 October 2000","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Did i see the same movie that most of the other commenters saw?  This has got to be one of the worst films of the year.  Right up there with Battlefield Earth and Hollow Man.  How could a movie with Kevin Spacey, Helen Hunt and Haley Joel Osment be this bad.  I had to go home and watch Usual Suspects and American Beauty just to be remind that Spacey has made some good films.  I like the idea of this film very much and I wanted to like it, I really did.  I wanted to feel good when I left this movie, like after watching Field of Dreams or The Shawshank Redemption.  Instead I felt empty, manipulated and stupider. Lets start with the screenplay.  What the hell is up with the screenplay?  I mean, I like the beginning where they show Spacey ironing (his routine), then the scene with Jay Mohr where he has to Pay it Forward.  I liked that because it can be viewed as a turning point in the movie.  It is from this scene that Pay it Forward gets national attention.  Scorsese used this technique in Goodfellas and Casino and it would have worked here if they didn't decide to defy the rules of space and time.  The film procedes to cut between 4 months earlier when the movement first begins, and Jay Mohr trying to find out how it started.  It was distracting and unnecessary. It took away from the whole movie.  It was like the people in charge were saying look how clever we can be, we're telling you the story in a nonlinear way.  They could have shown Jay Mohr and then go back 4 months, leading up to the beginning, like in Goodfellas or American Beauty even. The ending was stupid and contrived.  this movie is so frustrating.  THe characters are so one dimensional and cliched.  They say one thing and then in the next scene they are doing the opposite.  I told three people not to see this movie i hope they pay it forward and tell three people not to see it and so on and so on until no one sees this awful film.  "},{"Title":"A beautiful movie and a big tear jerker.","Date":"5 December 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is one of those profound movies that affects you and leaves you reflecting about the movie and how it makes you feel and makes you wonder if you could effect people the way Haley did. With the tear jerking moments and the thoughtfulness of a little boy make this a great sentimental movie for most and possibly too unrealistic for others. You then think if it is unrealistic does it have to be can we make this a reality in our communities. While a 5th or 6th grader (Hayley Joel Osment) in a social studies class is given a difficult task to come up with a idea to change the world and to put it into action. That is where the idea of pay it forward is started. Osment does a first-rate job in this very emotionally charged role. Here you have a boy who does not have a father figure, does not really have a happy life. He has a emotionally unavailable mother who is a habitual alcoholic and struggles with two jobs. This leaves him with his own imagination to get him through his day. Which is projected well on screen as the fragile boy. The teacher played by Spacey fits him perfectly, his compassion, with a slight bitterness and at times is unpredictable and we cant help but feel engaged with his character. Although Hayley did a great job Spacey had some great dialogue. The way he attracts attention to his character and invites us in and then he spoils the experience with a single revelation. In this movie when he reveals how he got his scars are so dramatic and so perfectly retold that it brings a tear in your eye. Helen is just as superb as ever. The way she delivers her performance as a trailer trash, alcoholic that still has a alluring side to her. While she might not get the best pick of dialogue, she showed top form and added to the movie in a memorable way. Seeing her we may not long for her as our mom but we hope through the whole movie that she finds her way to take care of Trevor. You would think with a lot going against him you would then be wrong this only fueled his desire to help people and having a innocent view that maybe he can help his mom and teacher. He does end up succeeding in helping some people there even comes a TV story about him and the ripple effect he had on the people he helped and the people they helped. Watching this and living in the world we do today you see life is full of conflict and without paradoxes. Changing the world is a lot of work and takes conviction that not a lot of us have. You see a movie like this with a pie in the sky idea and you think this could never happen. It would go a long way if people were able to achieve this goal to make this suffering world a better place. If you have not been able to see this movie it is a must rent. You must take this movie under consideration and take the chance. With Trevors statement in the movie maybe we should try so we can see the whole world isn't really as bad as we may see. We all may want to mark our place in the world, but what would the world be like if we did a big favor to someone and they did the same to other people. I do wish they showed some more attention to the idea of pay it forward. But seeing in the end when the 2 big lives he helps change for the better. The end of the movie to a lot of people was not desirable I think it was necessary cause it ended up catapulting his idea. In conclusion this is more than a worthwhile film that shows a powerful message that there is good in the world and the differences one person can make. If you enjoy heart warming films then this is a absolute must watch. If you are tired of the same old rehashed movie ideas, unoriginal movies then another reason to see this. As the title says don't thank someone for telling you about the movie pay it forward and tell others. "}{"Title":"an okay movie, should watch it","Date":"1 July 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" this movie really touched me as it showed me how very much this young 11 year old boy cared about his drunken mother. throughout the movie he tries to get his teacher and mother to be together and everything goes well until his dad comes along and ruins the whole happy family business.the teacher with the scarred face was linked to the 11 year old child too. they went through the same thing.at the end the boy...DIES...the message was to help and try to save the world without killing yourself "},{"Title":"Really heart -warming","Date":"13 March 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I don't think this is one of the best movies that I have ever seen. I don't think it is even the best film that I will see this year (although it will make my top ten ) but the idea behind it is what has me intrigued. Believe me when I tell you this. I don't think I have ever been as emotionally galvanized as I was in this film. There is a raw power, a truth that rings clear in Pay It Forward and if there was one film that I would want people to see this year, it would be this film. It is entertaining, it is superbly acted, and it the one true film, the one true idea that really could help make a positive and tangible difference in our society and our world.In some circles this film has been criticized for laying on the fluff. It is too much like a soap opera. And that is so far from the truth. Let's recount the issues at hand and examine them. Kevin Spacey plays a burn victim because of child abuse. Helen Hunt plays a single mom that is having a hard time recovering from alcoholism and has a bad case of can't get her ex-husband out of her life and her bed. Haley Joel Osment plays a wise beyond his years son that had to grow up precociously because of his mother that suffers from the above. Every character in this film, including the bit players suffers from real problems. If people have a hard time understanding this then just go to an average suburban classroom in North America and arbitrarily pick out ten kids. Chances are you will find cases of alcoholism, child abuse, divorce and a plethora of issues that are not conducive to a healthy environment for a child. So this film is just mirroring life. That's all.The performances by the three leads is nothing short of brilliant. Not as much can be said for the rest of the cast, but Spacey, Osment and Hunt all could be nominated this year when March comes. All three bring compassion and depth to the three scarred people that they portray. But especially intriguing is Osment. He doesn't need to say anything in order for you to understand him. It's a look, a twitch, a smile, a shiver. Anything he does helps us understand who he is and why he is that way. Osment is one true gifted actor and I really don't think he is going to fade away in the years to come like so many other child prodigies. This is the real deal. By following up Sixth Sense with a performance this real solidifies him as a true thespian.If you have not seen this film for whatever reason, and its box office suggests most haven't, then do yourself a favour and take a chance on it. Not only will it do you good, it really might help change you in some ways. And as Osment says in the film, maybe we may all see in some way that,  the world isn't really s**t. "},{"Title":"Boy Meets Adulthood at 12 Years Old.","Date":"10 January 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Personally &#x96; I don't think Trevor actually saved the world, but had a good impact on it. I thought it was amazing how he stopped a man from taking drugs and how that man was influenced to stop a woman from partially killing herself (however unrealistic.) But I do think it was still brilliant how the idea's was casted and how the film was written. I liked the ideas with the Social Studies to where Trevor learns everything about how to provide help for the world we live on and how Mr. Simonet was dedicated to hearing Trevor's opinions. This made me feel something. If teachers were actually like Mr. Simonet a lot of rubbish happening in society wouldn't be happening on the streets today. I don't think this is one of the best movies that I have ever seen. I don't think it is even the best film that I will see this year (although it will make my top ten) but the idea behind it is what has me intrigued. Believe me when I tell you this. I don't think I have ever been as emotionally galvanized as I was in this film. There is a raw power, a truth that rings clear in Pay It Forward and if there was one film that I would want people to see this year, it would be this film. It is entertaining, it is superbly acted, and it the one true film, the one true idea that really could help make a positive and tangible difference in our society and our world. The ending was unexpected but then again better than other Drama/Romance American films with a happy ending. The brutality of the ending was cleverly observed by the writer and you could tell how he was feeling himself while making the film, psychologically and verbally. "},{"Title":"a moving and emotional movie","Date":"9 October 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film falls into my top 5 favourite movies. The acting by Haley Joel Osment, playing Trevor the son of an alcoholic mother and abusive father, is by far and away his best performance; capturing the innocence of childhood alongside the desperation of being trapped in such a difficult social situation. Helen Hunt and Kevin Spacey; both underrated performers, pull of a spectacular duo as the struggling single parent and social outcast teacher, who find each other through a bad situation.This film works on so many levels without ever getting bogged down too much with one scenario or another. Emotional scenes are interspersed with comedic ones to give the film a lighthearted edge, which helps detract from some of the more serious underlying concepts. However the scenes where these concepts are confronted are powerful and superbly acted, making this a spectacular movie.Without a doubt I would recommend this film to all of my friends, and for those of a sentimental nature, I would also suggest a bumper pack of tissues. "},{"Title":" Knowing the right thing is easy,  doing the right thing is a bit  harder ","Date":"19 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The world is a pretty awful place if one sees only the bad which is usually all around us. Occasionally when there is a disaster, people from all walks of life, suddenly forget who they are and step forward to help out and for a moment, the world becomes a place where all mankind can share in that one brief pause, called Humanity. This is one such film. It's called  Pay it Forward.  The name strikes an immediate note of confusion at first, until one thinks about it. Too often when someone does a good deed, most of us feel we should try and Pay it back. This is the original concept, except in the film a young student named Trevor McKinney (Haley Joel Osment) designed it so a person who receives a favor, is then told to pay it forwards to three other people. The idea first began as a school assignment given by his teacher Eugene Simonet (Kevin Spacey) and encouraged by the boy's mother Arlene. (Helen Hunt) It is not that often when such a simple idea can have such a profound effect and reminds the rest of us, that simplicity is the key to our basic nature. With two academy award winners in the forefront of this film, I fail to see how it was not nominated for an award of some magnitude. **** "},{"Title":"While not the most moving film I've seen, this is still a solid, thoughtful and well-performed film!","Date":"11 March 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Pay It Forward is not as moving as a film like the Elephant Man and Fearless, but is still a solid and thoughtful account of a boy who wants to change the lives of those he loves.The subject matter was well-realised, and that alone made it genuinely poignant. I have read some truly unfair reviews, that Pay It Forward is overly sentimental. No, it isn't. The ending was beautiful, and heart-rending too. When I saw this at school, I promised myself I wouldn't cry. But I did oddly enough, but it is very fair to say the ending was very moving, and added to the irony that the young boy Trevor, was unable to change his alcoholic mother's life. The scene in the hospital was also really sad, as I had genuine respect for all the characters.There were unfortunately two flaws with the film. First of all, the script at times was a bit weak, especially when the three protagonists were not the focus. The other flaw was that sometimes the film's structure felt a little confused, but that's just me. Mimi Leder's direction was slick and attentive, the two ingredients you need to make this sort of film work.The performances of the three leads were what held this film together. A wonderfully restrained Kevin Spacey played the disfigured teacher, and the scene where we find out what happened to him was shocking to say the least. Helen Hunt matched him beautifully as the mother, who tries to block out her painful life(prostitution, domestic abuse, an alcoholic family member) with drink, much to the despair of her son, Trevor. The real star is Haley Joel Osment, possibly the most talented child actor on film, who perfectly conveyed the 11 year old boy who wants to make a difference. Who wouldn't? All in all, a thoughtful and insightful film, that is genuinely moving. It isn't the most moving film ever, but it is definitely underrated. 8/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"The most moving movie ever made","Date":"8 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie is hands down the most moving movie ever made! Not only that, but also, the storyline is very well written. Now although the book contains a better structure to the story, the movie's story structure is still amazing! Also, the acting is close to being flawless! I also think the reason why i liked this movie a lot is the fact that it is so realistic. The reasons and the actions in this that were made by the characters of the movie were so down to earth, nothing unrealistic!!! I wish that everyone who watches the movie gets something out of it, and that the movie doesn't only have an effect on you for the 5 minutes after it is over. This movie has the capability to change a lot of people's attitude. I wish that they reproduce it, in a newer better marketed version, since i think, it has such a strong message that everyone should hear!!! "},{"Title":"A lesson of life","Date":"16 March 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Pay It Forward is an inspiring film, a lesson of life and a hope for a better tomorrow. As for the story, it is quite interesting, original and unique. It's a story of its own, doesn't imitate anything and doesn't even try to do so. The whole pay it forward movement comes up as a brilliant idea from the mind of little Trevor McKinney (what a beautiful name!). This splendid idea consists in doing a good deed for three people, who must (each one) in return do good deeds for three other people - in a try to make a better world. Ahhh, isn't that sweet?But this is also a very realistic movie that deals with serious and heavy subjects, such as the world, alcoholism, drugs, social studies, school, bullies, violence, people's lives, family relationships, the society and others. All of this without forgetting that the movie is a take on a cruel and selfish world.Trevor McKinney is a great little hero. He is one of the bravest and nicest kids ever put on the screen. Although only 11-12 years old, he has the maturity of an adult. He's a kid with a heart of gold. Brilliant performance by Haley Joel Osment. Even his facial expressions are brilliant, as well as the way he changes his emotions all over the movie frustrated, angry, furious, desperate, pessimist, happy, funny and in tears. Amazing! Kevin Spacey is great as the teacher Eugene Simonet. He is the one who gives the class project in social studies, which aim is to «Think of an idea to change our world and put it into action!». Spacey is so much better in a serious role like this than in most other roles he plays.Helen Hunt, while not as good as Haley and Kevin, has nevertheless a good acting as Trevor's mother. The famous singer Jon Bon Jovi is quite good in his minor role as Trevor's alcoholic and abusive father. I like Marc Donato's performance either as Trevor's friend Adam.The soundtrack is beautiful, especially Thomas Newman's instrumental music and the song Calling All Angels (by Jane Siberry). A beautiful homage in memory of Trevor at the end. As for Thomas Newman's musics, they're so calm, relaxing and peaceful to hear. Truly a delight for the soul.The ending is very sad and shocking. Trevor is stabbed by those horrible kids and dies. The creepy story of how Eugene got his burns is also though. Such an emotional movie that we really feel for the characters.But not everything is sad. There is a reasonable number of funny moments. Trevor is often amusing and Eugene is fun sometimes. One of the funniest sequences is when Trevor is watching wrestling, overexcited. "},{"Title":"A Moving And Touching Story, With Excellent Performances All Around!","Date":"4 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This was a moving and touching story, with excellent performances all around!. I loved all the main characters, they were extremely likable, plus i believe Haley Joel Osment, may be the best child actor out there today. The ending is quite sad, and one that i didn't see coming, and the film leaves you thinking for a couple of days after, plus there is a message to it too. It's a really cute film, that i enjoyed very much and will watch again. The Direction is excellent. Mimi Leder, does an excellent job here keeping the film engrossing and doing an excellent job overall. The Acting is Fantastic!. Kevin Spacey, is AMAZING here, he is a wonderful actor, he is extremely likable, had great chemistry with Helen Hunt,and i felt sorry for him as well, since he was all burned. Helen Hunt, is terrific here, she is beautiful,and at first unlikable, but, grows on you throughout the film, since she was an annoying junkie at the beginning, but i liked her a lot and she did excellent here, plus, she had excellent chemistry with Kevin Spacey. Haley Joel Osment, is AMAZING Here, he may just be the best child actor ever, and proves it here, with his amazing performance, and he was extremely likable. Jay Mohr, is good here as the reporter i liked him. James Caviezel, is a fantastic actor and is excellent when on screen, wish he had more though. Jon Bon Jovi, plays the drunk father convincingly. Angie Dickinson, is also good here. Overall a MUST see! for everyone! ****1/2 out of 5 it will leave you thinking for a couple of days. "},{"Title":"Great!","Date":"4 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  ** Here be spoilers **It is rare indeed when you find a movie that works on every level. This did. First and foremost, the movie revolves and evolves around a story that catches your attention from the very first moment and then never lets go. And even the several different interacting stories works very well and doesn't really ever get predictable, not to an annoying degree anyway.Then there is the work of cast and crew. The director and the cinematic crew did a great job and there are lot of nice details, evident and more subtle. Then the cast, and foremost Hunt, Spacey and Osment did a great effort to make their characters come across.And, even if I could go on and praise the movie for quite a while, it would become rather dull to read (go watch the movie instead!), so I will cut it rather short. However, I will point out that there is nice when a movie actually leaves a thought or two behind after it ends.Great movie!10/10  "}{"Title":"The Pyramid Scheme","Date":"8 January 2006","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" One winner, lots of losers...that's the goal.Full of leftist swill, and the modern Democrat-left constituency, in hierarchy trial lawyers, media acolytes, unionized teachers, working class folks, and the disadvantaged minorities, drunks and drug addicts. All are morally equivalent, there can be no moral judgements in Hollywood.All pyramid schemes are eventually extinguished...here the origin is killed.The question is, how did you react when all of this was pitched to you? Did you forward it to other potential moviegoers, or did you say no deal, and walk away? "},{"Title":"Manipulative dreck.","Date":"30 October 2000","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Cloying, dishonest manipulation of the emotions for those who need to have feeling queued up and spoon-fed.  An assembly line movie that has no heart or soul at the center.  Watch a real movie that demands your involvement - say Ratcatcher. "},{"Title":"If life could be like this we'd all be for the better","Date":"28 April 2004","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" PAY IT FORWARD (2000) ***1/2 Kevin Spacey, Helen Hunt, Haley Joel Osment, Jay Mohr, James Caviezel, Jon Bon Jovi, Angie Dickinson, Kathleen Wilhoite. Well done and original drama about a grassroots movement inspired by education new teacher and burn victim survivor Spacey (excellent as always) moves troubled seventh grade student (Osment, clearly not a fluke kid actor; he delivers a memorable performance) to pursue an extra-credit assignment create an idea that will change the world. Osment's plan of a Good Samaritan act of charity to the third power sets a ripple effect throughout his community and apparently across California. Hunt as his alcoholic mom desperately trying to get her act together finds fate intervening in the unlikely romance with Spacey and her past (as well as his) the only pitfalls to happiness.The trio make for an effective elixir in our jaded times manifest and displays their acting muscles flexing and chomping at the bit but falters in the closing moments of an other wise exemplery attempt in re-instilling the concept of mankind being humane. Based on Catherine Ryan Hyde's novel and written for the screen by Leslie Dixon, heart is felt throughout; mission accomplished. (Dir Mimi Leder) "},{"Title":"Wow.","Date":"31 October 2003","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  If I wanted diabetes that bad, I'd eat pure sugar.  Nothing but 'Oh, the world is so lovely!' crap.  Some little kid does more good than Mother Teresa?  I think not.  But please, bury your head in the sand with this movie, meanwhile a hijacked airplane will crash right into you with a big banner reading 'Welcome to real life'. "},{"Title":"Excellent movie!","Date":"8 August 2003","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Great acting by all!  Loved Helen Hunt, Kevin Spacey & Haley Joel Osment.  Don't miss the wonderful scenes with James Caviezel also. No, you probably won't like the ending but it is so much like real life.  Our days are filled with the ups and downs of life.  In love, there is always risk, but it is well worth the risk!What if we all decided to PAY IT FORWARD?  A definite 10/10. "},{"Title":"Incredible!","Date":"4 May 2004","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is the best movie I have ever seen, it had everything and more to it! This will be ordered on my next sallery!I love the acting, Kevin Spacey and Helen Hunt are very good actors, and I can't stop being impressed by Haley Joel Osment.The story is great, the moral is right, the editing is flawless. I lack words to express my feelings about this film!I even fell a tear in the end, and that isn't often. If you missed it until now, see it!!!  "},{"Title":"Corny and stupid. Pathetic!","Date":"31 March 2001","Score":"11 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Terrible. The whole movie is completely predictable and Helen Hunt just does not fit on that role, especially after making What Women Want. The whole movie is just a bunch of sentimental nonsense which makes you want to throw up. Very slow and corny, and I also think it contradicts itself at the end. The ending doesn't fit within the story. It is way too in the extreme, which makes the corny, sentimental and ridiculous movie, even more stupid.I personally thought that Haley Joel Osment was a terrific actor, till I saw him in this movie. His character has nothing different from the one in Sixth Sense. He portrays a lonely, conflicted child who lives with his mother, who by the way is single and suffering (what a surprise), and guess what, she's also an alcoholic. (Not much of Helen Hunt). Osment also plays the role of the insignificant little boy who saves the world with his Pay it forward idea. Very ridiculous. And you´ll see him again, crying, begging for help, being Mr. Wise guy and showing all his dramatizing techniques. No wonder he was not chosen to play Anakin Skywalker in The Phantom Menace, he cannot play roles that do not involve crying and exaggerating.Do not waste your 8 bucks. Watch something else. This is definitely not a recommendable movie. Worst pick of the year for me.  "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies I've seen","Date":"19 February 2001","Score":"12 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  *******WARNING********SPOILERS**************This one easily qualifies among the top ten of the worst movies I have seen. Aside from its predictable plot and disgustingly sentimental ending, the moral of this film really sets an all time low. According to this movie,* a child has a responsibility to help his/her alcoholic, abusive parent to recover.* no social misery is so severe that it can't be helped by a buck for a cup of coffee.* everybody deserves a second chance. Unless, that is, if you are a male alcoholic. Then you are evil and enjoy setting kids on fire.The list can be made longer, but I think I've made my point. Beware of this one, it's a real turkey. "},{"Title":"I think we can do it","Date":"17 September 2001","Score":"13 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It was a very good chance to see this movie today, just one week after the tragedy.  I know some people don't agree with the idea of Pay It Forward, but thinking about the word possible, and people who simply have never had a chance to think about what they can do for the world they live in, this movie may do something good for us. "},{"Title":"What a load of rubbish!","Date":"9 January 2006","Score":"14 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Previous comments seem to focus on *the stars*, which is just the problem with this debris! It was a sweet idealistic book that became a star vehicle on screen, spayed of all social value. The book-teacher, Reuben St. Clair, is black; but you still can't have a black man kissing and marrying a white woman. And that's just the most obvious whitewash. All controversy has been scrubbed from the film; there are no Black (Reuben) or Hispanic (Ricky) characters, not even any Italians (Jerry BUSCONI has no last name on screen, and Charlotte RENALDI has no name at all; she's just the woman on the bridge.) Reuben is a Vietnam vet, going against the stereotype; he's still haunted, but not a broken parasite. The film-Jerry lives down to the stereotype, using drugs and living in a dumpster. There are no gay characters in the film. There are 3 in the book; Lou Tartaglia (Reuben's friend from back east), Gordie and Sandy. The book skinheads become a schoolyard bully; drab, dusty Atascadero becomes glittering Las Vegas. There is no Sidney G. in the film, a vital link in the Movement. And the scene of the vigil outside Arlene's house is utterly unconvincing as the seed of a worldwide movement. Maybe that's the point; the book was Clinton (in fact, he appears as a character), the film is Bush (as well as bush!) It has happened before, with, for instance, A Clockwork Orange. The book was Kennedy,the film was Nixon; Kubrick simply ignored the last chapter, in which the protagonist simply grows up and stops marauding. Read the book; ignore the film. Too bad some things don't seem to change. "}{"Title":"Horrid - What Was the Point?","Date":"19 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" *****Contains Spoilers*****NEVER in my life have I seen a film that starts out so well absolutely destroy itself so thoroughly as did Pay It Forward. Paying it forward is a concept that is going strong in the world today, with people around the globe stepping up and doing nice things for their fellow man. We have the opportunity to see many of them thanks to the omnipresence of cell phone cameras and the social network. This film had a chance to solidify that and build on the message. Instead, the message this film sends is don't actually do it or you'll end up dead. The death of Haley Joel Osment's character Trevor completely destroys the goodwill that both his character - and this film itself - purported to pay forward. Everything else is tainted as a result outstanding performances by Kevin Spacey, Helen Hunt, and Osment; good direction, and a decent script up until the travesty begins.Am I one of those types of people who has to have everything turn out well in the end to enjoy a film? No. But this film was not one that needed an edgy ending just for its own sake. Every bit of goodwill that is cultivated early on is utterly destroyed so that you don't even care if the pay-it-forward thread that Trevor started continues.Someone needed to blunt the brutal ending for the sake of this film, and no one did. The result is a movie that's not worth watching. "},{"Title":"Hon English 11  3rd","Date":"16 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Pay it forwardI think this is a really good movie. It inspires you to be a better person by doing random acts of kindness, to try to make the world a little better. I don't think that end was necessary, it seems really forced to me to kill the child, and even more in that way, stabbed with a knife by another young guy. The creators of the movie wanted to make him a martyr, but I don't feel like they needed to&#x85;I liked this movie for the subject it talks about; real life, violence&#x85; They show the world just like it is, and it makes a big contrast with the innocence of Trevor. Also, as a Bon Jovi fan, I love the movie even more. He plays his role wonderfully, even though he doesn't participate that much, but it's a really big and important role as Trevor's father, that disappeared a long time ago. He represents both danger and a important parent figure.I truly think everybody plays their character very well, even Haley Joel Osment, he has a great talent to act at his young age. He has a long speech at the end of the movie, that he performed perfectly.He wanted to do something good for somebody, and thanks to him, his mother, that was alone and unloved ends up with Eugene Simonet, his teacher, a beautiful person with an ugly outside, that is been through the same pain with his father , that almost killed him. At the end, everybody knows Trevor, and his pay it forward dream spreads all around the world, making it a better place. "},{"Title":"This film is not only a beautiful film, but for Christian viewers, is especially powerful.","Date":"23 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" PAY IT FORWARD has always been one of my favorite films but I just watched it for the first time in years with my two children, ages 11 and 13. Though there is certainly very mature content, the ultimate message is so powerful. The message is that EVERY person can make a positive difference in the world. It is also about love, about hope, about forgiveness and ultimately about GRACE. That said it is also about human weakness, brokenness and how life is truly not fair.It was by accident that we chose to watch this film on Easter weekend, but what a an amazing and appropriate film for this holy time. The messages in the film are deeply connected to the core beliefs and hopes of Christianity. Though they don't GO THERE, the narrative does. Now that I have had time to digest the plot I could argue that PAY IT FORWARD is one of the most brilliant films on faith, and in particular Christian faith, that I have ever watched. Congratulations to all involved with the film, and especially the writers Catherine Ryan Hyde and Leslie Dixon for making this film so accessible for a mass audience. Lastly as a new student in the social change world, they offer us a brilliant illustration on how positive change might happen in the world. Change can happen when a new and powerful idea is introduced, and that idea takes hold and results in behavior change. Collectively the force of many peoples action can create a movement. Isn't this exactly what the world needs right now? A generosity movement? This idea is timeless- do something to help others and not ask anything in return and ask them to do the same. Watch the movie and encourage others to as well. "},{"Title":"more than just a movie","Date":"22 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I use IMDb a lot, but I have never written a review. After watching Pay It Forward, I just couldn't help myself. I'm a pretty sentimental guy and I've cried during movies before, but never like this. I fell in love with Trevor and the pay it forward 'movement' and it has changed my life. This movie taught me that we don't need a lot of money or power to change the world. All you need to do is change the lives of a few people and inspire them to do the same. That is something I have always wanted to do, but like Eugene I was too scared of change. Not anymore.I think that the people who dislike this movie are being too critical, and looking at it as strictly just a film. Pay It Forward is so much more than that. "},{"Title":"An Amazing Must Watch Movie","Date":"21 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie is a must watch! Last year my teacher made us watch it in cultural studies, and to be honest looking at the DVD cover - well lets just say I never would have watched it. But I'm so glad I did. I wont write too much because I don't want to spoil the film. But trust me you cant judge a book by its cover as this film is living proof! It has made me rethink the way i see the world and philosophical films like that are usually the most interesting; it has helped me to realise that one person can make a difference, you don't have to be privileged or well known to get your voice heard, and i think thats the message that this film puts across. It only takes one person and it could be absolutely anyone. "},{"Title":"A family drama with the most amazing plot","Date":"19 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It is one of the most touching films, I've ever seen. The idea in this movie is really great. Director Mimi Leder did a very good job to bring the whole dramatic nature of everyday life. In this film, I saw a simple but perfect way of acting globally. Helping other people in any way, this is the best way to do something useful globally. The cast is as good as the screenplay. Kevin Spacey, Helen Hunt and finally, Haley Joel Osment - I think they fit their roles in the best way, it is possible. The end was best, not even disappointing. I see that every person, who even tries to do something extraordinary is never understood on time, but after his death. That's what happened with little Trevor. The reason, why I voted with 8 points is that something was wrong in the middle of the movie. I don't even know what exactly, but it really was. Anyway, this is one of the most rememberer film, I have seen. "},{"Title":"help someone n let someone help u too...","Date":"25 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Well,have we ever heard of a movie with no animations,action,big indigestible dialogues to be framed as the MUST WATCH MOVIE??Well this is the movie. PAY IT FORWARD the movie completely takes you into a very practical world where it makes it understand that how our world is in severe need of help from someone or others genuinely and if the cycle continues to help everyone how the problems will be solved easily.The most practical part ends with the last 10 minutes of the movie where we actually feels our heart broken because it actually narrates us only one simple thing and that is never SOME PEOPLE ARE TOO AFRAID OF CHANGING AND SOME WHO DOES THAN SEVERAL PEOPLE Doesn't LET THEM DO.At around with all the soberness and very gigantic display of movie an important plea can be made i.e THIS MOVIE CAN BE TAKEN INTO PRACTICAL CONSIDERATIONS WHICH WILL CHANGE THE FACE OF THE WORLD!!!!!! Hats of to the crew of this movie including the writer who wrote the novel on it. "},{"Title":"Very good idea but mediocre outcome","Date":"19 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I bumped on the film accidentally one night on television. I have to say that the minute I saw the idea it deals with (doing something positive for no return) I felt it was one of the best materials for script ever. Nevertheless, I'm afraid the result was full of clichés and predictable emotional moments. In the hands of another alternative director it could be a jewel, like Manolia for example. The fear of people to do good and mostly the weakness to deny doing it on your turn after having received it, is an excellent concept. The same goes for the idea of having a child starting this. But, honestly, all the clichés of the beaten wife, the traumatized molested teacher, the alcoholic grandmother, the stabbing of the kid and most of all the mellow ending (kids with candles in the courtyard) gave it a predictability and a lack of proper depth that was only partially saved by the excellent performances and some good moments overall. Finally, I have to say that Helen Hunt is really making the difference here, by giving true substance to her role. "},{"Title":"Yes....But!","Date":"11 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I don't want it to sound like I didn't like the movie. But there is something rather unsatisfying about it. I don't know if its Kevin Spacey's broad character, the whole movement that develops (I just don't buy it; call me cynical), or just that things play out so simply. I grew up in kind of a tight situation with a lot of strained relationships and unsavory people passing through. It just isn't simple. I would have like a little more subtlety. I'm also getting a little tired of the person who is in pain and would rather give up his or her life than just tell someone what they are feeling. I know it makes them vulnerable, but consider the alternative. If you have strong figure like the Spacey's teacher, who confronts the difficulties of a junior teacher (which I have been for over 30 years), it seems he would have enough character to put it out there. Of course, without all the misunderstandings and insensitivity, there wouldn't be a movie. It just didn't hold true for me. I think a better script with a little more reality would have helped. "},{"Title":"The Pyramid Scheme for a good Life","Date":"14 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is not a movie. This is a concept that was supposed to change the world for better. A concept that was supposed to change the life of millions.A particular school teacher assigns a project to his students. The project was supposed to be some kind of idea that will do good to peoples. One young student of his comes up with a brilliant idea. The concept was called Pay it Forward concept. In this concept, you do a good deed for three peoples, who in turn do a good deed to three more peoples each. In this way, you will virtually reach the entire world. And the entire world will be a very happy place. Soon after submitting the idea, he started working on it.He starts by taking a homeless guy to his home. Soon the good deed spreads all over the country. One reporter wants to find out who is behind the idea. He starts up to find the person behind. Finally he reaches the kid, takes his interview which is telecast across the country. But sadly, soon after the interview, the kid is killed by a group of purse snatchers who wanted to snatch his purse. The most touching scene in the movie is shown as the whole city turns out for his funeral. Candles across miles were coming to the graveyard.One question Can good deed really save the world? Will the world become a better place to live in ? This movie proves one thing, you don't need great actors to save a loose script. What you need is a good script. "}{"Title":"Show it to your 14 year olds.","Date":"2 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" As a mother of 2 teenagers, I highly value this film. A pre-pubescent boy,in particular, with limited guidance in his life, is fortunate to land in class for the new year with a teacher who evokes a thought process within his trusting soul. It is an engaging film which encourages the viewer to look inside oneself as the child has, only to see his own efforts mostly fail, but the domino effect of his naive concept has more far reaching consequences than anyone could anticipate. It is touching, thought provoking, and well acted. Thankfully not too much time was wasted on what might have seemed to be other significant characters, but there is a lot to digest if you are eager to receive the message which is loud and clear well before the poignant conclusion. "},{"Title":"Seeking inspiration? Look no further!","Date":"2 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I thought movie was definitely underrated, as it was so amazing.Kevin Spacey was great as the teacher who inspired a schoolboy to do something really incredible. Helen Hunt was brilliant as the mum, but of course, Haley Joel Osment was the one who blew me away. His performance as Trevor McKinney was incredible, along with all his other movie roles. Everyone in this movie acted really well; even Jim Caviezel and Jay Mohr gave wonderful performances, though they were short.I loved everything about this flick, and recommend it to anyone who needs inspiration or needs to start over. "},{"Title":"The Ponzi Scheme of Kindness","Date":"22 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Movies, especially modern ones, love to show how life is interrelated no matter how untrue this is in reality. Maybe it is true, to some extent, but in Pay It Forward, the interrelatedness of life means that altruism is in all of our best interests.Pay It Forward chronicles the life of a young boy, Trevor, and his mother (Hunt). Trevor is able to come up with a phenomenal way of solving the world's problems, assuming that he can get people to do it. The tale unfolds as a sob-story of sorts, and rapidly digresses into a personal story of domestic issues.On the whole, the ideas are interesting. The movie itself is nothing spectacular &#150; the cinematography is so-so, and arguably it's a vignette of someone's life, aside from the fact that it is based on a novel. It is particularly great that for once a child is the smart, sagacious character of a story. Hollywood tends to have portray children as naggy and misbehaved creatures of almost another species.The acting is top notch &#150; Spacey plays an oddball teacher who has a great ideal for his class, and Hunt plays a troubled mother who has all the good intentions. All in all, I think that you need a lot of patience to watch this movie. There are quite a bit of troubling scenes and you have to grit your teeth through them. It will probably make you a better movie watcher, though.RATING 8/10 The world is a ****hole; pardon my French and **** You do a good thing for three people. It has to be something really good. Then they do it to three others. "},{"Title":"this is a film about people all being the same deep down, and how we are corrupt and judgemental more often than not....","Date":"5 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film is so sweet and aims straight for the heart, giving you a combination of emotions, love, desperation, hope, anger, fear and happiness - not in that order ) Haley-Joel Osment's character touches everyone, he's trying so hard to make the world a better place and it makes you wonder why more people aren't like him. Jon Bon Jovi, although he has a small role is very strong in the film, he has clearly worked hard on his character and portrays Ricky very well. The fact that Jon as a person is nothing like his character in P.I.F only goes to show how his acting skills are progressing with experience. Helen Hunt does a fantastic job, trying hard to keep her broken life together while trying to keep control of her son, i've always liked Hunt as an actress and shes amazing here. Spacey's character has had a hard life, but has built on his misfortune to become a strong person, although at times his confidence is still low. It is really Osment who brings the two adults into each others lives and makes them realise its not worth being alone when someone wants to love you, and that they want to be loved. There is tragedy at the end when Osment's striving efforts to make a better world, come to a sticky end in an egotistical, 'popular kid v loser' fight. Hunt's world falls apart, but thanks to her son she has someone to help her through. His efforts have succeeded in one very imprtant way, he has made HER world a better place, for good. "},{"Title":"Easy Paced Tear Jerker","Date":"11 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Having read the cover of the DVD before I purchased it, I was knew I was in for no real surprises, it is an easy paced (some might say slow) tear jerker. Kevin Spacey was terrific, Haley Joel Osment was good, Helen Hunt... well ... she acted to her abilities. I thought James Caviezel gave a great performance & it was a shame that the plot didn't allow him the scope to give the film an extra dimension. Mimi Leder keeps the film very low key, which in a way allows all the characters to develop through the film, but has the problem of slowing the pacing of the film. I suppose there is always a trade off! The ending was not surprising if you follow the plot development & illicited the emotional response that Leder was working to. I did find the closing scenes very reminisce of 'Field Of Dreams', hey but if it works, use it! This isn't a great film. but a good work never the less & if you are looking for a film of hope & redemption you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"A really Touching Movie!!!","Date":"8 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  SPOILER I thought this movie was sad at the end, I watched it and when Haley died in the movie I cried. I didn't cry because I wanted to, but I felt that shockingness inside me. It was such a touching movie, if you think that this movie is gay, retarted, whatever, think again. This movie is one of the most nicest movies to see, but remember don't forget your tissues for the ending. "},{"Title":"What could they have been thinking?","Date":"22 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Ok.  Let me start by saying I'm not close to being sexist or anything like that, but I had to double check the credits at the end of the movie to be sure.  Let me explain.I had never, ever heard anything about this movie, but I like Kevin Spacey and Helen Hunt, so when it came on, I sat back and watched it. I really enjoyed the story and the interaction of all 3 main leads.  Then came the last 10 minutes of the film.  After it was over I sat there thinking why, why would they put this bunch of unrealistic, Messiahnic baloney in this nice little film.Then I saw the credits and naturally, it was directed by a woman, the book was written by a woman, and screenwritten by a woman.   I have never been subjected to more forced emotion in a movie before.Anyway, I gave it a 6...would have been a 9 if the ending wasnt so Hollywoodized... "},{"Title":"Save your money or Pay it to Hollywood","Date":"10 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Don't waste your time watching Pay it Forward. But don't read further if you don't want to know the ending. Pay it Forward is one of those from the heart movies - a nice story about social and personal transformations that, in this case, supposedly start with a 7th grade boy's homework assignment. Unfortunately, the credibility of the entire film is lost when someone (the writer and/or director) decided they had to hit us viewers over the head with a point, instead of allowing subtlety to slowly soak in. Worst of all, the point didn't even really have to do with the rest of the story. The story is about doing something to make the world a better place for those around you. The ending is about the debatable opinion that nothing good comes without significant suffering. Minutes from the end of the movie, as we begin to see glimmers of hope for people with difficult lives, a sudden death occurs. But the greatest tragedy is that the death didn't have to do with the story line. Did the filmmakers forget to plan the end at the beginning? After watching the entire movie and thinking good thoughts about the filmmakers' efforts, I suddenly found myself sitting through the last 5 minutes completely bored and disgusted with a tear-jerking soap opera ending that was so contrived it looked like it was borrowed from Billy Jack. "},{"Title":"Hey kids!  Altruism can kill you!","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Your poor old Auntie Gremlin has seen some self-important movies in her day, but this one took the dang cake.  Now, if you've read enough of my reviews and such in here, hopefully you'll know that I'm usually not a cynical person.  This movie just *GOT* to me somehow.  I simply could not like it.I know it's going to be a long movie if it spends the first fifteen minutes or so establishing how miserable the characters are and it's supposed to be a feel-good movie.  Maybe what that means is, when I'm having a bad day, I'm supposed to remember what the characters were put through here and feel better for myself?Pay it Forward gets three stars only because, I have to admit, it's got good intentions.  I have to say, however, that any lessons a kid might learn from this movie would probably be negated by the outrageous ending.  I won't give it away, but you should expect to be *really* angry about it. "},{"Title":"Two steps forward, one step back","Date":"5 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Such promise, and such a premise. How Pay It Forward misses the mark is hard to pin down, but it just does.That's not to say that Kevin Spacey, Helen Hunt and Haley Joel Osment, batting .667 as a group recently against Oscar, don't give effective performances. In truth, much of the movie's emotional punch comes from the three spending so much time together in front of the camera. These three are phone-book actors -- they could tie our stomach in knots reciting all the M's in the Vegas white pages. The studio got its money's worth there.The problem is resonance. Gifted as they are, the three can't pull the film far beyond the vortex of a mundane love story. The concept of paying it forward, or doing three big favors to pay for one done to you, is cheapened and diluted by three stars and a subplot that suffocates this ethic with Leaving Las Vegas overtones. More of Angie Dickinson as Hunt's mother and James Caviezel as Osment's payee-gone-wrong. Less of the marquee players. That would have paid it forward to the audience.Against the backdrop created by director Mimi Leder, the ending is deus ex machina, a way of extricating a mired plot and blithely refocusing on what was given short shrift for the previous 110 minutes -- the idea that a world-changing idea is certain to have its pitfalls, like life itself, but that it's worth exploring to the utmost.Rating 6.5 of 10. "}{"Title":"This movie was supremely touching throughout...","Date":"2 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a beautiful story made into a heart-warmingly excellent movie. The juxtaposition of a physically scarred man and an emotionally scarred woman (who both seem less scarred when they are together) is touching and poignant to say the least. The magnificence of the Trevor character (both in writing and in portray by Hayley Joel Osment) gives one a reason to believe in people again. My only criticism relates to how the story was converted to the big screen. In the novel, the Eugene character was an African-American veteran who was scarred in battle. In the movie, the character (played convincingly well by Kevin Spacey) was Caucasian and was burned by an abusive father. Both situations work well, but I was troubled (as an African-American man myself) that the only black character in the entire movie was a liar, gangbanger, and a thief. Sticking to the story as originally written would have given African Americans a more positive representation. "},{"Title":"Fine performances...","Date":"28 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The film is worth seeing for Kevin Spacey's and Helen Hunt's performances. The story is compelling and nicely structured. I enjoyed the way it began at the end, flipped to the beginning and then slowly worked its way to the middle from both ends. However, the ending is a complete let down and isn't worthy of the preceding story.  "},{"Title":"Good Movie!  ---> (up to the last 10 minutes)...","Date":"18 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"      I found this movie entertaining.  All of the acting is done well, and the story is original.  It is both a drama and comedy.  It has a great objective which (in my opinion) might actually work!  The problem is that the ending is so unlike what you would expect (or enjoy), as well as over the top!  I will now tell you my idea for the ending.    WARNING!!!  ---->  SPOILER (Read only AFTER watching the movie)!!       Instead of Trever (Osment) dying, and the overblown ending with masses of people crowding and cars flooding in, why not just make it conclude with the atmosphere expected??!!     Here is MY ending       After Trever is stabbed, the assailant is arrested.  Then we cut to Trever in the hospital recovering.  He is asked about Pay It Forward and he replies...It didn't work...   Then the room (NOT THE CITY) is filled with people who were touched by his idea and actions!  "},{"Title":"Great movie, great performances, bad ending","Date":"11 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" ***SPOILER***   ***SPOILER***The schmaltz ending.  It works occasionally.  ET went home.  People came to see baseball.  An angel got his wings.  However, it helps for the ending to justify the means, if you know what I mean.  In Pay It Forward, the die is cast the word is spread, the movement growing, mom is dry and the teacher is happy and free.  Apparently, though, it's not enough unless you sacrifice your main character (and your movie's character) in the hope of increasing Kleenex sales. I was upset when they killed Trevor.  Upset at the movie makers.  There was no need to do that.  Maybe he could get hurt, and the special surgeon comes in because he needs to pay it forward.  Maybe he doesn't get hurt at all.  In any case, he doesn't become instant celebrity in one evening with the whole candlelight vigil (and where did all those matching candles come from?) and the streaming cars (Field of Dreams again) thing.  I cried - because they screwed up a great film in the last 5 minutes, but not because they tried to jerk my emotional chain. Worth seeing, yes.  Will some people totally buy into it, yes.  I just hate to see it all cheapened by over the top Hollywood-isms when it is most crucial.  "},{"Title":"This is a Movie you can learn something from","Date":"27 February 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Well i liked this movie so much that after rating many movies on IMDb, this is my first review. Well to be honest this type of movies must be watched and learned from instead of wasting time watching non-sense and teenage movies, which just makes you feel good and after a few days you wont even remember what the story was. It's incredible, touching, brilliant, and something humanity has lost...!!! I am still dreaming of a day where this movie inspires people and the idea of pay it forward will actually come to work. not only the story has a morale but the story is entertaining all the way through, on top of that being unpredictable. It's a kind of movie you'll watch it over and over again and it's gonna take a long time since you get bored repeating it many times. "},{"Title":"Good deeds are necessary","Date":"21 December 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" There are a few movies, which can make you change the way you think about this world. One among those is Pay it forward. This movie starts off with a very basic idea, what does this world expect from you? That is actually a question asked by a social science teacher to his 6th grade students, and an 11 year old kid answers innocently, nothing! Well, that's what this movie is about. Before cursing this world you are living in, you just need to think once, What have you done for it?The kid comes up with a revolutionary idea called, 'Pay it forward' according to which he helps three persons in doing something they are not able to do. In this materialistic world, nobody expects anything even from their relatives. However, this movie tells you about the good deeds people have been doing for complete strangers. "},{"Title":"God-awful","Date":"2 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Maybe, I'm just not all that bright-and-sunny. But, you have to be really really childish, to go lets make the world better. The world is complex, and darkishly beautiful, if I may say that. And this one-way, narrow thinking of having to fix this world in order to confide to some (selfish) standard is just plain bad.The movie fails to emotionally manipulate, which was the whole point of what the producers were trying to do. Now, go ahead and pay-it-forward by NOT recommending this movie to anyone! Spare them from the boredom, and hours of eye-rolling from watching this air-head movie. "},{"Title":"Extremely Wrong Message Within Context of Modern World","Date":"28 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It is very easy to get caught up into the emotional aspect this film inspires. It presents real people with real problems & it gives you all a good warm feeling with the message that everyone can make the world a little bit better by doing a little bit of good. In fact, this idea has inspired things like Make A Difference Day every year. There is part of where the problem is, because the message is too simplistic. The World is a whole lot more complex than one issue. People have to work together constantly every day to improve the world. By living as this movie would have you live, you take 1 good idea, make a difference, & then pass it on & your done. That is wrong, the idea should be that you strive to make a difference that is good every day, not one day. Another idea is that you don't fall into agendas which benefit certain people. In my world, I try to be positive & make a difference every day. This idea & film for all it's warm fuzzy message misses that this is how you should live your live. In fact it insults & manipulates it's audience by using tragedy on it's audience like hitting a fly with a swatter. Tragedy is not what making a pay it forward should be about. Simple solutions & one time fixes are not an answer for life. Life is something you have to work at & work hard. This film doesn't present this concept correctly at all, & this apolitically aggrandized Make A Difference Day while it does do good, promotes a mentality that 1 day a year is enough. Sorry, but this movie & concept are wrong. Pay It Forward is something that needs to be done every day. Making a Difference needs to happen every day. Happiness needs to be part of the equation too. Tragedy should not always accompany this concept. The world needs to be a team, together. The solution in this concept is way to individual. Working together is the only way we will survive. "},{"Title":"Pay It Forward?  More like Bad Karma!","Date":"24 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I rented this movie thinking I was going to see a feel-good type of story. By the end, I was so depressed that I was sorry I watched it.Helen Hunt started a relationship with Kevin Spacey and it was the first real, loving relationship she'd ever had. But as soon as Bon Jovi shows up, she dumps Spacey as if he'd meant nothing. Then she later says she made a mistake. Well, too bad, sister. But (double duh) Spacey takes her back? As someone who has stood by friends as they've gotten in and out of bad relationships, this part of the story really bothered me. Once someone drops you like you have no value, that should be a pretty good indication of how they feel about you. Kevin Spacey's character was lonely and cautious. He let down his guard to let Helen Hunt's character in. And, as a result, she dumped him. Then when things didn't work out with Bon Jovi, she begged Spacey back, like, oh well, he was better than nothing. UGH! WHAT kind of moral was THAT supposed to teach? Haley Joel's character kept trying really hard to make everyone else happy and then he gets stabbed for doing a good deed. Pay it forward? More like Karma in reverse. Geez! This could have been a great story and a great movie. The casting was excellent. The acting was superb. The story, however, was horrible. "},{"Title":"A Message For The Masses","Date":"2 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Pay It Forward was overlooked and disliked when it came out in early 2000. Maybe it was the presence of Kevin Spacey being in a romantic role, possibly Osment's role wasn't him scared stiff, or even Helen Hunts drunkenness. Who knows. But I watched Pay It Forward and I loved it.Trevor McKinley (Haley Joel Osment) is fresh into middle school. His new teacher is a strange, disfigured man named Eugene Simonet (Kevin Spacey) and the class has been given an assignment to come up with a logical idea. Trevor is a normal kid, a little on the punky side. However he comes up with an idea called paying it forward. Help someone, then ask only that they help someone and then it continues.Mr. Simonet likes the idea and Trevor wants to try it out. After coming up with three people to use for the experiment he begins. Trevor's mom, Arlene (Helen Hunt) is troubled and an alcoholic. Trevor first wants to try and hook up his mom with Mr Simonet. His second is to help a homeless man named Jerry (James Caviezel) get back on his feet. Through the trials, Trevor's plans seem to be failing but little does he know that slowly Mr. Simonet and Arlene are falling for one another and Jerry is trying to get back on track even after leaving. Will Trevor's idea be successful in a world wide helping idea.The message from this movie is one everyone should listen to help others even when it is unwanted or unknown. Haley Joel Osment is good in an odd role of a punky kid. Helen Hunt is startling good as the drunken mother trying to get her life together and Kevin Spacey is just plain awesome as the troubled teacher.The location for the film is interesting, right outside Las Vegas and adds a cool touch to the film. The story is good, the story of Trevor intertwines with the story of the reporter Chris Chandler (Jay Mohr) trying to find how the movement of Paying It Forward occurred. A few holes are left here. How did pay it forward occur before Trevor started it was never explained but doesn't take away from the message or story of the film.Pay It Forward. Starring Haley Joel Osment, Kevin Spacey, Helen Hunt, James Caviezel, and Jay Mohr.4 1/2 out of 5 Stars. "}{"Title":"It's a Wonderful Life--NOT!  Hated ending (SPOILERS POSSIBLE)","Date":"23 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  SPOILERS POSSIBLEThis could have been a good movie.  But it was very confusing the way it went back and forth between the reporter's investigation of 'Pay It Forward' and the events four months earlier leading up to that.  Eventually I thought we were going to see a progression of events started by Trevor's good deeds that eventually led to the reporter's encounter with the lawyer and his Jaguar.  And then we find out Trevor's father was abusive, and Mr. Simonet's father was as well.  These situations were not necessary.  And certainly the terrible ending was not either!This could have been an inspirational story, like It's a Wonderful Life. In fact, a person trying to jump off a bridge is supposedly talked out of it.  I would have been happier if that person had been shown helping someone else, and so on, and so on until we got to the bag lady. I would have been a lot happier if the bag lady had not been who she turned out to be.What would have made this movie ideal was the simple sequence of events started by Trevor's good deeds, some of which didn't seem to be working out as planned.  He would have gone through disappointment but possibly learned, as George Bailey did in the other movie, what he had really started.  Why did so many people close to Trevor in this movie have to have such a hard life?  Of course those helped directly or indirectly would have problems, but why Trevor and his family, and his teacher?Now on to what was good about the movie I enjoyed seeing Trevor's ideals do some good for people, even if he experienced disappointment.Kevin Spacey did a great job as Trevor's inspirational teacher.  Strict, but caring.  Later quite friendly.  But then he showed vulnerability which was quite unexpected.  I will say my signal was so bad that if no one had commented on Mr. Simonet's face, I wouldn't have noticed it.  In fact, I still don't know what was wrong. I saw briefly what could have been a burn or birthmark.Helen Hunt doesn't usually play such flawed characters, but she did a nice job and she looked great.  And she did care about Trevor, regardless. Haley Joel Osment is always good, but he was at his best when Trevor was just an ordinary 11-year-old late in the movie, not when he was an idealistic and heroic kid. Angie Dickinson was surprisingly good as the bag lady.  I wouldn't have known it was her, but I'm used to her playing beautiful women.  At long last she's old.  David Ramsey made the prisoner quite likeable but also showed a lot of passion when seeing someone treated wrong.  And Jon Bon Jovi was not exactly spectacular, but for a singer he did quite well in his brief role as Trevor's father. This was a movie worth seeing, though I'm sure others would be happier with the details than I was. "},{"Title":"A bit hokey  but worth seeing.","Date":"21 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I find it interesting that most critics hated this film, but all of the people I know who saw it, as well as many of the people on this forum, loved it. Which is an indication that film critics are out of touch with what the general public wants.I think a lot of critics hated it because the kid dies at the end, and that violates an unwritten rule of film-making Thou shalt not kill off a child at the end of a Hollywood movie. The critic at Salon basically admitted that was one of the reasons he didn't like the film. Well, not to be cold, but boo-hoo. Yeah, it was very sad, and I was upset that the film ended that way, but people die every day, and guess what? Some of them are kids. It's funny that critics will put down a film for being too Hollywood, but then when it actually veers in another direction, they get irritated.Another reason the critics hated it is that critics, and journalists in general, are very cynical people who think the world sucks. So when they see a film that tries to be inspirational, a message film that actually might have something to say, they just rip it to shreds, put the word inspirational in quotes and say they want to puke. Yes, the film was a bit hokey, but I've seen a lot worse. The critics would rather see realistic movies, but realistic movies are so depressing. Just about every so-called realistic film I've seen is just a bunch of people lying to each other, killing each other, having sex with each other's wives...you name it. Why is this considered enjoyable? I went through a phase where I saw a lot of films like that, and some of them were very good, but now I'm sick of them. If I want real, I read the newspapers. I don't think most people go to the movies to see real life; they go to escape real life.OK, enough about the critics. Overall, while I think the film was somewhat predictable, except for the ending, I also think it's worth seeing for the quality of the acting and for what the movie had to say. I do think it had elements of realism. Don't we all know someone like Eugene? I know I do; they may not be physically scarred but they are emotionally scarred. And even though most of us are not paying it forward, I do believe we are all connected. Maybe I've seen It's a Wonderful Life too many times (hey, I bet the critics hate that one too), but I think one person has the potential to affect the lives of so many others. And I can honestly say that the movie caused me to ask myself if there is more I can do to make a difference in the world. If a film causes you to question yourself (or to question anything, for that matter), then it has succeeded. "},{"Title":"Pretty Good","Date":"2 June 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Pay It Forward (2000) is a very melodramatic movie.  It deals with emotions and  addictions, and how they are very much intertwined together.  The film iscentered around an 11-year-old boy (Hayley Joel-Osment) and his alcoholicmother (Helen Hunt).  Another major character is a teacher of Hayley'scharacter, played by Kevin Spacey.  	Spacey gives an assignment for everyone to think of an idea that will change in  the world and put it into action his class that he teaches.  The character of Trevor  (Hayley) hears about the idea of `Pay It Forward'.  This idea states at oneperson must do a helpful chore to three other people and then those three other  people will pass it one to 3 groups of 3 other people and so on.  It is a very  utopia idea.  	There is also a second subplot where Hunt's character is trying to get to know  Spacey's character by being romantic.  Spacey's character is hesitant because  he came from an abusive family and Hunt's character has to deal with her owndemons with her addiction to alcohol.	Hayley controls the movie by doing an amazing acting job.  The kid is a genius  when it comes to acting.  He conveys maturity and frustration very well in the  movie.  The kid does remarkably well despite his mother has to work two jobsand she drinks whenever a problem arises.  I felt sad for Trevor and hisfatherless home life.  	Spacey also does an amazing job as a scarred teacher who grew up in adysfunctional home.  His character is intelligent, bitter, and compassionate all at  the same time.  I was truly moved when the movie explained how he receivesthose burns on his face.  It shows how awful alcohol can be to help makesomeone burn their own child.	Hunt did a fantastic job as Arlene.  The moviegoer really saw how vulnerable  she was to alcohol.  It also illustrates that women of abusive relations, for some  bizarre reason, always go back to the abuser.  I felt frustration when she invited  the abusive, alcoholic father back in the hope, but also relieved when shekicked him out.	The movie was an emotional rollercoaster and I did enjoy viewing the movie.   The only negative thing I did not like was the ending.  I don't think the death of  Hayley fit the plot well and was just added to pull on the heartstrings of the  viewer.	If I were to give the movie a rating on a scale of 1 to 10, I would give the movie  an 8.  "},{"Title":"This is a great movie with a sad ending!!!   It a movie that everyone should see.","Date":"28 January 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Pay It Forward is a great & sad movie I ever seeing! It a story about a boy name Trevor McKinney (Haley Joel Osment) who care for everyone he know & tell everyone about his life. Trevor is a caring boy who want love & careness in big hope for the future. His mom Arlene McKinney (Helen Hunt), his dad Ricky McKinney (Jon Bon Jovi), & his teacher Eugene Simonet (Kevin Spacey) help him a lots. Than later on in the movie, There was a fight & Trevor was kill by one of his class mate with a pocket knife or something. The last part of the movie, Everyone come to the McKinney house to pray for the lost of their son Trevor McKinney.This movie have a sad ending & it a great movie for the whole family to watch.The great stars in this movie are Kevin Spacey as Eugene Simonet, Helen Hunt as Arlene McKinney, Haley Joel Osment as Trevor McKinney, Jay Mohr as Chris Chandler, James Caviezel as Jerry, Jon Bon Jovi as Ricky McKinney, & Angie Dickinson as Grace... "},{"Title":"Backward","Date":"12 December 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Spoilers herein.How sad to saddle competent actors with a soulless script and inept direction.Cat's Eye comments follow*This a story about a junior high boy from a broken home and a substance abusing mother. He has been sent back gradewise so is bigger and stupider than his schoolmates. What he sees is some kids getting special treatment, especially one played by H J Osment. This kid really annoys everybody; his special treatment comes from the fact that his Mom (also a drunk, also single) is screwing the teacher.Our anti-hero is wracked by frustration that exhibits as violence and he eventually kills the imp. The story is made more true by making the center of the film nameless. We see him only a few times.The novelty is that killing the teacher's pet turns him into a publicly loved saint. That transformation is told by one story line that moves forward and another backward, both meeting at the killing. Hence the title. A clever narrative trick, blunted by unimaginative direction.*Cat's Eye comments result when nothing intelligent can be conventionally said of a film. "},{"Title":"Forward Thinking","Date":"12 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Given an assignment to affect a major change in the world, an impressionable junior high student invents a favours system that sounds good in theory, but can it work in practice? While such a plot summary might make 'Pay It Forward' sound more interesting than it really is, there is no doubting the thought and intelligence of the proposed system do three big favours for three individuals, who (instead of paying you back) pay a favour forward for three other people. Clever as this may sound, the filmmakers struggle to craft a solid narrative from the idea. While we see the flow-on effects of the system with random strangers doing favours for other strangers in a journalism side-plot, our young protagonist is simply interested in doing favours for those who he knows - which is hardly novel. He has a lonely mother, a sad teacher and a bully target friend, and there is nothing whimsical about his desire to help out these stock characters. By comparison, the best scenes occur in the side-plot as a lawyer gives away his new car and an elderly lady helps a thief evade the law; in fact, the best part comes in the first ten minutes as the reporter suspects a 'Strangers on a Train' trade will pop up before accepting the car. The film is sentimental to boot too with a weak ending that oddly borrows from 'Platoon'. And yet, despite all flaws, the film is engaging while it lasts. Kevin Spacey and Helen Hunt do well within the confines of their roles and Thomas Newman's enchanting score is superb. It is just a shame that such an interesting idea could not make for a more satisfying tale. "},{"Title":"A moving story","Date":"23 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" There are countless words that can be used to describe the 2000 American drama, Pay It Forward. I will say, this film is definitely a drama for a reason. The main storyline is one that is engaging and will tug on your emotions around every turn. However, while watching, it is far too easy to become lost in the midst of the plot. Based on the novel by Catherine Ryan Hyde, the film, although perplexing at times, comes to life thanks to well played roles by a very gifted cast.Pay It Forward is the name of an idea originated by a young 11-year-old, Trevor McKinney (Haley Joel Osment). It is Trevor's first day of seventh grade and his intimidating social studies teacher, Mr. Simonet (Kevin Spacey), gives his class an abnormal and seemingly impossible yearlong assignment Think of an idea to change our world, and put it into action. Trevor lives in Los Vegas with his mother, Arlene (Helen Hunt). His mother is a is a relapsing alcoholic trying to hold down two jobs to support her son. His once abusive father (Jon Bon Jovi) is mostly absent from their life with the exception of a few unannounced visits. Although Trevor's world around him appears nothing but negative, he is the only student that takes Mr. Simonet's assignment to heart. The idea he outlines out on the classroom blackboard is simple, yet substantial. He will do a good deed for three people, each of whom will do a good deed for three others, and so on. The only rule is this good deed must be something the recipient cannot do themselves. Throughout the film we follow Trevor as he completes his kind acts. He helps out a homeless man (James Caviezel) to get back on his feet, attempts to fix his mother up with Mr. Simonet hoping she will get sober, and tries to rescue one of his peers who is frequently pestered by bullies.If you are looking for a heart-wrenching drama you have found the right movie. Unfortunately, there are moments when the drama is difficult to follow. The narration of Trevor's life is intertwined with scenes that take place months into the future. These side stories follow individuals that are pulled into the pay it forward movement. Each of the story lines are connected, but the way director Mimi Leder pieced them together almost becomes distracting. On the screen it looks unpolished the way the film cuts between scenes. Sure, the story may wander away at times, but the acting by an award winning cast allows the film come to life and walk back to focus with fantastic character development.Despite the young age of Haley Joel Osment, his facial expressions and body language skills are equivalent to a much more experienced actor. In the scenes he acts alongside his on screen mother, he develops so much emotion that it actually looks like he made Helen Hunt cry. He is truly outstanding, simply because he can dive into a scene and make it seem like reality. The talent continues to expand beyond Osment. Academy Award winners Kevin Spacey and Helen Hunt create a dynamic on screen that enhances even the dullest of scenes. Emotion is shown not only from their mannerisms, but also the special tone in their voices. It is clear that Spacey and Hunt have some experience. Overall, Pay it Forward is a moving story that will make you smile, laugh and cry. The talented trio of actors shine a light of hope for humanity by telling numerous extraordinary messages. Can one person really change the world? After watching, I hope your answer to this question is far less surprising than the final scene of this film. "},{"Title":"Good Casting Pays Forward.","Date":"16 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Pay it Forward (2000) Dir Mimi Leder / Cast Kevin Spacey, Haley Joel Osment, Helen Hunt, Jay Mohr, Jim Caviezel Acts of good deeds that influence others are the theme of this film. Haley Joel Osment comes up with an idea for a school project that begins by taking a homeless person into his house. Kevin Spacey plays his teacher whose skin is tarnished with burn scars. Helen Hunt plays Osment's mother who works as a stripper. Fine setup with pointless elements such as the awkward written return of Hunt's abusive drunk ex-husband or her mother living on the street. The conclusion is a cheap shot tear- jerker. Well directed by Mimi Leder who previously made Deep Impact. Osment is excellent as he embarks upon the good of others without care or consequence. He even attempts to arrange a dinner date between his mother and his teacher. The result of his good deeds is a slap in the face to anyone who hates being jerked around. Spacey is very good as a professor supportive of Osment and opens up to his mother regarding his burn scars. Hunt pays the price but not before experiencing her son's payoff. Jay Mohr plays a journalist who is curious about this event after a good need came upon him during an auto accident. Jim Caviezel plays a homeless man subjected to Osment's kindness. Although standard in production, its theme regards doing unto others. Score 7 / 10 "},{"Title":"How to make this world better, one movie at a time.","Date":"31 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In this pre-election time, with about another year to go before we vote, everyone would like to do the right thing-- to change America and its allied powers into something better than so many of us are after living in their cultures as citizens and consumers.Love and money are partly our inventions. Nature equipped us for both. Neither seems to be optimized yet-- for sufficient happiness-- inside or outside our imaginative dark and light entertainment products.This story of tragic experience-- in an America desperately in need of more money and more love-- is a challenge to everyone on us. I rate it 10 for being truthful, on point, and necessary.Is there more that is needed to improve our institutions and our habits --to reduce the origins of our conduct toward each other? . . . Of course a million more dramas-- many emphasizing money to end poverty, and the value of effective treatment and self-discipline to reduce violence and self-abuse.Propaganda films aimed to reduce avoidable tragedy are something for which I would vote-- especially if they resulted in some degree of measurable success. "},{"Title":"Heartfelt","Date":"29 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The term pay it forward means when someone helps you out in a situation be thankful for it and you should help out another person. Like passing on the act of kindness. In the this heartfelt movie I learned how life can be taken away from anyone at any minute. Trevor who is the little boy in the movie is assigned a project by his teacher which is to change the world. He decided to help a homeless man and his mother didn't approve because the man was a stranger. Later in the movie Trevor pays it forward by helps a boy at school that is being bullied by a group of kids his age. The group of boys kick and punch the boy on the ground. Trevor helps the boy by running into the group of boys with his bike. A fight starts between him and one of the boys then one of them pulls out a knife and stabs him. Trevor dies after being stabbed. Before Trevor died he helped many people in need. As a young actor his role in this movie was very inspiring and changed the way I look at life. This is definitely a movie that will make any person with a good heart cry. "}{"Title":"A movement worth applying into our own lives - Pay It Forward","Date":"30 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Rarely does a movie come along that attempts to become more than entertainment and hopes to inspire a movement. This is one of those excellent examples of how real, positive changes to our world can come from film if done properly. Pay It Forward is exceptional from it's basic, boring inception from a simple middle-school extra-credit assignment until it's awe-inspiring, global-changing ending. If nothing else, it makes you think. And feel. Director Mimi Leder orchestrated a classy, elegant, gritty and realistic journey through the Las Vegas underbelly and beyond. She masterfully tried giving us a message of triumph over the paralyzing reality of feeling insignificant in this sea of unloving, uninterested humanity on earth. Leslie Dixon's screen writing (based on a novel of the same name, written by Catherine Ryan Hyde) replaces fear and hatred with hope and kindness against overwhelming odds in a huge, indifferent world. It's a message for all-time. The acting is excellent - headed by Kevin Spacey, Helen Hunt and the exquisite Haley Joel Osment. This trio of actors put forth a special story about a sad but still idealistic 7th grader who believes the world can be a better place, even if his own worthless existence is as pathetic as everyone else's. He formulates a simple premise - Do something big and helpful for three people with no benefit to himself - and ask that person to do the same for three additional people, and so on... Getting proper guidance from two flawed but still hopeful adults, he discovers we can all make a positive difference in this world through small but not insignificant random acts of kindness that resonate over and over again. What he doesn't realize is the magnitude of his discovery. Think The Butterfly Effect by acting out sheer kindness and thoughtfulness toward your neighbor when that neighbor needs you most. If this story can't get your heart and head moving toward finding ways to make small, significant, positive changes in your life and those around you, then you may never understand there is more to this world than our micromanaged little, selfish existences.Surrounding the main trio of actors is a splendid array of character actors - Jim Caviezel, Angie Dickinson (in one of her last roles), Jon Bon Jovi, Jay Mohr... Watching downtrodden character after character receive a random act of kindness when it was most unexpected and needed, then passing that good deed onto the next at wits end character, all the while never knowing where those good deeds started or are headed in the end, makes this a fantastic idea. When Spacey's teacher character comments how after giving out the same ridiculous assignment to classroom after classroom year after year with little to no results, the Pay It Forward idea actually had a chance to change the world... It was an honest assessment of why we're all here together in the first place.This movie mesmerized my family -- my teenage kids had never seen it and my wife and I had forgotten how special it was. We all discussed afterward how we could Pay It Forward and where. It doesn't matter who, what, when or how. What matters is the act now. I'm thankful we watched it as a family. I'm thankful to see the wisdom and urgency in this message. And I hope all who watch will not only enjoy but apply the premise of this fabulous film. 9 out of 10 as a movie, 11 out of 10 for it's message and hope. "},{"Title":"The world can't change by itself, we must bring it.","Date":"8 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" After watching this film I just remembered the quote from 'Sullivan's Travels' which says 'film's the greatest educational medium the world has ever known'. Indeed, cinema's for entertainment as well acts as a message deliverer. This was an inspirational movie, and everybody must see it. I know I'm a bit late to see it, better late than never, right? I'm really glad for having it at the right time because 15 years ago I did not have this blog to write about it.OK, the name of the movie represents the theme of the story. No matter its a developed or developing country, society needs something like the idea this movie talks about. Carrying a good social message, the movie slightly lags behind the too much on the emotions, especially the end part. There won't be a problem if you like melodrama. Other than that, I feel the conclusion was smart and strong, a better solution which would appeal for certain group rather alternate finale.The film was based on the novel of the same name, crafted by a fine director with the wonderful cast. Haley Joel Osment had a great career as a child-star, you should check some of his films if you love children's movies including this title on the top of that list. As a middle aged actor, Helen Hunt's one of the last best performances before turning into a senior artist. It's not a usual role for Kevin Spacey, but he nailed it with the good dialogues. Especially his talk about the topic 'child abuse' was a great thing from the movie. Overall, the actors get more credit for the first- class acts as the script demanded for their respective roles.What did you ever do to change the world. A movie about a man who achieved in science gets the Oscar, not that real man. A movie about a man escapes from the war prison camp and slavery gets the award, and again none of those real persons. But a movie with the original, intelligent, inspiring, specially designed for a movie was not even a contender of the Oscars. Of course, it was transformed from a book, though there are/were no real people behind these great characters, all are imagined/created for the book and the movie. I never understood the American Academy Awards.By now you would know that I hate critics badly if you are a regular reader of my blog. Once again they failed to recognise how great the morality of the story is, rather they have concentrated to criticise the writing and the technical aspect of the film. Although, it was not a box office flop or earned beyond, but got a lot of praise from the families. It's a wonderful family drama, but still too far from being a masterpiece. Intelligent enough one to get motivated towards the social issues. Being practical in the real world is a concern as it is risky, depending on the situation and the person, just like this movie's ending. Rare to find a movie like this, you must check it out.8/10 "},{"Title":"Bullies you into feeling the feelers","Date":"12 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It's impossible not to get emotionally manipulated by Pay It Forward because the film hits nearly every dramatic stereotype and is manufactured in a way that basically forces you to get sad at least for a little bit. The movie is about a sweet young man, so pure and innocent that when his social-studies teacher gives him an assignment to make the world a better place, he comes up with a model that he believes will change everything. Trevor (Haley Joel Osment) proposes to create a movement of paying it forward. You do one favor for a complete stranger and instruct them to do the same for three other people. If the project goes as planned, the amount of men, women and children whose lives are improved by random acts of kindness will be incalculable.You name it and it's here suicide, addiction to drugs, alcoholism, parental abandonment, bullying, martyrdom, poverty, children running away from home, spousal abuse and even a tiny sprinkle of sexual abuse too. If any of these subjects hit an emotional nerve, you will get at least partially sucked into the drama of the film, but it's impossible not to be. Not In a good way either, with character development and genuine intrigue in the lives of these people. This movie just comes in like a puppet master and forces you to feel the way you do. While it does have good intentions I found that the plot was so over-the-top that it felt phoney. Kevin Spacy, Hellen Hunt and Haley Joel Osment are all good, and if the film had been limited to the drama between these three characters it would have been a satisfying story. It's a shame that it didn't try to work on a smaller scale because then it could have been an inspirational tale. With the over-the-top ending it really feels like it's desperate to make you emotional and ultimately I found it more laughable than tear-jerking. (On DVD, October 31, 2012) "},{"Title":"Good, albeit idealistic and naive, idea, very badly executed","Date":"17 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A good, albeit idealistic and naive, idea, very badly executed.The idea - do good things for others and the world becomes a better place - was a nice one. A touch idealistic and naive, but sentiments to live by, at least.However, everything else about the movie is ridiculously bad. The plot ends up very syrupy, manipulative and predictable. Cringeworthily trite.The characters are quite difficult to like the irritating, whiny yet do-gooder kid (played by Haley Joel Osment), the smug, aloof, pretentious teacher (played by Kevin Spacey). The mom, played by Helen Hunt, was about the only real and believable character in the movie.The more you get into the movie, the more irritating it becomes. Having made its point early, it just seems to be marking time for the remainder of its two hours. Final straw was when the kid's father turned out to be Jon Bon Jovi... Seemed like he was only there for the audience reaction.The ending just seemed silly too, and went a long way to contradicting the central theme.Hard to like the performances, as the characters weren't that likable. Helen Hunt was solid in her role (and looked pretty good too...). I guess Kevin Spacey did as he was directed for his performance, it was just the character was irritating. Same for Haley Joel Osment. "},{"Title":"It takes a while to get into this complex drama, but when you do, you're hooked!","Date":"14 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Certainly the idea of a world utopia where everyone gives more than they take sounds like heaven on earth, but since the chances of that happening are smaller than earth being hit by a meteor, we have to settle for the fantasy of what that would be like. This film explores what the world would be like through the eyes of half a dozen unrelated strangers whose paths cross simply because of a good deed done by one without the expectations of something in return. It starts off in a rather confusing state as each of the characters are introduced, from a wealthy businessman who gives a total stranger the keys to his Jaguar to a prison inmate that stranger (who happens to be a reporter) goes to interview upon learning of the term pay it forward.However, it is three major characters who carry the base of the story, and when they are introduced, the glue which keeps the story together begins to stick. They are emotionally and physical scarred Junior High history teacher Kevin Spacey, an alcoholic Vegas showgirl/cocktail waitress (Helen Hunt) and her young son, Haley Joel Osmont, who takes Spacey's assignment Find something you feel that would change the world and make it happen, who is the heart and soul of around which pay it forward means. While other kids are too busy with sports, video games or the opposite sex, Osmont takes the challenge to heart, and befriends a homeless drug addict who takes the steps to sober up all because some stranger he met in his homeless camp takes an interest in him without judgment.Of course, the world weary Hunt is horrified to find a strange man taking a shower in her home and this leads her to confront her son's teacher. But as parents learn in the most trying of life lessons, they need to listen to their children more often, and when she discovers the magic of what her son is doing, she is drawn both into the bright light of what he is doing and sobering up with the support of her son and his teacher who reveals his innermost feelings towards her when she begins to find herself attracted to him.These three characters fortunately dominate the bulk of the story and there are only fleeting glimpses into the lives of the others involved, tying together as the prison inmate (David Ramsey) tells his story. It involves a drunken homeless woman (Angie Dickinson looking quite different than normal) who rescued him from a precarious predicament, and in true soap opera fashion, all the characters end up being tied together in a rather surprising way. The story takes a romantic turn when Spacey gets beyond his insecurities over his physical deformities and bares not only his body but his soul to the equally destroyed Hunt. This is a story of two emotionally dead people coming back to life, but the threat of Hunt's past comes back in the form of her estranged husband (Jon Bon Jovi) who claims to be reformed. But is he? Not according to his emotionally distant son who not only locks him out of his room but his heart as well. When Spacey reveals the story behind the scars, it really becomes heartbreaking, and he gives one of the best performances in modern cinema.Of course, there has to be a lesson learned for not only the characters, but the audience as well, and like history has shown, that can only come through a tragedy and a sacrifice. This is where you get your Kleenex out, because even if the Pay It Forward theme is something that sounds too good to be true, the heart and soul behind it grabs you in completely. I have seen many movies with remarkable kids over the years, and even met some, and in this messed up world of ours, that is the hope of our future that each coming generation will produce someone like Haley Joel Osment's Trevor. Cinema today is often a mixed bag of trash but sometimes there comes out of it an instant classic that is not only a piece of art, but something so profound that it seems divinely inspired. "},{"Title":"Value of paying forward","Date":"6 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Now I know... I could perceived things, things happened to me long time ago, happens now and maybe will happen tomorrow. The reason... We all are here, living for not to pay back what we are given, but to pay forward How beautiful phrase it is, TO PAY FORWARD Special thanks for Catherine Ryan Hyde, A writer of the book/movie Pay It Forward We all think about to pay back. If our parents bring us up, we care them because they had done for us before. It is wrong. They do for use, but we don't pay back, we pay forward to our kids. Also we care our parents not because to pay back something, because we love them. Only reason. This film taught me a lot of things which were unclear, but actually they were clear, but I was blind. That's what I learned. "},{"Title":"Pay it Forward carries a great and important message.","Date":"6 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A young boy attempts to make the world a better place after his teacher gives him that chance. Young Trevor McKinney, troubled by his mother's alcoholism and fears of his abusive but absent father, is caught up by an intriguing assignment from his new social studies teacher, Mr. Simonet. The assignment think of something to change the world and put it into action. Trevor conjures the notion of paying a favor not back, but forward--repaying good deeds not with payback, but with new good deeds done to three new people. Trevor's efforts to make good on his idea bring a revolution not only in the lives of himself, his mother and his physically and emotionally scarred teacher, but in those of an ever-widening circle of people completely unknown to him. Roger Ebert wrote With a cleaner story line, the basic idea could have been free to deliver. As it is, we get a better movie than we might have, because the performances are so good Spacey as a vulnerable and wounded man; Hunt as a woman no less wounded in her own way, and Osment, once again proving himself the equal of adult actors in the complexity and depth of his performance. I believed in them and cared for them. I wish the movie could have gotten out of their way. At its best, this is a film which may just do the impossible inspiring one to good deeds, without expectation of reward or remuneration. That alone is a substantial achievement. If you like heart warming films with a little bit of edge, then watch on. If you're expecting an original, exciting, twisty or philosophical film...watch it anyway, at least the three leads are good. "},{"Title":"One Movie That Everybody Needs To See And Learn From.","Date":"8 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" When Pay It Forward was released, my family watched it and they said how sad it was. I saw some parts, but not the whole thing. Years later in my junior high school class, my teacher showed the clips when Eugene (Spacey) gives the assignment and Trevor (Osment) says what he's going to do. Everybody in class was sent to do a random act of kindness to three people and tell them not to do it back, but to pay it forward to three others. This act, known as pay it forward, is what Trevor does in the movie. Difference is, he does hard things that he nearly fails at. Later I watched the whole movie and did more of the pay it forward movement. Aside from being a movie with grew acting by everybody, the message that it delivers with the random acts of kindness is something that people in the world need to see and do. It is a great way for peace and kindness to spread across the world. I'm not saying everybody will change or the whole world will change, but one little act of kindness can make the biggest difference.Trevor McKinney is a lonely boy entering middle school who comes from a broken home his parents are recovering alcoholics, hes' been abandoned by his father (Bon Jovi), and his mother works two jobs to make ends meet. On the first day of school, his social studies teacher (Spacey) gives his students and assignment to change the world. He gives the assignment every year to give kids inspiration, but Trevor sees it as the chance to better the world he does not like. Trying to do hard tasks, Trevor becomes frustrated and discouraged, unaware the movement is spreading across the country.I honestly have no idea why this did not receive any acclaim. The ending sucked, I'll admit and the whole thing was emotionally manipulative, but look at other acclaimed movies that are worse. 12 Years A Slave had no plot and did not get anywhere. This has an actual story that people can learn from an convey its message. Sad or not, if more people watched this more and were as disciplined as Trevor, the whole world would be a better place. "},{"Title":"A brilliant story with brilliant acting.","Date":"21 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I discovered this film about 3 years or so back and loved it. Haley Joel Osment was an amazing child actor, its just too bad that he had to grow up (not that his acting now is bad, I actually haven't watched any of his recent films). Helen Hunt and Kevin Spacey was incredible as well, and the chemistry and acting between these three was phenomenal. (Also, Hunt is so fit it's ridiculous).The concept of the story is brilliant. It's become such a saying now to 'pay it forward' but I'm not sure if it even originated from this movie. The concept was told in a terrific way and really captured the ripple effect. Some viewers might not like this (being cynics), but I love it.Here we have a kid who was is doing his best to change the world while the adults who initially encouraged him to are ultimately the ones holding him back. I cried the first time I watched it, and though I didn't cry during the second time, I could really feel the emotions emitting from the screen. I was actually suppressing my laughter during the climactic scene because I was waiting to see if my guy friend would cry (he didn't), but the bubble of laughter died away really quickly and gave way to sadness. The family dynamics as well as the interactions with his teacher was so well executed and detailed that it just brought the whole film together.To me this film is near flawless because I love it so much. However there was one part (can't remember which) that had some gadget or other that did not fit the time it was set in. But really that's such a minor thing.Read more movie reviews at championangels.wordpress.com "},{"Title":"Brilliant, Funny And Heart Breaking!","Date":"17 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film was brilliant! I'm giving it 10/10 it was fantastic. The acting was absolutely great Kevin Spacey really showed he could act he was great, Helen Hunt such a brilliant actress she really had a great role and she fitted it perfectly and Haley Joel Osment he is just a fantastic actor really breath taking he should have gotten an Oscar. I fell in love with his character and the lovely he wanted to help people. The film really was beautiful it was funny, heart breaking and very enjoyable! By the end of the film I was in tears it really was heart breaking the end had me in flood to tears for ages even after the film had ended! I totally recommend this film to anyone who loves a good cry at a film it certainly will make you bring out the tissues when you watch the ending. "}{"Title":"Just one favor could save a life...","Date":"26 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" When I first saw this film in the sixth grade, I hated it. I didn't understand the concept and thought that the mom stripping was disgusting, which it still is, but watching it again now, it's a movie that tells of how anyone, regardless of their past, future, appearance, profession or problems, everyone on the planet has the potential to pay it forward. Trevor is a boy in the 7th grade, kind of a wimpy looking kid but the only one willing to try his strict, disfigured social studies teacher's assignment, which is to change the world. While other kids in the class are all doing pointless things like writing about pollution, Trevor brings home a hobo, Jerry, and helps him get a job and some food. Trevor's mom is a stripper by night and a bar maid by day, rarely seeing her son. Trevor's dad is out of the picture, but incredibly abusive.When questioned about the scars on his face, Trevor's teacher, Mr. Simonet, never speaks of it. Soon he falls in love with Trevor's mom (Arlene), but when her husband comes back and she lets him move back into the house, Mr. Simonet reveals his tragic and disturbing past, how at 16 he was knocked unconscious and burned by his own abusive father. Eventually Arlene realizes that Trevor needs a real family, and seeks out Mr. Simonet again. Meanwhile Chris, a reporter guy, is trying to find the origins of Trevor's pay it forward idea.While trying to rescue his friend from a gang of bullies, Trevor is stabbed accidentally by one of them and dies in the hospital, much to Arlene, Jerry and Mr. Simonet's dismay. It turns out that a candlelight vigil is being held for Trevor, and that his idea has become a media sensation.In an extremely overpopulated world, where it seems you have to be a famous celebrity or scientist to be noticed, many of us no longer feel like individuals. This film proves that although we may not all be remembered worldwide, we can be the idol and helper of at least one person in our lifetimes, with the potential to change the future.The acting was amazing, especially the roles of Arlene and Mr. Simonet. As for Trevor's role, it was great that a kid his age could pull off such a spectacular performance. The stories behind each character were at times devastating, and yet each character regardless of their surroundings, managed to do some good in the movie, save for Trevor's estranged father. The soundtrack was childish but strangely fit the movie, and the plot was based on a novel by the same title.I recommend this movie to people of all ages. There is some mild swearing, and it is implied that Arlene slept with Mr. Simonet. Some younger kids may find the scenes of Trevor's stabbing, Arlene's strip club and Simonet's past of horrible abuse disturbing and frightening, so if you're a parent you may wish to watch it yourself before deciding whether or not it's right for your kid to watch. "},{"Title":"well made manipulative movie","Date":"20 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Chris Chandler (Jay Mohr) is a reporter whose car gets trashed during a police hostage crisis. Then he is surprised by a mysterious man who gives him his Jaguar. Four months earlier, Trevor McKinney (Haley Joel Osment) see troubles in his school. His cocktail waitress single mother Arlene (Helen Hunt) has a tough time with alcohol. He's afraid of his abusive absent father. He is intrigued by his new disfigured social studies teacher Eugene Simonet (Kevin Spacey). Mr. Simonet assigns the class to Think of an idea to change our world and put it into ACTION!. This sets off a chain of good deeds that would get to Chris Chandler. The movie goes back and forth in time as Chris investigates the chain of events while Trevor is putting his idea into action. First Trevor tries to help homeless drug addicted Jerry (Jim Caviezel).There is something childishly compelling about the movie. It's manipulative and plays on our best intentions. It doesn't make it a bad movie. It just makes it hard to fully embrace. It's definitely a deliberate tear jerker. Haley Joel Osment is one of the great Hollywood child stars. He shows that he has that compelling presence. He just has that face. The characters' personal lives are too melodramatic. Mostly it's fine but sometimes the dialog clanks. It is the basic idea that is so compelling. There is a horrible twist at the end. It's an unnecessary ending that one should probably ignore. "},{"Title":"Why I rate this 10/10....","Date":"2 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I normally don't rate these feel-good, we-all-can-make-the-world-a-better-place, let's-hold- hands-and-sing-kumbaya-my-lord stories high just because they make you feel better or give you hope after watching, but Pay It Forward is an exception. I won't bother explaining what the movie is about as there are already so many reviews that do this much better than I could anyways, but I would like to explain why I rate this a solid 10 out of 10.Although the main premise of an achievable utopian fantasy that's made possible if we all just do something good for our neighbour (neighbours...three to be exact) would never work in real life, I found Pay It Forward was very realistic in many other aspects. I understand the Pay It Forward movement even garnered a little success after this movie was first released and if I recall correctly, I think Oprah even got on board and tried to add fuel to it as well. The problem is humanity could never sustain it. It would be nice, but it will never happen. Guess I'm a glass half empty kind of guy ;-)Because I appreciate realism in movies like this as much as I do, I was impressed that Jerry the homeless guy whom Trevor first helped was shown to relapse. When the gang member (Sidney?) tried to claim the Pay It Forward idea as his own was another scene that stood out to me. Even the journalist Chris's skepticism and flat out refusal to accept a jaguar from a stranger felt very real. Lesser movies would have had Jerry straighten his life up right away, kick the drugs without a hitch, and live happily ever after. Sidney would have been immediately forthcoming with the truth and contact information of the person who introduced him to the idea. Finally Chris would have accepted the car on the spot and drove off happily without ever worrying what the catch was or even about the minor details such as a bill of sale, title and insurance! There was so much more tho. The physical and emotional scars so evident with Eugene and the alcoholism of Arlene and her mother or the fact that Arlene was willing to take Trevor's father back for yet another chance.Although I can't shake the feeling the producers killed Trevor off just for the dramatic effect and so as to not end on an 'everyone wins and lives happily ever after note', and despite the timing of Trevor's death it was very plausible and senseless and reminds us how bad things happen to good people all the time. It all seemed so possible and real to me and I was glued to my TV from start to finish. This is the kind of story that stays with you for a long while and it's hard to not think about it once in awhile. For these reasons, and the fact that I think the acting was fantastic with Kevin Spacey, Helen Hunt, and especially Haley Joel Osment knocking it out of the park, I happily rate it 10 out of 10 and would gladly recommend it to everyone. "},{"Title":"I LOVE(d) this movie!","Date":"12 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" What a GREAT movie! I was wondering if this is a true story. Does anybody know? What a wonderful idea, and the content was so good! I really hated to see Trevor die, but I guess that is one way to keep Pay It Forward in peoples minds. Is anybody Paying it forward in our country? We should be!! Loved the plot, and every thing about this movie! The writer really hit the nail on the head!! I would love to see more movies like this one. All of the actors were so good in their roles! Whoever cast them did a terrific job! I realize this movie was from a few years ago, but I only saw it for the first time today. I recommend this movie. You will be happy you watched it! GREAT MOVIE!!!!! "},{"Title":"Idea and premise that tugs on the heartstrings but wish the direction could have been better","Date":"26 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is a movie where it's premise and idea is wonderful but the direction of it all isn't all that great. This is a heartwarming and touching movie where you can't help but wish ideas like this would work in the real world. The acting is really good and believable and that is one of the aspects that drive this movie despite the kind idea that has heart to it. The movie just simply starts out really good but it starts to falter a bit by bit as it progresses. I personally thought if this was a family movie or a movie you can show in class it would have been better. The melodramatic parts just seemed forced as well sometimes. Although I liked how it shows how even adults can learn from children, if some of the flaws got fixed up it would have been a great movie. The ending is just abrupt and sort of terrible. I know they were trying to make the end have more of a impact, but c'mon. Overall this movie tugs on the heartstrings forced or not and is a movie that is worth a watch at least once.6.7/10 "},{"Title":"Thought provoking, but NOT a famly film","Date":"17 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Pay It Forward was a moving film about cause and effect and consequences. It hit home about anyone's actions causing ripples in the water of the world. If you have the chance to see this, I would recommend you do. It is a story and a concept you won't ever forget.BUT -- our DVD box on the back says Extraordinary Family Film NOT! It totally depends on how old your family members are!!! I would say anyone below 14 shouldn't see it. There is alcoholism, drugs, violence, bad language, and sexual situations. The ending would not be one a younger child could handle.SPOILER SPOILER SPOILER What I think would most disturb any younger viewers though is the fact that the boy this story is about is killed at the end. It was incredibly emotional for the 3 adults I watched this with and there is no way our children could have handled this hopeful story with this sad end. Though the point is poignantly made about this boy's effect on the world, it is a hard ending to take. "},{"Title":"Pay It Forward - Let's try it at least once","Date":"4 August 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I was really impressed by this movie. It's not hard to find people who are really ready to help others, as everybody has some goodness in them.Sometimes we fail to do the right things, sometimes we are hesitant to do the same. Why don't we break that barrier and just try at least once doing it? Yes, it's tough to do something very big to change one's life, but not impossible as said in this film...STOP complaining about the things that are wrong, and START taking some initiatives to change them, correct them, and make this world a better place to live. Let's give it a try, after all it's not a crime...I'm going start and see myself whether it really works. If it does, I'll let you know what happened. I think I will be satisfied even if that works out with one of the three people i'm going to try. I may not achieve big things at the end of it, but I hope I will get some new good friends. After all, you are going to take only their Love, Care and Affection with you when you leave this world.PAY IT FORWARD - at least once "},{"Title":"Like a pyramid scheme, but with good deeds!","Date":"19 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I love this movie! I have seen it numerous times and it never fails to bring a tear to my eye at the end.There is a central inspiring message in this movie that we can make the world a better place by doing good deeds. Even though there is heartbreak and tragedy in life, ultimately we can overcome if we stick together and help each other. I know a lot of cynics will find this all to be a bunch of melodramatic hogwash - but so be it. I choose to believe there is still good in the world - even in the midst of great evil (i.e. the ending).There are phenomenal performances here by Kevin Spacey, Helen Hunt and Haley Joel Osment. I especially am blown away by Osment's portrayal. I'm sad I haven't seen anything noteworthy from him since 2003 in Secondhand Lions (although not my favorite of his performances compared to Pay it Forward and Sixth Sense).I don't want to give away any of the surprise twists - this is a MUST SEE movie! "},{"Title":"Decent Movie","Date":"9 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It was a decent movie. That is all I can really say about this movie. The idea was great and the characters were very real, the movie just didn't grab me like I was expecting it to. Saying that I still had teary eyes in some scenes but again it wasn't as emotional as it could have been and I think the last scene in the movie felt like the director was just recklessly throwing one last emotional scrap at us that I don't think was that needed. I can understand why they would want to show the kid standing up to the bullies but him getting stabbed felt a little off target to me. Again saying that, the acting was amazing. Haley Osmont was amazing and so were Helen Hunt and and Kevin Spacey. Would I see it again. Not straight away but it was still a good movie. "},{"Title":"A wonder feel good movie with a message","Date":"2 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The title was different that interested me to watch the movie. For me this is one of the great 'feel good movie' that I have seen. Trevor McKinney a 7th grade boy (Haley Joel Osment) has done a rather amazing thing which most of us would want to do. May be the real world is not as idle as we see it in this movie or may be that we have not given it a try. I would rather say we have not tried.The director tries to bring an idea,of how a common person can bring a positive change to the way we live inside and outside,to life. It could be a magical formula that could change the face of earth, even without making a hue and cry or a BANG! We could take the good thing from the movie and try it. Keep the critic aside. Anyway we've got nothing to lose. So just go ahead and see this wonderful movie supported by good acting by Kevin Spacey and Helen Hunt. I am sure it will calm you at least for a while and get some tear drops in you eyes. "}{"Title":"Pay It Forward...full of emotions","Date":"10 September 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Pay It Forward! The Best DVD I watched this year. Sometimes the world need is a little Inspiration to change people's life, to do good to others this is powerful movie for me Haley Joel Osment(Trevor McKinley )are very good actor at the end i cry but still smile.Catherine Ryan Hyde (book)and Leslie Dixon (screenplay)got a wonderful concept.The performances are excellent by all the cast Kevin Spacey(Eugene Simonet) Helen Hunt (Arlene McKinney) I tell my friends to watch it because i know when they watched it they'll love it tooWhen someone does you a big favor, don't pay it back... Pay It Forward I really love this quotes and hope everyone will love it! "},{"Title":"Great movie, a must see for all.","Date":"22 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is a masterpiece, I would like to give it a teen but I can't as it lacks some in the photography and visual bit to really stand out. The acting is also superb, but it is a bit to clear cut characters to really stay with you after the movie. I would expect some more from such great actors as Helen Hunt, Haley Joel Osment and Kevin Spacey. But the story is quite compelling and makes you think a real deal about society today.My strong recommendation is see it, think about it and react.Another title I recommend purely on the basis that it is a intelligent film that makes you think are, Gattaca. "},{"Title":"Good Movie","Date":"9 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I watched the movie, and every time i watch it i cry, it shows a little boy doing his assignment, to change the world, at the end of the movie i bawl my eyes out every time i see that part i cry like a baby, because he was so young and didn't deserve to die, but he died for a cause, and it worked starting the string pay it forward was a good idea we need more idea's like that to help people, and not be hateful it was an excellent movie, way to go Haley Joel Osment you play your role in that movie, in was a remarkable movie, just think if everyone had that kind of heart it's amazing i recommend that every one see this movie and how big a little boy heart is Haley i know your mom and dad are very proud of you congratulation. "},{"Title":"If everyone lived this way the world would be a better place.","Date":"3 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" HOW MANY TIMES DO YOU THINK OF DOING SOMETHING FOR SOMEONE ELSE? HOW MANY TIMES DO YOU ACTUALLY DO WHAT YOU WERE THINKING? This film is a lesson that all could learn from young and old. We as a human race in general do not stop even to do thing for ourself, let alone for someone else. This film shows that paying it forward will end up paying you back someday in many ways. We are caught up in a world of hurry up and get it done, or hurry and get where you are going. So how many times have we stopped and thought about others and the needs that are never asked for, but that we as a person could see need to be done. Helping other is a gift that is to be shared and given freely. Just a smile, hello, open a door or pick up something that is dropped is just a start. It gets easier to help others as time goes by, you do not even have to think about it. "},{"Title":"Warm and beautiful story that will stay in your heart","Date":"17 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Pay it forward is a story about young boy Trevor McKinney (Haley Joel Osment)who is trying to adopt to new life. His mother Arlene (Helen Hunt) is always on the move so young Trevor never has enough time to settle in the area. After first day in school Trevor meets his new professor Eugene Simonet (Kevin Spacey)who has his face burned. Soon Trevor and Eugene develop strong friendship and Trevor is trying to replace a father he never had in a character of a man who has a very painful past. Eugene gives Trevor an idea how he can make the world a better place.Director Mimi Leder succeeded to make a very beautiful movie about problems in life that every man has. The characters are so realistic that you can almost imagine yourself in some situation of the film. Everyone can learn something from this movie and you can even cry in some of the scenes of the film. If you decide to watch it you won't regret it and if you already watched it pay attention to some details that you've missed.I think that casting is really good and that is probably because there are so many interesting names who worked on this project. First of all Kevin Spacey. He can act almost everything and he is brilliant in this role. Watch his every move and you'll see that he is amazing. Then Helen Hunt. An excellent actress who holds very high place in my book. The last of the main actors is Haley Joel Osment. That kid really knows how to act and there are some parts of the movie were he takes the lead. He isn't afraid to act with actors like Spacey or Hunt. Angie Dickinson is always good and it is very pleasant surprise to watch James Caviezel and Jon Bon Jovi in their roles. Especially Jon Bon Jovi who is one of my favorite singers and he is a true rock star. Jon, it is always nice to see you in movie like this.After everything I said now I want to watch this movie once again. Join me! "},{"Title":"Thought Provoking","Date":"9 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Movie viewers often 'over think'(or 'micro-critique') the movie they just watched. They review so many aspects of the movie that they forget that the usual reason for watching a movie is to be entertained for a couple of hours.I do this myself and the practice usually sours the whole experience.Pay It Forward is the type of movie that lends itself to such a micro-critique as the theme seems idyllic to the extreme.The premise presented by the writers is that a boy(Osment)actually believes his efforts at doing good for three troubled people will result in their doing the same for three others...(who will do likewise for an additional three)until the whole world is doing good for one another.In one scene, the teacher(Spacey)uses the word 'utopian' to describe the boy's goal. As a viewer, I couldn't have agreed moreso. But, then, in a world where 'eat or be eaten' seems the overwhelming theme of mankind in general, the goal of young Osment's character is very refreshing and my mind was quite willing to dwell on that supposition for the remainder of the movie (and for that matter some hours subsequent.)The actors are all very qualified with more than one Oscar represented in their number. This is a very thought-provoking movie. One's mind is left with a feeling much the same as a lung full of fresh air produces after spending a day in a stuffy meeting with sweaty co-workers jammed shoulder to shoulder. I enjoyed it and will add it to my movie collection. "},{"Title":"What Does It Accomplish?","Date":"11 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" PAY IT FORWARD ****1/2 'Pay It Forward' accomplishes what few films try doing in the first place Tapping its characters into harsh realities that they must face and endure without sugar coating it, by which viewers learn the importance of how leaning on others for support can help in real-life situations. Based on the title novel by Catherine Ryan Hyde, this adaptation does not shy away from boldly exploiting a world's evil amid its major premise A troubled boy (Haley Joel Osment) coming up with a self-effacing idea - a.k.a. Pay It Forward - that impacts people of a greater expanse than he may of anticipated. His three subjects include a homeless man, his emotionally distraught mom (Helen Hunt), and the teacher who inspired him (Kevin Spacey). The one flat note in Leslie Dixon's screenplay is the not-quite-on-par timeline he incorporates into the story. The lead players are excellent Spacey, in top form, as the man with a haunting past whom many people can't see behind his scarred face; Hunt, as the sincere but somewhat unbalanced parent who rises to the challenge of truly loving; and Osment, a coming-of-age renown. Don't miss this film in light of its apparent heaviness in plot, because it is a film that enlightens, inspires, and strangely intrigues when given the opportunity. "},{"Title":"The magic of film...","Date":"11 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film works the magic of its heart-felt story on the spectator like a mechanical pump that regularly presses down on one's tear glands. It's that good! The amazing thing is that none of the workings are visible in the filming or the editing, which are discreet to the point of being seamless, the most conspicuous assets of this film being the script and the magnificent acting. You later on realize that its music also had a great deal to do with the total experience. I highly recommend this film as a rejuvenating experience to remind cinephiles of why they love movies and as a film school study guide on how to make a good film that doesn't draw attention to its own technical brilliance. "},{"Title":"the greatest idea","Date":"4 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" First, am sorry of my bad English language, because my mother language is The Arabic one, Now I am a retired teacher, like to watch films about schools and students,but when i watched the film pay it forward,i wish that i still working with students. it has a very great idea for changing, as the works in school needs the people who believes on making change. NOW I am working with children in a new library, we try to use many activities to help children in reading,writing, painting, to discover and understand themselves. SO, we are going to make pay it forward our aim, HOW? WE ASK THEM TO WRITE THEIR THOUGHS IN A DAIRY. and we have 4 librarians who take care of children and books, every teacher asks her/his children to pay forward for 3 people, then they will write about it in their dairy. Tomorrow I am going to meet the young people who will going to begin this project, hope we can make difference soon in our area.rabeea.al-nasser Amman-Jordan mobile 00962777878734 email rabeea.alnasser@gmail.com "},{"Title":"A reason why teachers should not get attached to their pupils . . .","Date":"31 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Under the motivation of his social teacher Eugene Simmonet (Kevin Spacey), Trevor McKinney (Haley Joel Osment) devises a way to change the world from being a shithole (his words) to a more Utopian society (check the dictionary, ho ho!). This entails doing good things for three people and in return the other three people have to do good things and so the chain continues on in multiples of 3. Trevor lives with his alcoholic mum Arlene (Helen Hunt) who works at a Las Vegas bar as a waitress. She is getting over a relationship with her husband Ricky (Jon Bon Jovi). The film focus's most on the relationships between the pupil/teacher, parent/son and teacher/parent.However, the film was not what I expected. What I was hoping to see was a chronicle of one child attempting to undergo his tasks, be an unsung hero and continue his daily life ending with the irony that he didn't even realise the overall positive effect he was having on the world. What I didn't expect was a melodramatic social commentary on child abuse with a contrived Jesus ending making out Trevor to be almost some kind of martyred messiah. It ruins the whole concept of what the film should be all about - agape love. This leads me to my next point...The whole concept of 'paying it forward' is doing something for someone because you are moved by what that person did for you. However, during the film, Trevor pays it forward to his teacher by getting both him and his mother together. Then Trevor wanted Eugene to pay it forward to him in return by accepting her...Hmmmmm...Not exactly as altruistic as it sounds, is it? Especially since Trevor gains two-fold from this by making sure his abusive father is out of his life. Another problem is there are too many characters in the film that don't add to it one little bit. The news reporter (who is given far too much time in the film for what he does), the inmate who sells his story to the news reporter (though I guess he is the writer's stab at irony), the woman on the bridge attempting suicide and even alcoholic granny Grace don't really need to be there for the film to do it's job. Jon Bon Jovi makes a very anemic, almost cameo appearance which included persuading Arlene to take him back and then threaten Trevor behind the barrier of a locked door. That is hardly a great example of child cruelty otherwise every parent would be put in jail for being cruel to their kids. So Ricky might as well not be in the movie either.If the film was stripped down and concentrated on what it was supposed to concentrate on, it would be a much more engaging, satisfying experience.However, Haley Joel Osment and Kevin Spacey without doubt ARE the film. The acting is superb from both and pretty much convincing (steering clear from the 'leave a scene open for a couple of seconds at the end to watch someone cry' mistake most melodramas make). The scenes to watch are the start (because it does start off very well, especially the interplay between Osment and James Caviezel who plays Jerry, a drug addict) and the emotional outburst of Simmonet which leads to the revelation of his past. Helen Hunt plays her formulaic 'damsel in distress' type character which she does quite well but doesn't add to this film one little bit.I should conclude after all this that, unless you are not really sure what you want from this film, don't pay it forward - borrow the DVD from a friend instead, lol. "}{"Title":"Inspiring","Date":"26 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Pay it Forward is a movie many families should see and discuss. Despite some of the violence and mature elements of the movie, families will enjoy this and discuss the message Anybody can change the world.Kevin Spacey plays as a social studies teacher who gives out his students an assignment, what can you do to change the world. Haley Joel Osment plays as his student, coming up with a very different plan of how to change the world by helping three people and those people help three other people and the cycle continues on. Helen Hunt plays as the alcoholic mother trying to make a living with several jobs.Pay it Forward is an inspiring movie, but does have mixtures of some very disturbing elements and a shocking result. "},{"Title":"Best Movie I have seen in a long time!","Date":"29 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie is beautiful. Maybe a little corny at times, but it doesn't bring the movie down. I would have to say though, this movie is not for the faint-hearted. I watched Pay it Forward yesterday, and it is a really emotional movie, and not just the ending. Throughout the whole movie, I had tears in my eyes. I would not recommend this movie to people who can't handle some sappiness. Haley was wonderful in Pay It Forward, he has so much talent, he played the role perfectly. Kevin Spacey and Helen Hunt fit really well in their characters, specially Helen Hunt. It is totally worth to rent or buy this movie. You might be let down by the ending, I certainly was, but it's best not to have a Fairy-tail happy ending. Watch this movie and you will see what an unmistakeably good movie this is. "},{"Title":"A very heartfelt film.","Date":"26 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Pay It Forward tells the story of a teacher who gives his class an assignment. Write a paper on how you can change the world. One boy comes up with the idea of paying it forward, a system where one person helps three people, and those three people help three people, and those nine people help three people, and so on. At first, people are skeptical of the idea, but he puts it to the test. Amazingly, paying it forward reaches right across the USA, and an investigative reporter ends up trying to trace the story to its source. This is a very inspirational movie that makes you think.The whole plot behind the movie is what makes it so good. Just the thought that people would actually care that much for paying it forward that they'd do it. You just know that in real life if you told someone that idea they'd shoot you down. The movie has a nice message to it, and it really makes you feel and think. It has a nice little subplot behind it as well, so the movie doesn't get too preachy and boring. It's paced out just fine.The acting, of course, is phenomenal. Kevin Spacey is an acting genius, especially when he plays complex characters such as this. Haley Joel Osment is a great talent as well.Overall, this is a great film that tugs at the heart strings, and it's entertaining at the same time.8/10 "},{"Title":"A remarkable seventh grade boy creates an idea called pay it forward","Date":"23 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Pay It Forward is an absolutely brilliant, inspiring movie about an eleven-year-old named Trevor McKinney (Hayley Joel Osment) whose assignment is to make up an idea of, indeed, how to make the world a better place. He starts out by trying to fix a few wrongs he felt took place in his own life, such as struggling to forgive his alcoholic mother, Arlene McKinney (Helen Hunt) a woman who struggles with needing to be there for Trevor, and making the decision of whether he truly hates his also alcoholic father, who was never there to be one. He seems to feel too helpless to fix his life. Now, before you roll your eyes and say, It is impossible to make the world a better place, there is no way an eleven-year-old could do it, let me introduce you to this movie, and Trevor. He has this idea of, in fact, paying it forward. If you do something big, something extraordinarily generous for another person (most preferably an enemy) and if they say, How can I repay you? you tell them, pay it forward. Do something nice for three other people. It was a movie worth laughing, crying, and allowing chills to cover every inch of you, because that's exactly what it did for me. Although the end of the movie was just devastating, it does leave you thinking about how this idea of pay it forward could really work. It is something we all have the power to do, we just choose not to do it because our fears blind us. Believe it or not, movies do teach us about life, but this one was the most intriguing. It leaves you thinking about the message of this movie, which is about forgiveness, loving your enemies, and, although life is hard, you get through it by trying your best to live it. "},{"Title":"Very Good Film","Date":"31 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I have mixed emotions about Kevin Spacey; he seems to specialize in a kind of serious David Spade character -- sarcastic and kind of smarmy. It was good to see him toned down a bit for this film. Haley Osmont is very good too but Helen Hunt is the treasure for me in this film. Not being able to stomach her on TV's Mad About You, I find her big screen endeavors very enjoyable indeed; especially when she has some meat on her bones (she has at times seemed a bit anorexic). I agree with another reviewer who would have liked to have seen more characters a la Angie Dickinson and James Carvezial. The ending did take me by surprise; I'm not sure it was necessary but afterward, I was able to relax and forgive the writer. It's good. "},{"Title":"This movie is fantastic, definitely a new favourite of mine.","Date":"25 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I have to say, Pay it Forward is one of the best movies I've ever seen, and is definitely a new favourite of mine. I find it very inspiring, and I know I've already started to try and 'Pay it Forward' myself. I recommend everyone to see this, and follow the movie's example. Not too long, not too short, it's a perfect movie for all ages, and really gets you thinking. I thought it wonderful when a the 10 year old boy started this revolution, and made me think why I hadn't done something of the same sort myself. I've already told my friends, and their friends, about how great this movie is, and, I believe everyone should see it and follow by example. I'm a firm believer that by Paying it Forward, the world WILL become a truly better place. "},{"Title":"Little Kid With a Big Heart","Date":"27 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Pay it Forward is a fictional story of a young boy, Trevor McKinney (Haley Joel Osment), who after getting a school assignment from his teacher, Eugene Simonet (Kevin Spacey), sets out to make the world a better place. The school project is to make a difference in the world. Trevor's plan is to help three people who are in trouble and then have each of them help three more people. He calls this plan paying it forward. Trevor wants to have a father who will take care of his mother and him and soon sets Mr. Simonet up with her in hopes of them two falling in love. Trevor's paying it forward plan works perfectly without anyone knowing it but everyone has to find out in a terrible way.I like who director Mimi Leder picked to play each part in this movie. I think Haley Joel Osment is a tremendous child star who did an excellent job in this film. Pay it Forward has so many things going on in it that are so important to the storyline that once it all comes together your like WOW. The idea of the movie is actually a brilliant idea in itself. I thought about it after I watched it and was thinking to myself Could this really work?. Kevin Spacey and Helen Hunt do a superb job in this film as well. I don't feel that this film could have been as good as it is with any different actors; they jelled so well.I like Pay it Forward because it shows that just because someone is young and may seem to have crazy ideas, some of those ideas just may work. It almost made me want to go out and try the pay it forward idea of Trevor's. I love movies that have suspense and this movie definitely does. It does not have the same kind of suspense that an action film has but it has the kind of a sad, loving suspense of what will happen next with the little boy's life. So next time someone comes up with you with a crazy or strange idea, maybe you should just maybe consider it before totally blowing them off. "},{"Title":"Pay it forward","Date":"15 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie is AMAZING..! Its all about helping others instead of only thinking of themselves. Trevor is a very mature boy for his age, and he finds out a way how to help other people. His heart is made of gold. This film is so beautiful and sad that it takes your breath away. How can a person be so good, when there is so many evil people in the world. Trevor shows that you can make a difference by helping people. You don't have to by them a house or something, but just give them a helping hand. Watchs this movie and you will sit with a tear in your eye and love in your heart. Goodness exist, you just have to give a little to get something back. "},{"Title":"Interesting film taking different perspective - Highly recommended.","Date":"7 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I really was quite shocked by the movie at first, as the story line and plot jumped around the place and things didn't make a great deal of sense! However, as the movie progressed I found myself enthralled to the film and began emphasizing with the characters, even though it may have been hard to for the characters in this film. I didn't quite under stand the setting aside from the fact that it was in Las Vegas and the clip of footage at the beginning of the film was I felt slightly unrelated to how the end worked out - or at least I didn't understand it. It does deserve the 9/10 rating that I have given it however for solely the interest and different perspective it provided the viewer.Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Why do scriptwriters change good books?","Date":"14 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I have read the novel and I have to say that I wish scriptwriters would stick to the author's story. The movie was well acted, but was just a ghost of the impact of the book. Shame on you, Catherine Ryan Hyde, for allowing your wonderful novel to be manipulated in this way. What was wrong with keeping the original concept that Trevor's teacher is a badly disfigured Vietnam veteran? And why change his name? As I said, the actors were splendid and the Vegas background was a delight. In the book, Trevor was honoured by the President of the United States, so why does the movie leave the impression that Trevor's beautiful idea to promote love and compassion is not as successful as he might have wished? "}{"Title":"A perfect 10 for the message of the movie","Date":"1 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A movie that will make you think, not superb in a cinematic sense but profound in the message it conveys. The plot is simple but could be overly dramatic for most young viewers but for those who have been through life long enough, this film will get a lot of nods and a few tears. Personally, I think, Jerry's line do me a favour and save my life had more impact than Eugene's revelation about his past. The make-up artist did a fine job of transforming Arlene's character from a trashy and a tired mother coping with her problems into a person who is on her way to picking herself up. As for the content, changing the world doesn't have to start in a big way - start from yourself and work outwards. The key is having the heart to at least try. Second is to put it into action. Then watch! Like Eugene said ...grade the effort and not the result. Of course it would really be nice if you get something positive, if not, try again! "},{"Title":"Heartwarming drama with superior performances","Date":"23 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Even though I've never read the book, PAY IT FORWARD, in my opinion, is a heartwarming drama with superior performances. If you ask me, Thomas Newman's score was absolutely incredible. In addition, I thought that the directing was excellent, the costumes were perfectly designed, and the casting was perfect. Kudos to involved for a job well done. In conclusion, if you are a fan of Kevin Spacey, Helen Hunt, or Haley Joel Osment, or you enjoyed Catherine Ryan Hyde's title novel, I highly recommend this movie. You're in for a feel good time, so see this movie today. Go to the video store, rent it or buy it, kick back with a friend, and watch it. "},{"Title":"Inspirational message of eternal validity","Date":"5 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie is great. Yeah, I mean, it has an outstanding cast (Caviezel, Haley, Spacey, Hunt) and a message. A real, pure, inspirational message. A message that makes you think. A message that shows you what is possible. A message that reveals how one idea, one individual concept can evolve into a string of events that eventually changes deadlocked conventions and opens our hearts to love and benevolence. Haley acts, as always, as genuine and as mature as we know it from him. The interaction between him, his mother and Kevin Spacey as his teacher is wonderful and appears to be very natural. I think that everyone can deduce something from this wonderful movie and apply it to their lives. "},{"Title":"Open hearted inspiration","Date":"27 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I really enjoyed this film. The acting was superb from all sides. Kevin Spacy and Helen Hunt are especially good as they work through their feeling and their pasts.This film impressed me because it was simple yet effective. It managed to convey it's simple message of hope in humanity and the value of giving without preaching or even talking about it much. It really touched me when Trevor feels like he has failed in his attempt to change the world.The end of this film is shocking, but also deeply moving. I was in tears at the true extent of the impact that Trevor's project has.Watch it with an open heart - if you do you'll be inspired. "},{"Title":"Pay It Forward is simply a very inspirational film that puts a message into our minds that we could make this world better.","Date":"24 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film can only be described in one word inspirational. These are the kind of movies we should be watching. Movies that send a message and that gives us all sorts of feelings, not only for the plot or idea of the movie, but also the characters. This movie allows you to feel the thoughts and actions of the characters, giving you a better understanding of their backgrounds. This obviously helps you throughout the movie to appreciate it more and more. Honestly, this film can be slow at times but in the end, it's all worth it. The actors and actresses were amazing and they really help you get into the movie. I have to give props to Kevin Spacey for his monologue and Haley Joel Osment, who was such a cutie, for his stunning performance throughout the entire film. And of course, Helen Hunt for portraying Trevor's mother because her character made an amazing transition from being a drunk, single mother into a happy, not-so-single, forgiving, and not-so-drunk mother and wife. Pay It Forward was one of the best movies I've ever seen. "},{"Title":"acting average,plot superior!","Date":"8 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I missed this movie,I guess when it first came out,but I caught it yesterday. It caught me off guard, in a time of rap,prejudice,and general mayhem in movies, this movie was a breath of fresh air. The acting was so-so and the character of the teacher was odd, but the jist of the movie was superior!!! No, the plot of this movie couldn't/wouldn't work in real life,but only because of what young Mr. Osment said in his video scene, IE most people are scared of opening up and helping others because of being hurt themselves. I give the overall movie an average on the character acting, but a superior on what the movie was 'TRYING TO SAY'. Do not down this movie because of the plot, only satinist and haters will say this wasn't worth going to see, because of the Love and caring portrayed from a person. And that scares the heck out of these kind of people. They haven't, nor will never have any real love and caring for anybody in there life or anyone elses. I have read many comments on this movie and it is a real horror that there are so many hating the movie for the ending. This movie made me cry in the end,but it shows what happens sometimes when a person sticks by his convictions and does what right,not just walking away. "},{"Title":"One of the saddest ending movies I have ever seen","Date":"22 December 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I thought it was pretty good. I thought that Helen Hunt wasn't the best person to play an allelic mother, but Haley JOel fit the part as Trevor perfectly. I can't believe how it ended though. I wasn't expecting it at all. Is that a trend with Haley Joel Osment. Does he ALWAYS play in movies with a giant twist for an end. This is only the second movie I saw of his, (the first one was 'The Sixth Sense') and they both ended in a way that you just plain 'never-saw-it-coming'. And what was with the scene that Helen Hunt and the teacher 'spent the night' together. That was enough to make me HURL. Overall, it wasn't that bad of a movie, but it definitely needs a new ending. "},{"Title":"One of the best Feel Good movies ever!","Date":"26 November 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I love this movie. Its mostly a love story but with such a good message for young and old. Haley Joel has a rough relationship with his alcoholic mother who he loves so very much but wants desperately to help her. Until a new teacher in his 7th grade class comes up with a class assigniment that just might somehow give Haley Joel an idea on how to help his mom and so many other people unexpectedly. Kevin Spacey who plays the teacher does an excellent job of portraying one of those teachers you wished you always had. I would recommend it to anyone. All though there is one love scene. But for anyone over the age of 12 would be OK. I loved all the actors in this movie. Haley Joel Osmond shines in this film. I can watch this movie over and over again. "},{"Title":"Bittersweet, thought provoking, feel good tearjerker ?SPOILERS?","Date":"24 October 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" To sum up this movie in one word; bittersweet. Notable mention Kevin Spacey's character is bittersweet as much as Haley Joel Osmet's. You'll feel a real range of emotions after watching this movie. I bought it discounted at my local movie rental store and I'm glad I did. I watched it with my 10 yr old son and he's actually taking the message of the movie to heart and applying to his life. Wow, when a movie has that affect, what can you say. Jim Caviezel plays a small but nonetheless impressive part too. It's a solid drama, original story that you should watch when you're in the mood for some food for thought. I gave it an 8/10...only because the ending was somewhat predictable when we see the irony of it all. Grab a box of tissues for this one, you'll need them. "},{"Title":"Sacharine sweet, and gets silly","Date":"15 October 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Certainly this is a family film so a level of sentimentality is to be expected, but this one descends into a world of slush beyond what even Winnie the Pooh could tolerate.Kevin Spacey is Eugene Simonet, or Mr Simonet to his 7th Grade school class. He assigns a task to them on their very first day - to somehow try to change the world - have an impact on society in some way. Generally viewed as a rhetorical mission, one child, Trevor (Played by the inimitable Haley Joel Osmont), takes it utterly seriously and sets out to make the world a better place by way of his 'pay it forward' scheme whereby you do someone a favour they cannot do for themselves, and they have to do likewise for 3 people, who have to do likewise for 3 each, and so on.When romance seems to be on the cards for Eugene and Trevor's mother Arlene, it appears one of Trevor's favours is working. However, events conspire to attempt to stick spanners in the works. As they always do...Basically this is a bit of a love story with an attempt at a moral message of 'be nice to each other and give a damn'. It's certainly helped out substantially by predictably excellent performances from the main 3 players, namely Spacey, Osment and Helen Hunt as Trevor's troubled alcoholic mother.Its problem is just that it's simply too goody goody to take seriously. It's obviously a bit of a fantasy premise but never for a second can we suspend our disbelief. And the ending is an absolute parody of the whole film and had me laughing, such was its absurdity.Yes, its well directed, well acted and the all round quality is genuine, but if the basic plot gets this unbelievable, the other aspects are futile.Reasonable family film but don't expect anything memorable. "}{"Title":"A morally beautiful tale","Date":"29 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Pay It Forward provides a well-acted deconstruction of modern society. Living in a world that often destroys hope with mass media approaching life from a depressing and negative stance, the naivety and hope that are portrayed leaves a viewer feeling warm and fuzzy and it is hard to avoid having a tear well in the eye. A young boy is used to show what is wrong with the world by overcoming his low socio-economic obstacles to touch the lives of many. At times corny and often pathetic on the surface, the superb acting leaves the viewer in no doubt of the power of belief and makes you wonder how simple it is to manipulate, whether for good or bad, the majority of society. A thoroughly enjoyable movie that I would rate as one of my favourites. Four and a half out of Five.  "},{"Title":"heart-warming","Date":"5 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Kevin Spacey won the academy award for the wrong movie. I can't believe such an awful movie like American Beauty would land him Pay It Forward was an extremely touching, moving and inspiring film that will touch everyone who sees it; furthermore, it is a movie that will take your breath away.Haley Joel Osment returns to the screen with a bang. Osment portrays Trevor McKinney, a seventh grader who turns a ordinary homework assignment into a mission to change the world. Kevin Spacey rebounds well from a disappointing American Beauty to take the role of Eugene Simmonette, Trevor's teacher. Spacey showed why he was the man for this role by taking the bull by the horns and tackling like it was just another day at the office. His performance screamed YES!!!!! this is the guy I want on my side because he was unafraid to to stand up for his beliefs and convictions as well as lend an ear to the problems that Trevor is facing.Osment was good in The Sixth Sense but he is deserving of an Oscar for Pay It Forward because he not only touches the lives of the people he helps but those who are around him with the spirit and enthusiasm he exudes in Pay It Forward. Who would have thought a seventh grader would touch so many lives simply by completing his homework. Adding to this awesome movie is Jay Mohr, who plays the reporter following the story of this idea that Trevor has came up with. Pay It Forward is a movie that will stick in my mind for years to come because it contains the message that there are people places and ideas you can change to make the world a better place. This film also delivers hope that maybe if one does a good deed for someone they will in turn do one for someone else and may discontinue the violent acts. Pay It Forward is a credit to all the writers and director because the actors were able to deliver top performances with an outstanding script and direction. If I never see another movie this year I will be satisfied.  "},{"Title":"Liked it in spite of its flaws/Wish they'd made one casting change","Date":"1 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I did not see this movie until it came on network television recently, and even though I can agree with all the criticisms about the disjointed structure and stereotypical characters, I bought a copy of the film as soon as I could because I wanted to be reminded of what the film could be--a discussion of what we owe the world and what we can do to demonstrate true compassion. I thought the performances of Kevin Spacey and Haley Joel Osment were very moving--even when the dialogue faltered. When Kathleen Wilhoite--as the Helen Hunt character's AA sponsor--came on the screen, I couldn't help but wish that she had been cast as Trevor's mother. She has a gritty earthiness and emotional rawness that I think would have served the character better. I guess the producers just felt that they had to have a big name in each of the the major roles. I guess the only chance they wanted to take was on the ending. (I think enough people have raked that over the coals--and rightly so. And, yes, I know it was in the book.)So many other reviewers use the phrase What might have been. . . and I have to agree. With a good central idea, some powerhouse actors, and an interesting setting, it could have been marvelous--but less than gutsy casting choices; a supercilious attitude toward have-not characters; and lapses in dialogue mar it. I'll still watch it because it makes me question the status quo. I'll also always wish it had been better. "},{"Title":"Am I confused?","Date":"27 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  After I watched that film the first time this night on German TV (ARD, state TV, no commercial breaks) I was confused a bit. In that way that I didn't know (and don't) what to feel. So I did something not very logic but reading comments of other viewers and compare them with the fragments of my confused feelings. I think the ending of that film, including the quick and short end titles, made me so confused. (quick and short ending titles taste like B-class TV-movie either). It seems that the plot had to compare with a playtime limit in any way, so the ending got squeezed and shortened but tear flushing however. That's my possibly weird subjective opinion.I am a very fresh Osment fan, the situation is full of random elements. 25 hours ago I watched A.I. the first time, it impressed me. I love Kubrick, I love Spielberg and I collected respect to Osment since I watched 6th Sense. So after A.I. I recherched for Osment movies and found filmographies and so on (yes, shoulda done earlier). And then, I found out that Pay It Forward runs on TV one day later. Before my recherche I didn't know that Pay It Forward exists anyhow, so I had luck anyway.Hunt and Spacey were well acting as considered, but to be honest I don't know too much to have a right to critic them.Angie Dickinson was well casted, my greatest remember of her acting is in Wild Palms, yes. I know many films but that's what I have in mind when I see her or listen her name.Bon Jovi, hmm. Really nothing to say.This is my first post here and I'm sorry but I did not fully understand what a sp.oiler seems to be and so I don't know if I got a must to type this word in here. This board seems to be moderated so the reviewer of the this post could send me a short message with a clean definition of s.po.iler in here, thanks.So a knife stab at that kind seen in that movie seems not to be a must of death. I am neither a medicine nor a cynic but that boy had a good chance to survive that little poke. The doctor was the wrong one. That was cynic, okay.Not finished finding out if I'm confused, I rate 8/10.  "},{"Title":"Pay to see this movie","Date":"10 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Kevin Spacey won the academy award for the wrong movie. I can't believe such an awful movie like American Beauty would land him Pay It Forward was an extremely touching, moving and inspiring film that will touch everyone who sees it; furthermore, it is a movie that will take your breath away.Haley Joel Osment returns to the screen with a bang. Osment portrays Trevor McKinney, a seventh grader who turns a ordinary homework assignment into a mission to change the world. Kevin Spacey rebounds well from a disappointing American Beauty to take the role of Eugene Simmonette, Trevor's teacher. Spacey showed why he was the man for this role by taking the bull by the horns and tackling like it was just another day at the office. His performance screamed YES!!!!! this is the guy I want on my side because he was unafraid to to stand up for his beliefs and convictions as well as lend an ear to the problems that Trevor is facing.Osment was good in The Sixth Sense but he is deserving of an oscar for Pay It Forward because he not only touches the lives of the people he helps but those who are around him with the spirit and enthusiasm he exudes in Pay It Forward. Who would have thought a seventh grader would touch so many lives simply by completing his homework. Adding to this awesome movie is Jay Mohr, who plays the reporter following the story of this idea that Trevor has came up with. Pay It Forward is a movie that will stick in my mind for years to come because it contains the message that there are people places and ideas you can change to make the world a better place. This film also delivers hope that maybe if one does a good deed for someone they will in turn do one for someone else and may discontinue the violent acts. Pay It Forward is a credit to all the writers and director because the actors were able to deliver top performances with an outstanding script and direction. If I never see another movie this year I will be satisfied. "},{"Title":"a boy wants to change peoples lives by doing something for them, but wants nothing in return.","Date":"27 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  i think that this movie is the greatest one that i have ever seen. A boy, who changes peoples live and recieves nothing in return must have something wrong with him to do all this for people that he doesn't even know. I gave it a ten because it made me cry and feel things that i have never felt about a movie in my life. Changing another persons life has always been my dream, and i intend to do that. i have recieved a challenge from my teacher to do a project on paying it forward. i took the challenge and i intend to do what i can to change peoples lives and want nothing in return. I do these thing anyways... i am a very generous person, and i give things away... wanting nothing in return.  "},{"Title":"misguided","Date":"24 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Several things damaged the film and stopped it short from being something. The idea and conceptual design for the film is terrific. What hurts is first..Helen Hunt. I love Hunt,but she tries to reinvent herself for this role and just doesn't look right. She never seems to fit in the role(Holly Hunter may've slid into the role easier). The ending which has been widely criticised is acuurate in my opinion. That ending cripples the film. I won't reveal it,but there's really no need for it mainly because the film's focus and the ending just don't gel. There's simply no reason for the ending except to force tears which for me was just frustration. I don't know,the film had me with the slow evolution of the bonding of young Osment and Spacey. Spacey is quite convincing as the troubled teacher and Osment was just outstanding as the kid who pays it forward. However,the negatives outweigh the positives.  **/***** "},{"Title":"What A Cop-Out","Date":"11 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  ** SPOILER*SPOILER*SPOILER **This was a fantastic movie, up until the end. They spend the whole movie telling us you can do something about it. You can make a difference in the world. You can help people.Then at the end they shrug and say, Of course, if you do, you'll die.The director blabbers about, Well, the boy had to die because this wasn't a movie about the three of them making a family, it was about an idea....blah, blah blah. What a load of BS!There used to be a TV show on called Quantum Leap. I loved it, except it had this same unspoken moral that in order to do anything for others, you have to sacrifice yourself. Or, to put it another way, unless you're willing to give up everything, you *can't* make a difference in the world. You *can't* help people.BAH!!!!!What a load of horse-hooey.Listen you can make a difference in the world. You can help people. You can do something about it. And you don't have to sacrifice anything except the effort of doing it, which is more than paid back by the satisfaction of knowing you *did* something, rather than just sitting around whining.This movie spends its whole time and effort putting forth an idea - a very excellent idea - and then, at the end, stabs it in the gut with a knife. Change the ending, and you have a fantastic movie. As it is, it's crap.Do yourself a favor. If you watch this movie, look for the scene where Arlene and Eugene kiss by the lockers after Trevor's interview. Stop there, and think Wow, what a great movie, and leave it at that. Then go out and help someone. "},{"Title":"I was inspired!","Date":"5 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Thank you, Trevor!! I believe in Pay It Forward.The one who portrayed you may not, the cast and crew and even the novelist may not, but as for me, I believe in your Utopia. The only question I have is how many failed lifetimes will it take for those who do not believe (or harden their hearts and refuse to believe) before they come around to your way of thinking.We all have freedom of choice, but not freedom from the laws of cause and effect and sowing and reaping. "},{"Title":"Good premise, great acting, shame about the writing","Date":"15 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  *This review may contain some spoilers*Saw this film with a friend when it was on TV. One of those instances where you get drawn into something without really intending to. I ended up watching the whole movie despite my initial reluctance.Maybe this shows a strength of the film.Certainly, it has a lot going for it. Hayley Joel Osment is eerily good yet again, and manages to play a role that could very easily have become irritating and petulent. It's also a good performance from Spacey, who is able to get the inner torment of the character across with the required subtlety. Helen Hunt though is actually my favourite thing about the movie. She's capable enough to prevent her role from being Mad About You in a trailer home, and comes across as a likeable mother-figure.The idea behind Pay it Forward is an interesting one (if somewhat open to interpretation), and with this cast, the film could have been very good. However, it stumbles far too often for this to be so.The dialogue the actors are forced to work with is often stilted and contrived, and the film frequently slows to a crawl because of it. The see-sawing relationship between Spacey and Hunt's characters can be seen coming a mile off, so why do we have to endure it for so long?Also, thanks to some occasionally confusing chronology and method of narrative, we are treated to snippets of journalist Jay Mohr as he travels around looking for the secret of the Pay it Forward movement. These have to be the weakest aspects of the film, parading as many cliches as the writers could in tiny little blocks. Jay Mohr's character plays fast and loose with the rules! Governors play golf a lot! Prison inmates are good for a bit of light comic relief! Finally, th threads merge at the inevitable sad ending *Major Spoilers Ahead* when Osment is tragically killed. There's a moment just before the end, when I felt a wave of relief. They ended the film on a sad note, but kept its dignity intact, and allowed it to be tasteful. They didn't cave in to the schmaltz that had been peering over the horizon for some time.Wrong.The final few shots of the movie blew it all for me. Maybe I'm just unsentimental, but candle-lit vigils really bug me.(On a final note Jon Bon Jovi makes an appearance here as Hunt's abusive husband. Why on earth was this casting decision made? All the time he's on screen, all I can think of are the words to Living on a Prayer. When he starts kicking a door, I keep hoping it'll morph into a great head-banging rock anthem...)6/10 "}{"Title":"Interesting concept but too too corny","Date":"3 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Pros  -Interesting concept of Payin in forward -Very Good acting by Kevin Spacey and Helen Hunt. Its commendable for these usually charming looking people look so scre#ed up and ugly. -some good music -cameo by James CaviezelCons -Too too corny and overly sentimental theme -Too much of Haley Joel Osment (sp?). I mean he is a good kid and a good actor but they never let him come out of sixth sense fever. He is always hushed up, sad and confused.  -Cameo by  bon jovi. Come on, man! Do what you do well, sing! leave acting to actors. (Actully he was better than usual in this movie but stil..) -last 15 minutes of absolutely-not-required tears and song. What? Do you have to make us cry? if yes, then hey guys!! you failed!All in all, it could be a good watch if you like sweet, sentimental movies or are a big time fan of that kid. Or may be you have just fallen in love and whole worlds full of good sweet things for you! "},{"Title":"I love this movie","Date":"9 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Warning major Spoiler I read the book `Pay it Forward' by Catherine Ryan Hyde before I saw the movie. I knew what was going to happen. Yet I still went to see the movie and bought it on DVD. Why? Because I think that Haley Joel Osment is the most talented actor in the world (or one of them) and there could be no one better chosen to play Trevor McKinney. Seriously, in the film, his acting could only be described as flawless. I have no idea why this movie didn't win Oscars. Anyway, I loved the film. I thought everything pretty kookingly good- the acting, the story, the concept of paying to forward (which I do pretty frequently) everything. Well, not everything. I was really, really annoyed at the ending. I have never cried so much in my entire life than when they killed Trevor. But apart from that, this film is very, very good. I would recommend it to anyone. 9/10  "},{"Title":"Somewhat confusing and slow moving for a good portion of the movie.","Date":"18 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  By the time Mom had finally thrown Dad out of the house, I was wondering when this movie would get to the point and end.  As much as I like watching the actors involved (It was so good to see Angie Dickinson!!!), I had gotten restless enough to change the channel.  However, being one to always read to the end of my book, I stuck with it.  I can honestly say I did not see the end coming, and I was completely blown away when it did.  I am so glad now that I stuck with it. "},{"Title":"A Guide to an Utopian Society","Date":"14 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I am sure others have said the same thing about this film, but its message of hope and trust in the goodness of others has been truly inspirational and uplifting to me and those arround me who have also seen this film.  I personally believe that if everyone on the planet were to see this film and understand the concepts and ideas expressed within it, the world would be forever changed, for the better, at least in some small ways. This is definitely one of those watch once a year movies. "},{"Title":"Incredibly emotional! (Spoilers)","Date":"11 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is one of the most powerful movies that I have ever seen in my life. It is like no other movie that has ever been made. I think that Haley Joel Osment is going to be the best actor who will ever live in the future. This movie showed how incredibly talented this young actor really is. Helen Hunt protrayed her part very well as she usually does. Kevin Spacey was definitely the heart of this film. He had to protray the character who made this movie a full success. I was so surprised that it did very poorly at the oscars. What I think was bad was make the kid die. I think there was no point of this yet that made this an emotional powerhouse of a film. Overall, I think this is a great movie and I recommend it to all viewers who like great movies that have a lot of suspense and drama and will fill you with emotion through out the whole movie. I give it TWO THUMBS UP!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Bittersweet movie with superb acting","Date":"7 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a fine movie, well worth watching.  The best part is the acting by the movie's three stars, especially Haley Joel Osment.  This kid is amazing, and brings every movie he's in to another level.The storyline was more interesting than I expected and the movie was shot beautifully.A few parts were hard to believe and the ending was a little hard to swallow, but overall the movie is immensely satisfying and I never tire of watching it.It is not what I would call a feel-good movie.  It takes a heart-wrenching look at various social problems such as homelessness, domestic violence, school violence, and alcoholism, yet never loses its sense of optimism.***1/2 "},{"Title":"Pretty good, tried to do too much","Date":"3 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Unfortunately, the end of the movie was shameful, and just leaves a pretty good movie with a bad taste in your mouth.  There were some emotional moments in the film, but the ending was pretty much ludicrous, and indicts the films integrity.That said, you really don't want to miss any movie with Haley Joel Osment in it, and he's great again.  The whole cast is pretty good, and there are many wonderful scenes.  Too many really, and the movie lacks direction.  There are too many good things here to not recommend the whole, but I really wish these scenes were in better hands, so the whole production would be crisper, and someone came up with a different ending.  Anything.  The comment someone here made comparing it to porn was spot on. "},{"Title":"One of the best dramas in years!","Date":"1 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I hated Deep Impact, but two long years after that director Mimi Leder popped up one of the best movies in the year 2000, PAY IT FORWORD.  The movie stars two-time Academy Award winner Kevin Spacey, my favourite actor (Best Supporting Actor 1995 - The Usual Suspects, Best Actor 1999 - American Beauty), Academy Award winner Helen Hunt (Best Actress 1997 - As Good As It Gets), Academy Award nominee Haley Joel Osment (Best Actor 1999 - The Sixth Sense), Jay Mohr (Jerry Maguire, Small Soldiers), James Caviezel (Fequency) and Jon Bon Jovi, my favourite singer of my favourite rock band (U-571, The Leading Man, John Carpenter Presents Vampires Los Mortes, Ally McBeal). Spacey stars as school teacher Gugene Simonet, who asks his students to try and change the world for a school project.  Young Trevor McKinney (Osment) get an idea to help three people, by doing things for them that they can't themself, and asking them to help three other people which creates a wolrdwide chain. Trevor calls PAY IT FORWARD.  The people that he chooses are homeless man Jerry (Caviezel), his mother Arlene (Hunt), who is finding it hard to find a lover, and his teacher, who is finding hard to find a lover.  There is an extremely powerly scene between Spacey and Hunt featuring one of my all-time favourite quotes,  No, no!  Don't tell me how sorry you are for me!  Just tell me how your gotting to stop it from happening to Trevor.  I LOVE PAY IT FORWARD.*****  "},{"Title":"short to the point","Date":"29 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a film about a simple idea that has the potential to bring out the best in the people that you would least expect it from.The plot is simple yet complex, there is a wide range of emotions explored, from complete joy to total sadness. The main characters, played by Helen Hunt, Kevin Spacey and Haley Joel Osment, were completely brilliant and as ever spell binding to watch.I would recommend this film to those searching for a great film filled with emotion. "},{"Title":"P(l)aying it...for all its' worth......or Practicing what you Preach...","Date":"7 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Cute kid inspired by teacher to change the world; melodrama from start to finish.....blah blah blah. Ever felt you are being manipulated and preached to? Well certainly this movie will make you think so......sure.... great cast.... but trying to hard to give the impression of being sincere......Now here's what they are telling us what we must do; if someone does u a good turn you must return it threefold to 3 complete strangers. OK preacher film-makers(and all the others who make zillions from us by producing this nonsense) I promise I will rate your movie 10 out of 10, which is my good deed; in return I expect 3 of u each to send me a small check for a minimum of US $1,000,000. Practicing what you preach . Right? Thank you in advance...... rbrb.  "}{"Title":"A well-thought out, moving film","Date":"3 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I have just finished watching 'Pay it Forward', and I have to say that it is a wonderful film. Not only is the idea of 'paying it forward' ingenious, but the script is well-written, cast members well-chosen, and altogether excellently acted. All the way through, I was expecting a cheesy hollywood moment that would spoil the film, but apart from one or two that came close, it was avoided.All I can do is recommend this film highly, not only as top-quality entertainment, but also to make you think. Who knows, perhaps people will start by paying it forward. I can only hope that there are those out there who have the dedication to do such a thing. "},{"Title":"Amazing story, incredible acting.","Date":"8 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  For a very long time I didnt see such amazing movie, if you think it`s a straight story you are WRONG, I watched it few minutes ago and I am so impressed that I hardly write. I dont want to tell YOU about this movie, I just want you to watch it, and I can asure you it will be some of the best moments of your (tv)life ;)!!! P.S.Get some tissues, I think you will need them. Sergio. "},{"Title":"Bittersweet, not what I expected","Date":"19 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie was alright. It wasn't anything that moved me in particular. I think that it really didn't do the book any justice and was a bit confusing at times. It was a bit sloppy, but the acting was good for the script. I don't think I'd rent it, but if it was the only thing on during a rainy day, I'd watch it.  "},{"Title":"So close to getting it right... yet ultimately so far away.","Date":"16 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I knew two things going into this movie.1) With Helen Hunt, Kevin Spacey, and Haley Joel Osment, the acting would be first-class.2) Be prepared for the overload of sentimentality.Thus for most of the movie I was pleasantly surprised - apart from the overproduction of tears by all characters, the lessons being learnt by these characters in the movie were not pounded into the audience with a sledgehammer as is all too frequently common in Hollywood.  Instead, we are presented with a reworking of the idea of 'do unto others as you would they do unto you with an added note even if your life sucks and things don't always work out the way you'd hoped.  This is refreshing.Thus I was enraged at the ending.  How cheap can you get?  I would have preferred the typical 'happily ever after' ending to the so-cheap-it's-counterfeit ending they gave us.  I won't spoil it, but I can't see how anyone finds this ending a tear-jerker, as so many appear to - I felt manipulated and the rest of the movie was cheapened immensely as a result.  What message are we being given?  All the way through the movie we are being told - and ably shown - that doing the right thing isn't easy, that making the world a better place means you ought to be prepared for disappointment.  That's honest.  But I think somewhere towards the end the makers of this movie forgot that, if they're making a movie with a larger point, it's wise to make sure everything adds up and is taken to some sort of logical conclusion.  There are a few decent logical conclusions I can think of for this movie, including ones that involve ultimate disappointment for the characters - but what they came up with was just pure crass sensationalism.This movie was apparently adapted from a book.  Perhaps the producers were so unimaginative that they stuck rigidly to the structure and event of the book, rather than coming up with a more thoughtful ending.  They ought to go read 'A Simple Plan' by Scott Smith, and then go watch his movie adaptation of his own book.  They will see how Scott Smith completely excised the ending he wrote in the book in favour of a less sensational, but more intelligent, ending.  'Pay It Forward' would, in my opinion, have been a greater piece of work and done justice to the excellent acting performances with a similar ambiguous ending.  Or just any other ending at all.Due to my dissatisfaction with the ending, other problems in the movie that I'd ignored became magnified in my mind; for example, it is never explained how Trevor comes up with his idea of 'pay it forward' in the first place. This is a significant concept to come from an 11 year old, thus we ought to see some impetus for it.  I then wondered why the one Afro-American character in the movie has to have a gun and end up in jail, like always. I then wondered why I didn't actually believe that the two main adult characters were in love, like the movie was trying to tell me.  Etcetera. Ruin the ending of a decent movie, and you ruin the entire movie. "},{"Title":"The most relevant and meaningful movie of this new century","Date":"21 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The morning after an enjoyable evening with my husband and his classmates at his high school reunion in New Jersey, I was taken aback by the unexpected impact Pay It Forward had on me as we began watching it in our motel room. This is truly a very remarkable film which instantly pulls the viewer into a world where the dignity of the human spirit is affirmed and revered in spite of the anger and injustice which seek to destroy it. I tend to intentionally avoid most newer films as they generally focus on and almost celebrate the depravity of society (even in their heroes). Such films leave one angry, fearful or numb - three emotions I find dehumanizing.Not being a film critic, I can not speak in detail on a critical level. I found the acting exemplary and the directing superb. This combined with a phenomenal screen play made for a truly extraordinary viewing experience. Anyone who is not seriously moved and on some level changed by this film is to be pitied, for they have lost the very elements of compassion, respect and enlightenment which separates us from lower primates. If the movie industry replaced its current degenerative fare with more films of this nature, the power of such a trend would pay it forward to our society in unfathomable ways. "},{"Title":"Better than I thought","Date":"12 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  With so much overhyped Hollywood fluff out there, it's often difficult to decide what will be worth your time. Even though this movie has been out for a while, I only rented it this week.I can only say, I wish I'd seen it earlier.You could critique it, it's not perfect, and it is sugared up a lot in many ways... but the message is worth hearing.Exceptionally strong performances by the three main stars, along with stunning cinematography make it a treat to watch.I really liked the way this movie portrayed Vegas. Usually, we see it in movies as a glitzy, glamorous place filled with lucky casino winners. This movie showed a dark, dirty side (every city has one), and showed that the surrounding area is beautiful on its own, without the neon flash of the casinos.I really enjoyed it, and felt betrayed at the end... somewhat. But if you think life is always perfect and nothing ever goes wrong, maybe you need this reminder that not everything has a happy ending.I'm surprising myself here by rating this movie as a 9. It was that good. "},{"Title":"Is it possible for one idea to change the world?","Date":"12 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  When a movie points out such a great idea to help the many people that live in the world, then I am certain that it can only have a positive impact on its audience. Pay It Forward, for mine, does exactly that. It shows what one favour can do, for this incredibly selfish and unforgiving world. Sure this movie is a bit of a &#145;tear-jerker', but that only enhances it all the more. This is the bittersweet and uplifting tale that was written by novelist Catherine Ryan Hyde.Just imagine. You do a favour that really helps someone and you tell him or her not to pay it back but to pay it forward to three other people who, in turn, each pay it forward to three more &#150; and on and on into a global outpouring of kindness and decency. Impossible? That is one word that junior high school student Trevor McKinney will not accept. How much impact can one heartfelt idea have?Director, Mimi Leder, transformed a very simple story into a good movie. I can understand that some people might not have liked the direction that she took her audience on, but for me it was still of great enjoyment. The story that she was given did help her in my opinion, but other people could say it hurt her and the movie. I like the very simple setting that Leder gave us. To base the movie around a school project is clever, but to then make it become a very complex and touching story was great. There is some extremely good talent on show in this movie. Haley Joel Osment ceases to amaze me. He is truly a star. Take into consideration his mind-blowing performance in the Sixth Sense, I was sure that he could not do any better than that. While he might not achieve the same heights in this movie, I enjoyed the role he performs. He is the perfect person to &#145;make a difference' in the world. The adults in this film were also terrific. I like the work of Kevin Spacey. He was the very complex teacher, but wounded Eugene Simonet. I like how he and Trevor have a very special understanding. I have been keen to follow Spacey since his Academy award-winning role in &#145;American Beauty'. I will continue to track him carefully. Helen Hunt is a very attractive actress, who plays Trevor's mother Arlene. She is an alcoholic, who is struggling to juggle the responsibilities of two jobs and be a mother. I found her role to very genuine. Yet somehow her son makes her realise that if she does not wake up to herself, she will remain in a lot of trouble. The way that Haley, interacts with both Spacey and Hunt onscreen is very special. There are many touching and poignant scenes in `Pay it Forward'. The start is very ingenious, as that is where we see this chain reaction start. I also like the first scene with Spacey and how he gives his Social Studies class there first assignment on the blackboard Think of an idea that could change the world. One of the more important scenes in this movie is when we Iearn how Mr. Simonet was burned and scarred, as it really had a big effect on me. There are also many scenes that show Trevor doing both his assignment and helping to really change the world. These are all priceless from Osment. Also seeing Trevor's mother tackling her alcohol addiction are tremendous, as one scene in particular between Arlene and Trevor makes her wake up and take note that she really does have a problem. I am not going to give away the ending, but from where I viewed it, I think it is fitting to say the least. This film for me has a very biblical feeling attached to it. Although it might not be intentional, I am glad a movie like this does so. As a Christian and a believer in the Christian ethos, the message &#145;Pay it forward' gives, is not unlike that of Jesus Christ. He was of the same opinion that people should not pay back a favour, but pay it forward, so that only good things can happen in the world. If we all in some way follow this very simple message, then the world can change and be a better place for us all.In conclusion, we can all learn a valuable lesson from this movie. If we show one small act of compassion, then perhaps our world is not in as bad a trouble as we all think. With all the current talk of war, all our world leaders need to do is view a film such as &#145;Pay It Forward', and then we might be a little closer to having the peace that we long for so much.  Watch out for an appearance by singer, Jon Bon Jovi, and a terrific song in the credits titled &#145;Calling all angels', that really does give this film a fitting finale.CMRS gives &#145;Pay It Forward' 3.5 (Good - Very Good Film) "},{"Title":"An excellent movie with a sadly not-so-excellent ending.","Date":"5 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"                    WARNING MAJOR PLOT SPOILERSI'm not sure what to make of this film. It has plenty of pro's but it has one huge flaw. I'd only heard of this movie a few days ago.The acting is excellent, along with the films huge cast. Helen Hunt gives a very humane and brilliant performance and has broke free of her former mary sunshine image. Haley Joel Osment (not seeing dead people) is again, very humane but seems to be in a rush to get rid  of his psycho-child image. Kevin Spacey is also very good and so the film has great leads.  The supporting cast is also very good with Jay Mohr(Cherry Falls, 200 Cigarettes), Jim Caviezel and Jon Bon Jovi(in a role somewhat inappropriate for his demanour).The films huge flaw is the way they killed off the kid in the end of it. Looks like he'll be seeing a lot more dead people where he's going. Sadly, Pay it Forward won't be remembered for the brilliant film it was going to be. Rather the film with the loathable and totally inappropriate ending. 6.6 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Cynical World","Date":"5 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I have read many bad reviews stating how foolish it is too think anyone person can make the world a better place.We really are screwed if this world is full of cynics like that. I believe also that was the whole reason why the child had to die in the end, is because nobody would listen, and everybody would laugh at the concept of being nice to each other and 'paying it forward'. It is so sad, that a child must die before people will stand up and take notice of the characters ideals, dream and legacy.  If he lived everyone would have laughed at the concept and called it impossible just like many reviewers have sneered.This is the most tragic reality of the movie.Kevin Spacey is perfect and so watchable as always, a very moving film. "},{"Title":"wow!!!!!!!","Date":"5 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  i don't know where to start, my wife called me at work and said she wanted to rent a movie to watch that same night so i told her to stop on the way home she came home with pay it forward and boy am i glad she did. This is one of the finest films i had ever seen Kevin spacey does it again I always thought he was a fine actor but now he ranks with the best Helen Hunt also does a fine job as well but lets face it Haley Joel Osment is fantastic this young man may turn out to be the greatest of all time i exspect to see him collecting many oscars in the years too come. "}{"Title":"What a sugar-coated piece of $#%!!!","Date":"27 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  (MINOR SPOILER)Ok, I know, it's not meant to be taken seriously (like Forrest Gump), but the problem is this movie takes itself that seriously. Even Forrest Gump had the decency to go for laughs, not this turkey. Come on, paying it forward, a great ground-breaking concept? Please, unless you live in Never Never Land, no one with his head screwed on straight can take that seriously. Because if anyone believes such a thing can actually last more than 5 seconds, then they should run off to Middle East, the israelies and palestinians could really use their help. Or even better, go and help good old Bin Laden (if you can find him), who knows. Maybe he'll pay it forwars with three more airplanes...And by the way, the best part (only good part) was **SPOILER** when Osment gets done. Oh boy, and in slow motion! I loath him so much was almost worth the rental money. Too bad Bon Jovi didn't get his licks in...Want to know how you can really change the world? make a diference? Minding your own business... People who don't get in the way are more helpful than those who try to help and blow it because they're over their heads, but are too dumb to know it. "},{"Title":"Did I love it or what!!!","Date":"5 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I dare say that PAY IT FORWARD is the most touching movie I've ever seen! The plot, the actors(especially HELEN HUNT),the songs(Calling all angels)everything was so incredible!C O N G R A T U L A T I O N S  TO EVERYONE WHO WAS PART OF THE MOST AMAZING FILM OF ALL ! ! ! My favorite-Is that what you want for your birthday, everybody to pay it forward? -I can't ask for that. -Sure you can, why not? -Wouldn't work. -Why? -I already blew out my candles...   "},{"Title":"Disappointing to some degree","Date":"27 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I had looked forward to see this film, mostly due to the story, but also because the three lead actors are all fantastic.  And the film starts out brilliantly, capturing your spirit and dissolving the world around you as you are sucked into the story line.  At which stage the film lost that I'm not sure, but it did loose it.  I've read many of the other comments, and it seems that many feel that the focus on the idea `Pay it Forward' was too little, giving too much time to the interaction of the main characters.  This is true to some extent, though I think the film producer where trying to twin into the story line a wonderful love story.  That failed, as the misery of the characters live story was just to much, with not enough substance being given to their actual characters (i.e. they were only what had or was happening to them, while having no real identity &#150; if that makes any sense!).  Some users criticize the ending, which I think was one of the better parts of the film.  Good film, but easily forgettable, which I think is its greatest downfall!  7/10 "},{"Title":"great tearjerker!!!!","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  this movie was great!!! i absolutely loved it, and i always will, i cry every single time i watch it, and i have seen it many many times, me and my friends all cry every single time, i absolutely love Haley Joel Osment and all of his movies!!! "},{"Title":"The most touching movie i've ever seen.","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It really makes you think how to pay something forward. But what does it mean? check for yourself...   There is no words how to describe the whole movie, it's a have to see if you like drama. "},{"Title":"Decent performances","Date":"26 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Not as thought provocing as the movies producers may have intended. It comes across as a bland americanized flat, butter ridden, piece of Dr. Phil psycho crap about how one individual can change the whole world just by being nice. However, that aside this movie still has some strong performances by it's leading actors. Mr Spacey, Ms Hunt and young Mr Osment all do solid work here. Mr Spacey in particular does a tremendous job, doing very much by doing very little. It's all in the small gestures. But, even if the writers try do shock the audience into thinking otherwise with the tragic fate of the movies do-gooder (failing miserable by adding a further scenes after wich induces severe pains in my stomach), this movie is intended for family viewings, and is because of this very sentimental in it's nature. Too much so in my book. "},{"Title":"Wow.","Date":"22 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Wow. How else can I describe the film? The idea, well, some call it hokey. Maybe it is, and I'm a hopeless romantic, a dreamer. But maybe I'm not. What if such a simple idea COULD change the world? Why not? It's happened before. The movie is a masterpiece. The chemistry is believable, and it often brings you to the verge of tears. But those tears, if you are like me, do not fall until the end. And they fall in a rush. I have never read the book. I hope to. And I hope that I am not disappointed. Often, the movie does not do the book justice. Now, I hope that it is true in the case of Pay It Forward. Imagine. If the movie can make me cry for minutes at its end, and the book was even better. I'm not saying everyone has to like it. I just want you to keep this in mind For those who say it won't work, tell them the Pay It Forward movement has begun. It does exist. Because of a hokey idea in a book. And the book and its idea were enough to make a compelling movie.  "},{"Title":"Not bad, not good  (Contains SPOILERS)","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  What is the point of this film? I found myself pondering after viewing. Here is a film about a very clever young boy, Trevor, who comes up with this amazing way of making the world a better place by encouraging people to do favours for other people.  The kid then ends up dead after having done someone a favour.  Point being?Despite fantastic acting, including that of youngster Haley Joel Osment, I never could get past the hugely irrational storyline.  Of course, paying it forward will (sadly) never hold up.  As a species I fear we haven't quite gotten there yet.  Also, a lot of what the characters did and their reactions to events in the film, felt completely out of order.  To begin with they are as cliché as characters come; an alcoholic mother working two jobs to avoid the reality waiting for her at home; an alcoholic abusive father who comes and goes as he pleases, his wife taking him back every time; a man with a dark secret buried in the past hindering him from getting emotionally involved; a love-starved kid in desperate search of a real father.  In real life, I'm afraid people tend be a bit more complex then these stereotypes.  Spacey's character started out well though.  Here is this well educated man who has facial burns we don't get to know the cause of right away.  We also find out later on that he went to a fancy school. I other words I got the impression he was from an upper-class family, with the potential to get far in life, but had for some reason decided to take on a low-wage job, presumably to do good.  The burns are a mystery throughout the film, right up to the end, adding to the complexity of the character.  Now what do we learn nearing the end about Eugene?  That he comes from a family not unlike Trevor's and that his own father caused the burns.   Dull?  Not consistent with the character? Yes, indeed.In summary it seems to me this while film was made solely around this `pay-it forward' concept.  Realizing this is not enough to base a film on, a bunch of stereotypical characters were thrown in to make it more interesting.  Not bad at all, but it doesn't nearly qualify as good in my book.  I give this one a 5.0 out of 10.  For Kevin Spacey lovers I highly recommend K-Pax.  "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"10 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I will not be lengthy, as there has been a lot of commentary.  I was disappointed, increasingly, as the movie progressed.The hook story is excellent, that is, the tale of how the pay it forward movement got started, progressed, and the reporter's hunt to find it.The drama began, also, promisingly enough, especially considering three fine actors in the lead roles.  And it was cleverly woven into the hook.  As the movie progressed, however, the drama bogged down into a long strong of cliches, recited in windy boring dialogues, without a single new wrinkle.  Moreover, the amount of film time given to these paper-thin personal agonies made the personal drama the primary element of the film, shoving aside the more-interesting pay it forward story.And by cliches I mean the worst in the business.  They actually could have gotten away with Helen Hunt as a single mother of a child with problems, said child being helped by a handicapped stranger striving to overcome mental problems (ring a bell?).  But the gratuitous estranged wife-beating father getting a second chance and reverting to form was gratuitous and just plain irritating.  The boy loses girl, boy gets girl back stuff was agonizing.The ending was just plain awful, a pseudo-religious cop-out.  "},{"Title":"No one that commented here really seemed to get it","Date":"19 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  this is not so much a review as it is a summary and an explanation for the symbolism.  ***warning possible spoilers***ok, now that i havent ruined someones experience of a movie, as i have had happen to me on this site, i shall proceed.  As i said in the title noone really seemed to see the inner story here.  True it was a movie about a kid who gets an idea to help people help eachother.  But doesnt that ring a bell or two?  Anyone on this board still wondering why Trevor had to die at the end??  This was a movie about christ.....sorry to have to make you think. (By the way, im not even christian, i just happen to know about theology) This was a story about a person who gets an idea to help people help themselves by way of helping others.  That is the core principle behind christian belief (true most christians have completely forgotten this and seem to think it is all a selfish act of helping god for whom actually represents ones self)  Think about it, he lives a hard life and only thinks he helped a few people, even thought he failed, but in turn started a revolution of people following his idea.  In the end he dies helping who?? Adam....which obviously is one person who basically stands for all humanity. So he dies saving adam, ie. martyred to save humanity.  I think its very funny that people always tend to watch movies and barely skim the surface of what the writer even had in mind.  People complaining about the fact that Trevor dies at the end......well there was no other ending....it had to happen that way!!  At that point the writer no longer had a choice.  Next time you watch a movie try to peek in a lil past the surface and maybe you will see that it holds a little bit more meaning, or even a whole different story all together then you had thought. "}{"Title":"damn good.","Date":"8 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  OK. all comments and stupid generic critiquing aside. i usually cannot stand dramas. simply because theyre commonly dry and lacking of any merit whatsoever.But when you take a really well written story, whether it be a book or a script and you apply ppl who can actually act, you get an amazing product. This movie is definitely a shining example of this. (american Beauty, even K-Pax wasnt bad) damn i can only think of spacey movies heheForget the fact that so-and-so didnt get all the best lines or whats-his-face didnt get a chance to shine in the script.The story is awesome! i am constantly having arguments/philosophy on this subject and just the odd pondering when im on the bus, or driving through a crappy part of town, or watching ppl kill each other on the news.i am a person who thinks realistically. this can tend to be negative at times, cuz hey... thats what the world is like. but given the chance i can see the beauty in the world. so such a story as this one is very plausible in my eyes.forget peace love and flowers... its flakey and no one wants to hear about it anymore. almost everyone with any kind of scruples or a heart finds the way the world is, very disturbing. and you feel like theres nothing one person can do about it. helping 3 ppl in your entire life, on 3 difficult things is changing the world. one tiny little insignifigant piece, but it can spread.if hatred can spread so easily, why cant kindness?if you want something to give you a little tiny bit of faith in humanity... watch this movie. its a dope example of what real creativity is, and a cool idea for changing the world.btw, the ending is hard to stomache, cuz its so cheesy, but the goodness of the rest of the movie makes up for it. "},{"Title":"Not sentimental rubbish!","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I saw this film, expecting a light hearted soppy movie. I'm not keen on 'chick flicks' or anything that seems designed to make people say 'aww'. My ideas were actually based on the cover image of the video box - it was all too sugary sweet for my liking but I thought there were worse ways of spending two hours.My image of the film was completely wrong. It angers me that people dismiss it as being sentimental and ultimately meaningless, because it just isn't! I don't see how a film that is so well acted and thought provoking could be labelled in such a way. I don't like films that patronise me, and I'm glad to say, this one didn't.The one part of the film that I disliked was the whole Kevin Spacey facial disfigurement thingy. It was such an obvious metaphor for his 'emotional pain' and his character seemed rather stereotyped, but in the end I warmed to him despite this.The ending affected me. I was brought in and was very involved by the film. I thought about the film after watching it, just as I have with other ones I like (e.g Fight Club, Vanilla Sky).Watch the film and make up your own mind. Don't be put off by cynics! "},{"Title":"I found it oddly unmoving despite great acting.","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I really wanted to like Pay it Forward a lot.  I love the kid and Keven Spacey is always worth the price of admission - even if you actually GO to the movie.  But oddly enough, I found it very unmoving.  It did not grab me emotionally.  It felt somehow contrived and the time-line was very confusing.  The ending was really disappointing, although I guess the director did not know where to go with it.  It's too bad, because I think it could have been a lot better if it he hadn't tried so hard to infuse it with great significance, and just let the story play out.  Oh well, now I'll go watch Artificial Intelligence - I really DO love the kid! "},{"Title":"How would _you_ change the world?","Date":"26 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It probably doesn't surprise anyone who knows me that I really enjoyed this movie. First, it has a number of actors I adore. Kevin Spacey, Haley Joel Osment, and Helen Hunt, in order of adoration. Second, it is (in part) about a teacher who makes a difference. I'm very much into teachers who make differences movies. Finally, the pay it foward concept has always been a favorite of mine. It immediately resonated with me when I first read it in print in the works of Spider Robinson, and I was thrilled that a movie was being made revolving around this concept. (Yes, I know about the book, but I haven't read it yet. But the concept remains the same.)For those who abhor obviously, unapologetically sentimental movies, this is probably one for you to avoid. But for those who don't mind having the heartstrings tugged upon, this story has a number of promising elements.Eugene Simonet (Kevin Spacey) is an obviously physically (and almost as obviously emotionally) scarred intermediate school teacher who forces his students to think and to observe the world around them. As a year-long project, Simonet tells his class that they much each come up with a project that will change the world. At first they disbelieve, but are soon caught up in the idea. One student, Trevor McKinney (Haley Joel Osment), comes up with an idea that is stunning in its simplicity. How much better of a place could the world be if you did a profoundly important favor for three different people, and instead of accepting repayment, you tell the person to pay it forward, to do their own set of three profoundly important favors?This movie follows Trev's attempts at carrying out his own idea, which he does without explaining the project to his mother, Arlene (Helen Hunt). This leads to any number of stressful situations, as does Arlene's battle with alcoholism and family tensions involving Trev's father.I found the chronology of parts of the story (mostly those involving the reporter as he traces Trev) to be rather confusing, and actually watched it a second time to work it all out. The confusion probably came from my rather inattentive movie- watching style and not through any inherent flaw in the movie, however. =)I enjoyed this movie a great deal, and recommend it, with the caveats included above. "},{"Title":"Love It!","Date":"23 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I love this movie! It is an extremely good movie... One of Haley's best... Except the Sixth Sense... He is a great actor, in this one and all of his movies! It must have been so hard not to blink in Artificial Intelligence, which is another movie I totally recommend! The only horrible part was when he died... That was awful! Ok, I hope I didn't ruin it for other people who haven't seen it! If you haven't seen it, you have to! *Vicky* "},{"Title":"Almost misses chick-flick status","Date":"18 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Based on R1 DVD 123 min.Battle scarred Spacey and skimpily clad Hunt do their best; boy wonder Osment is good as the open vulnerable child but for all it's charm the movie is destroyed by the last five minutes. Leave early and you'll think more of it, unless you like being forced to wallow in an ocean of sentimentality.6/10 worth watching, shame about the ending. "},{"Title":"I love this movie!","Date":"26 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I thought this film was a very sensitive and well done picture. I loved the characters - they were very finely drawn.  Helen Hunt was amazing although it did take me a while to get used to her trailer trash look.  Kevin Spacey - well, he is just wonderful, as are the other actors in the film. The concept Pay it Foward is one that we could all apply to our everyday lives with positive results.  My only other comment - have tissue handy, you'll need it. "},{"Title":"Big Frown","Date":"2 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  *possible spoiler*Look I've said it once and I'll say it again, you don't just ruin the main character at the end of the movie for no reason. I mean didn't we learn anything from City of Angels. Aside from that, I like Haley Joel Osment, Helen Hunt, and Kevin Spacey. Just not in this movie. I was surprised to see Jon Bon Jovi, playing Helen Hunt's husband. I think he was on tour for the first part of the movie. But anyway, I think the point here for aspiring filmakers and such, is when a bad ending is involved, the film really sucks a$$. "},{"Title":"This movie has a great story to it and is very enjoyable","Date":"1 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie has a great story to it and is very enjoyable. Children will relate to it as the main character is a child and the story in itself is important and children really could learn from this. "},{"Title":"Not What it Could Be!","Date":"24 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie was a big disappointment for me.  It could have been inspiring , but it failed. BELOW<  May be a spoiler for some.......The Mom, Helen Hunt, certainly was not an inspiration.  It was a silly script.  She dressed and acted like a tramp, and never really changed. She was a terrible mother; she practically ignored her son.  Then she goes to his classroom dressed terrible.  Then she comes on to his teacher and he has to send her on her way.  And in the last scenes , she still went to the classroom in a suggestive mode of dress!  I give this film 2 stars out of a possible 10.   "}{"Title":"In The Middle","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Being a huge Kevin Spacey fan, I was very excited to see this movie.  I had also heard a good deal of praise for it.  I must say, however, I was disappointed.  The problem wasn't Kevin Spacey's acting, actually it wasn't the acting at all.  The story was very believable for most of the movie as well... The only thing I didn't like was the ending.  I didn't find it sad or depressing or even life-affirming.  I found it tacky and I was expecting it.  Two of my favorite movies have been at the hand of Kevin Spacey (American Beauty, The Usual Suspects).  Unfortunately for me, this one falls short.  Maybe next time Haley. "},{"Title":"Bittersweet is definitely the right word.","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Pay It Forward is one of those films for me...you know, the kind that you hear good things about for a long time, but never get around to seeing, until you see the DVD or video in a store and just buy it off the shelf on a whim, to find out that gee, all those people were right?  I love this film. It features an outstanding plot, with characters that really become real to the viewer...lovely performances from Haley Joel Osment and Helen Hunt, who I've seen in other films and enjoyed watching, as well as from Kevin Spacey and Jay Mohr, who I haven't seen as often but look forward to watching. Pay It Forward is a tale that will definitely move and astonish you, and is a particularly great film to watch with a group...a thoroughly entertaining and heartfelt film. "},{"Title":"Pay to see this movie.","Date":"10 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Over sentimental yes, poignant, yes, heartbreaking, yes. Fantastic cinema, absolutely yes. The writing & storyline is phenomenal. The acting way above par. Haley does it again. Helen is definately on & Kevin is great as usual. So send this movie forward to all your friends. Its a must see.  "},{"Title":"Great story with a dark theme","Date":"9 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The movie has the potential to be so good with such a positive message. But instead of being uplifting it has a dark and depressing story line.  So it continually lifts you up and then drops you down.  Because of this seemingly internal struggle I could not rate it any higher. "},{"Title":"Best Movie I've Seen in Awhile.","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Pay it Forward is a great movie, one of the best I've seen in awhile. Spacey is great (as always) as Eugene and Hunt is also great as Arlene, with Haley Joel Osment equally as great. Very heart felt and moving film, about a kid who is affected by a teacher's homework assignment to come up with an idea to change the world. I would HIGHLY reccomend this movie, but I agree it's not for the stonehearted, or over serious movie goer. I think that is why I've heard a lot of people thought this movie was too unrealistic in that it's hard to actually picture everybody helping each other... what an idea. But this movie centers around the what if it could happen...All in all, excellent story, excellent acting, excellent movie.  "},{"Title":"Good Acting Good story, but a smidge cheesy in the end.","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I would like to start out by saying that Kevin Spacey Is a phenominal actor and The little boy is quiet good aswell. However, Helen Hunt sucks a big one and The movie would have been a 9 in my book had she not been in it. Also, it got a little cheesy and predictable at the end, but it still had an impact on me and I think that is one huge factor when concidering how good a movie is. "},{"Title":"I paid it forward...","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I recently rented this movie and didn't expect much of it, I said to myself What's the worst that could happen? Hylie Joel Osment plays here!' ever since Forrest Gump I'm a huge fan of the little fellow, It's just a matter of time until he'll stand in front of thousands of people and say `I would like to thank my mommy and daddy&#133;' you know the usual stuff. Anyway to my surprise I found a terrific movie brilliantly written and directed, I must bow down and hail the caster, I just love Kevin Spacey I think he's a terrific actor and more important a good human being! Helen Hunt, is also a great actresses and of course Jay Mohr the best underrated actor in Hollywood in my opinion his place is with the best.`Pay it forward' is a wonderful movie I totally attached to it and felt like I want to be a part of Osment's project, I must congratulate Catherine Ryan Hyde (who wrote the book) on a job well done writing such a realistic and un-American book (I can't explain what I mean here because if I will it might damage the movie for you).All in all one of the best movies that came out of Hollywood well played and well written 2 thumbs! I give it 3 out of 3 in TRON's scale. "},{"Title":"Perfect for Dud Night","Date":"4 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  If you like to get together with your friends once a week to intentionally watch a really bad movie so that you can laugh at it, pick it apart, wonder at the actors' motivations for taking their roles, guess the plot turns, eat popcorn, gossip, catch up on each others' news, etc. then this movie is a definite must-see.  Be prepared to laugh long and loudly. Warning you might linger for hours afterward wondering how Helen Hunt has a career.  So go enjoy already. "},{"Title":"Very Edifying and Original Film","Date":"3 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I just saw this film on DVD and have been reading a large number of the IMDB comments agains it. What a load of intellectual crap ! ( the comments, I mean, not the film ). I think this is an excellent film, the script is first rate, the actors excellent and the whole thing combines suspense laugher and a dose of tears! Critics who keep asking useless questions about the racial origin of one or other actors in the film or conversely who keep saying such and such an actor would do this or that or wouldn't react in such a way are just wasting their breath and haven't really understood what the film's about. The film is in no way a true to life documentary but examines the idea .........what if.....we all tried to help each other!. The result is both humoristic and edifying as we are treading on hitherto untrodden territory. True, the idea of doing good unilaterally has already been examined in such films as Magnificent Obsession starring Rock Hudson and more recently Le Fabuleux Destin d'Amélie Poulain starring Audrey Tautou but in this field, the film Pay it Forward was a cut above these. I admit I was very shocked and in tears at the end and I wasn't expecting the final outcome, but that's life! ( if I can express myself thus ) and the candle-light vigil could have been dispensed with but these are really minor reproaches about what to me is an excellent film and I would pay tribute to the excellent acting of all those involved. Highly recommendable and let's hope that will actually have the desired effect on a large number of people !!! "},{"Title":"Great . . . until the end","Date":"29 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  As my wife and I watched this movie, we were loving it.  Spacey, Hunt, Osment and Caviezel were all very, very good.  The story was sweet.  Real uplifting.Then we watched the last 15 minutes - why, why, why, why, did they have to end it the way they did?  There was ABSOLUTELY NO NEED TO!!!This was a 9 until the end, then it became a 6 or 6.5. A movie I would wholeheartedly recommend to everyone -> to a movie I have to think hard about recommending to anyone.   "}{"Title":"Wish they would have tried harder","Date":"25 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Was this movie shot in two weeks?  Incredibly trite characters.   Terrible writing.  I think somebody from New Trier or Wilmette must have written the gangsta dialog.  Horrendous direction.  Could have been a film to match an interesting story.  Seeing Hunt and Spacey interact was like taking part in a cell call with a weak signal.  I wish Helen Hunt would squint more.  Kevin Spacey wins the Jack Nicholson Auto-Pilot Acting Award this year> "},{"Title":"Give Me My Money Back","Date":"24 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I found this movie to be utter nonsense.  The premise, though intriguing, lacks believability.  I must admit, I didn't get what the title meant until midway through the movie, but beside a clever title and A list stars, the movie lacks substance.I can't blame the actors, they all do what they can, except Helen Hunt is reprising her role as a concerned mommy/in her suitor's face, Erin Brockovich type with a bleached perm and tight jeans.Kevin Spacey, always surprises me.  He seems so geeky, but I get lost in his character's wit and facial expressions.Haley Joel Osment does a fine job, though his character pushes the limit of what an eleven year old would say, but that's the scripts fault.  He is good at crying, did he cry in Artificial Intelligence too?I guess the blame must be equally put on Leslie Dixon, who adapted the book and to Mimi Leder, who should stick to television in my opinion.There are some highlights, such as Angie Dickinson, or was that Martha Stewart?  Jon Bon Jovi is merely eye candy.  He did a better job on McBeal.Trust me,  I like sappy, but good films.  This is sappy and bad.  I could see it being a good play perhaps, but it doesn't hold up as touching movie and the ending is less believable than the concept of people selflessly helping others.  We are in the What me worry? generation. "},{"Title":"Once again, a movie fails utterly to live up to the book","Date":"23 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Maybe I should be used to it by now, but 'Pay It Forward' (book) was so simple and elegant that I expected a more faithful translation.  I will admit that the spirit of the book held up in the movie, although it was somewhat diminished in scope.  However, my greatest disappointments lie in the casting.  Helen Hunt was unbecoming (watch her mouth) and unbelievable as the mother of Trevor. Kevin Spacey's character was turned from a mutilated African-American vietnam vet to a white burn victim of his father's abuse.  Most disappointing was Haley Joel Osment, whom I have admired much in other features.  He came across as surly and resentful, and although this may be characteristic of pre-adolescence, it was not faithful to the book's character of Trevor, who I'm sure had his moments, but was drawn in the book with a much finer hand.  Introspective and sensitive, he was a much more interesting character than the film portrayed. I admire all of these actors and feel the movie was miscast, and the screenplay was ill done. Read the book!  It's a better fairy tale that one could wish for.  "},{"Title":"Beautiful and moving!","Date":"23 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I loved this movie!My mother, my sister, and I wanted to watch a movie together. So when we heard that it would be on HBO in 20 minutes, we all jumped in front of the TV and waited. What a beautiful movie! I don't think there's anything wrong with this film, especially with the acting. I mean... with Helen Hunt, Kevin Spacey, Haley Joel Osment (this kid is AWESOME!!!), Jay Mohr, Jon Bon Jovi, James Cavaziel, and Angie Dickinson, how can you go wrong?!The script is very touching and well-written. The ending was especially powerful. I'm going to be 20 this summer, and I cried like a baby throughout the last 5 minutes! Don't listen to what Leonard Maltin says. PAY IT FORWARD is an effective drama that will change the way you look at life and the lives of those around you. It certainly changed mine. "},{"Title":"A teacher's worthy assignment; students noble charge.","Date":"22 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It should come as no surprise to those who have followed the career of Kevin Spacey that Pay It Forward should be yet another wonderful success.  Well, that's exactly what it is.  From the opening to the closing credits music, this one grabs you and simply won't let go.  I'm not going into any details, as I don't won't to spoil a single second of the experience, except to say that this is one of those rare films that can actually change your life.  I know it did mine.  I intend to use it along with components from The Fifth Discipline in our place of business to shake things up for the better.  Do yourself and your loved ones a favor --- maybe even your boss --- and pick up a copy of PIF and find out just what is possible when humankind puts the ol' grey matter to it.  Enjoy! "},{"Title":"Touching","Date":"22 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is so sad. A little boy changes the world. I loved this movei. It made me want to be a better person. Pay it forward is truly a move for all ages, and is definetly on my favorites list forever. I loved this movie. It is so sad. It could be a true story. 11\10 "},{"Title":"Very moving picture.","Date":"20 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Kevin Spacey, Helen Hunt, and Haley Joel Osment make good performance in Pay It Forward. Spacey plays a teacher who gives an assignment to his students, and asks what you would to change the world for the better. Osment who plays one of his students takes the assignment a step further. His helps others not by being pay, but doing kindness to others and match mates his teacher with his mom who is played by Helen Hunt. It is worth watching. Spacey praised Osment for his acting and said he is a better actor than actors five times his age. I will not be surprised if Osment becomes a director one day.  "},{"Title":"This movie affected me a great deal...","Date":"20 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I've read some of the comments on this page, and some of you are calling this movie overly idealistic, etc.  Personally, I loved this movie, because it made me think about how i could change the world (i know its cliche).  The fact is there's nothing wrong with that, and the world could use a lotta help.  POSSIBLE SPOILERS Anyway, the acting performances were excellent, and I liked most of the supporting actors.  However, I found the African American guy in jail a bit too stereotypical, and I had a hard time believing that the group of hoodlums that kill Trevor wouldn't have run away when they saw a teacher running towards them.  Nonetheless, the ending showed that no matter how hard you try to improve the world, there will always be problems.  All we can do is try to make it better.I give this film an 8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"See this movie!  No, really, see it already!","Date":"19 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Haley Joel Osment finally turns in an exceptional performance, much different from his role in The Sixth Sense which made me want to fly out to Hollywood and slap him silly.  I haven't seen AI yet, but I hear he was pretty good in that too.  As long as he doesn't have to see any more dead people....  )Besides the great acting jobs from Spacey, Hunt and Osment, this movie just gets inside your head and makes you wonder what would happen if people in fact did start doing favors for strangers, to repay favors done for them by other strangers.  It's a remarkable concept, and I would love to know where Catherine Ryan Hyde (writer of the book it's based on) came up with it. Pay It Forward really makes you believe that something magical is possible, and that the world isn't so bad after all.  Run, don't walk to the video store and rent it today...   you won't be disappointed! "},{"Title":"It took time to understand the messages","Date":"15 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"   Things I realized after watching Pay it Forward (for people who have seen this already; Others wouldn't understand what I'm talking about plus they might keep this as a SPOILER) First I tought the ending was bad (No need in making Trevor new Jesus Christ!), but then I realized why Trevor really had to defend Adam Because he realized that if he didn't do it, he would be one of those people he just had called cowards. Two important messages the movie is trying to say 1 - Children who see violent role models can only solve problems with violence. Trevor was often watching wrestling from TV and playing boxing with his action figures, plus his father beat his mother. Result When he saw bullies beating Adam he couldn't tell them to stop or squeal to teachers, only thing he could think about was attacking. Unwise thing to do when you're alone against three guys bigger than you and one of then is holding a knife. Still I never tought he would die, the wound seemed so small...2 - School violence is real and something should be done about it. Trevor mentioned Adam when he talked with Mr Simonet but that didn't change anything. No one squealed about guys smuggling knife past metal detectors. "}{"Title":"It's worth a view...","Date":"13 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Just saw the movie for the first time.  It's okay.  HJO is a remarkable actor for one so young.  The only thing I find a little unsettling about him (and this may not be his fault) is how every character he plays seems to have these long, repeated moments where he seems to have this blank look on is face.  It gets old after a while.  One almost wants to snap one's fingers to bring him out of it.  However, as I stated, the directors most likely make him do that (for whatever reason).  Oh well, when he get's a little older hopefully he'll put a stop to that.  Otherwise, he's top notch. "},{"Title":"Good idea played out pretty well","Date":"13 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  On paper, this movie sounds like a great idea. But the key to a movie is making it come to life. This film has a very original storyline. Assuming you already know what it's about, I'll get straight to the pointThe Goods- Kevin Spacey, Helen Hunt, and Haley Joel Osment all turn in spectacular performances. This movie also has some very funny lines (delivered by Kevin Spacey, we should expect that by now) and scenes.The Bads- The biggest problem I have with this movie is the ending. ****spoilers*****If they would have ended the movie with the shot of Osment on TV, it would have been great. But the way they carried it out, with tons of people showing up randomly at the house to have a big candle-lighting ceremony is fake.*****************Other than the one complaint about the ending, I have to say I really enjoyed this movie. Very original roles for Spacey and Hunt. I would recommend it.4/5 "},{"Title":"HORRIBAL","Date":"8 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  this is one of the worst movies i have ever seen! (SPOILER) the ending of the movie litterally stabs away the rest of this movie(END SPOILER) i would not recomend this movie to a soul. go see The Others, The Royal Tenenbaums or From Hell those are some good movies to see "},{"Title":"so emotional","Date":"6 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  i saw the comments on this site about what people wrote of what they thought of this film and although lots of you think its boring or it has a really bad script ,i have to disagree.i mean dont tell people to not go see this,cos you dont know their opinions they might like this and some might hate it,every1 has different taste. i thought this film was really emotional and i cried so much.people who are reading this might think i'm soppy but i dont care i have never seen a film like this one, i watched it in the cinema at the start of last year and i have not forgoten it since.i will probably remember this film till like after 8 years . this film really touched me and it is really different to other films. i thought this film had good acting ,better than good,excellent acting and a emotional script.i mean these are my opinions people dont have to agree with me.i know that if i watch this film a hundred times i'm not going to get bored of it. this is my fave film of all time 100 out of 100 "},{"Title":"This movie was the most powerful movie that I've ever seen","Date":"29 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I have seen many heart touching movies in my day but this one was so powerful that it literally made me cry.  A young boy has an idea to help people and have the people that he helped help three other people and those three people theoretically have to help three more people and so on.  this was an assignment in his social studies class that he carried out to a T. I won't tell you the ending but see this movie it will touch your heart forever. "},{"Title":"Decent flick","Date":"21 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I heard bad things about this movie, but there was nothing else on TV, so I decided to watch it. What I found was a decent tearjeraker. Haley Joel Osmont is great as Treveor as are Kevin Spacey and Helen Hunt,my only problem with the film is the sappy ending, the tears I cried weren't earned they were forced. "},{"Title":"Nothing Forward About This Film...","Date":"21 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  (SPOILERS revealed throughout. Read at your own risk. Ha. Watch this movie at your own risk would be better advice.)I just don't know what is up with this film. I've seen bad movies that inflame me to strike back, but this one is as a vacuum for the soul, the mind, and the attention span. It's a soulless, remorselessly unwholesome collection of vignettes that the filmmakers have sloppily, albeit smugly, pasted together with hypocracy and schmaltz, and shoved down our collective gullets. Oh, and they took our money, too.I'm not even going to bother reiterating the plot. Several reviewers before me have done so, and repeating it here would be redundant. Let's shoot for the complete lack of characterization and believability.Let's see we have a cutting-edge schoolteacher who delivers sardonic comments to his agog, bratty students and has burns on his face and chest. Gosh, we AREN'T going to find out what caused those burns, are we? He challenges his students to determine ways to change the world (!).His student Mr. Hayley Joel Osmont himself, staring soulfully into the camera and softly uttering idealistic tripe. He creates a pyramid scheme of Good Samaritan acts.The kid's mother Alcoholic tramp. We can tell she's alcoholic because she's wearing eyeliner. Roughly twenty minutes of this film consists of her rummaging for liquor bottles.But that's not all! A genial business man, an enterprising reporter, a stereotypical African-American punk, a drunken old homeless woman, a homeless guy (detecting a pattern here?), and a suicidal woman all get involved in paying it forward. Oh, yeah, and throw in Jon Bon Jovi for good luck.String these characters together in a chain of convoluted events that lurch toward a laughably implausable ending that makes so many blatant ignorances of reality that it seems to have been created by some strange life form from another dimension (hint Would a bully who likes kicking an athsmatic wimp really pull a knife (!) on a kid defending him? Pull a knife, stab and KILL this kid (doesn't this school have metal detectors?), and not stop even when two adults, one of whom is a TEACHER, are racing towards him?), and you have this film. But if you must watch this film, look for these cinematic gems- Kevin Spacey chewing up the scenery so much he must have needed to floss afterwards when he explains how he got his burns- Kevin Spacey gritting his teeth and pushing a pedophile into the bathroom (!) (THAT'LL teach'm!)- The teacher and the mother jumping into bed with literally no provocation- Little Hayley's final recorded word the s-word. Nothing like From the Potty Mouths of Babes to warm your heart.The ending reports that paying it forward is spreading throughout the world. Why haven't any of these people approached me? Oh, I get it! It's supposed to start with me! Are they going to gut me like a fish, too? Viewing this movie feels just like that. "},{"Title":"Disappointing Second Viewing","Date":"6 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  When I first rented this movie, I watched it throughout the day in half-hour segments or so.  When it was over I hated the lame ending but appreciated the rest of it, especially the performances of the leads.  I would have recommended it to anyone.  A few months later, watching it a second time and watching it straight through without any breaks, I was struck by how weak and contrived the whole story really is.  The first time around I was able to suspend disbelief and get into the story.  This time, though, it was slow and boring and not in any way convincing, compelling or emotionally resonating.  And I definitely wouldn't recommend it.  Even Kevin Spacey's performance can't save this one from it's embarassingly forced pathos. "},{"Title":"Inexplicably, I loved this movie","Date":"3 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  *Contains Spoilers*I do not like Helen Hunt and Kevin Spacey, in general, but I am pretty objective anyway and do not let that generality get in the way if I have some interest in the movie.  My interests lay in some of the other actors who I do like, such as Jim Caviezel, Jay Mohr and Angie Dickinson.  I liked Osment in 'The Sixth Sense' but figured that was a one-time thing. I also do not like the sugary, pseudo Capra movies that seem to pop up every once in awhile. Well I ended up liking all the actors, the story, the end, the middle, the music..the whole thing. This movie has a lot to say to me.  I see a part of myself in each other characters.  They felt real to me, even if at times some of the dialogue was unrealistic.  One complaint - what happened to Jim and lady on the bridge?  Why weren't they there at the end, with a candle?  He would have known what had happened.  Did they have coffee, or jump together the next day, or have twelve kids?  Anyone?  Bueller?Anywho, it was still very good.   "},{"Title":"Great theme; great roles for Spacey & Hunt","Date":"2 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Best role for Spacey (did not like him in 'American Beauty') and Hunt's role ties for 'As Good As It Gets', only here she is very sexy, too. Terrific theme that we can all apply to our lives. Good development of virtually every character. Tragic end, though.I left this movie fulfilled with the story, feeling inadequate with what I have done with my life, entranced by the actors...truly deserves a rating of 10! "}{"Title":"Unfortunately disappointing","Date":"30 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Don't get me wrong, this is not a bad movie like for example Blade ( SO awful). This is just a mediocre movie. If you think of the talent behind it, you might say it's disappointing. The actors are great, especially Kevin Spacey, but the interesting concept of the story develops from interesting to why did they do it this way?. Maybe I just had to high expectations, after all this is the first movie the brilliant Mr. Spacey did after American Beauty.So overall not a bad movie, but gee, think what they might have done with the attached talent!!6/10. "},{"Title":"pain it forward ....","Date":"22 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  oh!! heavens!!!! what an incredibly painful movie. the ,movie goes over the top and all preachy. if you are the kind of person that loves to read self help books. go watch this movie. if you like a little realism in your movies stay away from this nausea inducing movie. the movie is unbelievably corny.pay it forward is full of improbable sequences and although its all great and very idealistic the infeasibility is so staggering. add to it the cliched characters, god the kevin spacey character was so cliched it wasnt funny. the same goes for helen hunt's character. the only redeeming aspect are the terrific performances from the led actors.a few points fo acting and good intentions. lots docked for gross stupidity.an irritating 4!! "},{"Title":"Loved it at the beginning...once the movie ended I hated it...*SPOILER*","Date":"18 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  After seeing previews for this one I was very eager to see it...so when home visiting family we rented this one...after watching it for half an hour my mom and sister remembered they had already seen it...so they went to find other things to do...that should have been my first clue...but I continued to watch it...and I was getting drawn in and I was starting to love this one...then the ending came and I hated it...they could have and should have had another ending...why did the Trevor have to die??...there was no need for that...very very disapointed with this one -( "},{"Title":"A heartfelt tearjerker","Date":"18 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Along the lines of director Mimi Leder's blockbuster Deep Impact and the good natured Patch Addams, Pay It Forward is a well done, superbly acted, and heartfelt drama- but a definite tearjerker nonetheless. One critic commented that it felt as if the director was throwing tear gas grenades into the audience; indeed, the tumultous content and wrenching finale succeed in enhancing the hopeful messages of this memorable film, but they also yank a little too hard on viewers' emotions in the process. Be forewarned- it's a bittersweet film whose quest to be deeply moving will seem delightfully successful for some, annoyingly overdone for others. "},{"Title":"Beautiful Film","Date":"18 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I really loved the story and the acting.  The film kept my interest throughout the film. This film may not be for everyone, but I found it to be very thoughtful and interesting. "},{"Title":"Original, touching and thought provoking.","Date":"18 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The basic idea of this film is what makes it a winner. Fancy the possibility that the world can be changed by one simple idea. It's a film that appeals to the basic needs and worries that we all have. Well acted by an excellent cast that make up for the sometimes cliched script it's a film to make you think and a film that makes you examine yourself. "},{"Title":"Only moves movable people","Date":"18 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Pay it Forward, the concept, is a brilliant idea.  For skeptics not taken aback by it, consider that the plan takes into account the (highly likely) chance that 2 out of 3 people on this planet are scum.  In fact, this is conveyed in the story, when Trevor gets frustrated doing good things for not-so-good people.  The movie pits geometric growth against sustainable success rate.  I liked that.No less brilliant are the performances of Hunt, Spacey and Osment.  Actually, if not for them, I might have gagged quite early into the film.  The three took on a gargantuan challenge and somehow turned a sickeningly hyperbolic (read CHEESY) script into an enjoyable, touching experience.  ANY other trio in showbiz (in 2000), and this movie would be sentenced to 1001 nights of MST3k-style ridicule.  It's pretty evident the film suffered from a lack of plot; it's really not much more than a great idea with a movie (complete with love triangle) built around it.That said, I did like the movie, but I do know the difference between my taste and good quality.  If you appreciate great acting and want a change from the steady diet of force-fed, cookie-cutter action flicks like Pearl Harbor (the Bruckheimer version), this movie will be enjoyable and refreshing.  But aside from smatterings of awesome dialogue, the PiF concept and brilliant acting, and as much as I liked it, this movie is pretty bad.  (Again, bad plot.  You know, the core of a movie?)In a nutshell  If Pay it Forward won't move you in real life, it probably won't on the screen, either. "},{"Title":"This is probably the best movie that I've ever seen","Date":"15 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie carries a powerful message. Osment, Hunt and Spacey were brilliant as usual. I never cry when movies have tragic endings. I probably wouldn't even cry if I lost my left big toe but this movie had one of the most moving endings that any other movie has ever had. I was even misty-eyed. The only way that you won't like this movie is if you hate one of the main three actors or actresses.  "},{"Title":"Fantastic!","Date":"13 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This was a great movie.  Haley Joel is as good in this as he was in Sixth Sense.  He and Kevin Spacey have true chemistry together and their characters are intriguing.  Fantastic story about doing something good for other people.  Although the idea is utopian (as Kevin Spacey says in the movie), it comes from a kid, so it should be.  I recommend it highly! 9 out of 10.     "},{"Title":"Splendid, just splendid","Date":"11 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I laughed and I cried.  This was a really  moving and inspiring movie. Hunt, Spacey and Osment were just perfect. I would recommend it to everyone. And I recommend you have a hanky near by.  "}{"Title":"An incredible movie!","Date":"4 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie inspires so much thought and kindness in everyone who watches it. It is so creative, moving, awe-inspiring- no words can describe how wonderful it is. And they got the perfect people to play the roles. This is Haley Joel Osment's best performance yet, not to mention Helen Hunt. And Kevin Spacey-he's always fantastic. So to wrap it up, I recommend this movie to anyone with a heart. "},{"Title":"Look how much depth we're working with here","Date":"4 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  ***** SPOILER INCLUDED ****The most satisfying part for me of this watching the film (on VHS) was the ten minutes or so while the credits were rolling where my wife and I discussed the Pay it Forward chain of events as they occurred.  That we had to think about it throughout the film - and changed our minds a few times in the process - doesn't hide the fact that this wasn't a very  good movie.  You'd think that the chronology shifting would had hooked us, and true to form, it kept us interested *in the chronology*.  The surprising and tragic ending should had made us really care about the message of the film, and yet I feel this was just another gimmick to get us to think that *this film had everything necessary* for the thinking person's appetite .... not the case at all.And that's really too bad, because the Pay it Forward is certainly a wonderful premise.  So what would it had taken to get a recommendation from me?1) Since the chronology is a main focus of the film, add some moments of Arlene (Helen Hunt) looking for her mother.  Maybe then I would have believed her to be a charecter of consequence, instead of just a mother struggling to be a mother.  Besides, what indication were we given of the effort Arlene went through to speak to her mother, other than the mountain she moved in getting to the point of forgiving her mother, and that people who know who I am will know where I am ?  Yep, Grace (Angie Dickonson) was exactly where Arlene thought she would be.2) Give Eugene a little more depth.  Perhaps the most depth he has is that he knows that he shouldn't get romantically involved with a student's mother, and yet can't express this to anyone but his own demons.  But I would question how well even this was revealed.  It's like you almost need to be a teacher to understand the politics of how taboo that is.3) The stalest part of the entire film for me was when Eugene and Arlene are watching a news story of how there is no evidence at this time if there's a link between the 'Pay It Forward' movement and the anonymous donation of computers.  Were they trying to suggest something here?  I'm more touched by the idea of Pay It Forward than its sentiment portrayed in this film.  "},{"Title":"Great thought provoking movie","Date":"1 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  We liked the movie. It seemed a bit slow at times, but it kept moving right along and the message that it presents is good as well. It was well thought out and probably true of how most people in those types of  situations might probably feel and/or act. "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"30 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I thought that Pay it Forward was an excellent movie.  I'm a big fan of Haley Joel Osment so I figured it would be very good.  I'm also a big fan of Helen Hunt and Kevin Spacey.  This movie was touching and I think that it would be such a great idea if the world could pay it forward and spread kindness. "},{"Title":"Great movie, but was very sad in places.","Date":"22 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** If you have not seen this movie, then do not read these comments.I read some reviews of 'Pay it forward' and thought it would be an interesting movie to see, but it never came to my local cinemas; so I waited for it to come out on DVD and bought the disk.Early in the film in the classroom scene, you could really believe Kevin Spacey was a teacher.  He reminded me of some of the teachers I knew, and wished there were more of his style about.Hayley put in an excellent performance, but I think we now expect that of him, even though he is so young.As the DVD was playing I read the notes, and saw there was a chapter called tragedy, as I didn't know the details of the film, I wondered what was going to happen.  When Trevor was stabbed I assumed that was the tragedy, but I didn't expect him to die.  When the surgeon came in and Arlene collapsed on the floor, I had tears in my eyes.  Then, when Eugene and Arlene walk outside and see thousands of people with candles, I cried. The song 'Calling all angles' seemed to fitting for the scene.  I'm going to buy the CD by Jane Siberry with that track on it. "},{"Title":"Spacey! Spacey! Spacey!","Date":"22 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I may be a huge fan of Kevin Spacey...but I would have seen this movie if he wasn't in it.I read the book first, and was excited about seeing this movie.The story of Trevor is heartbreaking and uplifting.  This movie had me in tears for a good 30 minutes after the credits rolled...and I knew what to expect!  This movie gives you hope..10 "},{"Title":"didn't hate it as much as Stepmom...but it was close!","Date":"10 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Did Helen Hunt really win an Oscar not too long ago? I think she's fallen into the Cuba Gooding Jr. trap of reprising the Oscar-winning performance over and over, not seeming to notice that the first movie has ended. If she plays one more struggling single mom with a heart of gold, I'm going to have to add her to the short list of Actors To Avoid At All Costs (which currently includes Robin Williams, Melanie Griffith, Freddie Prinze Jr., and Whoopi Goldberg). It's a drastic step to take, Ms. Hunt...please don't make me do it.Pay It Forward is a relentlessly manipulative, mawkish soap opera. Everything about it is unrealistic, from guzzling vodka straight from a bottle hidden in the light fixture (doesn't it get hot?), to high-security schools with metal detectors that don't have any security guards to intervene when kids are being beaten, from a Hollywood-style homeless-people landscape of burning trash barrels and shuffling winos, to a Field of Dreams-like line of thousands of car headlights making a pilgrimage toward a suburban house (where will they all park?). I didn't believe anything about this movie, not for a second. But I tried...I really WANTED to believe in the pay it forward idea, in the inherent altruism of man. But Pay It Forward kept reminding me that it's not the concept that matters, but the ability of the marketing people can try to pack fannies into theater seats. Put together a few off-the-shelf plot ideas--a kid plays matchmaker, emotionally damaged adults find love, bullies threaten the nice kids, alcohol is evil--and wait for the box office receipts to roll in.How easy is it to track down a homeless person in another city, based on a vague description given by a stranger? How often do kids get killed in YOUR school? Did Mom get fired from her job that required her to wear the blue wig at the beginning of the movie, or was her I-just-found-a-new-job scene left on the cutting room floor? Isn't it convenient that Jon Bon Jovi shows up at exactly the time the plot requires a relationship crisis?Pay It Forward is a bad, bad movie. Give it a wide berth. "},{"Title":"It didn't change my life","Date":"8 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Of course, I never really considered myself to be such an *sshole. But Pay it Forward (and many a comment) promises a lot - and this film is pretty good. But it doesn't really satisfy me. It is exceptionally well acted, but that's no surprise all three leads have proven their worth more than once. Osment must be the most talented child actor the world has ever seen. It's kind of hard to answer what it is that this film lacks, but I'll give it a shot it fails to make the idea of paying it forward feel like a great one. It focuses on other things that are not as interesting and in the end, it just feels as if the world is exactly the same place as it was before. Nothing really happened. And there it is. "},{"Title":"Heart Tugger with believable characters","Date":"6 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I was pleasantly surprised by this film.  Excellent performances from all the leads.  Kevin Spacey was typically brilliant.  Helen Hunt played a great role and Haley Joel Osmond was entirely engaging as the lead role.There was some beautifully framed shots in the film, and it didn't get overly mushy.  The ending (in the house and outside) was a little over the top, and could have been better served with a more subtle offering.Overall, it was a pretty enjoyable film that managed to touch on the meaning of hope and the value of perseverance. "},{"Title":"A good Mimi Leder film","Date":"4 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Actually I think this is the first acceptable Mimi Leder flick so far. I've watched The Peacemaker which I found extremely boring and Deep Impact in which the special effects were good - no doubt - but the acting was very soapy. In spite of a great actor like Morgan Freeman. I really enjoyed Pay It Forward though. Good story, good plot, good acting by the whole cast. "}{"Title":"Story of LeiFeng","Date":"30 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It reminds me the Story of LeiFeng who is a well-known soldier in Chinese for his unselfishness and willing to help peoples. It's amazing to see the power of ordinary peoples when they work in the same direction to make the world a better world. "},{"Title":"ABSOLUTELY MUST SEE!!!","Date":"27 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I absolutely loved this movie! From the casting to the location, it is terrific. A must see! It will hopefully move you and follow the message within. If this would catch on we could all live happily and safer. "},{"Title":"Superb Acting","Date":"23 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Superb acting is the great plus in this movie in which the story is rather obvious and the end (though dramatic) is very disappointing The whole movie is Hollywood all the way and the end of the movie just does not fit into the sweetness of the rest of it. I get the point the producers want to make but they strongly give me the idea that they could not choose between making it real drama or a family feelgood film.  "},{"Title":"Forward This Review!","Date":"17 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Your job is to read this review then forward it to 3 other people so they can decide if `Pay It Forward' is good enough for them to see it. Then they could forward it to 3 other people. Then, those 3 people could each forward it to three other people. Ok! I will stop sounding like a Wella Balsam commercial. Let me rewind and tell you what `Pay It Forward' is about. Trevor, a 5th grader, has a project assignment from his teacher. He must do `something' to make the world better. Trevor takes his assignment a little bit too seriously and does such charitable acts as providing habitat for a worthless man. Moreover, he has decided to help 2 other people also within his chain of goodness. Trevor will probably grow up to be the next president of Amway. Trevor also has an alcoholic mom who befriends the teacher. `Pay It Forward' stars Kevin Spacey as the teacher, Helen Hunt as the alcoholic mom, and Haley Joel Osment as Trevor. However, the performance I liked the best was Osments. I have a sixth sense that Haley will be nominated for some more oscars in his long acting future. `Pay It Forward' did have its endearing moments, but the ending of the film made me want to fast forward it.  *** Average  "},{"Title":"Why do they want to make us cry when they can't? Spoilers included","Date":"16 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Tears were welling in my eyes from the incredible length of the scenes. Half way through the middle of each scene I was ready to press the fast forward button, except I was watching with a friend. How come the characters were talking so much? (except for the teacher's speech).SPOILERS AHEAD...STOP HERE!!!Too many stories that are tough to tie together. I still fail to understand the chronological order of events as it seems to me that the beginning of the movie is tied to its middle somehow...or is it just me?How easy it is to find a homeless person in Vegas? The gift of the car is hardly a life changing situation.The redundancy of similarities in this movie is sorrowful. Why is it that 2 characters suffer from Asthma? The little boy who gets beat up and the little girl who needs attention at the hospital. Then again the likeness in the family situation of the boy and the teacher. Wasn't there anything else they could think of?The ending was amusing, as it contradicted the whole point of the movie. From it's beginning the movie concentrates on telling you how gratifying it is to do good but at the end, you may not want to get too carried away because you may pay the price. We never know if the woman on the bridge finally decides to jump or not?  Did the guy in prison ever manage to get out? Maybe if they're planning on a sequel we'll find out. If they are, a word of advice, don't try too hard to squeeze tears out of the audience, because it just made me roll my eyes and sigh in disbelief.  "},{"Title":"This movie will make you cry...","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I love this movie so much... This movie will make you cry, and especially at the end... It's a great story and a great movie. The characters were great, I like Helen Hunt's acting. She played her character very good. If someone asks me to watch it again, I would.If you haven't seen it yet, then you better watch it or you'll miss this great story. "},{"Title":"Better than expected","Date":"7 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The only reason why I rented this film was Kevin Spacey. He is a wonderful actor and even though I'd never heard any good things about Pay It Forward, I still wanted to see it. My expectations weren't exactly high, and that could explain why I kind of liked the film. Melodramatic? Yes. Clichéd? Yes. But still... Most of the time I thought the film was interesting and I liked the Arlene-Eugene love story. Spacey was brilliant, Osment was great, and to my great surprise Helen Hunt was _almost_ believable. So, Pay It Forward was a much better film than I expected. (6/10) "},{"Title":"Pathos","Date":"6 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  WARNING SPOILERS!!!Yes, surprisingly I found the pathos in this film.  I had heard so much negative about it, I was expecting something very drab.  Perhaps that's why i was so pleasently surprised.  The end with everyone coming with the candles made my eyes water.  Of course they could have come up with some more clever twists for the folks who were paying it forward but all-in-all a good movie. "},{"Title":"The end is fantastic","Date":"31 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It's a Holywood movie. But it's a good story, great idea. I was bored by the love-story, but like I said ; it's a Holywood movie. The end is just great. I've never seen a big movie like this ending that way. Nice movie  "},{"Title":"Paying it forward to the director","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  SPOILER AHEAD!!!!Believe me... by killing the boy,. they managed to change the focus on doing good to getting outraged about the boy being killed.This movie did not deserve this...somebody please rewrite the end, so we can recommend the movie to everyone. "}{"Title":"A movie about the goodness of men, ending with the most black page of mankind. A must see.","Date":"22 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie really shows a great plan of a small kid (Haley Joel Osment as Trevor) to make the world a better place, on small scale that is. It's a typical view of a 11-year old kid to see only goodness in men, on which his idea was based. Though he thinks his plan failed, it has grown bigger than he ever expected. Just when you think everything gets an happy ending, the other side of mankind shows and clearly demonstrates that something like a perfect world will always be an utopia. Though some reviewers see this part as a movie killer, it think it best reflects reality. And surely, that emotional ending will make you remember this movie for quite some time... "},{"Title":"What took people so long?","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"     (Warning Spoilers ahead.)   Why was everybody surprised at the ending?   I cannot understand what took people so long to realize this is a movie that pours mawkishness over its audience like pancake syrup.   Consider    A litigator gives away a brand new Jaguar to a reporter whose Mustang got wrecked while siren-chasing.  (As a act to heal a loss, this might be admirable, but it's hardly a life-saver.)      A single mother.   Who is haunted by an abusive ex-husband.   Who works in a strip joint as a waitress, along with some other job, and winds up spending too little time with her son.   Did I mention she hides liquor bottles around the house?   A man with a mysterious burn mark on his face.  About an hour and a quarter into the movie, we learn he got it when his father doused him with gasoline and set him afire.  (This is where I had to turn the movie off for a while, with an Oh com'n!)   Now you can make a movie about any of these.  Or you can make a movie about a boy who embarks on a crusade of altruism and winds up getting killed for his troubles.     But you can't put them all in the same movie without in going down in a maudlinism meltdown. (Paging Dr. Patch Adams!)    In fairness, Mimi Leder puts at least one thing in her movies that's worthwhile.   In Deep Impact, it was Morgan Freeman's commanding president.   Here is Kevin Spacey's kick-ass welcome to school speech - one real teachers might do well to note.                       "},{"Title":"Good until the end","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I was reading reviews on this movie and I hadn't heard too many positive comments. So I decided to rent this movie just to see if they were right. I would have totally disagreed with the all the negative reviews I had read if it wasn't for the end. I won't give it away, but it was so unnecessary and pointless it takes the whole movie down with it.  "},{"Title":"Finally-A Great Movie","Date":"14 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I was beginning to think Hollywood could only make trash, car chases, special effects w/no plot type movies.  But along came Pay It Forward. One great movie and with a message. This young man in it did a superb job of acting.    "},{"Title":"It's your big chance to fix something that's not like your bike, you can fix a person.","Date":"12 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I don't put spoilers in the first part of my reviews so read easy. If I do put one in I'll let you know in advance...Why do so many people dislike this movie? Because it would never really happen in real life? To fully enjoy this film you really just have to let go for a few hours. Forget that all of these characters are stereotypes. Forget it's a movie. If you can do that you might see something special shine back out at you.It's true that people these days expect a life changing experience from a movie. Why? Because it cost you money? You want to walk out with a message... but trust me, if you get a message from a movie you knew that message to begin with. Just learn to sit back and watch a different place and time come to life on screen. You might not be so critical of movies like this then.Haley Joel Osment is what makes this movie so touching. His portrayal of Trevor is fantasic. He makes you laugh, cry and at times really sympathise with him.Pay it forward is a story of a young boy named Trevor McKinny, it's his first day in Middle School, and he's set an assignment in his social studies class to change the world. Trevor hatches a plan called 'pay it forward'. You do three big favours for three other people. It has to be something that they couldn't do for themselves. Then instead of those people paying back the favour, they pay it forward. they do three favours for three other people. Trevor puts his idea into action and along the way he helps his alcoholic mother and physically scared teacher...and of course pay it forward goes a long way.All the performances are good in this movie, although Jon Bon Jovi wasn't the best deadbeat dad in the world - although he's easily forgotten in his 5 minute role.spoliers ahead, if you haven't seen the film don't read anymoreWhy is it wrong that Trevor is a tragic hero? Didn't anyone else see it coming? They don't show you a knife (...gun, oozi, big stick, etc...) in the first five minutes unless they intend to use it later on. Trevor did what he set out to do. He brought his mum and his teacher together, he started a movement - he started to change the world (on a small scale...). Why not get a few tears from the audience as they see the most truthful part of the film. There is both good and bad in the world, and this film throws it in your face. That impressed me.So what can say? Give it a chance. You might just be surprised.Oh and, have you paid it forward yet? "},{"Title":"There actually is a real Foundation due to this film.","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The story for this film comes from a book by Catherine Ryan Hyde. She has set up the Pay it Forward Foundation. You can find this using a good search engine. Already this organization has had actual positive results.So for those who do not like this film because it is too sappy, and considering that there is way too much suffering in this harsh world of ours, all I can say to you is BLAAAAAAH !  The story for this film makes a valiant attempt to bring goodness into our lives. Every time this has been done there are those who criticize and moan. Surely Mother Teresa had her fair share of such people.Have a read of the variety of comments here on IMDB, and if you don't like uplifting films of this sort then stay away and let others benefit from it.By the way, the song Calling All Angels at the end has wonderful lyrics that can be found with persistent searching on the Net (the lyrics are under some sort of legal dispute). Have a close read of these song lyrics and you will understand the essence of the film. "},{"Title":"Pablum","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  pablum (noun)  1 a form of cereal for infants syn Pablum  2 a diet that does not require chewing; advised for those with intestinal disorders syn soft diet, pap, spoon food  3 worthless or oversimplified ideas syn pap I think this one word encapsulates what I think about this film.  Avoid it if you like to engage your brain when watching a movie. "},{"Title":"Great Movie!","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  One of the best movies I have seen in a long time.  Hits all of our emotions in one film.  It also sends a message to all of us on what we can and should be doing to make this world a better place for all of us.  I highly recommend seeing it. "},{"Title":"This could have been better","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This was not a great movie or even a good one, but it was not a bad movie. It had promise, the idea is a really interesting one. The thing is you don't see much of the whole pay it forward idea. The plot of the mother and teacher in love takes over almost the entire movie, I guess the film makers felt it made for a better movie than seeing how this pay it forward movement becomes so popular. Technically it is one of Trevor's good deeds, but still. Actually I think they have a great idea for a movie in here. Take the whole subplot about Jay Mohr's reporter and make THAT into a movie. His scenes were much more interesting than seeing how many problems could be heaped on one family and a teacher. No Helen Hunt or Haley Joel till the end. I know their problems were realistic, but it could get way too melodramatic. If you made the movie with Jay Mohr tracking pay it forwards success across the country and finding Haley Joel that would have been effective in my opinion. You could even used what happened at the end. Plus I (maybe) would have been spared scenes where I swear the film makers were going &#145;this scene will win Helen Hunt the oscar for sure!'  "},{"Title":"Almost perfect, except for the ending","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This was an excellent movie; truly a great cast, a unique premise with a hopeful and admirable idea Do something nice for 3 strangers, and ask them to do the same, rather than pay you back. Pay it Forward. If you haven't seen this movie--see it. Don't read past this point if you don't want to know details about the movie....Now my big complaint If you have seen it, then you know about the ending. As a writer myself, it never ceases to amaze me how the decision gets made to ruin a perfectly wonderful movie by killing off the main character. What a let down. They could have fooled the audience for just a few moments there at the end, and then brought him out, having survived the injury. Then they could have all stood outside and watched the vigil anyway. It could have been a vigil honoring his life and what he had done, and a massive thank you to him in person. It would have been just as poignant. What it turned out to be was a wake, and that spoiled the whole movie for me. Killing a character is the easy way to incite tears and emotion. The hard part is keeping everyone alive, and STILL engendering the same emotions. The unfortunate part about this movie, is that it had what it took to do just that, but someone copped out at the end. I guess i just prefer happy endings. "}{"Title":"A film with its heart in the right place","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  `Pay It Forward' is not a great film, but at least it has a good heart.  I have been very critical of the film industry for it's irresponsible attitude towards filmmaking.  Films like `Fight Club' and `Pulp Fiction' that glorify anarchy and mayhem send the wrong message to society.  Other films like `Scary Movie' and `Road Trip' rely on humor that is so degrading that it lowers the general standard of societal norms by dulling our sense of revulsion at crass behavior.  `Pay It Forward' sends a positive message to the masses and despite its unexceptional screenplay, I am gratified to see the effort.The story centers on Trevor McKinney (Haley Joel Osment), a schoolboy who takes quite literally his teacher's challenge to change the world.  He decides to do three favors for people and tells them that instead of paying the favor back, that they should pay it forward; they should do three favors for others.  The concept is wonderfully idealistic and it is the kind of message we should be sending to society, rather than the hedonistic and nihilistic themes that pervade cinema today.The screenplay itself meanders about without the discipline to stay on point.  A good portion of the film is wasted on the romantic relationship developing between Trevor's mother (Helen Hunt) and his teacher (Kevin Spacey), which is a complete non sequitur.  From a marketing perspective, I can understand the necessity of giving the audience a good bit of screen time with box office magnets rather than building the story on Osment and the main theme.  However, only giving a few examples of how the favors were paid forward dilutes the true impact of that theme.  A more effective way to structure the film would have been through a succession of vignettes that travel around the country and perhaps return to Trevor.The ending failed to deliver the message intended.  While I surmise that the writer intended that the ending convey the power and impact of goodness and kindness, ironically it sends the message that no good deed goes unpunished, slipping once again into the nihilistic realm of `why bother?'The acting was consistently good.  Kevin Spacey is an enormously talented actor and once again creates a compelling and complex character with extensive range.  Helen Hunt is really miscast as the middle class mom.  She comes across as so bright that it is hard to dumb her down enough to seem normal.  Moreover, the romance between the two had all the chemistry of a PTA meeting.  Haley Joel Osment is proving himself to be quite a talent after a riveting performance in `The Sixth Sense'.  Once again he plays a difficult part with ease.Despite structural flaws, I rated this film a 7/10 on the strength of the message.  I would recommend it to anyone who has not given up hope that the world could be better than it is.  "},{"Title":"Sweet, Well-Acted film","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I felt that this film got a bum rap when it first was released. I felt the critics went out of their way to slam it; to be jaded and cynical about it's message, which, if you think about it, was what the film was all about. It was saying that we are all so suspicious of kindness, so jaded about human goodness, that no one would want to believe such an idea like Pay It Forward. This film is full of positive thought, full of the idea that each one of us can make a difference. Spacey and Osment give great performances. In fact, the first time Spacey talks to his Social Studies class and pitches the idea of the assignment is some of the finest work this gifted actor has ever done. Helen Hunt, unfortunately, is miscast in my opinion. She tries hard, TOO hard to come off as kind of a white trash single mom. She works so much and Ive seen so many of her recent films that her acting tricks are so damn obvious. When she's listening to someone and wonders what they mean, she lifts her eyebrows quizzically. She holds her hands together when she is trying to be sincere and when she is upset she always clasps her hand to her mouth. Listen, all actors have tricks that they use, but hers are so glaring and false. I enjoyed her work on TV in the Paul Resier sitcom, but in What Women Want As Good As It Gets and in htis film, she just seems to be acting and not very convincingly. But aside from Miss Hunt's performance, the film works and I enjoyed it. (P.S/ - boy is Bon Jovi bad in this film) "},{"Title":"Worth viewing despite its weaknesses.","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I watched this film last night and I have to agree with nearly every criticism leveled at it. Pay It Forward is clunky, contrived, maudlin, shamelessly manipulative, and frequently incoherent. The scenes with the young black male seemed like outtakes from Bamboozled II, and the big revelation scenes (the reason for Kevin Spacey's character's burns, for example), were curiously flat and uninvolving. Helen Hunt is completely miscast - I giggled every time she told Spacey that she could not understand him; this coming from an actress who epitomizes class and intelligence (I kept seeing Cher, circa Mask, in the role). And yet, as the film progressed, I found myself increasingly engrossed, entranced, and moved. The basic premise of the film, that one can make a difference in the world by small acts of kindness, the consequences of which may be entirely different from our intentions, is both plausible and reasonable, and is made completely believable by a cast working at a level of excellence that I have not seen in some time. Hunt is so good that you eventually forget the fact that she is miscast, and the other leads are equally outstanding. Jim Caviezel's open, haunted, and haunting face is a revelation every time he appears on screen, and Angie Dickinson's performance as Hunt's mother is so good that it makes one lament that she was not given more to do, in this movie, and in life. It is Dickinson's reunion scene with Hunt, in which daughter forgives mother for the neglect and abuse she had to endure as a child, that is the true emotional climax of the film. I am not ashamed to say that I burst into tears. So forgive the film its many faults, and its disgusting cheat of an ending. Despite its problems, Pay It Forward is more worthy of your time than 99% of the stuff out there right now. After all, forgiveness is the key, and the only way to break the long chain of pain, ignorance, and suffering that determines so much of life. "},{"Title":"A great story, if only there was a script to go along with it","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  While Pay It Forward tries to paint a wonderful story, it is destroyed by a poorly-contrived script and an ending that will leave your head spinning -- assuming you're still awake to let it.One of the earliest noticeable problems with this film is its lack of chronology -- it begins in the present, then switches to four months earlier, then begins switching back and forth without bothering to notify you.  All the while the past is catching up to the present until the two timelines finally merge toward the end of the film.  The problem is that this is handled poorly; that is, it isn't handled at all.  It detracts from the film in a major way; since you can't get a grip on how everything relates chronologically, it makes things that much harder to understand.It is hard to truly grasp how the pay it forward concept got where it is.  We are told that pay it forward incidents have migrated from Las Vegas (the movie's setting) to Los Angeles but we never do find out how it made it there.  At first none of Trevor's (Haley Joel Osment) attempts at paying it forward seem to work, then suddenly the ball begins rolling, presumably propelled by magical fairies, since we have been shown nothing else to turn things around.  People and places impacted are flashed before us but the connections to the main plot are either small or nonexistent, and many of these people are forgotten as soon as their scene ends.  Just when you think you're going to learn all the connections, the scene switches.  The film is not merely chronologically disjointed but conceptually as well.There is a love story here between Mr. Simonet (Kevin Spacey) and Ms. McKinney (Helen Hunt), but it is one of those cases where the hand is forced by the film's adorable child, and then proceeds to take over the film.  Worse, it is the predictable kind of love story, a pattern that has been used in many a movie and seedy romance novel before this one.  It does not draw us in, other than a few tense moments where we learn about the characters' past.  There is no emotional connection in the film that you aren't force-fed.  This is script writing of the lowest caliber, when the writers are incapable of creating characters that draw out real responses and instead have to lead you around on an emotional leash.  You feel for the characters only because the movie commands you to, and thus you aren't truly feeling.  Well, you do feel something -- you feel used.  Even more so after the ending.Ah, the ending, which I am forced to partially spoil for you -- you might skip this paragraph.  Apparently the writers realized the lack of emotion in the film, so they resorted to the classic trump card killing a main character.  I will at least spare you precisely who dies (you can probably guess anyway), but the fact that it happens has to be mentioned here.  It occurs so suddenly and so out of line that you can't help but see it for what it is -- a sad attempt to salvage the movie by getting less observant people to shed some tears.  As much as I've panned things so far, the movie was actually reasonably good to this point, thanks to the performances -- but throwing this needless bloodshed in killed not only the character on screen, but the entire movie.  The moment is never truly built up so it becomes an artificial climax.  The song that ends the film is quite beautiful, but it drew more tears from myself that whatever was happening on the screen.The performances by Spacey, Hunt, and Osment are predictably stellar, and you might enjoy the film solely on that level.  Personally, I did.  But it is truly a waste of talent.  The script featured in Pay It Forward is not worthy of them.  It's barely worthy of Pauly Shore.  My IMDB Rading 4/10  "},{"Title":"Decent Schmultz","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Mimi Leder made a nice piece here, even if it ended up being a bit more lightweight that she likely had intended.  This is to be expected, of course.  After all, there is little about Deep Impact or E.R. that actually ends up making much of a difference in the viewers' worldview.  This is decent schmultz, unlike many of its recent cousins.The actors put in fine performances, especially the supporting turns of Angie Dickinson and Jim Caviezel.  The story line, though overly weepy at times, holds up (with the exception of the over-the-top heart string tugging epilogue) and doesn't fail to make sense of itself.  The only major complaint I had was the we-know-how-to-make-you-cry attitude of the production team, primarily because they didn't know how to make me cry.Pay It Forward is an interesting, if somewhat light, emotionally-filled film.  Worth seeing. "},{"Title":"A severely misunderstood film","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Pay it Forward isn't a great movie, certainly not a classic.  But it is good -- the actors, setting, dialogue and, especially, the entire concept of paying big favors to three other people.What is most annoying here on IMDB are all the reviews criticizing the ending which many claim doesn't fit because the audience didn't see it coming or that it negated the entire film -- sort of a path to hell is paved with good intentions sort of thing.The idea of paying it forward, as expressed in the movie, is that it's not for yourself.  In the process of paying it forward you, in fact, might lose -- get hurt, not be successful, whatever.  The idea that paying it forward might be a safe act is never shown in the movie.  In fact, it's almost always shown as an act of sucking it up, sacrificing, or taking a chance. Only in a perfect world does one always succeed when taking chances. That's why the ending isn't as ill fitting as critics might have us believe.Sometimes you win, sometimes you lose.  The idea was to change the world. Pay it Forward is a bit sappy, a little too sentimental perhaps, but still a great teaching tool to all of us.  And as the ending shows, just because someone pays it forward doesn't mean they're entitled to something good. I wouldn't rank it a Citizen Kane, but I would say it's one of the most life affirming movies you'll see in a long long time.   "},{"Title":"Predictable, sappy, poorly produced pap!","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  If you can't decide whether to watch this movie or go to bed, choose go to bed.  What a waste of time.  I couldn't believe any of the actors.  The production values were like bad made-for-TV movies.  The situations were so poorly acted, scripted and produced that I couldn't for a minute believe any of them.  Phooey! "},{"Title":"Pay It Forward transforms the movie screen into a broad chalkboard marked with valuable lessons.","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Based on Catherine Ryan Hyde's book by the same name, Pay It Forward offers a noble premise which speaks of the need to improve the world, and which redefines the responsibilities of teachers, parents and children. Pay It Forward effectively uses an economy of language, images and plot to expose --straightforwardly and truthfully-- complicated issues such as education, school violence, poverty, guns, alcohol and domestic abuse.On his first day of school, Trevor McKinney (Haley Joel Osment) gets an unexpected first assignment Think of an idea to change the world --and put it into action. Seeking to inspire his students to think globally and unselfishly and to reconsider their role in the world, Eugene Simonet (Kevin Spacey) soon notices Trevor's unique potential. Yet when Trevor applies himself to the assignment and begins by inviting a homeless man into his home, his hardworking, single mother Arlene (Helen Hunt) is infuriated and questions Eugene's methods. Still, Eugene is impressed by Trevor's Pay It Forward class project, which dictates that if one person benefits from someone's act of good will, he or she must pay it forward to three more people, who in turn must pay another good deed to three other people. Although often disillusioned by the difficulty of putting such a faith-based plan into motion, Trevor's impaired relationship with his mother and a deep resentment toward his absent father provide the fuel for his dedication and desire to improve lives. When his efforts to help turn toward his own teacher, Trevor learns that to improve the world, people must learn to welcome change.Set in Las Vegas, Nevada, Pay It Forward delivers its plot through an effective perspective, which focuses on the austerity of the city rather than on its more identifyable flashy streets and festive casinos. This choice stresses the realism behind those grave issues the film tries to explore. Although Pay It Forward mostly conveys with unadorned realism the suffering caused by hate or negligence, the film becomes overly melodramatic when it delves into its secondary characters' confessions of their personal tragedies. Rather than supporting the idea of the need for other people's helping hand, these scenes --often accompanied by bittersweet piano music-- seem to exploit the concept of suffering. Nevertheless, Pay It Forward supports its own premise (concerning the plausibility of improving the world) by weaving into its main storyline several flash-forward scenes that demonstrate a widespread effectiveness and national popularity of the pay-it-forward movement, only months after it was launched by its young author. All in all, Pay It Forward applies drama and humor and successfully teaches valuable lessons that speak of the need for a national consciousness. "},{"Title":"Cheesy, yes.  Affective, certainly.","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Okay so the movie is what it is.  It's Hollywood feeling self-important.  But jeez, let's get real, it does it so well.  The other user comments seem right on course, the only thing I don't understand is why everybody seems to have a problem with the ending.  You have to ask yourself, what's the alternative?  It's way too feel good if the film doesn't end the way it does.  It has to acknowledge that change is difficult.  I don't think there's any other  way for the film to end.  The filmmakers (now I'm not saying that Mimi Leder is the filmmaking Godsend, in fact, quite the opposite) were very successful in tempering the inherent feelgoodness with a certain manipulation in order to try and inspire. How successful is the inspiration?  Not very.  But of course your reading the words of a world weary cynic; of course, a cynic who actually liked the movie. "},{"Title":"waste of time","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Pay It Forward begins beautifully and ends awfully. How ridiculous is its script. The story wants to tell us something but in a most stupid way. How could Kevin Spacy accept to perform in such a movie? Haley Joel Osment was a bad choice. He was amazing in The Sixth Sense, but disappointing in this movie. In the other word, don't waste your time watching it.  "}{"Title":"Random Acts Of Kindness","Date":"8 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I've seen the bumper-stickers, and I think they are the best summary of this movie.  It is not great, it is not formidable.  It is, however, memorable, and perhaps that is what is most important in a film.  See it, but not without Kleenex  you could spend your time in a way that is much less moving. "},{"Title":"Beautiful acting makes this a standout","Date":"7 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I loved this film, but I am not at all surprised that the critics panned it. They don't go for films with heart.  I do though. To the extent that it may have been not realistic or believable enough, I think that the superb acting enabled me to suspend my disbelief. I can't add much to the compliments that have been written by others in this comment section but I will say one thing about the negative critics They would have panned Dickens' Christmas Carol when it was written.  "},{"Title":"Really good touching -- but sad -- film about one boy's life.","Date":"6 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a really sad story about a boy that gets a bad hand dealt to him, but tries to make the best of it by changing the world with his Pay It Forward project. This is in par with all of Haley Joel Osment movies such as Sixth Sense, and should be under the same category. I voted for this movie with a 10, because it really is a good story, excellent acting, and perfect timing. If your looking for a movie to watch, Pay It Forward is on DVD, VHS, and Pay-Per-View! "},{"Title":"Had me until the end (spoilers)","Date":"5 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Very rarely am I infuriated by a movies (especially enough to leave a comment).  However, Pay it Forward was half decent...until the end that is. I don't know how many have seen the DVD, but I went and listened to the director's comments for the injury scene.  Why did it happen?  Her explanation was that we needed to see random acts of kindness and random acts of violence.  Was that really what the movie was about?  I really did not take that as theme.  If I did not get that, then surely others didn't as well.  I think the director dropped the ball here.  The movie would have been just as well suited to stop with Hunt/Spacey reconciling or with Mohr's article.   "},{"Title":"I almost thought it was o.k. (spoilers)","Date":"5 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  After seeing the terrific A.I. this weekend I decided to watch Pay It Forward on Pay Per-View on Haley Joel Osmet's performance alone. For a while I was wrapped up in a simple but interesting story. Osmet of course showed me why he would of been a better canidate for Anakin Skywalker than Jake Yippe Lloyd, with acting that is simply impressive for a boy his age. Also excellent were performances from Kevin Spacey as his scarred teacher, Mr. Simonet and Helen Hunt as Osmet's recovering alcoholic mother. This had a chance to be a good film from performances alone. From these three actors I could overlook the run of the mill t.v. movie of the week episodes like the revelation of Mr. Simonet's scars or the return of Jon Bon Jovi as the abusive father. But like A.I. which left audiences with silly happy wrap everything in a nice red bow and present it for audience approval ending, this film just had to go cheese. Watching this reminds me of something I said recently about Spielberg When your're handed crap by veteran director at least you know your're receiving good crap which I thought up after viewing The Mummy Returns then seeing The Lost World again for the first time in three years. Who thought it was a good idea to kill off Osmet's character then end the film with a candle light vigil. No, its not. That whole one scene for me felt like Mimi Leder had left Nigel Tufnel in charge of the emotional content of the film, who then dedcided to turn everything up to an eleven blowing any thing useful out of the water with a full blown weep moment. Grave of the Fireflies earns my tears. This just earns my pity. "},{"Title":"A Real Tear Jerker","Date":"5 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I'm warning anybody who wants to see this movie.  This movie is great, upbeat, up until the end.  It doesn't get bad, it just ends in a very depressing way.  You will be crying your eyes out, so make sure you have lots of tissues ready. "},{"Title":"An argument in favor of a merge of the concepts of music and cinema","Date":"4 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  In the past few months I've ramped up my cinematic consumption quite a bit, plowing through seemingly endless rows of movies new and old, sometimes randomly coming across a little gem like this one. However, while watching this film one thing struck me about the movie industry, but first let's concentrate on the subject matter. It was during one of my late-night movie sessions that I watched Pay it Forward. Now, I had heard exactly nothing about this film before watching it, which is a relation I try to keep to movies; seeing them without expectations (I didn't even know who was in it; the only thing was my roommate said it was fairly new) keeps me open to the impressions being given by it. In short, to me a movie is a fusion of a plot, a script, direction, production, cinematography and acting; while some movies may weigh rather heavily over in one of these fields, others lack certain elements to make them masterpieces. In any case, knowing e.g. the plot in advance will unfairly take some of the effect out of the other elements. Pay it Forward has great acting and a beautiful plot. However, the best word I can think of to describe the direction, production and parts of the writing is incoherence. Now, this can be a sign of greatness - which in the case of production I think this may be; several stories interwoven, to a great extent with a good effect - or it can be one of weakness which may be the case with parts of the writing (unnecessarily severe stereotyping, rather extreme and hence unrealistic contrasts etc.) Overall, though, my opinion on the movie is that - although somewhat flawed - it makes a great emotional movie. I give it 7 handkerchiefs and one kleenex. The movie is important, above all for its strong and realistic depiction of families and people with histories of abuse. Now for my note about the concepts of music and cinema Whereas many movies are released in one theatrical version, one director's cut and one version mangled through that ridiculous concept that is censorship, popular music is often released in many many more versions; one album version (which often corresponds to the director's cut), one single, radio or edit version (i.e. the theatrical release), one clean radio version (if necessary) and then - here's the point - numerous remixes by the hottest producers. In these remixes, different elements of a song will be emphasized, and the song will be somewhat reinvented. I personally think Pay it Forward is one movie that would really benefit from a remix. The ending, like in many other movies, seems a little ad hoc and way sudden, almost as though the writers left early but the preview audiences (or the studio) weren't quite satisfied so something needed to be added. The soundtrack could afford some manipulation. Some scenes are maybe not optimally placed, and - which is not particularily the case with this movie, but rather with others (such as Sixth Sense)  others should maybe have been left out altogether so as to not ruin the twists and flow of the plot. Very few movies are flawless, but it's depressing to see what could have been done to some that come so close to greatness, had they only tried a few different thoughts in production. So, here's my two cents Stop this movie just after the interview scene.  Take a break (like a week) and then watch the rest as a 101 on why a creative process needs to be left up to artists, not masses. Get a copy of the Traffic DVD and watch only the chapters with Benicio Del Toro, then only the ones with Michael Douglas the next day, and so on. A set of very different movies should arise. Watch The Game with a broken amplifier so as to give it some extra ambience-enhancing flanging sound effects. This way, until Hollywood catch up, we can find new enjoyment in known movies, and learn more about what the different elements of moviemaking actually contribute to the end result. ** Minor spoiler warning ** On the same line of reasoning, one thing that is a little annoying to me is that until I realized how redundant the end of this movie is, I got on a line of thought comparing this with the new testament; you've got your martyr, you've got the golden rule, you've got a very strong forgiveness theme, you've got a belief of the good in man being harnessed or hindered by worldly aspects and how (which may be a counterpoint to Paul's epistles) this can be overcome by faith, and you've got an aspiring movement built on all of this. Of course, with my alternate ending, a lot of these parallells fall out. Which either indicates that this reasoning is an exaggeration or that the ending should be there after all and that it's just been misunderstood or unintentionally overly melodramized. "},{"Title":"What is so bad about this film?","Date":"2 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Some of the critics were so savage in their reviews of this film (in particular, Entertainment Weekly) you would have thought that the filmmakers had commited a federal crime of some sort. I found the film to be moving and totally absorbing. So many critics complained that this film was manipulative. Their complaints might have some basis if the audience manipulations were phony and only for the sake of wringing the viewers tearducts. That was not the case. Sure the film is manipulative but in a very believable way. I can't recall one implausible manipulation in this film. Ignore those critics and do yourself a favor and see one of the best studio films to come out of a very bad year (2000) for studio films. I'll guarantee you that it's better than Gladiator and that hunk of junk won best picture. By the way, Gladiator is manipulative too! In fact, all films manipulate. Isn't that what they are supposed to do.  "},{"Title":"A piece that is not afraid to go against our expectations.","Date":"1 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Without running the movie, its not what you expect, its a film about the innocence of a child and how our lives make a difference no matter how trivial we think we are. This is a modern day retelling of its a Wonderful Life. Everyone should see this movie, its sad funny, and most of all true to life. It inspires the magic in us all by using the human sprit and nothing more, accompanied by a great score, and wonderful cinematography. "},{"Title":"So much potential...","Date":"30 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  and it went right out the window.  Spacey, Hunt, and Osment are all excellent actors and their performances were first-rate in this film.  Unfortunately though the message was meant to be a positive, the generally somber tone of the movie obscured any good meant to come from it.And the ending...gracious!  It served absolutely NO purpose except perhaps to fit some generally accepted model (and, as several others have commented, to emotionally manipulate the audience).  I think if it ain't broke, don't fix it applies in this case.   The story woven in about the reporter was also a bit distracting.  Yes, it did tie in with the overall plot, but also tended to disrupt it throughout the movie.'A' for effort...but in the end the writers went more for high ratings on the kleenex-o-meter than for a truly positive message and a good, solid plot. "}{"Title":"A FEELING OF JOY LAUGHER PAIN AND TEARS","Date":"30 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  i truly believe this was the best movie that i have ever seen it made me laugh it made me stop and take a look at the world and i also tried to look in the writers mind to asked how can one person be this intelligent to sit and think of something sooooooooooo wonderful soooooooooooooo powerful it made me stop and think is it at all possible. is this something that he/she tried to do  or was it just a book/movie i feel like it really need to happened i had such a great feeling after seeing this movie if it has not already been done let's try and do it i want to be a part of this beautiful movement. i found myself crying several times while watching pay it forward. "},{"Title":"Could be better but overall a great film.","Date":"28 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This was a great film overall.  I especially liked Kevin Spacey.  He played a very touching role.  I loved the relationship between his character (Eugene Simmonet) and Arlene McKiney (Helen Hunt).  That part made it a truley wonderful movie.  Unfortunatly, the whole pay it forward part of the movie bored the crap out of me.  I find myself fast-forwarding through those parts. And yet, the acting for the main characters of the movie was so good that I still watch it again and again.  The ideal movie could have been made if they had just called it something else and paid little or no attention to Trevor's assignment.  My wish is that they will one day remake this movie the way it should have been.  It would still send the same heart-felt message, and without all those painfully boring scenes. "},{"Title":"Unique characters, an unique cast, an unique story - an extraordinary movie...","Date":"28 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Pay it Forward is a well told and very unique story - and the idea of paying it forward isn't as impossible as it may seem to you. I think every one who has watched this movie should take a few minutes after that to think about what was said in the film... I did.What makes this film so unique are its characters that are played by magnificent actors (Helen Hunt, Kevin Spacey and naturally Haley Joel Osment) who let their roles become real to you. You can look into their eyes and see the pain they feel, the honesty...Also the story is very special. It's not a movie based on action where every 10 minutes a aircraft is blown up. Pay it Forward is based on a strong story of a boy and his dreams of a perfect world, a man who is haunted by his past and a woman who tries to deal with her problems... and a story about everyone!Personally this has become my favorite movie - and after watching it you will understand why... -)Mimi Leder has done a great job with this book adaption - and if you own the DVD... take the time to listen to her commentary track, it surely is worth it.One last note. If you liked this film, make sure you read the book by Catherine Ryan Hyde - it's amazing! It gives you a so much deeper look into the characters, their feelings, their thoughts and it is really written in such a great way!Why didn't Pay it Foward get more credit in the press? It would have deserved it...  "},{"Title":"Could be better but overall a great film.","Date":"28 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This was a great film overall.  I especially liked Kevin Spacey.  He played a very touching role.  I loved the relationship between his character (Eugene Simmonet) and Arlene McKiney (Helen Hunt).  That part made it a truley wonderful movie.  Unfortunatly, the whole pay it forward part of the movie bored the crap out of me.  I find myself fast-forwarding through those parts. And yet, the acting for the main characters of the movie was so good that I still watch it again and again.  The ideal movie could have been made if they had just called it something else and paid little or no attention to Trevor's assignment.  My wish is that they will one day remake this movie the way it should have been.  It would still send the same heart-felt message, and without all those painfully boring scenes. "},{"Title":"Inspirational!","Date":"27 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The critics have not been kind in their appraisal of this unique and multidimensional movie that is without a doubt one of the most inspirational movies I have seen in my lifetime.This story will capture your heart no matter what your background IMHO. It transcends race, religion, color and creed. You need only be human to be touched profoundly by this extraordinary film.Of course, there are always those that don't get it however, I think most folks will absolutely love this remarkable and insightful voyage into the realities of the human condition.For me, that's how life should be for *all* of us. Without giving too much away I'll just say that I believe if we all lived our lives this way EVERY day and didn't limit our goodwill  (I don't want to give the story line away) what a great place the world would be to live in.MOST people won't of course, - but that doesn't stop you and I.The acting was superb all round, and I think Helen Hunt and Kevin Spacey both stretched their creative abilities enormously and waded into uncharted waters in their characterizations of the mother and the teacher roles.Everyone in this movie is initally a member of the walking wounded, not unlike most of us.  Life is tough, let's face it. Yet the love of a child was able to help them heal those wounds, and that's something I can relate to personally as can many people I know.I also loved the Jane Sibery song Calling All Angels.  She does a hauntingly beautiful rendition of it and I can't think of a more perfect signature tune for this story.If you get a chance to view this movie, - take it!  You'll be glad you did. "},{"Title":"When good actors make bad movies ...","Date":"26 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Such a shame -- so much talent went into creating one of the most egregiously mawkish films of the decade (I know it's early in the decade, but believe, I'll be proven right!).  The three principles are immensely talented actors Helen Hunt is a lovely and skilled actress (in other movies); Kevin Spacey is one of the finest contemporary American actors; Haley Joel Osment is one of the finest juvenile actors in Hollywood history. All three struggle mightily to force a third dimension out of their flat, cardboard cutout characters Spacey, and especially Osment, almost succeed; Hunt, bless her heart, has so little to work with and seems to have been directed as an afterthought, she comes off as a caricature (and a poorly made-up one, at that).  Half of the blame falls squarely on the script, in which events coldly calculated to wrench an emotional response occur merely because the script says they're to happen.  The plot lurches forward clumsily as it tries to ring true, driven by a desire to mash our emotional buttons with sledgehammers rather than the characters' motivations.  The result plot holes you could stage the Cirque de Soleil in.The other half belongs to the director, who is either barely competent or perversely cynical.  great effort, it seems, goes into trying to make each moment Hugely Significant, but in the attempts to have them ring true, nothing but sour -- or, as in the case of the ending -- simply wrong notes sound.Re The Ending -- (SEMI)SPOILER ALERT! I won't give away the ending, which is among the worst in Filmdom, but one handy way to save this celluloid treacle from being irretrievable crap is to STOP THE MOVIE IMMEDIATELY AFTER THE TV INTERVIEW NEAR THE VERY END.  Trevor (HJO) has made his Point, Helen and Kevin look on lovingly, and warm fuzzies for everyone in the world.  Stopping the movie here raises the film's status from Utter Dreck to Maudlin Mediocrity.  Allowing it to play out makes the whole affair offensive and insulting to all but the least discriminating movie-goer. "},{"Title":"Sometimes you gotta take a chance","Date":"24 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  If you want to change the world for the better, you have to take a chance. Maybe the best chance to take is to hope for goodness in mankind. This is a very well acted piece that revolves around this premise. The main actors (Spacey, Hunt, Osment) do an excellent job here. Like all good films, it has a magic moment; not one I particularly liked, but important nonetheless.Critics disliked it. Well, that's why they're called critics. A very sentimental piece with a message of hope. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Turn it off before it ends!","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a classic example of a bad ending tacked on to an otherwise good movie. The story is sappy and a little predictable, but the characters are well acted and genuine, and are able to overcome the schmaltz. However the writers seem to have felt the need to tack on an unnecessary ending in a failed attempt to add weight to the tone of the movie. The movie works fine without the last 5 minutes. If you haven't seen it yet, turn it off early and you'll be happy! "},{"Title":"What have we learned?","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I've heard a lot of people say this movie teaches a lesson.  I fail to see what that is.  This is another example of a basically good movie (with terrific performances) that is ruined by an overdose of melodrama. Hopefully, I won't give too much away for those who haven't seen it yet, but the ending completely negates the original message.  The movie goes abruptly from preaching one person can make a difference and small efforts can bring about big changes to no good deed goes unpunished.  "},{"Title":"We're All Flawed","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  For some reason and I cannot remember why, I thought Pay It Forward was a comedy.  A few minutes into the film and I was grabbing the DVD case wondering if I was just in a bad mood or if the film was something other than what I'd first imagined.I'll admit to having some preconceived notions about the characters in the beginning.  I thought Helen Hunt was replaying the same role from As Good As It Gets and that Kevin Spacey was going to be the friendly Jr. High School teacher with a spectacle of a story behind the burns on his body to say nothing about Haley Joel Osment being the epitome of innocence and childhood perfection.  Wrong, folks, on all counts.Helen Hunt is nothing like any of her previous roles at all.  She's flawed in the worst ways; alcoholic, waitress in a girlie bar, the kind who brings back the ex because she keeps falling for the line I've changed and is unable to give her son much attention.  I thought Kevin Spacey's backstory would be something HUGE and, well, Hollywoodish, because, hey, he's Kevin Spacey and we have come to expect great things from him.  His character, however, is just as flawed as Helen Hunts and his story is both sad and realistic in the most unHollywoodish kind of way.  Osment gives another outstanding performance that only solidifies his abilities and place in cinema.  They're all playing very real people here and their lives aren't pretty.When Haley Joel Osment is given an assignment from his teacher to find some way to change the world, he ignores the smaller goals his peers set their sights on and goes for the heart and root of the people with the biggest problems he can find; his mother, his teacher and his best friend.Supporting the main cast are Jon Bon Jovi in a small but menacing role as Helen Hunt's ex, Angie Dickinson with a surprise link that brings the story full circle and Jay Mohr, who sets the film in motion in a rather confusing beginning.Nobody is perfect in this film and it needs to be that way.  The ending looked like a stereotypical wrap-up and then quite suddenly it wasn't.  Yes, you'll be grabbing for Kleenex throughout parts of Pay It Forward.  Ignore rumors the actors were trying for Oscars.  Just watch it and allow the flawed part of all of us to breathe a sigh of relief that we're not alone.Hats off to Mimi Leder and a cast who were up to the challenge.  It was a depressing journey, but one I wouldn't have missed for anything. "}{"Title":"Over-emotional, under written and incredibly contrived.","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Some movies are designed to make people cry. Sometimes, they're a TV-movie with Craig T. Nelson as an aging biker who speaks to a cancerous kid. (This movie actually exists.) Sometimes, though, it's stuff like Pay It Forward. Stuff that oozes with crying people and speeches about being yourself in an overcrowded world. At the risk of sounding sexist, I must say that women are guilty of these movies being made. If women didn't cry at every dumb, tear-filled speech, Hollywood would be a better place. Now before you call me a sexist pig and shoot my truck into flames, listen to what I have to say. Just think about how many non-film buff women have come out of Autumn In New York crying. It's not even your fault, ladies, because men are affected too. Only, men don't show it. Then again, they don't HAVE to show it when a load of sentimental crap comes across their lap. Guess what? Pay It Forward is freshly squeezed.Trevor McKinney (Haley Joel Osment) is just another kid who begins his 7th year of school. In his first class, he meets Eugene Simonet (Kevin Spacey), his scarred Social Studies teacher. Simonet gives them an assignment think of a concept that can change the world. So Trevor thinks about it and he ends up bringing in a homeless junkie (James Cazavaz. Cazvazi. that guy from Frequency and Angel Eyes). Trevor hasn't told his alcoholic mother (Helen Hunt) , however, and hell pretty much breaks loose. The next day, Trevor explains to his class that he has put into practice the movement of paying it forward. You do something nice for a person, and that person has to do something nice for three others, much like the letter chains that were around years ago. Using his new invention, Trevor tries to get his mother and Mr. Simonet together, until his real father (Jon Bon Jovi) steps in. There is also an alternate plotline, working its way backwards then forwards, that follows a reporter (Jay Mohr) who attempts to find the inventor of pay it forward.With a cast like that, director Mimi Leder could've crafted a great movie. A movie that would go down in the annals of great movie history. A timeless masterpiece of. I think you get the picture. However, the finished product is less than satisfactory. The script is gooey and calls for many of those annoying moments where a character blurts out a teary monologue that reveals their deepest innermost feelings. They come too often, and they do very little to move the viewer.The cast do their best to make this watchable, and they actually do a fairly good job. Kevin Spacey is quite good, but misplaced. His character does one of those sappy monologues, and when it happens, you can't help but feel sorry not for the character but for Spacey, whose performances in American Beauty and The Usual Suspects were the exact opposite of what he's doing here. He still gives a good performance with what he has. Helen Hunt's performance is also hindered by the uninspired script. Her character isn't very developed and despite the fact that her life sucks, she remains a nice, sweet caring person (who works in a strip club). Haley Joel Osment shines in his role and proves that The Sixth Sense wasn't a one shot deal. Someday, I hope, he will be remembered for more than `I see dead people.' The supporting cast is also great, with names like Angie Dickinson (as Hunt's homeless mother), James C. (there!), Jay Mohr, and Jon Bon Jovi. One thing about Bon Jovi. His performance isn't bad, but he's Jon Bon Jovi. Somehow, you don't forget that. In his scenes, he's Jon Bon Jovi. Whenever he does something, you're not `Trevor's dad just broke a plate.' You're going `Jon Bon Jovi just broke a plate.'The movie also raises some serious believability issues. Normally, I'm not the kind of person who nitpicks a movie like Evolution because the creatures are actually evolved forms of an animal and not an alien as they call it. (I saw that in a forum. No, really, I did.) But this is too much. Trevor's mom juggles two jobs that seem to pay quite low and yet she maintains a big, beautiful house and Trevor is always impeccably dressed. The ending also raises a few eyebrows with its incredible stupidity. I am not going to reveal it here, but I will just say that the ending breaks every barrier of intelligence and coherence the movie may have had. The ending is so tacked on, you'd think they wrote the script but didn't know how to finish it. I have no idea under which rock the reviewers who said this was moving come from, because this is just sheer stupidity at the top of the scale of mediocrity.Pay It Forward sports an impressive cast and draws good performances from them, but at the end, you'll feel ripped off. No matter how good the performances are, the story and especially the ending are so flawed that you will be hard-pressed to like the performances. 5/10  "},{"Title":"offensive and depressing","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  (Non-comment-related note  My sn is in no way a reference to the Goo Goo Dolls.) When I first saw Pay It Forward about a week ago, I hate to admit I was moved.  I've often wished we lived in a kinder, more pleasant world.  But as the saying goes, we all know what the road to Hell is paved with and just maybe this movie is as fitting a documentary as any on Highway 666.  I thought the only black character in the movie was a MAJOR caricature and an insult to the fact that I have actually interacted with more than one black person my entire life, not to mention that I could be black myself.  Trying to imagine how the scene where he walks down the prison corridor was directed creeps me out.  Had it not been for Oscar winners Spacey and Hunt, I'm sure this movie would have never even been pitched.  The best thing about this movie is the acting, which wrings whatever life it can from the script.  Angie Dickinson is good with her terrible lines, but it pained me to hear her curse dressed like a bag lady.  I don't think I'd say this movie has its heart in the right place, and for the sake of this comment, I don't care.  I can tell you, though, that I think it's emotionally exploitative, manipulative and rather ugly.    "},{"Title":"It was... interesting.","Date":"13 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I do not recommend this movie unless you like overdone emotional dialogues, because that's all this film consists of.  I read somewhere that Pay It Forward was simply a bunch of Oscar Nominee clips tied together with a loose plot, and that description fits the movie very well.  Not to say that Kevin Spacey, Haley Joel Osment, and Helen Hunt aren't good in this movie, because they are.  It's the MOVIE that's poorly done.  I was laughing out loud at the character of the black man in prison because his part was SO obviously written by a white writer trying to sound 'black' or 'ghetto' - preposterous.  The entire movie is over the top and ridiculously emotional. I gave it a three because it took an interesting idea and talented actors and turned it into a laughable production.  Do not watch this movie unless there isn't anything else on television - you'll regret it. "},{"Title":"Why didn't I know about this film when it came out?","Date":"11 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Granted, I really don't keep up with current movies, but I'd rather have known of the existence of this one than of Deuce Bigalow or Me, Myself, and Irene. Sure mindless films have their place, but I'd like to see some promotional budget go to a movie that has genuine potential to change the world.That said, I don't think this film is destined for greatness, at least not as a film. Kevin Spacey and Helen Hunt were great, but they didn't redefine themselves or anything. I still think of Helen Hunt from As Good as It Gets. And the Thomas Newman soundtrack in this film really doesn't help to distance Kevin Spacey from American Beauty. The story moves slowly and really relies on some studio standards to pull the heart strings. I thought I was watching Field of Dreams as the picture ended.The concept is the key. Just having a term for the notion of paying it forward has power. For that concept to reach a mass market could mean a change in cultural thought process. You may call me a dreamer, but I'm not the only one... "},{"Title":"Paying it forward, now there's a thought!","Date":"9 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Pay It Forward is one of those different movies that you wouldn't usually expect Hollywood to produce. As the movie's plot begins to stir, the viewer might think that this is just one of those lame movies about changing the world. However, that is just a premise that gets things moving.The movie is actually a story telling of how one child's idea can have a larger affect than what the child thinks it does. It is the passion he (Haley Joel Osment) shows for his idea and the heartbreak that is caused when he believes that it has not worked.Kevin Spacey scores, while playing an organized, scheduled person who likes things the way they have always been and does not like change. Helen Hunt gives a spark to the movie as a mother who has screwed up her life, but is so desperate to have her son love her she tries to change. Haley Joel Osment, as usual, brightens the screen with his superb acting skills.The movie would probably be most enjoyed by those who are 13+, any younger would probably be bored with the movie. The movie does throw around a good bunch of unnecessary profanity and there is a sexual situation.Overall, the movie ends with your heart feeling moved and your spirits are left high and low. I enjoyed it immensely. It was one of those movies that was not made known, but it should have been.I give it 8/10 "},{"Title":"From the eyes of a child comes a brilliant vision","Date":"9 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie Is by far one of the greatest works I have ever had the privilege of watching.  All of the cast gave Oscar worthy performances in my opinion.  But even with such well done acting, that still becomes secondary.  The story is what really shines.  It isn't an impossible dream. And it wasn't presented as if it were.  Everything that takes place in this film can.  And should, save for one event at the end of the movie.  But as I see it, an event such as happened in the closing scenes may be what needs to take place to make the world wake up, and start Paying It Forward.  Hats off the the writer(s) of this film.  I now know that it is based on a book.  I intend to buy, and read it.  I  CAN highly recommend this film to anyone.  It WILL touch your heart!  Because of that,I intend to Pay It Forward. "},{"Title":"The best movie I have seen in years","Date":"9 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Wow, I was stunned by this movie. It slowly sucks you in and then at the end, POW, hand me a Kleenex please. Not a dry eye in our house watching this one. The idea is so simple but what if people really started paying forward, what a different would we would live in. Again, this movie goes to show that a lot of sex and violence are not necessary for a movie to be a hit, at least with a certain segment of society that have grown weary of those kinds of movies. "},{"Title":"Spare me","Date":"8 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The concept for this movie is fantastic.  I think, however, that the plot would have been better served by less soap opera antics, less big name stars, and more realism.  Kevin Spacey and Helen Hunt had NO CHEMISTRY on screen.  Helen Hunt is being used in a role she just doesn't fit.  I would much rather have seen a new actress than her again.  Spacey's character is, at best, schizophrenic.  He goes from strong to weak in a matter of seconds. His acting was, as usual, fantastic, but he was given a poor character. Haley Joel Osment is still an incredible actor, but they could have given the kid better lines.  I kept waiting for him to say, I see dead people. My opinion of this movie was much, much higher before I got to the end of the movie.  Is it worth seeing?  Yes, the whole concept of Paying it Forward is great.  Just turn off the VCR/DVD when there are about 8 minutes left. The ending is insulting and so unrealistic it reeks of daytime soaps. Want to join the new Pay It Forward movement?  Tell three people to end their viewings early.  Unbelievable how they can screw up a whole movie right at the end. "},{"Title":"This movie was excellent!","Date":"7 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie was the best movie I've seen that teaches a lesson.  Not only are the actors great, but so is the morale of the story.  There is no other movie that can tell people something, that many think can't be done, and make it touching and believable.  Pay it Forward has my two thumbs way up! "},{"Title":"An emotional powerhouse of a motion picture!  Why was it snubbed by the Oscars??","Date":"29 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  When Pay it Forward first came out, people were suspecting Oscar buzz.  Well, after it was released, its performance at the box office wasn't too good, the reviews were mixed and everyone I know was telling me that this movie was bad.  Luckily, I still felt the urge to strut on down to the video store and check it out.This is a truly magnificent film!  Not only is it emotionally powerful, but it's inspiring and has one of the most terrific messages ever delivered in motion pictures.  The idea of Pay it Forward is a quite noble, original and useful concept.  It can actually be applied to the real world.  Instead of paying back the person who has helped you through a sticky situation--though it would be nice to do so--just pass the torch to three others who are also in need of help.  That way it keeps things moving, like a chain letter and this world can gradually become a better place.  It's a hell of a lot better than sitting back, bitching and moaning about the world's problems when you're not doing a damn thing to help.I'm sure a lot of the film's themes will hit home.  Helen Hunt was excellent in a role much different from her usual typecasting.  She plays an alcoholic mother/Vegas waitress, with a sort of trailer-trash attitude.  But deep down inside she wants to better herself.  I'm sure lots of audiences watching this film will be able to relate to her character--those who've grown up with either parent as an alcoholic.  And the whole theme of her husband coming back to see her son, and ending up making things worse, I'm sure will also hit close to home.  Aside from Helen Hunt, the other actors were magnificent as well.  Kevin Spacey delivers yet another magnificent, powerful performance as a burn victim who teaches the 7th grade.  I like how the film never romanticizes his handicap, and at times you forget the burn marks on his face.  Spacey deserved another nomination, and definitely deserved to win over Russell Crowe in Gladiator!  Jim Caviezel delivers a very touching performance as a homeless man/former substance abuser.  Almost every time he appeared on screen, I burst out crying.  Haley Joel Osment delivers a performance even more impressive than his breakout debut in The Sixth Sense.  I just felt this role required more subtlety, and would've been an impressive performance even if he were thirty years older.  This role REALLY proves his knack for acting, and I'm sure he will grow up to win many Oscars.  Let's just hope he doesn't become another Macaulay Culkin...LOL. If the musical score sounds familiar, it was composed by Thomas Newman who also composed the incredible score for American Beauty.  If you notice, the music in this film has a rhythm synonymous to the music in AB.  And just like in Kevin Spacey's previous powerhouse motion picture, it perfectly fits the tone and accentuates the mood of each scene. I can't say I was thrilled with Mimi Leder's past work.  She's a fine director, but I think her previous efforts like Deep Impact and The Peacemaker were just not written very well.  And she didn't have a lot to work with.  The screenplay, this time around, is excellent and she had a lot to work with.  And this time I will congratulate her for bringing such a brilliant motion picture to life.Pay it Forward is REAL drama.  There's absolutely no melodrama, no cheap sentimentality.  This is a great movie that makes you feel good at times, depressed at others (especially at the very end), but always touches your heart.  It tries to display a positive outlook on life, yet at the same time showing us that some things can't be changed and we will never live in a utopian society.  If this movie doesn't touch your heart...I ask you to explore it more deeply.  That's my way of paying it forward to you.My score  10 (out of 10)       "}{"Title":"Predictable, Slow, Stereotype Filled, Letdown","Date":"28 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I was really excited to see this film, because I had heard some  good things about it, and the basic premise sounded promising.  Finally, I rented the DVD last night, and watched it.  To summarize it briefly - the plot is incredibly predictable.  I won't spoil anything plot-wise, but I was just disappointed to see that an idea that is basically great could be wasted on this film.  Kevin Spacey's acting was not nearly as good as his previous films.  Several aspects of the plot that are developed early (such as the homeless man that Trevor first helps) are underdeveloped or dropped altogether.  They decided to focus on the little family circle of Spacey, Helen Hunt, and the boy.  Parts of the movie were very slow. The thing that bothers me the most is that this is the type of plot that I usually like - so it had to be really bad to disappoint me. One thing that I noticed is that the musical score was strikingly similar - almost identical - to the score in American Beauty.  That was a little annoying too. All in all... I give it a 3/10 "},{"Title":"WOW!POwerful","Date":"27 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  When i had heard about this movie i thought well sounds good and has a good cast. Then i saw it. I'm speechless. This movie makes me want to try and change the world. A powerful and very moving story, that makes everyone want to pay it forward. The cast was excellent. Such a touchy and memorable story. I recommend it to everyone just dont forget you tissues. "},{"Title":"A little sappy, bad ending, but worth seeing","Date":"26 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  What can I say. I liked the movie. Insert my comments on the one line summary here. The ending was over the top for the point of the story. Different story, maybe the ending would have worked for me. But, not with this one. Spacey is a good actor. Took some pretty weak, sappy lines and made them work. Helen Hunt is Helen Hunt. You like her/you don't. I do. But Osment was really good. I think it was worth the view just to see the little guy act. Want to feel good, have your heart strings manipulated to be touched, and it's O.K. to not see a great movie. Then rent it. "},{"Title":"Sentimental schlock","Date":"25 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  How did a fine, almost dangerous actor like Kevin Spacey get lured into doing this sentimental pot-boiler? He's very vulnerable, very closed-in, and very good as the man carrying a terrible burden of what happened to cause his disfigurement. Certainly, he's the best thing about the film. Helen Hunt -- well, I never saw her on TV, but I liked her in AS GOOD AS IT GETS. Here, she just reprises that earlier role, and so maybe the answer is she can't act. Osment? What's he going to do when he grows up and there are no more roles for disturbed/gifted/special children in need of adult help? And I hated the editing. The stories did not tie together easily. This has been done much better before (Magnolia, say, but there are many examples.) Normally, I like sentimental movies, from It's a Wonderful Life to Bridges of Madison County. Thought this was a poor example. "},{"Title":"Great movie, but the concept is not original","Date":"24 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is overall a good movie, the acting is believable and it is sometimes quite emotional. Especially regarding Kevin Spacey's character. Although Pay it forward seems like a novel phrase, the concept is by far not original. In fact, the concept of pay it forward as been in practice in my school for as long as anyone can remember (it goes back to the civil war days). Each year the incoming freshmen gets hazed by the upperclassmen, and they pay it forward when they're upperclassmen to the new incoming freshmen class. "},{"Title":"Something truly worthy from art and entertainment","Date":"24 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  We have all heard the line about art being an expression created by man that adds to the quality life by touching the soul in some way.  Pay It Forward is one of those rare films that can be classified as truly worthy art. The story is engaging and timelessly relevant.  The message of hope and faith in humanity is powerful and should touch us all deeply right where we live. Don't miss this film.  More importantly, don't miss the opportunity to open your mind and heart to the possibilities from the idea it presents. "},{"Title":"Almost there, but not quite","Date":"22 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I'm usually a sucker for a story like this.  It's like a story ripped out of a Chicken Soup for the Soul book and thrown on the screen.  Unfortunately, ripping and throwing is about all the care and consideration that was put into this screenplay.  So many elements of the story are so trite and predictable.  The path that the love story would take was crystal clear five minutes into the couple's first interlude.  The scene on the bridge was recycled sappiness that dates at least as far back as It's a Wonderful Life.  And honestly, I can't think of a better example of emotional manipulation than the ending of this movie.  I was surprised and disappointed in myself that I didn't see that ending coming sooner than I did.Having said all of that, I think this movie has in its heart of hearts a noble goal.  Some people are saying, Yeah, the kid had a nice idea and all, but that's just not the way the world works.  Well, whose fault is that?  What they really mean is that that's not the way that PEOPLE work.  By calling it the world they allow themselves to sleep at night feeling like there's some abstract automated mechanized system out there running and making decisions about every aspect of our environment and it would be an exercise in futility to try to oppose it.  They forget or dismiss the fact that this system is set up, run, and maintained by people.  That's us -- you and me.  Knowingly or not, we decide how this world works.  I feel like this movie is trying, however clumsily, to remind us of this fact, and it is for this reason that I hesitate to dismiss it entirely.  In my opinion the film is worth seeing, but I feel like it is artistically little more than a well-acted mosaic with the individual pieces of the picture being fragments taken from films and writings of the past. "},{"Title":"Amazing movie","Date":"22 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  If everyone who sees this movie would follow the rules of Paying it Forward, the world really would change for the better.Utterly fantastic file, extremely emotional and touching. Definitely bring your tissue!Haley, Helen and Kevin are truly fabulous. "},{"Title":"Depressing!","Date":"20 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie was really good, A bit long though and truly depressing. The ending is what made it so sad but I won't give it away you have to see it for yourself. Kudos to Helen Hunt I really liked her in This movie has the trashy but elegant Mom of  Hailey Joel ossmit and she was also great in Dr.T and the women and in Girls just wanna have Fun  (but nobody Tops Sarah Jessica Parker). Anyways back to my summary it was really good but LONG and SAD I give it 8/10  "},{"Title":"Excellent, except for the Hollywood ending.","Date":"20 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  PAY IT FORWARD is a well acted, well made movie, and it *is* worth watching. In a few spots, though, in pushes the sentimentality almost a bit too far, which is tolerable... until the ending which goes right over the top trying to make everybody cry but had the opposite effect on me.  Then it became melodrama and sentimentality on par with James Cameron's TITANIC. Everything leading up to the unnecessary ending, though, is so worth watching that it's hard not to recommend it. "}{"Title":"Pay this film Forward","Date":"19 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is about the life and how it is today.After you have seen the movie i am sure that you will change your life. Haley Joel Osment makes this movie like a true story. Soo go and buy this movie and enjoy "},{"Title":"The trouble with this movie...","Date":"18 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I have been trying to put my finger on what is wrong with this film.  After watching the movie, I knew I liked it but there was something dampering it that and I couldn't put my finger on.  I read several other user comments and still didn't know.  The acting was very good (for the most part), especially Kevin Spacey, and the concept of course was excellent and the story was touching, so what's wrong with it.  Other users are saying it's contrived or the ending is bad or too Hollywood etc. but I can handle a bit of that and that wasn't quite it.  Then, I got it.  I know what the problem is, it's the directing.  I wondered why in one scene, a usually talented actor would be terrible and then good in the next scene.  (It's a fact that bad directing can make even the best actors look terrible.)  And why the movie just didn't seem to flow.  For example the homeless man helping the woman about to jump just kind of stuck there in the middle of the movie after we hadn't seen him for a while and then the scene cut off as quickly as it came.  One complaint was too much of the movie taken over by the romance.  Yes there was a lot of the movie devoted to the romance but they still kept the pay it forward storyline going.  The problem was with how they kept it going, it just didn't flow right. It felt like they just stuck in pay it forward storyline scenes every now and then to let us know they hadn't forgotten the main point of the movie but it just didn't feel right.  I blame it on the directing and whomever else is responsible for the flow of the movie.  The acting is good, the concept is good, the script is good and the ending is okay, (it's just giving us some reality.  If a person lives there life trying to help others, that doesn't mean that there suddenly safe from the dark side of this life.)  I recommend, see this movie for the it's good points but expect to leave with a feeling that it could have been done a lot better. "},{"Title":"needed a stronger script","Date":"18 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  **POSSIBLE SPOILERS TO FOLLOW**I liked this movie, but it was not particularly entertaining.  In other words, I didn't like the heavy-handedness of its delivery.A note on the actors  I love Spacey and Hunt; they're captivating and can create very palpable characters.  I just don't think they were given much to work with, here, in terms of dialogue and progression of character. For example, the love story is real, but details are awkward.  Despite spending several kiss-less dates together, and a sentimental porch-light talk, there was not enough for me to believe that something special had formed between them.  Again, I'll blame the script.  I can see all the elements there, they were simply not collected and delivered well.I am, admittedly, a dreamer.  So the basic foundation of this movie appeals to me.  The theory behind 'paying it forward' (PIF) has this epic quality.  So what if it won't realistically happen.  I share Spacey's character's, Mr. Simonet, enthusiasm as well as his cynicism.  I don't think paying it forward will happen because we just aren't a giving society.You can see my obvious disagreement with the film on this point.  In attempting to say, Hey, we can do it!, the filmmakers provide us with these examples of PIF7th grader brings a heroin addict home for a meal and some cash 7th grader hooks his recovering alcoholic mother up with his teacher homeless alcoholic helps burglar escape store he has just robbed burglar lets young asthmatic be treated before him and his stab wound asthmatic's power-attorney father gives Jag to newly car-less reporter heroin-addict stops woman from jumping off of a bridge 7th grader risks and loses life to defend bullies from hurting friendI guess they all sound good on paper.  But I can summarize each of them in 12 words or less--and accurately describe how they were presented in the movie.  It infuriates me that they can use stereotypes to express how PIF works, and then expect us to make the jump from those paper thin examples to deeds we can do in the real world.  Why not have more like the best one I haven't listed yet--it stands on its own as the best PIF in the movie.Daughter forgives mother....because it is a true act of forgiveness when the lines have been drawn and the emotional walls have been built.  Hunt's character may never have done this--that's the altruism of the act.  That's what the little kid's goal was.  To step outside the established regimen of pride and social behavior.  To do the things we'd always do if our lives were movies and it was the big climax when the son needs to forgive his father before he dies, or the friends learn to cooperate or the team puts aside their pride to accomplish greater tasks.There's just no connection to the people paying it forward and me, in the audience.  Maybe this is because the concept is still too radical for me to think it logical--years of media and the world programming me not to trust anyone.  Maybe it was bad acting.  Maybe the scenarios were just too wistful, the product of one too many days in development with bad writers.I just couldn't connect.  A nice movie.  Great acting.  The child-actor didn't even ruin it for me--and it usually does.  A good message.  But they lost the heart of this movie somewhere along the way, as is so often the case with that many millions of dollars involved in production of Hollywood films.I've gone and gotten all sappy.  Oh well. Though it's not my line, I like saying it anywaysHello and goodbye, as always. "},{"Title":"Beauty & Modern Society...why are they opposites?","Date":"16 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie received mixed reviews, but this quote by the young Mr. Osment really explains it allI think some people are too scared to think things can be different&#133;I guess it's hard for some people who are so used to things the way they are; even if they're bad, to change. And they give up, and when they do&#133;everybody loses.Plain and simple I went through the registration process @ IMDb just so I could vote on this movie. I've seen Pay if Forward twice now, and I like it even more after watching it the second time. This movie is beautiful. If this movie doesn't touch your heart, then maybe `your ass isn't good enough to touch' the concept of Paying it Forward.When you try and place a movie like this one with such a beautiful message onto a scale, the message is tarnished. Simply put this movie brings a tear to the eye and warms the heart. If you're in the mood to have something make a positive effect on your life, watch this film. If not, watch a movie with drugs, guns, and whores and then ask what it is you'd like to perpetuate in this life Kindness or Hatred.  "},{"Title":"Good, not great movie, with good performances.","Date":"15 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I was a little disturbed by some of the comments that I read on the comments board about this film.  While I recognize the film has flaws (stretched believability, the tear-jerker ending), it had plenty of strengths (a fascinating premise, a good plot, good actors).  I really enjoyed watching this movie.  Kevin Spacey and Haley Joel Osmet were excellent. "},{"Title":"good message","Date":"14 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** the overall message of the movie was really good. the acting was really good, but if you haven't seen it yet, stop the movie when jay mohr interviews the kid! you will walk away from this movie wanting to make the world a better place. if you haven't seen it yet, stop reading now, or i will ruin the movie for you. now, i have to say that the end of the movie just killed it for me. it made me cry so bad, & just made the movie seem pointless. like the kid did all that work for nothing. like, ok, he did his 3 good deeds, now he has to die or something. what were the directors thinking?!  "},{"Title":"The latest 'Variegation' on a 'Banality of Good' (also)","Date":"13 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"   Any less-than-visual variegations on the moral philosophicaltheme of this, a film that has a MEANING,  must also residewithin a like inherence to Faith. And could never surpass this                 Film d'Auteur, extraordinair !     The still-possible World, as classroom-without-walls    to be changed, by the high class performances not the least,    from the 7th Grade Soc. Stds. class of a most gifted actor    playing the foible-ridden, forcibly-articulate, 'gifted' teacher. "},{"Title":"Grieving Las Vegas","Date":"13 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Despite the emotional tide that overtakes the final moments of this film, the darn thing just doesn't work.  I think the cause of this film's failure is the casting of three (count 'em, three) of Hollywood's biggest stars.  Osment would be a perfect fit as the kid inspired to change the world, but having Oscar owners Hunt and Spacey shoehorned in (playing roles they are far from perfect for) demands that the film leave Osment for blind alleys and side trips that don't pay - forward or back.  To prove my point, look at the other comments that rave about the leads' acting.  You never forget that you are watching good talent at work and get lost in the story, as you should.  Jay Mohr, Jon Bon Jovi and Angie Dickinson join Spacey and Hunt in the miscast category; their small stories upstaged by their star presence.  Likewise, Thomas Newman's neo-modern scoring (so perfect for THE PLAYER) is cold and out of place in this heart-tugger.   "},{"Title":"Worth the watch.","Date":"12 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is worth the watch. The acting is great, the story is cool but the movie falls short of being hokey and stupid. The score is awesome (by THOMAS NEWMAN)! Spacey is great as usual. Hunt is very good as a drunk. Haley Osment makes the show (probably because he's the youngest and newest). But I'm sorry but Bon Jovi has never acted SO BADLY in his life! See the movie and it can either move you, or make you laugh and feel stupid to waste your money on this movie.6.5/10    "},{"Title":"two-and-a-half for acting, one-half for the vehicle","Date":"8 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is an astonishingly awful movie, given the level of the three main performances, by Spacey, Hunt and Osment.  Even worse than the melange of plotlines, the determination to work in at least one effective moment from every known genre of film, from Meet John Doe to The Parent Trap to Dead Poets Society to Grand Canyon (and that's only a sampling), is the film's unctuous air of self-congratulation, over an idea of numbing naivete -- a kind of pyramid-scheme for Samaritanism, in fact rather less virtue than one is required to practice if one subscribes to any of the world's major religions.  We're supposed to be as kind as we can to everyone, right from the start, not wait till somebody does something nice for us, then dole out our awakened goodness to a shortlist of three selected recipients. Others who have dispraised Pay it Forward have softened their censure by speaking of its heart in the right place or its good intentions. But as is betrayed by its hauling in of an audience-tested cliche from every successful movie it could think of, its only real intention was to make a pile of money (in which I believe it failed).  The makers could have demonstrated commitment to their theme by handing out the price of admission to three deserving cases for every one who bought a ticket to see this dud.  That didn't happen, either. "}{"Title":"How to change the world with love, courage and determination.","Date":"17 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  One of the most wonderful movies I've seen in a long time. A boy who wants, not only his own world, but the entire world to change for the better.  At his first day in 7th grade, he gets inspired by a motivational talk and assignment from his teacher (Kevin Spacey). -  Then the movie just takes off.  I wasn't even aware I was watching a movie. Even the child actor played so convincingly that I was totally absorbed in the point of the movie and the amazing direction that it carried me off to. - The ending provides a few tears, but I left with a smile on my face and a determination to take the assignment myself. - Not so much action for those looking for that, but the action is all in the heart. Let's all pay it forward. "},{"Title":"Well...","Date":"12 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I have a fond spot for  Pay It Forward, because it was the movie I saw during a recent cross-country trip. The three main actors did a good job, and I think Kevin Spacey was much better here than in American Beauty. I just couldn't buy him and Helen Hunt as a couple, but I digress. Haley Joel Osment is excellent as always, playing a sensitive and impressionable young kid. This film had a great premise, but sometimes premises look better on paper. Case in point, the HORRIBLE ending, the throwaway subplot of Angie Dickinson as the alcoholic grandmother, and Jon Bon Jovi in the small role as Hunt's estranged husband. (Couldn't they have cast an unknown in that part and not someone so recognizable?) Not a horrible film, but it could have been a lot better. "},{"Title":"The sad part is what might have been","Date":"3 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a disgustingly manipulative movie that could, and should, have been much better. It is well acted by all the principals and begins with an original premise presented by the Osment character in reaction to an assignment from his social studies teacher (Spacey), i.e., that if everyone performed a benevolent act for other people, and each of these 3 did likewise, a chain of good would be created that might engulf the whole world. If the film had stayed with this idea and let it take it to wherever it might naturally lead, it might have been an excellent film, even a minor classic. But this principal idea is soon abandoned and the film degenerates into a perfectly predictable soap opera, with Osment trying to spark a romance between his reclusive and wounded teacher and his recovering alcoholic, trailer trash the character's words mother (Helen Hunt). Despite their obviously being from two different worlds, will they end up in the sack together? What do you think? Will her no good, abusive husband shown up on her doorstep, saying he's changed, and beg to be taken back? Will she take him back? If you've seen more than three movies in your life, you know the answers to these questions, too.All of the above would have made this just an ordinary bad film. What makes this descend into true wretchedness, however, is the ending, which I won't reveal here. Suffice it to say that this ending makes even Hollywood's most maudlin tearjerkers seem like works of art in comparison. Why? Because the ending is so gratuitous and so unrelated to anything that went before. I don't know how well this thing did at the box office. I'm inclined to think not too well, because it didn't stay around too long. But the studio deserves to loose its shirt on this one, and I hope it does. "},{"Title":"Not a terrible film, just not really worth getting excited about.","Date":"11 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This had potential to be a really great film -- I mean its starring roles are played by two oscar winners and one oscar nominee, and top that off with the brilliant director of Deep Impact. But alas, this film is no deep impact itself P. The entire thing feels forced and unnatural. Contrived, even. Very disappointing. Not a terrible film, just not really worth getting excited about. "},{"Title":"Let It Be!","Date":"10 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Ignore the naysayers and enjoy a heartwarming story with excellent performances from all, especially Osment.  You know or have heard of the concept of paying it forward. So watch and enjoy. Then go out and DO IT!  "},{"Title":"Crap","Date":"9 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It's frankly too bad to see any project with talent such as in 'Pay it Forward' suck as much as this film ultimately does. I felt embarrassed for Hunt and Spacey--undisputedly priceless and tremendous actors--for being involved in this trite, fluffy piece of Hollywood crap. As far as the young Osment, I'm curious to see him in another movie. His performance in 'The Sixth Sense' is impressive considering his age, but Oscar-worthy, about as worthy as Gwyneth Paltrow's winning over Cate Blanchett in 1998. In this film, if he's not whimpering unconvincingly, he's busy trying (unconvincingly) to be an icon of innocence for the adults in his world to take example of. Please don't fall victim to this film's abusive attempts to manipulate your emotions with After-school special caliber traumas, dramas and tragedies...if you do fall prey to this emotional man-handling, you just may be fooled into thinking that this sap-fest makes some critical social commentaries and that all of the unrealistic events may possibly change the world.  Yuck.  "},{"Title":"A movie with great potential but ultimately disappointing.","Date":"6 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The three central actors were excellent (and I thought all were well cast). The basic premise was very interesting and initially well developed. However it seemed to lose its way in the middle.  Subsequently it appeared to be coming together... then came the appalling ending making me wish I'd not gone to see the movie (and I haven't felt that way about a movie in a long time).10/10 for the acting but overall only 5/10. "},{"Title":"Shallow, predictable","Date":"4 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Although this movie strives to look like American Beauty 2 (similar soundtrack, air photo of the private neighborhood), it is shallow and predictable. You can see why each part got itself into the script, like seeing the backside of making the movie while watching it. There are more creative ways to teach people good ideas, let's hope they'll be chosen next time. "},{"Title":"sort of wishy washy","Date":"4 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  *******Warning Spoilers******Kevin Spacey and Helen Hunt acted well in their respective roles of school teacher and alcolohic single parent. Apart from that, the premise of the movie, repaying  favors forward, seemed to go out of steam midway thru the movie. Spaceys young student, Trevor, who gets this idea of passing on favors to stangers, i.e, 'pay it forward', apparently from his mom and grandmom (as we are later made to beleive), picks up a tramp and brings him to his home and it turns out to be a model tramp, all kind and grateful and eager to pay  back the favor. There are various weak, pointless characters thrown in like the high-profile lawyer and the criminal all secretly doing favors to the world. This type of moralizing occupies most of the latter part of the movie and makes one feel embarassed as it piles up. In the end the kid is unneccesarily killed to give a rather pointless ending to the movie. "},{"Title":"The best and worst movie that I have ever seen","Date":"3 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Before I saw this movie, I read an article in People magazine calling this an over dramatized piece of muck.  I believe their saying was pay it no mind.  I knew that People magazine never liked any of the movies that they reviewed so I went to go see it anyway.  I mean it did have Haley Joel Osment, Kevin Spacey, and Helen Hunt in it.  And they are some of the best actors that I know of.  But not even they could save this movie.  I love the idea of paying it forward, and I love the actors in this movie.  But the script was just horrible.  Every single scene was milked to make it as sappy and over dramatized as possible.  Haley Joel Osment is in it, so I knew that it would be one of those tear jerking movies, but this is ridiculous. Especially that scene with Spacey throws down his groceries and tells Hunt the how he got his burns.  This is definitely one of those books that never should have been made into a movie.  And then the just added fuel to the fire of hatred.  Do yourself a favor and wait for it to come on cable. "}{"Title":"not bad","Date":"2 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I enjoyed this film. It was a good drama with effective portrayals in the leads by Mr. Spacey, Mr. Osment, and Ms. Hunt.When student Osment (I kept expecting him to say I see dead people) gets an assignment from teacher Spacey, he sets out on a crusade to make a difference in the world by spreading random acts of kindness.The ending might seem a bit cruel, but that's a minor jolt. This film will make a difference in your life.*** out of **** "},{"Title":"A 'nice' movie.","Date":"2 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I had been looking forward to seeing this movie, ever since I saw the trailer, I wasn't disappointed. An excellent cast, however I do think maybe Helen Hunt was not the perfect choice, perhaps someone with a bit less of a 'clean' image would have been better, her character did not seem to take on a stereotypical drunk image, she might as well have been addicted to coffee. However, another thought was, ***NO SPOILER*** in order to balance out the ending, I think it would have been better to concentrate on the people 'paying it forward', than on Kevin Spacey's character, then the ending would not have been disjointed. I would like to have seen a more complete picture on the lengths and sacrifices the people were going through, rather than Kevin Spacey's personal discoveries. Apart from all of that, it was a really nice movie, I  enjoyed it. If you are looking for a movie with no violence and easy to watch, then this is it. "},{"Title":"One of the most offensive pieces of claptrap ever!","Date":"18 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I know there are a lot of people who have probably been touched by this evil little film.  Well, all I can say to that is -- WAKE UP!  Actually, I could say a lot more but I won't.  This pseudo-religious film is typical of the self-righteous malarkey that Hollywood spews out in an attempt to change a world it has no understanding of.  This is one of those films filled with overstated performances, condescending portraits of common people, and probably one of the most manipulative, sickest uplifting endings of all time.  If you truly want to pay it forward, tell three people not to see this sham of a film and encourage them to tell three more.  "},{"Title":"Pseudo-critical and incredibly soppy melodrama","Date":"17 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Every year, it's the same situation everybody complains (justifiably) about how basically similar and boring Hollywood's production line has become, and then along come a few interesting, innovative and critical films, and all of a sudden Hollywood is once again a symbol for all that's good about cinema. Last year, we had films like Gladiator, Erin Brockovich and American Beauty that managed to break the mould of run-of-the-mill movie-making.And now here is Pay It Forward, one of those films that have got some critics hoping again. It's a film that can be compared to American Beauty in the way it questions and explores the substance/illusion of the American dream. The idea that drives the story is a simple reversal of convention instead of paying favours back, you pay them forward (hence the title), in this case to three lucky people. This utopian principle, invented by an innocent schoolkid (Haley Joel Osment) is applied through a variety of more or less tragic figures from the suburbs of Las Vegas.The film is directed by Mimi Leder, one of the few women with any influence inside the studio system. She has now become the kind of director Hollywood adores with a background in TV series, she has recently tried her hand at all sorts of genres, including the action movie (The Peacemaker), the disaster movie (Deep Impact) and now - well, what shall we call it? - a pseudo-critical and incredibly soppy melodrama.It has to be said that the cast is excellent. Kevin Spacey, sporting heavy make-up (but, strangely enough, only in the scenes where it matters to the storyline), is, for a change, overshadowed by the recently very busy and, in this case, brilliantly countercast Helen Hunt. But the star is 12-year-old Haley Joel Osment, who has already secured his place in cinema history with the catchphrase I see dead people. Sadly, James Caviezel (The Thin Red Line), an enormously talented actor, has very little screentime here, and seems to have had a lot of his footage cut out in post-production. But the interplay between these top-rate actors remains fascinating and, no doubt, entertaining.In terms of social critique, Pay It Forward is light-years removed from the vicious satire of, say, Todd Solondz's Happiness. In this new film, important contemporary issues like alcohol, violence at school and social tensions are treated only superficially at best, and any good impressions the director might have created are completely destroyed by bolting on a cringingly sentimental ending to what is a surprisingly cold movie.When you are immersed and emotionally involved in a movie's storyline, there is nothing wrong with a tear-jerker of an ending. But with this ultimately detached movie, the contrived ending is at odds with a film that promised a fitting conclusion to an interesting premise.Sometimes, you just wish you could take a film back to the cutting room and banish the last few minutes to the waste bin. This is yet another example of a film that simply refuses to end. The finale is stretched out so much that it is doubtful whether even the most empathizing viewer could really be happy with it. "},{"Title":"By far the best movie I have seen this year and last","Date":"8 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The idea is so simple. Do something good to three people and then these three people do something real good to three each. Just calculate how soon the world would be reached with this simple plan.But in the movie realism never leaves the screen. For the boy who thought of the idea (Haley Joel Osment in another splendid, Oscar deserving role) it does not work out. Worse even, the working out of his own plan will cost him his life.The stories behind the main characters are so realistic and so brilliantly set to screen, that at times the movie shocks you and scares you. Yes, this is happening in the world. Kevin Spacey and Helen Hunt both deserve Oscars as well for a brilliant performance of very difficult characters.Mimi Leder has done it again (the last movie directed by her was Deep Impact). There are no heroes here who save the world. There are people here who struggle with their past and present lives, but in the struggle find a way to do good to others, even if that means sacrificing themselves.The way all this is presented on screen is so real, so life as it is, that it will always touch you, whoever you are and whatever you are in this world. Thank you Mimi Leder, thank you Joel Osment, thank you Kevin Spacey and thank you Helen Hunt, for making this the best movie I have seen in the last few years. Just makes you wonder why this movie is away from the cinemas after only two weeks...........jan "},{"Title":"Ending ruined it for me","Date":"8 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Without revealing too many details- why, oh why, did they feel the need to end the movie like that? It was fine, if not unspectacular, up until that point, but a good ending would have been satisfying. An unnecessary, extraneous attempt at pulling at the audience's heartsrtings went wrong, in my opinion.  "},{"Title":"sad, but fulfilling","Date":"3 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Despite the emotional emptiness that the movie might leave you with, a great part of it is devotion to ambition, and I add it to my short list of inspiring films (Gattacca, The Shawshank Redemption, Bringing out the Dead).The plot itself is funny and entertaining in many parts, mixed with heart wrenching scenes between Trevor, Arlene and Eugene. The acting is top notch (without a doubt in my mind) from all the actors, the casting is near-perfect. Even Jon Bon Jovi plays a pretty good street-person.I recommend this movie to those who want something more than just a Hollywoodesque ending. The script is fairly polished, although there are some seemingly overdone dialogues which make Trevor unbelievable as a child at times. However, despite these minor flaws, the film proves itself to be extremely entertaining while carrying important messages.As a film, its not the best I have seen, but it certainly is one that I came away with a lot more than I expected to. "},{"Title":"Complete Movie","Date":"28 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The last time I saw Kevin Spacey in a movie it was the much lauded, and much hyped, American Beauty.  I could never understand the furore surrounding this film - in my opinion it was boring and overhyped.Pay It Forward is the movie that AB should have been.  There are outstanding performances all round, and a great storyline.  The central idea is so simple, but so brilliant, and the way that its spread throughout the country is portrayed is very well done.  If only 'pay it forward' worked in the real world!I have read criticism of this film that the ending is overly 'smaltzy', but I can't agree - it is entirely in keeping with the rest of the film, and entirely appropriate.  A great movie - don't miss it! "},{"Title":"If you want to see something emotionally inspiring and can put up with the schmaltz","Date":"22 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie with Kevin Spacey, Helen Hunt and boy wonder (Sixth Sense) Haley Joel Osmet, will either inspire and uplift you, or will help you regurgitate your popcorn into the empty bag. The Pay it Forward idea is similar to the equally new-age random acts of kindness only it becomes a sort of chain-mail of good deeds. In the movie, a schoolboy develops it in response to a social studies project. At first, it doesn't seem to work but a reporter traces the chain back and proves its worth. Osmet's mother is played by Helen Hunt, an abused, alcoholic, go-go bar waitress who is desperately trying to make things work and get back on track. His teacher is played by Spacey, and suffers from a deformity caused by extensive burns. Perhaps because I'm not really a very cynical person at heart except in fun, I came out of the cinema inspired and emotionally energized. But someone else would come out painfully aware of the Hollywood-style manipulation in this film. Having read the plot summary, I expected fine acting (which you get) to rescue an abysmal story and make it a watchable weepie. Instead, for all its string-pulling, I felt Pay it Forward said made its point in a thought-provoking and realistic way. One I'd recommend. "},{"Title":"The Academy should be looking into this movie.","Date":"15 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The absolute best movie I have ever seen.  True, it did not do well at the Box Office and, true that it being a PG-13 limited Kevin Spacey, but I thought that all three lead actors (Spacey, Helen Hunt, and Haley Joel Osment) all did amazing, and the story was incredible.  I was highly disappointed when none of the leads received Globe nominations, and I hope, though unfortunately doubt, that they receive Oscar nominations, due to the fact that this was an outstanding attempt as a moral movie, and we all know the Academy goes for movies that are completely politically correct and amoral. "}{"Title":"A great small film","Date":"14 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I went to a discount screen house,knowing zero about this flick.I was very impressed.I am sorry that the general public can't embrace a film of this quality.It was a great cast,and story that held up well.At some points I must admit the film was somewhat disjointed,but at the same time a good production. Let's face it,alot more moving than Rambo,etc... "},{"Title":"Beautiful movie, but not flawless","Date":"12 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  First  Warning spoilers!!! If you don't want to know the ending, don't read on!!!This must be one of the most positive movies I have seen in the last couple of years. LIFE DOES NOT SUCK if you put some effort into it.This bittersweet story about a teacher challenging 7th graders to change the world, resulting in a little kid making up a system to make the world a little better. When somebody does something for you totally unselfish you have to pay it forward to three other complete strangers. This is the basic storyline for the movie.The acting was absolutely marvelous. Kevin Spacey cannot play a bad role, I am convinced of that. After his staggering display of suburban family life in American Beauty he returns as the tormented teacher Eugene Simonet who himself is afraid to change the world because he feels secure in his little world. The change in his life arrives in the form of Arlene McKinney (Helen Hunt), mother of the little boy who is a closet drunk and is unsure what life will become in the future, her life changes as well when she meets Eugene through the works of her son Trevor (Haley Joel Osment). Trevor just wants a steady home without his drinking father being a part of it.The primary cast (Spacey, Hunt, Osment) are very very good in this movie. They really move you and make you fell for them. Staggering to say the least. Osment delivers another powerhouse performance after his exquisite portrayal of the plagued boy in The Sixth Sense, he is absolutely adorable in this film. The rest of the cast, though, I am not so sure of. They deliver good performance but nothing that really stands out as near as good as the three leads, especially Jon Bon Jovi was terrible and unconvincing.The story on the other had trouble finding the right pace. I understand that it is difficult to edit two different timelines into one solid story, but Leder really missed the boat on this one. It was really to keep track of where the story wanted to go and the sheer amount of sidesteps in the story was very distracting from what the movie was really about, the relationship between the three leads.Honorable mention goes out to the make-up department for the wonderful accomplishment on the wounds on Spacey's face and body. This is Oscar-worthy material.I am aware that every visionary that ever lived was killed too early in their lives (King, Kennedy, Lennon, Biko etc etc) but why did Osment have to die in this flick. I think the movie would have benefited far better from an up-beat ending rather than Osment being the martyr for his ideas. The ending in itself was ludicrously American, I think if this ending was forced on Leder than it would have been better to stop the movie with Osment on the TV screen than having the whole world come to Las Vegas to pay tribute to Trevor in his front yard. Wrong choice, it left me unfulfilled, Leder slipped this one.When it comes to Leder, I have not seen Sentimental Journey yet, but I think she should practice more with not having all the grandeur in her films, I think she has potential to make a really moving film but her Americanistic big thinking always gets in the way (i.e. Deep Impact). She should take a good look at movies like Wonderland (Winterbottom, 1999) or Festen (Vinterberg, 1998).And than a little piece on the soundtrack, which was absolutely fabulous by Thomas Newman (American Beauty, Erin Brockovich). His work is becoming very recognizable in this business which is a good thing, because he has made some of the best and most moving soundtracks for movies in the past years. Riveting.I do not give this movie a 10 or a 9 but an 8 because of the flaws explained above. But it was good enough movie.8/10 "},{"Title":"What the","Date":"11 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Why was kevin spacey in this. I can understand why helen hunt (The actress who plays the same character in everything) was in it, but why kev. This movie had a good idea and ruined every aspect of it, then pasted on the field of dreams ending. They literally went into the movie vault, cut footage from field of dreams and pasted it onto this movie. I laughed out loud when it happened. Two good movies came out in 2000. Almost famous and meet the parents. That's it. What a horrible year for movies. If this is nominated for anything, it will show just how horrible of a year it was. "},{"Title":"An amazing experience!","Date":"30 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The theory behind Pay It Forward is that of brilliance.  An eleven year old boy takes a challenge set by his social studies teacher and fulfil the assignment to some amazing results.  The challenge that Mr. Simonet (Kevin Spacey) has made goes as followed; Think of an idea that can change the world -- and take it into action!The brave eleven year old, Trevor McKinney, is played by Haley Joel Osment (The Sixth Sense).  The acting skills of the youth has already created a reputation for little Osment as an astounding thespian.  But the heroic character he plays in Pay It Forward is so believable it will put you to tears.  You will discover a piece of inner unity as Osment leads you to it.Pay It Forward also stars Helen Hunt as the mother of Trevor, an alcoholic struggling two jobs, an abandoned husband, and a son who avoids her offerings of love.  On Arlene McKinney's journey of life she meets Trevor's Teacher Mr. Eugene Simonet.  She is baffled with Eugene's mysteriously shy character.  Together the two seek out to help Trevor in his theory of paying it forward.Pay It Forward was inspired Catherine Ryan Hyde's novel, and is almost an exact reflection of the story.  Pay It Forward tackles on various issues. This film discusses everything from domestic violence and child abuse to faith and education.  It can fit anyone's choice of category.Life is full of irony and Pay it Forward proves it.  Although it may not be one of the best movies of all time, and maybe not even the best movie of the new millennium -- Pay it Forward comes close.  If any movie has ever left me so intrigued, it was this one.  It is splendidly acted, enchanting, and puts a positive idea on changing the world for the benefit of society. "},{"Title":"the theme is uncertain","Date":"28 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  You know, I'm not sure I would have seen this movie if not for the actors in it.  Sam Gray is not my real name and, as you might guess, a guy that uses Gray as the last name of his alias isn't going to be much interested in cinema fluff.  However, Kevin Spacey is a personal favorite actor of mine, and I've seen all of his films since 1994.  I've also enjoyed Hunt's work in her better movies, and I was tremendously impressed by Haley Joel Osment in The Sixth Sense.  But, this movie, along with Nurse Betty and Spacey's last film, The Big Kahuna, has convinced me that maybe actors alone aren't the thing to pay attention to when selecting a film.But, there is some good news in Pay It Forward.  Osment proves here that he's the real thing, and I'm looking forward to seeing him in Speilberg's hands for the upcoming A.I.  I also think Spacey and Hunt give very good (even if occasionally overacted) performances.  And the fluff isn't laid too thick, as the film is sometimes fairly depressing.The problem, though, is that Pay It Forward isn't sure what it wants its audience to feel.  Is the movie optimistic or pessimistic?  It seems to want to be both, with great extreme in both directions; the ending is a wildly mixed message.The movie's opening ten or fifteen minutes are pretty shaky, too.Still, I must admit I found the film to be watchable, and it was more when I started to think about it afterwards that I really started to have problems with it.  I credit the three leads for that, and so this film gets a higher rating from me than in probably deserves.  6/10 "},{"Title":"Go and try to help someone!","Date":"21 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I just love the story and feel so close to my heart.  When I was very young, I started to realized that there are many people who were so loving and caring for me.  However, many of them I had never had a chance to repay them, because either they were dead or they are too far to reach, some even strangers that I never knew who they were.  I had thought of how to repay them, so one day I suddenly told myself that those who helped me had never asked me to repay them; the best way is to help or love or care someone without asking them to pay back, and hope that they were refer this kind of special touch to others.  I don't know how much I had done, but I became a custom to it.  I just like to do something for someone, and I never expect anything from them, only wishing they would help or care or love others the way I did.  That is why I really like this movie, it touches my heart. Don't you all watch it and feel that we could do something to change not only three persons but as many as we could.  If you don't like this movie, hope you still find when you try something like the boy had done, you might help yourself too.  Yet I would encourage you to watch with some thoughts, and find the message it try to send through.The ending was sad that was the set back of this movie, yet it was emotional for me to cry and I do know the violence occurred in many American schools, and glad that in Malaysia, our children are safer than that.  "},{"Title":"Pay this film its dues","Date":"14 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Kevin Spacey won the academy award for the wrong movie. I can't believe such an awful movie like American Beauty would land him Pay It Forward was an extremely touching, moving and inspiring film that will touch everyone who sees it; furthermore, it is a movie that will take your breath away.Haley Joel Osment returns to the screen with a bang. Osment portrays Trevor McKinney, a seventh grader who turns a ordinary homework assignment into a mission to change the world. Kevin Spacey rebounds well from a disappointing American Beauty to take the role of Eugene Simmonette, Trevor's teacher. Spacey showed why he was the man for this role by taking the bull by the horns and tackling like it was just another day at the office. His performance screamed YES!!!!! this is the guy I want on my side because he was unafraid to to stand up for his beliefs and convictions as well as lend an ear to the problems that Trevor is facing.Osment was good in The Sixth Sense but he is deserving of an oscar for Pay It Forward because he not only touches the lives of the people he helps but those who are around him with the spirit and enthusiasm he exudes in Pay It Forward. Who would have thought a seventh grader would touch so many lives simply by completing his homework. Adding to this awesome movie is Jay Mohr, who plays the reporter following the story of this idea that Trevor has came up with. Pay It Forward is a movie that will stick in my mind for years to come because it contains the message that there are people places and ideas you can change to make the world a better place. This film also delivers hope that maybe if one does a good deed for someone they will in turn do one for someone else and may discontinue the violent acts. Pay It Forward is a credit to all the writers and director because the actors were able to deliver top performances with an outstanding script and direction. If I never see another movie this year I will be satisfied.Pay It Forward gets my vote for the best film of the year and my commendation for Kevin Spacey and Haley Joel Osment. SEE IT!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"A deeply moving character study with terrific performances. ***1/2 (out of four)","Date":"11 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  PAY IT FORWARD / (2000) ***1/2 (out of four)To my sorrowful surprise, Pay it Forward received some negative reviews, tearing it apart due to preachy themes and overconfidence. The film, directed well by Mimi Leder (Deep Impact, The Peacemaker,), does contain an emotional message that eventually goes over the top. For the  most part, though,  it is careful not to be exceedingly peachy and stays down to earth, touching base with the majority of an audience. When the subject gets too serious, or when the stakes feel too trite, the movie also offers light-hearted comic relief, although it feels somewhat out of place. Pay it Forward fares as a better than average character study where those characters control where the plot goes, instead of the plot controlling where they go.Trevor McKinny of Las Vegas is the main character here, and is played by the wonderfully talented Haley Joel Osment, who may have well taken over where Macaulay Culkin left off. Trevor is a character with a lot going on in his life, and is only eleven-years young. His mother, Arlene (Helen Hunt), is a struggling alcoholic who works two jobs as a waitress to make ends meet. His father, who left him and his mother due to alcohol issues, has not been seen for months, and it is his first day of school in the seventh grade.One of his teachers is Eugene Simonet (Kevin Spacey), an uncommonly intelligent individual whose physical scars shelter deeper emotional turmoil. Eugene is yet another complex character, with a disturbing circle of being and a motive for the first assignment he gives Trevor's class. The project, for extra credit, is to literally change the world in any way. Trevor reacts hesitantly with a contrived line of dialogue (Are you saying you'll flunk us if we don't change the world?), and Eugene remarks with similar contrivances (Well, no. But you might just scrape by with a C.).Trevor's plan, called Pay it Forward, is pyramid-like in which one person will help three other individuals do something they would not normally be able to do on their own, and in turn those people will do the same to three others and continue the growing trend. We witness this plan in action through an underdeveloped sub-plot starring Jay Mohr as a journalist from L.A. who smells a decent story involved with Trevor's outgoing scheme, and tries desperately to track him down.What Pay it Forward does best is provide a character study that is passionate, empathetic, and emotionally challenging. The characters are deep, three dimensional, artistic and contain human depth. The film, based on the book by Catherine Ryan Hyde, has the same style as last year's gem, American Beauty, with an inspiring soundtrack providing a heartfelt backdrop for the story. This is a movie about tragedy and compassion and what can happen when someone like Trevor attempts to make a difference in the world.  "},{"Title":"Great acting in moving film.","Date":"10 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Great acting by the three principals. However, how much you like the film will depend on how you are affected by the ending. Either you will recognize that as the point to which the film has logically been heading or it will strike you as shamelessly manipulative. It appears Haley Joel Osment can do no wrong. He should have a great career in film. Helen Hunt gives an emotionally honest performance as his mother. Kevin Spacey follows up his triumph in American Beauty with another moving portrayal. Thank goodness Robin Williams wasn't given the part! "},{"Title":"Why was this ending chosen?","Date":"8 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I know that major films are made with more than one ending and tested on audiences. Why was the ending used for this movie chosen? It turns an excellent movie into a very good one, and tainted my viewing. This story caught me up, emotionally involved me, them dumped sentimental, manipulative slop all over me in the last 15-20 minutes. Oscar worthy performances by the three leads, so I would say rent it and see for yourself. I can understand why it nosedived at the box office. "}{"Title":"Like the proverbial Chinese meal, the film left me hungry an hour later","Date":"7 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I had such high hopes for this film, but despite stellar performances from the leading actors, the film ultimately disappoints.  You'll laugh, you'll cry, but then you'll wonder why.  Why were there not more scenes of folks paying it forward? Why did the film spend so much time on the romance between Kevin Spacey and Helen Hunt, and so little time laying the necessary ground work so that we could believe in the ending?  There was a good story here, but it got lost in filmmakers attempts to win Oscars for Spacey and/or Hunt.  Too bad.  That said, it's still worth catching on video. "},{"Title":"Interesting Idea","Date":"25 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Haley-Joel Osment portrays his character superbly and really makes you think about Paying It Forward to people you know or maybe those you don't know. Kevin Spacey and Helen Hunt both deliver great performances as well, and Helen Hunt changes her image as playing an alcoholic mother. This movie proves that Helen Hunt can act and deliver a great performance and not be the heroine or the character with it all together.And I felt that having a few stories going on in the movie helped the movie's range and showed the audience that anyone can be helped and that even if they don't do it right away, most people are good and will Pay It Forward if given the chance.I was expecting a drama/comedy/romance movie and it lived up to all that and more, I felt. Haley-Joel Osment showed in his performance that he is not a one-hit wonder and that after The Sixth Sense he can still make the audience believe in him and his character. He is one to watch in the future and I hope he eventually gets his Academy Award (I do NOT think that Michael Caine deserved it over Osment).Overall a very entertaining movie, one with many fine performances by terrific actors. 4 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"5 stars!!","Date":"23 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Do you think the world can change from the perspective of this movie? Its a wonderful movie, it has this warm human touch, like Phenomenon, had never seen a movie like this since Phenonmenon you are going to cry a lot. It has 2 oscar winners (Kevin spacey and Helen Hunt) their acting its ok but i dont think their papers were for getting another oscar, and Haley acted better in the 6th since he was very good in this one but no, no oscar for you lil' dude. But if you want to see a very good movie see this one and lets see if you can pay it foward... "},{"Title":"Great movie- hated the ending!","Date":"17 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Pay it Forward is a great concept. I wanted so much to love this movie. The casting, the acting and the whole pretense of the film were all wonderful. Everything,that is except the tear jerking Hollywood ending. I'm sure that if they had pre-tested the ending of this film like they do with many films, e.g., Fatal Attraction, in which they shot a new ending because test audiences hated it, they would have come up with the reaction that the ending was unimaginative, contrived, out of place and unnecessary. There were so many other ways this movie could have ended better.  What was the ultimate lesson of the film? If you help people your going to end up screwed?  Overall worth seeing but be prepared to cry and be annoyed with Hollywood. "},{"Title":"Pretty good!","Date":"16 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Despite all the nay-sayers in this forum, Pay It Forward is a  good film! Sure, there are some sappy elements and the timeline of the story is a little twisted... but if you see this film it will leave you wondering if the Pay It Forward concept  could really work, or what it would take to make it  successful. Very few films these days give you anything to think about or discuss when it's over. This film will do exactly that, and that's why it's worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Inspiring but sad in a good way.","Date":"16 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The film was very inspirational in its idea of how reality can be.  It was an awfully sad way to end it, but they make you feel that's the only way to end it.  I would definitely see again. Very good supportive actors. "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"15 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  While all the actors give great performances, the show didn't gel for me. In addition, the ending was far too cheesy to digest.  Worth a view on video but not full price at the box office. Helen Hunt was brave for looking bad in the film, she probably looks worse than co-star Kevin Spacey, and he's supposed to look bad!  But she's still too smart to be believable as a loser.  "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"15 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  While all the actors give great performances, the show didn't gel for me. In addition, the ending was far too cheesy to digest.  Worth a view on video but not full price at the box office. Helen Hunt was brave for looking bad in the film, she probably looks worse than co-star Kevin Spacey, and he's supposed to look bad!  But she's still too smart to be believable as a loser.  "},{"Title":"Terrific Film","Date":"14 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It is not often that a child actor gives a performance the equal of the adult leads in a movie, as Haley Joel Osment does in this one.  He brings the same caliber of pathos and empathy to this wonderful story as do his co-stars Kevin Spacey and Helen Hunt.Well acted, well written and edited, this deserves a second look to see if it is a greater movie than my first impression.  I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"Rueben vs. Eugene","Date":"14 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Just a brief note about the film.  In the novel that this is based upon, Mr. Simmonet is actually Rueben St. Clair, an African-American character.  I guess all you can say is, That's Hollywood!  Don't get me wrong; Kevin Spacey is great, but geez, no wonder authors feel burned by movies. "}{"Title":"Pay it Forward is a great great movie, very symbolic","Date":"13 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Symbolism in this movie was terrific. The part where Spacey and Osment are in the classroom alone, where Spacey says something along the lines of You are doing a great job and then some. But when Osment walks away, out of the classroom, he says, You always say that, you are the teacher. The great thing about this scene is that the teacher was sitting in the classroom in a student's chair while a student is leaving the room. Do you get it? Beautiful movie. Especially the ending when the Field of Dreams caravan to Trevor's house comes to leave well-wishes and flowers. I hope that this film receives more Oscars than one.  "},{"Title":"Don't believe the big-name critics, Pay It Forward is worth seeing","Date":"11 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Visualize the idea behind the bumper sticker `Commit Random Acts of Kindness' and you pretty much have the idea behind the movie `Pay It Forward.'Haley Joel Osment (the kid from Sixth Sense) plays Trevor McKinney, an 11-year-old literalist who takes to heart an assignment from his social studies teacher `Think of an idea to change our world -- and put it into ACTION!'Trevor devises a kind of reverse multi-level marketing scheme (also known as a legalized pyramid scam) in which he does three profound favours for three people, and, in the spirit of a certain shampoo commercial, they each do likewise for three more people, and so on and so on and so on.Trevor starts with trying to help a down-and-out drug addict and then moves on to trying to set up his social studies teacher, Eugene Simonet, played by Kevin Spacey (the dad from American Beauty) with his mother, Arlene, played by Helen Hunt (the wife from Mad About You).What unfolds is a sort of modern-day fairy tale. Instead of a knight in shining armour, Spacey plays a bookish, distant, and highly-ordered middle-aged man who bears severe burn scars to his face and body. Instead of the beautiful princess, Hunt plays a single-mom struggling to kick the bottle while holding down two jobs -- in a casino and a strip joint.Things don't go necessarily to plan in Trevor's eyes. But unbeknownst to him, he sets off a domino effect that stretches from Las Vegas to Los Angeles where reporter Chris Chandler, played by Jay Mohr (the ruthless player's agent in Jerry MacGuire) benefits in the form of a new Jaguar and decides to work his way back up the chain to the source.There are some flaws. At the risk of sounding like your typical English teacher, the characters are less than well-rounded, which gives this movie a somewhat distant feel. And just like Julia Roberts in Erin Brockovich, Hunt is simply too soft and, well...wimpy, to be convincing in her role as a woman who's entire life has been spent struggling on the wrong side of the Las Vegas tracks.Finally, the ending is just plain stupid. It's almost as if, after the success of Sixth Sense, Osment's agent demanded a trick ending and this was the best they could come up with, ruining a somewhat convincing argument for altruism in the process.Still, Pay It Forward is worth seeing, despite what many of the big named critics will attest. Yes, it can be overly-sentimental and manipulative, but there are plenty of memorable moments to make up for the downside.True to Hollywood formula, this movie will make you laugh, make you cry, and, to an extent, it will become a part of you. Hey Roger Ebert! Hey, National Post! What's wrong with that? "},{"Title":"Good film, bad ending (no spoilers in my comments)","Date":"11 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Thought the ending (which I will not describe here, as I don't want to spoil the movie) was a bad idea. I can think of various alternate ways the story could have ended which would have worked better. Apart from that it was an  interesting well-acted film, exploring the idea that positive deeds can cause a chain reaction, just as negative ones can. "},{"Title":"3rd viewing and going strong","Date":"10 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  On Wednesday, November 15 at 7pm, I will view this movie for the 3rd time in 2 weeks. The first time 4 of us went, the second time; 12. Wishful thinking perhaps but I've sent the invitation to over 200 email friends to join us Wednesday. This film is that great!The acting is incredible, the story amazingly original but the concept has been around for centuries, and I encourage every Christian to see this movie. I just started reading the book and I can't put it down.Reviews are fine, but see it and judge for yourself. Academy awards should go to Helen Hunt, Kevin Spacey, Haley Joel Osment, Catherine Hyde Ryan and Mimi Leder!   "},{"Title":"nice try","Date":"10 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Human suffering always did make good entertainment. This one serves it up in spades. The film's nice little twist is its script, by Leslie Dixon from Catherine Ryan Hyde's novel, which pulls us forward in time, then back again, then forward again. It's dizzying, and makes the story seem a whole lot more interesting than it actually is.  For the less sophisticated viewer, it will just be confusing--and this subject matter is not exactly the kind that draws crowds of intellectuals.Its characters, well portrayed by its dream cast (Kevin Spacey, Helen Hunt, Haley Joel Osment, Jay Mohr, Angie Dickinson, etc.), are so genuinely Real because (I guess) their lives suck so bad. For example, Arlene McKinney (Hunt) has two jobs and an alcoholic mother who ditched her as a kid, is an alcoholic in rehab herself and a former battered wife to top it off. It's good to put characters through a lot of challenges but this was ridiculous. No one's life is this terrible.New teacher Eugene Simonet (Spacey) gives his students an impossible assignment make the world a better place. Arlene's son, Trevor (Osment), sees no reason he can't do it. From his initial action, feeding and clothing a homeless drug-addict (Jim Caviezel), is formed an idea Perform conditional random acts of kindness. The condition is that if someone does something for you, you must do something nice for three other people. Trevor calls it pay it forward.Reporter Chris Chandler (Mohr) stumbles upon PIF in the film's staple-you-to-your-seat opening scene (it's great, it really is). From here he traces the phenomenon back from one person to another until he finds himself in the armpit of Las Vegas where it all began. Chandler's investigation, again, is the only reason this film worked for me. It's told concurrently with Trevor's story as it unfolds. We see the far-reaching results of Trevor's idea even as Trevor believes he's had no impact at all.This and the ending give the film a clear message just help one person and you already made the world a better place. Sometimes it's hard to do but that's why you have to do it. Like your grandpa used to tell you, anything that's worth having is worth fighting for...or something like that. Which brings me to the ending. Let's just day it didn't affect me the way it was supposed to. It's one of those surprises you should have seen coming, one that's supposed to be fitting. That's just the problem, though--it doesn't fit at all. I can't get into it without giving it away so I won't.Pay It Forward wants to leave you with the warm fuzzies but doesn't. No one could have done to change this. The acting, direction, writing, everything--everyone does their job well. There was no better way to do anything, not even the ending. This is just one of those cases of a project that must have looked great on paper but, upon completion, doesn't quite work.Grade C "},{"Title":"Almost A Perfect 10!","Date":"10 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  SPOILER ALERT- I will reveal the ending in my comments!!!Pay It Forward is an awesome, uplifting, superbly acted film. Kevin Spacey and Helen Hunt's character portrayals were completely believable, and Haley Joel Osment (The Sixth Sense) gave a compelling performance once again. Since most likely only people who have seen the movie are reading this review (FINAL SPOILER ALERT!!) I won't go into plot detail, but I will say that the idea of paying it forward and the consequences that ensued made for a refreshing storyline considering the predictable crap that's been released lately.Now don't get me wrong here...I wasn't happy to see Osment die at the end...obviously, within the confines of the plot it was tragic and heartbreaking. But his dying is what made the movie unique to me. Not your typical Hollywood ending.  I think if he had lived his pay it forward plan would have fizzled out. But because he died - and it was clear that so many people were touched by his plan, as well as the charm he exuded during the television interview earlier that day - the film suggested to me that the idea would indeed endure. In my first sentence I said I found the movie uplifting - and I did. Osment's death was not a downer to me because of the optimism i just expressedI personally have several friends who have seen this film attempt to start their own chain of good deeds. Wouldn't it be wonderful if that  really happened and REALLY worked?? Just call me a sentimental fool.... "},{"Title":"Pay It Forward A+ in Acting!","Date":"9 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** I saw Pay It Forward today, a movie that could have been inspired by an episode of Oprah, but with real actors and no studio audience.  The film stars two great actors, Kevin Spacey and Helen Hunt, who are teamed with that brilliant, pint-sized actor from The Sixth Sense, Haley Joel Osment. In short, Haley is given a class assignment in Mr. Spacey's seventh-grade social studies class to come up with one idea that will change the world and do it.  Haley, the bright whipper-snapper that he is, comes up with the pay it forward concept.   Here's a quick rundown of the rules 1) It has to be something that really helps people; 2) Something they can't do by themselves; 3) You do it for them, they do it for three other people.The acting is right on point.  Kevin Spacey is the tortured soul who is a teacher who challenges his students to change a world he has already accepted that can't be changed. Helen Hunt is Haley's alcoholic, Las Vegas bar and casino working mother, who can't seem to say no to a good bottle of vodka or her abusive, alcoholic ex-husband, Jon Bon Jovi.  In a plot conceived by Haley to help his teacher and his mother, and ultimately himself, he conspires to bring these two wounded people together.  Along the way, Haley and others who have been exposed and helped by the pay it forward principle work wonders in changing the world.  Little Haley learns that some things in life are hard to change especially if no one wants or attempts to change them.  Unlike a movie released at the same time, The Legend of Bagger Vance, whose theme is to find your personal vibration or swing or space in this universe and fulfill your destiny, Pay It Forward contends that humanity can progress toward a communal destiny, not by seeking, identifying and subjugating your personal spirit, but rather by expanding your scope of social interactions beyond the personal and familiar and helping others with no possibility of reward for yourself.  It's a concept which would ultimately lead to a utopian existence if left uncheck. However, every Garden of Eden has a serpent.  Tragically, for all the characters in the movie, a serpent lives in this garden, too.You won't find a better acted picture released this year. Spacey, Hunt and Osment all deliver Oscar-caliber performances.  It's an interesting picture that will leave you touched and thinking about how you can pay it forward in your own life.   I would give this one a 9 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Wonderful acting, but Pay it forward concept and human insight felt under-explored","Date":"7 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Right off the top, I do not think this is necessarily a bad film.  But my feelings about it are mixed.  I fully support the efforts made by the main cast to put truth and feeling into their roles.  I think the acting was all first rate, and I did care about the characters somewhat.  The young actor, Haley Joel Osment, appears to have a great career ahead of him.  He was really quite good.  Also, it must be admitted that the story idea, paying it forward, could have been interesting.Having said that, I think the movie was a bit shaky overall.  I honestly felt like I was watching a cheesy made-for-TV special or something, apart from the good acting.  The whole kid gets two adults together romantically thing, although always a crowd-pleaser, is pretty unoriginal and really cheats what could have been interesting about looking closer at how paying it forward might really have worked.  I suspect that the makers of this film just couldn't see how it would work themselves, so the film takes implausible, skipping leaps in that department while we get well-tread territory over the hang-ups of Spacey's and Hunt's characters.  All-in-all, not too revolutionary.  The movie really lost me at times dialogue-wise.  One example is in the unconvincing homeless-guy/suicidal girl scene.  Another (which is a peeve of mine) is the oh-so-typical if you use words beyond the eighth grade level you must be hiding behind them portrayal of Spacey's character.  A third is when the film threw in a quick one-two punch of tragic/sublime touched by an angel moments at the end to wrap it all up.  Not really all that inspiring to me...more like standard tear-jerking stuff.  Finally, the score seemed like a carbon-copy of American Beauty, and grated on me.  I guess we'll know when were seeing something profound from now on when we start to hear the wind chimes.All in all I just didn't think the film was big-time material story-wise, or as an examiniation of our existence as human beings, or as far as closely examining its own pay it forward premise beyond anything superficial.  But I did enjoy some of the moments between the actors and that almost makes it worth seeing on its own.I can see why people like this film.  It seems to have a good heart.  And that is just fine in my book.  But it also seems to have some thematic confusion, a lack of throughline with its main ideas, and some seeming emotional pandering that renders it less powerful than it might have been.  A better film that explores the potential for magnanamous human behavior is Akira Kurosawa's 1950's film, Ikiru.  That film, to me, is a good example of how to achieve powerful human emotions without falling prey to too much overt sentimentality, but by letting it grow from the story and by activating both the heart and the mind.I give this film a 6/10. "},{"Title":"A bit too silly","Date":"6 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This effort has several talented actors performing in a storyline better suited for an after school special. Hayley Joel Osment is a young boy who, in response to a challenge to change the world from his teacher(Kevin Spacey), comes up with the Pay it Forward concept of doing favors,without payback, for three people who will then do favors for three more, etc. Helen Hunt is the scattered single mom who winds up in an awkward romance with Spacey. The actors do their best, but really can't overcome the silliness ofthe storyline. GRADE C "},{"Title":"Crocodile tears at best, but worth seeing anyway.","Date":"6 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Possible SPOILERWhy did I like this movie? Excellent performances especially from the three principals, good cinematography and well-woven time threads, but mostly for its truly inspiring concept. A boy's plan to change the world doesn't always work, but sometimes it changes a life.There's an on-again, off-again romance - not the main theme at all - and a fairy-tale quality, but it's a tale told with incredible coincidences and Grimm's random darkness. We're given a rancid, bitter end, and a syrupy attempt to sweeten it that brings crocodile tears at best.I do cry at movies but didn't shed a tear at this one. So much for crass manipulation, which only works on some; the rest of us would have left early if we'd but known. Worth seeing anyway.  "}{"Title":"A troubled preteen(Haley Joel Osment) makes up a plan to change the world for a Social Studies assignment.  His mother (Hunt) an alcoholic who works to jobs with an abusive absent husband. Eugene Simonet (Sp","Date":"6 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Irresistible. This movie is unbelievable. I will cherish this movie forever. Osment, Spacey, and Hunt are fascinating. All was great except for the end, the end was a real tear jerker. But I loved the movie. I give it a ten out of ten. Haley Joel Osment is really going to be a fabuolous actor someday, he already is. He's one of the best child actors since Shirley Temple.  "},{"Title":"Osment, Hunt, Spacey The new silver screen dream team","Date":"5 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Pay It Forward, a movie whose plot relies on a 7th grade Social Studies assignment.  Seem too juvenile or hokey for you?  Think again.  This movie has you hooked from the beginning.  The emotional scenes cause tears to fall from your eyes, and the sophisticated quips of Mr. Simonet (Spacey) leave you laughing at the ignorance of the Las Vegas youth in his class.  There are also many mysteries that when solved lead to some of the most emotionally touching scenes I think I've ever seen in a movie.  Not to mention appearances by Jon Bon Jovi, Jay Mohr, and a reprise from the Sixth Sense  Haley Joel Osment in his underwear (just kidding).  This movie is a definite 10.  It holds the power of Spacey's American Beauty, without the profanities, obscenities, and cruel themes.  A must see that will change your way of thinking forever. "},{"Title":"would be tear-jerker falls flat","Date":"5 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  overly sentimental, manipulative, predictable to the extremeattempted to address too many social issues below average, schmarmy, ho-humstar's performances could not overcome toothless scriptgag me with a spoon ending "},{"Title":"what is this movie, really?","Date":"5 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It seems like there are many people that like this movie and many others that do not.  I am still undecided.  What this movie really is, is a blend of two decades of work.  The 80's karate kid pump you up feel good go team. And the 90's the world is a horrible place, people are weird and there is nothing you can do.  Unfortunately, this combination does not flow well. It is like the ending to City of Angels with Nic Cage, if you are a true sentimentalist you will like it but if you have the ounce of that is not the way the world works you will feel the story leap to a 'Hollywood' ending and be put out. "},{"Title":"Fantastic movie!","Date":"4 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  If you've gotten down to my comment, you've probably already seen the movie so I'll speak openly.  If you haven't seen it, GO SEE IT!!!  As someone else said, I'd gladly pay twice the value to see this movie again. SPOILER ALERT I heard two things about this movie.  One person told me it was good. Another told me his mother didn't like the ending.  Well, it was a damn good movie and the ending was damn good as well.  To those of you complaining about how it should have ended, how would you have ended it?  Any other way would have led to merely non-climactic, rather dull end.  Consider this, Trevor's goal was to have the pay it forward idea spread exponentially. With his death, millions of people would be making an attempt to continue his idea.  That pulls up so much posibility, that at movie's end, you have to sit back and just think about it all.  If he merely lived on, it's doubtful he would have made as much an impact.As for the acting, if Kevin Spacey and Osment don't get nominated for Oscars, I'd be rather irked.  Then again, the Academy sometimes really have no idea what they're doing anyway.  American Beauty should not have won. Spacey should not have won.  However, in this movie, Spacey deserves it wholeheartedly.  I've always been a big fan of his.And as for that LittleRock person's comments about the movie where he raved about the book, it's just a damn good thing Trevor died before meeting Clinton.  One look at Bill would have killed all hope for humanity he had in his heart.Now that you've seen the movie, go spread some good as well.  And by the way, do good for good's sake, not just so you're a little less likely to go to hell. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest films dealing with everyday life","Date":"4 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I just saw this films at the theaters a few hours before I am writing this and after I got back from the theater, I got completely taken by it. This film touched me humanly and emotionally. It's the sort of film that tells you that miracles can happen to you unexpectedly at any minute now. Kevin Spacey, Helen Hunt and Haley Joel Osment gave superb performances. I think they all deserve a Oscar nomination. It was really a shock at the end. On a side note, this film, to me, was sort of realistic. I was originally going to see Meet The Parents but a day before I was going to see it, a close friend of mine told me about this film and i said to myself, what the heck, I'll give it a shot and the results were outstanding. Mrs. Bist, I thank you for telling me about this movie. Anyway, if you love films that deal with miracles, then go see this film. Like Pay It Forward, Grand Canyon and Magnolia, it's the kind of films that help heal pain. "},{"Title":"I've never cried more in my life","Date":"3 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie was absolutely incredible.  You are missing out if you don't see it and tell everyone you know to see it too.  This movie offered up so much hope in human goodness and truly showed how important a single act of kindness can in a world where people are generally to busy to care anymore. The acting is amazing, Helen Hunt portrayed her character ingeniously and Haley Joel Osmont is unbelievable for his age.  The raw emotion and purity of the message in this movie is priceless.  I will never get tired of seeing this movie.  I gave this movie a 10.  PLEASE see it!!!! "},{"Title":"A good story but a bit overacted and smarmy","Date":"3 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The story behind this movie is good, but watching it tends to grate a bit as they use formulaic tear-jerk sequences and the actors tend to get a bit too dramatic as the film progresses.I wouldn't recommend seeing this movie unless it's easy for you to ignore emotionally manipulative Hollywood formulae and actors that are trying just a bit too hard "},{"Title":"Life changing movie","Date":"3 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Everyone is entitled to their own opinion. If everyone thought the same way, things would get dull.The overwhelming majority of people who have rated and commented on this film, is 2 thumbs up, 5 stars, best movie of the year, etc.Here are my 2 cents worth. For me this was a life changing movie. I've been a Christian all my life. I've attended revivals, lay witness missions, retreats, Walk to Emmaus, and many more. This movie has impacted me in a way I never thought possible. I am a movie buff, I see hundreds of movies (both rented and box office) every year. Never before has a movie had the profound effect this one has. So much so, I will encourage the entire congregation of my church to see it. I hope we go as a group, I hope there will be spirited discussion afterwards, I thank God this movie was made.It changed me. How many things in life can you say moved you so hard, and wasn't connected to your immediate family? This is the reason we have movies. This film is a must, must see. "},{"Title":"Tearjerker!","Date":"3 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Before I even walked into the movie theatre, those walking out were all wiping their eyes dry.  Uh-oh were the first words out of my mouth. What was I in for?  I found out 2 hours later as I became one of those wiping my eyes. Do not let this discourage you from seeing this movie.  You will regret it when the Oscars come up again and you don't know what movie they're talking about.  It is yet another steller performance from three of Hollywood's latest big stars -- Kevin Spacey, Haley Joel Osment and Helen Hunt.And the award goes to . . . the best movie since American Beauty, and one that will rank with others like Forrest Gump, Titanic and other tearjerkers -- yet this one outdoes those hands down. The message is wonderful and one we should all embrace. "}{"Title":"What's up with the homophobia?","Date":"3 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Early in the movie a friend of the main character calls a bully a f*g.  Later he gets beaten up for it, and the consequences of this lead to the film's conclusion.  I know that kids call each other f*g and f****t all the time, but why would adult filmmakers put that in a movie without including any non-homophobic elements as well?  The  only gay character is a pedophile!I don't know what to make of this.  Do the filmmakers have an axe to grind about gay men?  Or are they just oblivious?  The only charitable read I could possibly give the movie is that the story was a convoluted demonstration of the  tragedy that arises from homophobia.  But somehow I  doubt that's what anyone involved in the film's production had in mind. "},{"Title":"I'd see it again!","Date":"3 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I sometimes think people analyze films way too much and get far to technical about them (being an analytical person, I can understand that... I could get petty and say Helen Hunt lacked credibility as a drunk, etc., but that is relative).  This is a movie that has been trashed by critics!  Don't listen to them!  I get blown away with all the trivialities they use to state their case.  I feel like they missed the whole message for the few instances that might seem incredible to believe (the forest for the trees?).  Who cares?Sometimes a good movie isn't about the acting quality, or the director's vision -- it's about the MESSAGE.  I think sometimes you have to just judge a movie or book with your HEART and listen to that INNER WISDOM.  Forget about the technicalities!  Who cares if it is filled with cliches and emotionalism?  Sometimes that is what it takes to grab our hearts and help us to identify.  Look at the message!  Use movies like this as an opportunity for growth (yeah, yeah... I'm sounding like Oprah and some of her guests, but they've got a lot of wisdom and insight...)  Sometimes it's the little things we do in life that matter most!  I think that is the general point to this movie.I think most people who trash this film are people who are generally in a hopeless negative headspace who believe the world is totally screwed up and there is NO GOOD anywhere.  They would be the least likely people to do something nice for someone -- just because.  (I make this statement based on the comments they've made about the movie.  I have yet to meet anyone that I know -- who are good, loving individuals -- who didn't love this movie.)I think the people who like this movie are generally good people who truly want to see change in the world we live in.  This movie gives you hope that such a thing is possible with very little effort from yourself.  Out of the mouth of babes...  The whole thought that if someone does a random act of kindness for you, you have to just pay it forward and do 3 acts of kindness to someone ELSE.I'd recommend it highly and all 4 of us -- the 3 PhD's and a non -- would definitely see it again.  We felt it's one of the better movies we've seen this year -- just on it's message alone! "},{"Title":"GRACE!  What a concept!","Date":"2 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  All things included this is a good movie.  It is emotionally engaging.  I know this b/c my husband was literally asleep when it started and within 10 was totally ingrossed.  I recommend it.  But there is more...This is a movie about the concept of grace.  Grace is doing something for someone who doesn't deserve it and not expecting anything in return.  It may be referred to as altruism, but I think people slamming the movie for having this streak of unbelievable acts of altruism grace are either very cynical (read HURT) or very obtuse.The basic message I took away from the film is that, in general, life sucks, its not supposed to, so what can anyone do about it?  I happen to agree with the idea that life sucks and its not supposed to.  Human beings aren't terribly nice by nature(anyone who has small children can attest to this fact).  We're inherently selfish.  But our makeup includes a part of us that makes goodness and kindness VERY appealing.  So we long to feel like we're not really bad.  (My personal belief is that God made us to long for goodness, and thus search for Him, because He is all that is good)This movie appeals to all those inherent things about us as a species.  And it does it with decent acting!  I've seen Spacey do better, but he's still fabulous.  Hunt is growing.  She is becoming the actress that I think the Academy saw in their hearts when they awarded her an Oscar.  She is delightful and complex.  Osmet is so good its scary.  How the heck does a little boy understand the complexity of the issues he is facing and then know how to convey them without words?  My husband said ,they probably just tell him to think of something really sad.  I laughed heartily at that.It is not a movie for kids.  There were a lot of kids in the theater under 13 and I was uncomfortable with it.  Too much language.  But for those older than 11 or 12 I would say it is a great movie.   "},{"Title":"I guess I'll never be a critic!","Date":"2 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie for the second time yesterday and enjoyed it as much, if not more the first time.  Although my least favorite character was Helen Hunt's I still feel that she portrayed the part of the single mother coping with her problems and raising a young boy very well.  Additionally James Caviezel's portral of Jerry was extremely well acted.  I enjoyed Kevin Spacey as Eugene Simonet and especially liked Haley Joel Osmet as Trevor. I've seen Haley in three movies Forrest Gump, Sixth Sense and Pay it forward and have loved him in each.  There is something so endearing about that little guy that it's hard to describe.  I cared about what happened to all of the characters and have always said that if a movie can make me laugh, cry, scared and or care for it's characters it has done it's job.  It give Pay It Forward a 10 out of 10! "},{"Title":"See it for yourself!!","Date":"1 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  After reading the many comments on this movie, I began to wonder who these people are writing these comments.  Do they just not care or get so caught up in small details that they miss the overtly obvious underlying message.  I went into the movie not really knowing the plot and having only seen a few previews; so I was wide open for what was going to happen in the film.  To me this was a great movie, mainly because I really didnt have high expectations of it.  I thought the acting was very good especially from Spacey and Osment.  There were so many points made in the movie it was ridiculous.  The actually theory of pay it forward was great, but I can see that our belief as a whole in the decency of man has all but disappeared.  The motherhood or lack of parental guidance is extremely powerful.  The sheer emotion Osment puts behind Trevor just wanting a mother that truly loves him is powerful. The scene with Spacey and Hunt outside Simonette's apartment as he explains what it feels like to be that son with the overly stupid and nieve mother was well needed for many woman.  Then the ending that so many are disgusted in was great to me.  Sure I would have preferred a different ending, but the one that was there stuck out almost more than anything in my mind.  (DISCLAIMER SPOILER AHEAD!!!)  The fact that he touched so many people was awesome, but only believers would have felt that.  Plus what I got out of the movie, especially the ending was that one young man, a son, gave his life for what he believed in so that he might make the world a better place.  That should sound familiar, if u dont know what Im talking about try opening a bible and increase your knowledge in areas that really matter!!! "},{"Title":"A wellspring of hope","Date":"1 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  There has been a dirth of anything that has something to say that is positive about the human spirit, that you feel that you have found an oasis in the desert with this film.  Hollywood has not been a great source of encouragement to those of us who believe popular entertainment is a potent social force.  It is rare that excellent acting, solid production skills combine in a film that encourages hope for the human race. "},{"Title":"A wellspring of hope","Date":"1 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  There has been a dirth of anything that has something to say that is positive about the human spirit, that you feel that you have found an oasis in the desert with this film.  Hollywood has not been a great source of encouragement to those of us who believe popular entertainment is a potent social force.  It is rare that excellent acting, solid production skills combine in a film that encourages hope for the human race. "},{"Title":"Very intriguing movie except the last 10 minutes.","Date":"1 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I would like to add opinion to the many that expressed the insane ending of the movie...I do not know how the ending was ever rationalized as a logical conclusion.  The ending almost ruined the movie for me except I appreciated the acting and the premise of the story. "},{"Title":"Shameless Waste of Potential","Date":"31 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  SPOILER ALERT I'm reading the positive reviews of other users and cannot believe what I am reading.  This movie is a shameless, jumbled collection of cliches and emotional moments from other movies.  The end is as ridiculous and contrived as Patch Adams.  The romance follows every other shy introverted person meets outgoing (but hurt) person ever contrived (Frankie Meets Johnny or Bed of Roses or Untamed Heart).  Initial attraction, reservation, misunderstanding, reconciliation.  The worst, however, is the contrived Pay It Forward scenes interlaced throughout the story.  Osment and Hunt's acts of kindness are genuine... the others are c**p.  A rich man gives his jaguar to another well to do reporter.  A woman who lives in her car picks up a thief on the run from police.  Osment says the acts must be hard and difficult to be genuine.  Garbage.  The one interesting act (heroin addict saving woman on the bridge) is never resolved or completed.  The ending takes the cake as the most shameless, ripoff I've ever seen of Patch Adams (equally pathetic) and Field of Dreams (remember the headlights lined up in the distance).  Also, half the people in the ending scene are Osment's classmates whose characters are never developed enough for you to care why or know why they are there.  Perhaps getting to stay up late on a school night was the reason they show up.The should have deleted the entire Pay It Forward gag and made this a love story about Hunt and Spacey with Osment the kid.  These are three of my favorite, most talented actors in the world and the scenes involving these characters are truly riveting.  To rip off another movie (City Slickers) the makers of this movie need a Do Over. "},{"Title":"A must see.  Tell 3 of your friends.","Date":"31 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  First, let me clear something up.  The ending to this movie did not ruin the film nor was it bad in any way.  I know a bad ending may cause some people not to see a film, but I can't see how all these reviewers denounce it.  It fit well with the plot.That said, the rest of the film was quite good as well.  The plot was carefully constructed with well placed let-downs, turn-arrounds, and climaxes.  The character development was ALMOST believable.  This is one of the only two shortcommings of the film.  The characters change just a bit to drastically.The second shortcomming is, unfortuntely, with Spacey.  In my opinion, he fails to deliver right at the crucial climactic moment.  This could just be my misinterpretation of his character, but it seemed a little lacking.Now, don't let these two factors keep you from seeing this well done movie.  All you need to do is suspend some disbelief to let these moments slip by.  All in all, this is a good film well worth watching.  It gives a little hope to a world which even I thought was... well hopeless. "}{"Title":"great movie!!!!","Date":"31 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is one of the best that I have seen in a long time.  The actors are great in their roles.  The characters are believable and can really make you feel what they are going through.  I walked out of the movie thinking about it and it was a movie that makes you think for a couple days.  I'm even going to go back and see it again. "},{"Title":"Spacey, Hunt, Osment, Best Of The Year","Date":"30 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  	Is it possible that altruism can exist in the world today?  Can anyone really perform an altruistic act for another?  Would anyone anywhere even be willing to consider such a thing, let alone actually try it?  And what would happen if they did?  It's the stuff of which great philosophies are made, and in this case, the stuff of great cinema.  In `Pay It Forward,' directed by Mimi Leder and adapted from the novel by Catherine Ryan Hyde, the subject of altruism and it's possible effects is addressed through one of the most thought provoking, emotionally charged dramas of the year (or of any year, for that matter).  It begins when a Las Vegas seventh grade Social Studies teacher, Eugene Simonet (Kevin Spacey), gives his class an assignment  Come up with an idea that could ultimately change the world.  And implement it.  It's a thoughtful exercise, used by an insightful teacher in an effort to get his students to think, to explore the possibilities of the mind, wherein, he tells them, anything is possible.  And after many years of teaching, Simonet finally encounters a student, Trevor McKinney (Haley Joel Osment), who actually comes up with a unique idea  Do something for someone else, something `hard.'  But don't ask them to pay it back; instead, have them `pay it forward.'  And do it for three people.  Then those three do it for three others, and on and on.  Simply put  What a concept.  But can it work?  Trevor thinks it can, and despite a number of personal obstacles he must overcome, he embarks upon his altruistic quest. 	This is a terrific, heart-wrenching story, written for the screen by Leslie Dixon (look for an Oscar nomination) and delivered to perfection by director Leder and a cast that is as good as it gets.  Kevin Spacey turns in yet another astounding performance that may very well win him another Oscar.  What an amazing actor; he brings Simonet to life with nuance and depth that most other actors can only dream of coming close to.  The way he speaks and carries himself, his attention to detail; it all comes together to make Simonet a character you will not soon forget.  And, as good as Spacey is, Helen Hunt (Arlene McKinney) proves his equal in a dynamic performance that could garner her another Oscar as well.  Her portrayal of Trevor's alcoholic mother, a single mom with two jobs trying to keep her world together, is a soul-stirring, emotional triumph.  She gives it everything and more; the vulnerability, the desperation, the pain.  And the love.  It's all there, and she makes you feel every bit of it with her.  As Trevor, Osment does more than hold his own with Spacey and Hunt, turning in a special performance that makes Trevor a truly special, memorable character.  There may just be another Oscar nomination in this for him, also.  How exceptional it is to have three performances of this caliber in a single movie; what a tribute to the abilities of these three exceptional actors. 	The supporting cast includes Jay Mohr (Chris Chandler), James Caviezel (Jerry), Angie Dickinson (Grace), and Jon Bon Jovi (Ricky).  There should be an Oscar nomination awaiting Mimi Leder, as well, because what she has done with `Pay It Forward,' must not go unheralded.  Certainly, she had a brilliant cast with which to work, but much of the credit for the emotional levels attained in this film must surely go to her.  This film is not merely great, it is truly inspirational, with an ending that will leave your soul in tatters.  I can't remember the last time the audience burst into spontaneous applause at the end of a movie, which is what happened when I saw this film.  This is one gut-wrenching, emotional ride you absolutely must not miss.  I rate this one 10/10.                 "},{"Title":"A good film, but no American Beauty","Date":"30 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"   **SPOILERS**   **SPOILERS** This movie was pretty much what I expected.  My hopes were high that Kevin Spacey (who had literally blown me away with his performances in American Beauty and The Big Kahuna) would, with any decent supporting cast, pull off another Academy Award nomination.  But I had my doubts about Helen Hunt, who in my opinion did not deserve her nomination for As Good as it Gets, where she gave quite the banal offering.  So my expectations were met I suppose. Spacey and little Osmond gave us poignant and inspired acting while Hunt's character didn't extract a single ounce of sympathy from yours truly.  Too bad the script gave so much place to her character.  Personally, I would have allowed more space to the Jay Mohr subplot and to Spacey's describing of his past (man is he brilliant when he finally confesses the circumstances surrounding what happened to his face !)*SPOILER WARNING* Particularly unconvincing was Hunt's acting  following her gifted son's climactic and unfair death (a necessary tear jerker for the story to work as a whole, so don't get me wrong, I approve of it).In summary, the ordeal Osmond's character faces as he tries his best to get the three people on his list to pay it forward (by literally asking them to forgive the unforgivable or even to drastically change their lives around) would have been greatly accentuated by a better performance from the central lead female character.Still, 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Could have been a great movie","Date":"30 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The premise for this movie was intriguing, but the execution was pretty bad.  The only good story line in this film was the scenes with the drug addict.  Otherwise, this film seemed designed to do nothing more than to yank our chain at the appropriate spots.  I walked away feeling used and manipulated. "},{"Title":"Great performances, uneven script.","Date":"30 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Strong performances by the principals salvaged this one for me. Kevin Spacey, Helen Hunt, in what I believe to be her best performance yet in a feature film, and Haley Joel Osment, who demonstrates that his work in The Sixth Sense was no fluke.I prefer off-beat scripts, and this one was about as on-beat as it gets, having the heavy, regular, thud of a bass drum. No button was left unpushed, no easy expectation unfulfilled, no heartstring untugged. The ending sequence was absolutely putrid and uncalled for. There had to be a better way to end the story. Even a rain of frogs would have been better. But I won't get into that, wanting to avoid spoilers.I won't say it was a bad story. The concept was great, and the film's heart was in the right place, even if its head was up where only a script doctor would dare to probe.All said, I recommend it. "},{"Title":"A great movie sullied into a merely good movie","Date":"30 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  You've heard the plot by now--so let me say that this movie is a mix. It wonderfully portrays the difficulty of taking ordinary steps in our own ordinary lives. Things such as forgiving parents, friends, and relational partners, for example, seem so obvious from some perspectives. Such as the calm and detached motivations of hindsight, or a meditative state, or even a good movie. But when we are actually faced with the reality of letting the grievance or pain go, then we see how hard it is. This movie does show the extraordinary courage it takes, sometimes, to do the simple and humane things in our everyday lives that we KNOW will make our lives worth living. For this, Pay It Forward is a great exemplar.However, the movie doesn't quite seem to believe in its own high premise. At least not fully. The plot also involves some standard Hollywood manipulations and machinations we've all seen a thousand times before, yet we NEVER see them in real life. because they aren't real. I can accept that movies, and any art, for that matter, get to display unrealistic conventions and events for effect. After all, if movies weren't somehow more than actual reality, then we wouldn't benefit from experiencing them. They'd be just like real life. Acknowledging that, I think this movie cops out. The distinct and predictable patterns of the two adults eying each other, then coming together and not coming together--etc., is an annoying distraction from the lofty and rather thrilling promise offered by the movie's unusual premise.The ending-- god, what a load of crap! It's as if the movie makers lost all confidence in their own vision, and pasted this slick, fake, heart-poking device on at the end in one last, desperate attempt to redeem the flick. Truth is, if they'd stayed the course a bit longer, the movie they had envisioned in the first place could easily have won us over on its own merits. That is, this movie never needed saving. The somewhat spiritual tone of the original inception was a bold and creative stroke, but a likeable and workable one. The fixes, unnecessarily applied, only cluttered it up.Overall, I'd say this is a great movie that has been sullied into a merely good movie. The fine cast deserved a lot better than that. I gave it a 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"30 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Highly talented cast, Catchy tagline, Positive reviews from the forum; obviously I had high expectations. And I was let down. It is rather a romance centered chick-flick than what it says it is. Good performances by the actors, but wasted in a terrible film. 2/10. "},{"Title":"pay it forward to your friends and tell them NOT to see this","Date":"30 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  honestly, this movie was abysmal.  helen hunt wasn't believable as a trashy vegas barmaid/casino worker.  kevin spacey regurgitated his woe is me performance from american beauty (and they used the same music from american beauty in pay it forward!  whatever happened to originality?) haley joel osment tried his hardest but in the end is just a freckle faced, doe-eyed vehicle for sap, and don't even get me started on the ending... all in all, i didn't care about the characters and i especially felt that jay mohr was an obnoxious useless addition to the film.  the whole plot was contrived and depressing.  i can see how some people would like this movie, and i can see how others would hate it.  but i guess you can say that about any movie.  personally, i am paying it forward to at least three people by telling them to save their money and avoid this movie, at least until it comes out on video.  as for the oscar buzz, let's hope that it doesn't come to fruition.  on a final note, james caviezel was actually pretty good as jerry, a homeless man.  but even he isn't worth the $8.50.  "},{"Title":"Over-rated","Date":"30 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I will probably be blasted by people for saying this, but this movie was really nothing special.  Sure, Hunt, Spacey, and Osment did terrific jobs, but that doesn't make up for a story that just seemed to pound you over the head trying to get you to feel emotion.  I mean, come on, how depressing can you possibly make 1 movie?  1 tragedy after another, and it gets to the point that you just quit caring and want the movie to end.I gave it 4 out of 10, but even that is generous. "},{"Title":"Blah.","Date":"30 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Haven't any of you read the frigging book? Only one of you it seems. P Anyway, I thought that this movie was very poor in comparison to the book. The ending is ALMOST like the book's ending... almost. For some reason, it just seems better in the book. No wait, the book was definitely much better. They ripped up a beautiful story, and turned it into THIS. Here's an example of the changes. (S P O I L E R S) Reuben St. Clair is Trevor's teacher in Atascadero, California in the book, a black man, missing just about half of his face due to something that happened in the Vietnam War. In this movie, he is a white man named Eugene Simonet with bearly visible burns(until you see his chest) that was burnt by his psychotic drunk of a papa. Trevor McKinney helped out Jerry, Mrs. Greenberg, and Mr. St. Clair in the book. Not so in the movie. He tries to help Jerry, Mr. Simonet, and Adam, a boy that is always beaten up by the bullies at school. In this movie, the characters related to Mrs. Greenberg, with the exception of Sydney G., have all been replaced with Arlene's mother, who was already in the book(in a smaller role) anyway. This is four characters related to her and her herself. Plus, Trevor doesn't get to meet Bill Clinton in the movie. Poor Trevor. The movie industry has changed him into a foul-mouthed young boy who not only doesn't get to meet the president now and then die in Washington, trying to fulfill his third bit of Paying it Forward(long story; READ THE BOOK). No, no, he dies trying to help his friend at school from being beaten up after getting on tv. So, all in all... Book   Movie Book 9 out of 10 Movie 3 out of 10 "}{"Title":"Don't believe the critics - if I could only see one movie this year, this would be it.","Date":"30 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I won't tell you anything about it - you've already seen enough, probably. I never go to see movies twice, but I'm going back to see this one next week and taking my best friend.  Some critics think they have to pan positive movies to prove they're realistic and tough-minded. "},{"Title":"It All Comes Back In The Wash","Date":"29 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film has received mixed reviews from the critics, probably for its ending which I did not like at all.  I thought the film could have ended where it did, rather then going in the direction it did for the last 30 minutes.  But overall, this was an enjoyable and thought-provoking film.  No matter how far fetched the Pay It Forward idea may sound, its the idea that makes you think, Can We Change the World?  Probably not, but we can make a difference in an individuals life and thats change enough for me.  The idea of pay it forward, is to make a difference in the lives of 3 people, who in turn must each do something big for 3 other people and so forth.  The idea looks good on paper as far as the math goes, and even in theory.  It's not going to be successful with everyone, but change one person's life for the better, and thats success.  Kevin Spacey is great as always to watch as well as Helen Hunt who sports a very sexy look in this film.  I give it a 8 out of 10.   "},{"Title":"LACKING A DIRECTOR'S CONVICTION","Date":"29 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Catherine Ryan Hyde's book is adapted for the screen by writer Leslie Dixon ('Mrs. Doubtfire').  I really enjoyed the performances in this film.  Recent turns for the cast in Oscar winning and Oscar nominated roles make every project they take on an extra challenge because people will be watching them with great scrutiny.  They don't fail here.  Kevin Spacey is a sensitive yet head strong teacher.  Haley Joel Osment is his star pupil with an alcoholic mom (Helen Hunt) with whom Spacey falls in love.  The problem with the film is Mimi Leder's conviction as the director.  I felt the film dragged on with too many needless sub plots not given enough of an energetic push.  I also was disappointed with the scatter shot elements of Spacey's surroundings.  Not enough scenes were filmed in his classroom where the film could have drawn extra inspiration.  I would still give it a 7 out of 10 but this is an example of how a great story can be made to suffer with fairly mediocre direction. "},{"Title":"Superb acting; Excellent up until the very end","Date":"28 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  First, let me say that Pay It Forward has probably the best acting in any film this year. Kevin Spacey, Helen Hunt and Haley Joel Osment are all superb. They deliver excellent performances - what we've come to expect from them. I was particularly impressed with Hunt's performance, as she showed us a wide range of emotions - all very convincingly. Of course, Osment and Spacey did as well, but Hunt's struck me as the most genuine. The story, also, is very good. It's very believable and quite enjoyable. However, the film is not without its flaws, and the ending nearly spoils Pay It Forward's credibility. I won't tell you what it is - but if you've seen it, you know what I mean. It's completely unnecessary, and added just to get a few tears out of the audience. It's also pretty unbelievable, that what happens actually would. Not what happens after that, mind you. But the climactic point. All events that it's tied to are also unnecessary to the film, and feel like they were written in just so that this particularly bad ending could occur. No matter - Pay It Forward is still an enjoyable film with excellent performances by its 3 stars (someone's sure to at least get a nomination at this year's Awards), but the ending leaves a lot to be desired and a bad taste in one's mouth. "},{"Title":"Good performances, but overall I'll pay it forward by not recommending it","Date":"28 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I'm glad I'm not the only one who left the theater with a bad taste in my mouth. I too enjoyed the movie, but the ending was awful. Semi-Spoilers follow!It should have ended after the video tape. Simple, poignant, perfect. It shouldn't have become Field of Dreams meets the Michigan Women's Festival. Enough already! Consider my heart warmed! I hate saccharine, sappy Hollywood schmaltz and actors looking heavenward in childlike wonder. Ick. Maybe I'm just a cynical tart.I left the movie feeling like I'd been suckered, or at least like someone involved with this production thought I was a sucker. I hope this doesn't win Best Picture. The acting was first-rate, however, and I'd recommend it for that. Just know when to leave the theater.Good for a rental.   "},{"Title":"Promising, But Misses","Date":"28 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The film 'Pay It Forward' could have been trimmed by roughly half an hour. The story is just fine, if too idealistic. If they had stuck with just the two central stories (the pay-it-forward idea and the romance), it would have been a tighter film. This would be a good rental if you wanted to watch something while you puttered around the house. You don't have to pay much attention to the movie to get the idea. The way the story flashes from the past to the present is handled in a somewhat confusing way. There was no need to tell this story in such a fashion. The only reason you can follow along is because, as human beings, we can figure out which events happened when. (I thought maybe the film was shown a little out of sequence at this particular preview screening. That happens sometimes, but this was not the case.)I keep hearing Oscar-related talk about this movie. This is a nice little story but if this is Oscar material, we are in trouble. This movie travels ground we've seen repeatedly in better films. The abused soul. The alcoholic mother. Homeless people. The pay-it-forward idea is the only twist. It's an enjoyable fantasy, but nothing more. Let's hear no more Oscar talk, 'kay?The ending was manipulative and completely unnecessary. This really brings down my recommendation for 'Pay It Forward.' If you see this, please leave ten minutes early. You'll like it better that way.  "},{"Title":"Concept 10, Execution 5","Date":"27 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Although the basic concept is an excellent one, the execution is not.  In the hands of a Frank Capra, it would have been a smash. The plot goes seriously off track when so much time is spent with just one or two of the beneficiaries of the child's plan to better the world.  Moreover, it's hard to believe the other characters have actually paid it (or anything else) forward  because  we see the child's do good attempts go awry more often than not.  The audience, itself, is then required to make gigantic leaps forward to fill the gaps left by the writer.   The ending left me feeling manipulated because I had no rooting interest in the particular relationship leading to it.  Despite these fundamental flaws, Haley Joel Osment, Kevin Spacey and Helen Hunt do wonders with the material given them.  Still, with a growing list of contenders for best acting in pictures that are also excellent, I don't see much reason to nominate them for an award, with the possible exception of a special tribute to Haley Joel Osment.  In my opinion, he should havereceived an award last year for his excellent performance in Sixth Sense. On the other hand, Pay It Forward's director, Mimi Leder, should receive a reprimand for misusing the talent at her disposal. "},{"Title":"Can Hollywood Do An Authentic White Trash Movie?","Date":"27 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I enjoyed Pay It Forward, but not a lot. The acting by the principals is good Spacey, Hunt, and Osment. However, I just never felt connected with it. It's a movie that just missed being better. There seems to be a problem with the structure. Can Hollywood do an authentic white trash movie? It's as if they want their stars to look good, even though they're playing wrong-side-of-the-freeway types. The result is that the young man who Osment befriends doesn't convince me he's been on the streets. And when we see Angie Dickinson as a kind of bag lady who lives in her station wagon, we don't believe it. The place she lives with her other downside friends is not convincing. It's too pretty for being a dump. This is important, because part of the difficulty Hunt and Spacey have is about class separation. She's the so-called white trash, and he's the teacher who uses words most of us don't know. To Hunt's credit, though, she doesn't make false moves, for the most part. When she struggles with taking a drink, you sense the struggle is genuine. Her gradual improvement is also genuine. The acting of the lesser cast members didn't make me feel they were genuine. The main problem is overacting. There's a reporter who tracks the story of the Pay It Forward movement. I never felt he was a reporter. Early in the film, there's a hostage drama in the rain that's boring. The reporter drives up, bothers the police with his questions, then loses his car when it's smashed by the escaping hostage-taker. A real reporter wouldn't do that. It was a Hollywood way of getting him into the scene to lose his car. So, when his car is smashed, I don't care, and I don't really believe his emotions.There's a young black man who pays it forward to help a girl with breathing trouble. I just never got the feeling he'd ever been behind any bars, unless he was a bartender. This seems to be a good example of how important the so-called lesser roles are. They're the world in which the principal actors operate, and they didn't persuade me. I wasn't fond of some of the camera work. The camera would move around the face of a character for apparently no necessary reason. I was wondering, Why are they showing us this side of Osment's face, then the front, and then the other side? In other cases, they gave a new view of Vegas. It didn't look like the Vegas I've seen on visits. They didn't just take the obvious establishing shots, but did some homework.This talk of Academy Award contention isn't justified. It's a good film that makes you think about how anybody can make the world a better place, particularly a kid. However, I got the sense that some in the audience felt manipulated, especially near the end.  "},{"Title":"Not flawless, but moving and impressive","Date":"27 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Pay It Forward has elicited two key complaints some argue that it is optimistic to a fault while others contend that its dark complexity verges on gratuitous. There are, of course, many other minor complaints from those who struggled with the timeline and those who just like to complain. It seems that Pay It Forward suffers not from lack of quality but from an audience that is at once too cynical and too deluded.The plot of the film focuses on the troubled life of Trevor McKinney, played by notoriously gifted child-star Haley Joel Osment. The eleven year-old son of alcoholic Arlene (Helen Hunt) and an AWOL father, Trevor is inspired by his distant, intellectual teacher, Eugene Simonet (Kevin Spacey). Simonet poses a challenge to his students find a plan to change the world and put it into action.  Trevor, ambitious and optimistic, creates `pay it forward.' He will help three people in ways that they could not have helped themselves. Instead of paying back the favor, the beneficiaries must pay it forward, doing a major favor for three others.The film doesn't try to pass as pure realism. In fact, it pokes fun at its own Utopian suggestions, with a class full of eleven year-olds critiquing its dependence on the `honor system' Additionally, while Trevor's pyramid scheme does work, Pay It Forward doesn't glorify man's inner goodness. Despite their golden intentions, many characters only `pay it forward' reluctantly, when an opportunity unavoidably drops before them. And the favors done for these people don't miraculously reshape lives. The character's move on, improved but still fallible.Nor does the movie ride on pure optimism. It is dark and complex. Trevor holds that pay it forward only works if the favors are big...actions that are difficult for the person paying it forward. The scheme doesn't try to transform people; it only hopes to improve them. Each character still stumbles, despite the good deeds done unto them. The audience is pulled into the maze of ugly pasts that make these favors so difficult. Admittedly, the story does teeter dangerously close to cliched issues, such as child abuse and drug habits. Some of this must be seen as symbolic, used to illustrate that the world can be an ugly place.Still, where the story stumbles, the actors carry it through. Kevin Spacey and Haley Joel Osment revive last year's overwhelming talent shows in two award worthy portrayals. Spacey is convincing as an ideal teacher with a troubled past. He moves the audience without falling into the potentially melodramatic backdrop of the film. Osment stabilizes his place as the most talented child actor available as a child torn between his learned cynicism and his innate optimism. Helen Hunt resurfaces with a performance rivaling her costars.Overall, this film overcomes its inherent, structural difficulties. The script usually manages to avoid waxing overly cynical or excessively hopeful. Where the writing falters, the cast keeps the film on track. Pay It Forward offers a rewarding, moving experience to anyone willing to surrender a little bit of realism for everything the movie has to offer.  "},{"Title":"A very meaningful and entertaining movie experience!","Date":"27 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I really wish there were more movies created that had the depth and character that Pay It Forward has. While there were some unfortunate flaws in the direction of the movie, I can not fault the intent of everyone involved in this meaningful project. Pay It Forward has an important and vital message. In my mind, there is nothing wrong with an entertainment that forces the audience to contemplate how the world can be made into a better place. I wish that Hollywood produced more movies like Pay it forward.Critics have unfairly criticized the sentimentality of this movie and have called it manipulative.  I think they have been frankly over hip in their unfairness. All storytelling is manipulative, especially whenever tugging at heartstrings is involved.  So what!I really appreciate a positive message when characters I can care about,  are captured inside a story line that holds my attention for two hours. That's a treat!  For me, that is money well spent. At today's high ticket price, audiences shouldn't expect less.Kevin Spacey and Helen Hunt offered tremendous multilayered performances. Young Mr Osmond is an incredible actor. He proved that his performance in The Sixth Sense wasn't a fluke.I can foresee several Oscar nominations including competing Best Actor (twice), Best Actress, and Best Picture. In what has been a weak year for great movies, it's about time we had some contenders. I can not envision Best Director, because the direction of the movie was confusing where it didn't need to be. Telling a story with two overlaying time lines as if they are simultaneous is risky at best, and weakens the storytelling at worst. If not for this flaw I would have given Pay It Forward a perfect 10.I won't give away the ending. All I can say is that I wish the Director had used a more subtle surgical instrument instead of a sledgehammer. Some members of the audience were practically heaving with tears.Nonetheless, this is a highly recommended movie. Go see it.And then please Pay it forward "}{"Title":"Pretty Good Overall, but somewhat overboard in places.","Date":"27 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  'Pay It Forward' is a wonderful concept.  I love the optimism it attempts to bring to a Hollywood film.  However,SPOILER ALERT!  SPOILER ALERT! SPOILER ALERT!The optimism is spoiled when they decided to kill off the main character of the movie in order to try and make him a Martyr. This is the most Lame ending I could have imagined.END SPOILER ALERT!  END SPOILER ALERT!The movie does have its moments.  Kevin Spacey is SO GREAT I completely forgot he was Kevin Spacey after the first 2 minutes.  He seemed strong and yet so vulnerable.  I wish all the teachers in America were as good a teacher as he is in the movie.  His methods were great.  He was able to bring the whole class into the subjects and teach more than just social studies. Helen Hunt was excellent as well.  She didn't once seem like 'Mad About You Helen', although she did remind me of 'As Good As It Gets' Helen.I also liked Haley Joel Osment.  I wasn't real impressed with his Sixth Sense Performance, at least not as much as most people, but I thought he was perfect here.I also loved the performance of Jay Mohr.  Is there a movie this guy is in where he doesn't play a memorable role?  He was GREAT in Jerry Maguire, 200 Cigarettes and Go.  He is so funny and SO Generation X.  Top Notch.Jon Bon Jovi was good, but his role in the story not very big. Angie Dickinson was under used as well, but incredible. Jim Caviezel is good, but gross as a homeless man.  Those teeth were NASTY.If it weren't for the ending and some other large plot flaws along the way, this could be a great movie.  But it isn't.  It turns out to be a little disappointing to see a 75% excellent film and 25% trite garbage throw away.  A lesson for Mimi Leder  Do your best to walk the line between good drama and the cheesy sappy wasteland, but DO NOT CROSS IT. To all  Go see it for the performances.  Kevin Spacey is GREAT.    "},{"Title":"Buy a ticket, this one is wonderful !","Date":"26 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Pay It Forward is a magnificent movie that you will not want to miss. Forward is an inspirational and touching movie that should garner three or more Academy Award nominations. The three main characters portrayed by Kevin Spacey, Helen Hunt, and Haley Joel Osment were all acted flawlessly. The emotions you will experience while watching this wonderful movie will be more real than you can imagine.  From the very start of the movie, to the all to real ending you will feel you are not just watching the show, but that you're a part of the film. Simply stated this picture is the best I have seen this year. "},{"Title":"The Kind of Movie Some People Can't Believe In....","Date":"26 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The cast of Pay It Forward sent me into the theater with very high expectations, and none of them let me down in the least. Kevin Spacey (gasp and swoon) was fantastic as usual. He gets better and better with every single movie he makes. I found myself hurting and loving with him throughout the movie. He can reach out and force you to feel things. Amazing. Helen Hunt, usually a very beautiful woman, managed to look totally used up in the beginning of the film, but she remained a vibrant character nevertheless. Little Haley Joel was marvelous and very realistic and the scenes between his character and Spacey's character are simply breathtaking. A testament to both their wonderful talents. Helen Hunt and Osment also worked well as a pair, and Hunt and Spacey were convincing together. I got the sense they were still awkward with one another---just as people in their situation might be. Critics have split decisions about this film because of its syrupy content but I think some people simply have lost the ability to believe in the basic goodness of people. This film appealed to that. I am a pretty tough gal, but I came out of the theater wiping my eyes right along with everyone else. (Old men and young men included.) This film gets under your skin and makes you wish for better days when people still treated one another with some decency. I think we all need that. This movie is good enough to see twice. See it with someone you love. "},{"Title":"Decent","Date":"26 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The acting was great, I just found the directing and story line hokey a lot of the time.  Especially the ending, too clichéd, too look at me I'm emo.  It's a good renter or matinee, but other wise save your money "},{"Title":"Positive, some spoilers.","Date":"26 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Pay It Forward is a message movie that is warmer and fuzzier than the typical film starring Kevin Spacey.  Spacey plays an elementary school teacher who urges his students to each devise a plan to help move the state of the world forward, and to his amazement, one of his students (Haley Joel Osment) actually comes up with a good one.  One of the aspects of the boy's own plan is to fix Spacey up with his mom (played by Helen Hunt).  Hunt's character is battling alcoholism and a lifestyle that has already taken its toll on her.   Spacey has his daily routine to shield him from his own demons and loneliness and it is interesting to see the two take their first tentative steps towards being together.Spacey & Hunt (and to a lesser extent, Osment) do some excellant work in the film, overcoming some of the predictable elements in the script.   There are some unexpected twists along the way, and ultimately I found this to be an enjoyable and sometimes powerful film. "},{"Title":"The way it affected me after it was over.","Date":"26 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I went to see this film not only because all of the wonderful actors in it that I have seen in previous movies but of the premise of the movie thanks to the trailers. Little did I know that it was going to be such a heart wrenching film.  After the movie was over, I went to the washroom and stood inside a stall and just balled by eyes out. The last time I felt something like that was during Titanic.I recommend this movie to everyone. I'm a single mom with a son so maybe it hit me extra hard. I heard men even using their kleenex that night including the one I was with.I think we all should Pay It Forward some how, some way. "},{"Title":"Fair movie that blows all of it's good will at the end","Date":"26 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  For all the things anyone can say about this movie, good or bad, I think most people could agree that in some way this is a movie that you want to like and, being a movie that you want to like, you are prepared to overlook some the movie's weaknesses. Kevin Spacey and Haley Osment are great and the pay it forward idea is intriguing. Sure it's a little hokey. OK, setting up your Mom with your favorite teacher so that you have a new, cool sober dad isn't exactly as altruistic as the pay it forward idea is presented in other parts of the movie. And, granted, the story is very heavy-handed as well as predictable. Overall, though, your willing to overlook these things. The movie's not Oscar material but that's ok, it was pleasent enough. SPOILER ALERT Then, in an attempt to make it more than just an OK movie, the director tacks on the hokiest, schmaltziest, schlockiest, over-the-top ending that ruins everything that came before. The ending goes beyond unbelievable - the outpouring of emotion after Princess Diana died was more subtle. I don't know what I found to be more ridiculous - the TV news giving minute by minute updates of pay it forward activites as it crossed the nation, the candlelight vigil, or that damn stream of cars going back for miles and miles to get to the house. Why doesn't someone explain it to the Hollywood people that the last five minutes of the movie can't have ten times the emotion of all the rest of the movie put together.  "},{"Title":"A moving depiction of how the lives of others can be changed with the support of a great idea.","Date":"26 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Pay It Forward is an engaging film about a young boy's idea and it's effect on the people around him. The young boy is played by the talented Haley Joel Osment, who made a powerful impact on audiences with his role in last year's The Sixth Sense. He plays a rather normal kid here, who's biggest problem lies within the discomfort of his own family life, or lack of it. He meets a somewhat tormented man in the form of a new school teacher, played by the always brilliant Kevin Spacey. His year-long class assignment is to think of idea that will help change the world, and to set that idea in motion. Osment's mother, played by Helen Hunt, is a single mother working two jobs while fighting a drinking problem and her own shortcomings. Needless to say this doesn't allow her much quality time with her son. Osment comes up with a revolutionary idea, in the form of a pyramid scheme, to get ordinary people to go out of their way to help others. Spacey seems to see hope in the concept, but Osment finds that things don't always work out the way they should. In an attempt to improve his own life, he tries to make the scheme work by implementing it on those closest to him. The results are not perfect, but are presented in a very real manner. Pay It Forward is not exactly a feel-good film, but rather an example of how certain events can influence those around us. Osment's idea creates a sense of wonder on how things could be. The performances are strong, as one would expect, and the message is solid. The film uses a Pulp Fiction-esque style of showing events that occur before telling us how they were set in motion. The backtracking can be a bit confusing for some, but it does keep the film interesting. There are some emotional moments, and some very funny ones as well. The supporting cast helps keep the pacing strong, and the writing feels fresh and well thought out. Thomas Newman provides an interesting and moving score, which is important with a film like this. My complements to Mimi Leder, who has sculpted an insightful picture that will at the very least make you think. "},{"Title":"Made it to my top-ten list","Date":"25 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I so rarely see a film that moves and inspires me like this one.  It's a gem!  I belly-laughed in the film, and on the way home I just balled... and I'm not a big 'movie-crier.'  It affected me for days.  Great acting, great story, unusual style.  So many heros in the world endeavoring to rise above their circumstances and make a change, no matter how small... and this movie goes straight to the heart of that challenge.It was definitely more serious in some places than I had anticipated -- beware bringing young kids, because of the emotional charge around some of the story line.Enjoy this gem! "},{"Title":"The Best Movie!","Date":"25 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is the best movie I have seen in a long time!  The acting, the story -- all amazing! Definitely see it!!! Kevin Spacey blows you away with his acting skills in this movie -- and Helen Hunt and Haley Joel Osment are awesome too.  You will love this movie! "}{"Title":"Emotional blah blah blah","Date":"25 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  There is a good idea in this movie, unfortunately instead of watching the good idea play out, we have to sit through an average little love story between deformed and disgruntled Kevin Spacey and white trash queen Helen Hunt.  Although the acting is superb, as Spacey always is, and the script isn't badly written, I feel that the movie builds you up to something really interesting (especially by hooking the audience with the first scene) and then drags you through a boring love story that could happen in any movie. The film is very transparent in that it's very obvious what it's trying to make you feel and think.  So if that's your thing, than see this movie. "},{"Title":"Don't listen to those reviews!  Pay It Forward by watching this wonderful film!","Date":"25 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Wow, Wow, and Wow!  Just about describes what I thought of Pay It Forward!  In short anyways.  I have seen a lot of films! (Believe me!)  But when I saw this one, first I knew it was with a phenomenal cast with Hunt, Spacey and of course Osment, but when it was over and credits were running, I couldn't even get up at first because I was so moved by the performances, especially by Haley, (OMG he really is a true actor!) that I was sitting there for two minutes, maybe five minutes after everyone else left, mesmerized by the film!Kevin was excellent as Eugene!  (Do you find it odd that Simonet scrambled spells Osment?  Interesting!)Hunt was excellent as Arlene and deserves plenty of recognition!But Haley stole the show as he did in Sixth Sense!  And if he gets nominated as best actor with Spacey, Osment gets my vote!  Don't get me wrong. I love Kevin, no doubt but Haley was so believable in this film!  He's such a variety actor, he plays comedy, then drama and you can believe he stays true to his character!  He creates an exquisite character in both Sixth Sense and PIF' but my hat goes off to him in PIF!  I love to see actors show a variety of emotions and expressions and Haley has the most expressive eyes that I have ever seen!  I'm am pursuing an acting career and I hope someday I can be half the talent as young Osment!  Maybe FINALLY he WILL win!So do yourself a favor and PAY in full and see IT and after, FORWARD your life by PAYing IT FORWARD! "},{"Title":"A Disappointing Film","Date":"25 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Unfortunately, I really looked forward to seeing Pay It Forward.  There's nothing like anticipation to boost expectations to unreachable levels. How can you go wrong with Spacey, Hunt, and Osment?  Well, I'll tell you Make Helen Hunt revamp her character from As Good As It Gets, and have Haley Joel Osment be practically the same child that he was in The Sixth Sense.  The concept of Pay It Forward is great--as the tagline says, do nice things for three people, and have them pass it on...too bad this great idea got swallowed up in a standard Hollywood formula.  Throw in the love story. (Vomit, vomit).  And then make the ending so disgusting, so horrible, so unmentionable.  I probably would have liked the movie if not for the total cop-out ending.  Why let a movie end respectably when you can add a ton of melodramatic schmaltz? All in all, this already mediocre movie was completely ruined by its closing scenes.  Two and a half stars. "},{"Title":"Excellent film. I don't give 10's easily....","Date":"25 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  But this film was superb, from the writing, cast and crew to the actually filming, editing work. I had not one complaint, and even with some of my favorite movies I have little nit-picky things that I would change. But, my God, I wouldn't change a darn thing in this movie!!! And I wouldn't want anybody else to play any of the roles. Kevin Spacey gets better and better every time I see the man on screen!!! And Helen Hunt really let herself go free in this role. And I don't think I even need to comment on the talent in little Haley!!  Oh, and bring tissues. I cried like a baby at this emotional film!! "},{"Title":"Oscar mumur","Date":"24 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Pay It Forward is not bad.  But that doesn't make it a great movie.  This is a bit of a let down after seeing some of the other great roles that Kevin Spacey has excelled at performing.  Here his shine can be seen at times, but other times it seems as though he has been misdirected.  The movie as a whole seems to be built upon cheese.  Many scenes that should have been more powerful were made to be simply kitchy.  The character development also should have been taken farther.  In all it was an enjoyable movie, it did have a neat story line and was heart warming, but I don't think it warrants the (premature) Oscar hype that it is getting. "},{"Title":"The Best Film of 2000","Date":"24 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Can an idea change the world?  I believe so.  But what if that idea has nothing to do with getting ahead in life, or coping with life?  What if it was entirely altruistic?That's the question in this wonderful film by Mimi Leder (Deep Impact).  The Sixth Sense's brilliant young actor, Haley Joel Osment delivers another jaw-dropping performance as Trevor, the 11 year old visionary.  For an extra credit assignment, Trevor devises a system where people owe other people favours.  They pay it forward to the next three people (sorta ala Pyramid selling schemes.)Oscar Winners Kevin Spacey and Helen Hunt back the movie with fine acting as well.  "},{"Title":"it was terrible","Date":"24 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I just got back from this movie, and I am sorry, but I really really hated it.  First of all, too much hype.  You can't put all these so-called great actors together and expect them to pull off some amazing Oscar performance. Also, this movie was so slow, Jay Moore had a stupid role, Kevin Spacey was a major WHIMP, and Haley Joel Osment was a manipulative brat!!  And another thing, this theme in the movie of paying it forward is not a new thing. Hello folks, it's called a random act of kindness...jeeeezzzzz I cannot stress how terrible this movie was.  I want you all to know that I wanted to love this movie.  You see, I love Kevin Spacey....LOVE HIM!!  I also really liked Haley.  But after this piece of c**p I have lost so much respect for them that I once had.  I only hope that they can make a good movie after this and gain back their respect. "},{"Title":"Shadowlands meets The Man Without a Face","Date":"24 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is, I agree, good and commendable for all, but a subtler script and more satisfying conclusion would improve it. Times were when you knew before entering a theater whether you would see a comedy or a tragedy.  While one may doubt that the abrupt, gratuitous unhappy ending here (not Deus but diablo ex machina) rises to the stature of proper tragedy, it certainly isn't proper comedy, either.  I can add nothing to what others have already expressed along these lines.But, unless I missed something, no critic here has yet mentioned interesting parallels to two other films, The Man Without a Face and Shadowlands.Mr.  McLeod, the title character of The Man Without a Face is, like Mr. Simonet, a devoted teacher bearing horrible burn scars on his face and chest, to whom Chuck Norstadt, a boy Trevor's age and, like him, fatherless, turns for particular mentoring and deliverance.  In Shadowlands, C.S. Lewis is also a formidable teacher a renowned Oxford don and author of books on many subjects.  All three teachers are refreshingly old-fashioned in their academic values and methods. The sterling character of what they staunchly purvey helps make them inspiring pedagogues.These three men all see themselves as confirmed bachelors with little or no experience with women.  Life having given them little beyond their intelligence, they have learned to ask little from it.  They don't even ask for happiness as most of us define it-- only for the absence of pain, or ataraxia, in the form of sequestration from the dangers of human intimacy.  They have convinced themselves that the popular song is mistaken people who need people are NOT the luckiest people in the world.  Like good epicureans, each has quietly staked a claim to a tiny plot of figurative ground, carefully tended it into a beautiful garden, and walled it off from the rough-and-tumble environs.  Their epicureanism is incomplete, however, as long as they dare not look for a friend, whether man, woman, or child, whom they can invite in to share it.From the standpoint of their leading men, this quest, at first fortuitous and reluctant, then committed irretrievably, is the theme of each of these films. There are no tangible rewards, and they all doubt sometimes that the intangible benefits of any relationship, however much they long for it, are worth the risks.  Lewis becomes haltingly involved with Joy whom, together with her son Douglas, an alcoholic husband has deserted.  In Justin McLeod's case, the turbulent figure is a boy himself with the same family background.For Simonet, it is both abandoned mother and child are obviously a package deal.  Womanhood is by far the less familiar territory for him. I've never been here before he confesses to her.  When she shows up in his apartment, he protests that a regular daily routine is all that enables him to cope.  Her mere presence unexpectedly in his space epitomizes the upheaval that he dreads, and we can see him falling to pieces on the spot.  In that many mentally ill people require very structured lives, it occurred to me that he may still be in precarious condition after time in an institution.Mr.  Simonet also hesitates to care for Trevor beyond the contractual obligations of a salaried professional.  Trevor knows this well and points it out you do what you get paid to do. Mr.  Simonet, for his part, tells as much about himself as about Trevor by describing the boy as exigent.But how exigent are Trevor, Chuck, or Douglas? Their various demands are circuitous expressions of a single torment the absence of their fathers, or of anyone else to take their place.  Whether they cling to memories and fantasies like Chuck and Douglas, or whether their life depends upon facing hideous reality, as for Trevor, the prospect of parental abandonment is one of a child's worst nightmares, and for all three it has come true.An expedient heresy is afoot in our society that fathers are optional. Too few have discussed how eloquently Pay it Forward (as well as the other two films) testifies to the contrary.  Trevor was not entirely altruistic in marking down Mr.  Simonet as his second beneficiary, trying to arrange a date for him with Mom. Few children in broken homes can long put out of their minds the dream that their families might somehow be made whole again.  One can't hold that scheme against Trevor, as he was only working, however slender the chances, for something he deeply deserved.  Protecting himself with a jocular air, Chuck Norstadt, too, once floated the unlikely idea of Mr. McLeod's taking an interest in his mother.To me, the scenes in which Haley as Trevor reflected the progress or failure of this plan are the most effective and moving in the entire film.  These range from intense curiosity (during their first encounter under false pretenses of his own devising), to the exultation of his cry It worked! early one Sunday morning when he discovers Simonet in the house, and his ebullience as the three of them merely sit watching TV, to his desperate pleading with Simonet after complications ensue. To suggest that these scenes were exaggerated or sentimental is to insult the very real, however oft repressed, anguish of a fatherless boy.After noting similarities among three films, we must conclude with a regrettable difference.  C.S.  Lewis was a devout Anglican churchman, as the film showed unabashedly (and some felt that it was too restrained at that).  A chapter in Isabelle Holland's book also portrayed, in no uncertain terms, McLeod as a practicing Catholic (either Anglo- or Roman).  Although, alas, no such scene found its place in the film, a crucifix hanging prominently in his house proclaims the fact.Pay it Forward, however, betrays no suggestion that Sunday morning means anything more to its characters than an opportunity to sleep late.  It would have stolen their thunder to introduce any reminder that paying it forward has been going on for centuries.  It is called the Church.  Naturally, only someone ignorant of this tradition (literally, handing on) would see a need to invent it.  "},{"Title":"Luckily for me, the theater had to be evacuated (SPOILERS, probably)","Date":"24 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I'd been looking forward to this movie since I'd first seen the ads during the Olympics. It looked like it had all of the makings of a later day Capra tale, full of heart and honesty. I envisioned a tale about the interconnectedness of humanity and how small acts of goodness can grow in unexpected ways.I expected these things, but I certainly didn't get them. Two hours into the film (when the multiplex had to be emptied for some reason only the fire department knows) I was *still* waiting for the story to take off in unexpected directions. For instance, a cascade of people helping people as the reporter traces the Pay It Forward trend back to its source.And what did I get? Two hours of three characters plodding through the same old cliches about the alcoholic mother, her sensitive son, and the psychologically scarred, compulsive teacher who must somehow make the other two whole again. A drag, you ask? If George Bailey had seen this movie, he'd have jumped again.What I would have liked to have seen was about half as much of the main story and twice as much of the secondary story. Heck, the film makers spent so much time on the leads that there was only enough time in the rest of the movie to show four links in the chain from the reporter back to the kid. That's a movement?But as I say, I got lucky. The theater gave all of us two free passes for having stopped the movie so near the end. I'll be going back to that theater, to be sure.However, I certainly won't be going back to see how this movie ended. "},{"Title":"A Breath of Fresh Air","Date":"24 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  In a day and age where violence and special effects are the norm, this movie presents us with a much different movie. The story has a simple, interesting and promising theme Help out three other people, and only ask them to help three others in return.I guess what makes this film so enjoyable is that this movie could happen in real life.  It's quite inspiring, and after watching this, I want to do something nice for strangers.  Even if it's to a smaller scale such as random acts of kindness (pay the next 5 vehicle's toll) or giving up a bus seat to an elderly person, it can still make someone's day.I can't think of a better kid (Osment) or better teacher (Spacey) to play their respective roles.  Their sincerely really shines through in the dialogue.  Helen Hunt does a very good job as the concerned mother who has her problems, but develops quite nicely through them.  Indeed, it's a very nice ensemble.They say timing is everything, and it's about time a movie came out like this.  Bravo.****/****  "}{"Title":"No friend of Bill's","Date":"23 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I would fully expect Afro-Americans to decry the stereotypical depiction of the only black character in the film, while Burn Victim support groups can applaud that one of their own gets to boink Helen Hunt.However, speaking of HH, did anyone else notice that the only way we know she had a drinking problem is because she repeatedly tells us? We never see her drunk, nor does she seem to have much trouble dealing with life; she's not a dry drunk nor is she white knuckling it. She's together enough to hold down two jobs, resists the ubiquitous temptation to imbibe at work with little difficulty, she has a beautiful home, good friends, and hauls herself down to school at the slightest provocation. She also swings by the schoolteacher's apartment or parking lot whenever she needs to confront him (which she does without hesitation)--don't they heave telephones in Las Vegas? If every alcoholic was as together as she is, AA would be out of business. "},{"Title":"I really wanted to like this movie...","Date":"23 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  What a disappointment. This movie starts off so promisingly (if a bit stereotypically), but things slide downhill after the first hour. Hunt, Spacey, and Osment perform admirably; the problem is, they aren't given characters to play, and they know it.In retrospect, this movie suffers from trying to be so different from the book on which it is based. Details are changed between book and movie, details that don't seem to benefit the change, and it appears the screenwriter was tripped up by these changes.The movie never gets past its message. That message is fantastic; the gaping story holes and overt melodrama hurt the message. This movie doesn't want to touch you; it wants to beat you over the head until you sob.The performances are fine, although during his Big Melodramatic Speech, it appears that Spacey realizes just how ridiculous he sounds. Hunt is convincing, but again, is given so little with which to work. Osment's acting is up to his usual standard--but he again plays the weepy, sad child of a single mother. Could someone get this kid a movie without dead people, crying, and an absent father?Unless you're going in as a Spacey, Hunt, and/or Osment fan (as I did), don't waste the $7.00 to see this. Hit a matinee or wait for the video. And bring tissues, because unless you're able to be completely disgusted by the manipulation of your emotions, you'll sob at the last (contrived, over-done, and unrealistic) 15 minutes. "},{"Title":"Great movie sunk by horrible ending","Date":"23 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  After seeing the trailers I wanted to see this movie and after reading the universally negative reviews of critics I was dubious.  But I saw it was rated highly on imdb so I figured it was one of those things where all the critics agree and they're all wrong.Pay It Forward is a very good movie, touching, intelligent, funny, well shot and with a good score.  Yes, Helen Hunt is unconvincing as trailer trash, but it's not too bad.  And I don't know what to make of complaints that Angie Dickenson is an unconvincing bag lady, she's quite good.  I think there are just a lot of people who can't forget her in her younger days.Without giving a spoiler, the ending ruined the movie for me.  After being somewhat weepy through much of the film I sat dry-eyed for the last ten minutes, just feeling annoyed.  What were they thinking?  If this is the ending from the book then they should have been less faithful to the book.  If this was a Hollywood ending then whoever thought of it should be beaten to death.  While my wife liked the movie in spite of the end, which she also thought was stupid, it really left a bad taste in my mouth and I can't recommend seeing it.   "},{"Title":"Tremendous Acting Compensates for a Slightly Flawed Script","Date":"23 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  All in all a solid, emotional blockbuster for 3 huge actors, and certainly worth seeing.  While its biggest flaws are a few predictable, trite plot elements and lines pandering to what will be a massive worldwide audience by year's end, the acting is commendable.  Spacey, Hunt, and Osment employ their incredible talent in increasingly moving scenes to deliver a fairly simple, straightforward feel-good concept requiring a child-like abandonment of cynicism for its success.This film mixes the predictable, touching substance of Forrest Gump with the harshness of Leaving Las Vegas, and certainly sort of secures Osment's position as the most talented child actor of our time.  We should expect he'll receive another Oscar nomination with a probable win after another very mature performance.  Spacey and Hunt may also be nominated, but it would be surprising to see them win again for such generally predictable roles.   "},{"Title":"Promising cast, disappoiting film.","Date":"23 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  WARNING- THIS REVIEW CONTAINS SPOILERS!!! This film has one of the best casts of the year. I have always loved Kevin Spacey, Helen Hunt is one of the few intelligent actresses around and Haley Joel Osment is great- for a child actor. But this movie disappoints. It does so because of the flimsy screenplay. I have always said the characters should drive the plot, not the other way around. Here, however, characters seem to be doing things simply for the sake of the plot. The prime example is the relationship between Kevin Spacey and Helen Hunt. First he doesn't want to get involved, then she dumps him- it's a roller coaster of emotions that I didn't buy for a second. Then we have Kevin Spacey's tearful confession on how he got burned- oh so sad, also so obvious if you didn't see it coming, you're brain dead. As well, who couldn't see the ending coming from the first five minutes when we see the kid with the knife? The only reason to introduce the kid with the knife is to have him stab somebody- and of course it will be poor Haley Joel- dying like a Jesus for our sins. Please!!! The acting is good, but the screenplay is so overdone, the performances are all wasted.  "},{"Title":"Doesn't live up to the hype  (","Date":"23 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I saw Pay It Forward two weeks ago when it was shown as a sneak preview here in Charlotte.  I had really high expectations, and over all, the movie did meet a lot of them.  I was impressed by the acting of the main characters, and the story was interesting.  I don't want to give away anything, but the ending ruined the rest of the movie for me!  I just don't see any real reason for it to have ended the way it did, and even if there WAS some justification, did they have to make it so sappy?  And that song they played throughout the final scenes was terrible.  You know, I might have been able to buy the ending if they had just chosen a better song. "},{"Title":"Beautifully acted drama with a thought provoking theme and powerful conclusion.","Date":"23 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  `Pay It Forward' refers to the idea thought up by  eleven year old Trevor (Haley Joel Osment) as the answer to a homework project given by his social studies teacher Eugene Simonet (Kevin Spacey). The repercussions of Trevor's acts are heartwarming and heartbreaking. Trevor's mother, Arlene (Helen Hunt) is trying to make ends meet as a single mom while raising her son in Las Vegas. Jay Mohr is a reporter trying to find out the origin of  `pay it forward' so he can write an effective human interest article. Other seemingly unrelated characters finally fit into place as the tale winds to its powerful conclusion. Performances here are all top-drawer. The viewer will get drawn into the events which will provide an emotional reaction. It is only after the film, as you take it apart, that some of the flaws will become apparent. But by then it won't matter. Even though the final scene is a bit overdone, by then you will have been won over by the characters and the circumstances the writers have placed them in. Mimi Leder has directed the film so that the viewer can't thinking as he or she goes home of how to `Pay It Forward'. By the way, the title means to perform difficult acts of kindness for someone who needs help. Can you change the world? It certainly makes you think. "},{"Title":"It's not a perfect world, but it's not awful","Date":"23 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie did something to me, that many movies try to do to you.  It made me cry.  First for joy, then for sadness.  Real tears.  It made me care about their lives, and in essence, helped me care about myself more.  I'm not suprized that it's not getting rave reviews from the media, it's not a movie that's going to sell toys or memberships in cool clubs.  It's about the suffering of the human condition and how a few people managed to survive each day.Take someone you love to this movie.  You'll love them more when you leave.Just a note, this movie deals with alcohol recovery a bit, and may seem like it's preaching to those of you in recovery when you first realize that. Don't take it personal, it's just the condition that these people are dealing with.  It could be anything that makes life difficult for us all.  "},{"Title":"A tug-of-war between emotions and criticism","Date":"23 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It's really hard to say something bad about a movie as promising as Pay It Forward.  An all-star cast including Kevin Spacey (American Beauty, The Usual Suspects), Helen Hunt (As Good As It Gets) and Haley Joel Osment (The Sixth Sense) means a high concentration of acting power and just as much Oscar buzz.  Mixed reviews and the five-month span until the Academy Awards may sink the chances of what are some of the year's best performances.Eugene Simonet (Spacey) is a physically and mentally scarred middle school teacher who proposes a special extra credit assignment for his class They are each to come up with a way to change the world and put it into action throughout the course of the school year.  Enter Trevor McKinney (Osment), a soulfully naïve 11-year-old who invents 'pay it forward'.  Do something big for three people, something they can't do for themselves, and instead of paying it back, they pay it forward to three others, and so on, effectively starting a chain reaction that would spread like wildfire.As Trevor begins to put his plan to work, the dark forces of opposition begin to emerge and give the story a painfully real sense of the world as it is.  Trevor seemingly fails again and again and again.  Through his arguments with his mother, Arlene (Helen Hunt) and his pleading with his teacher, Trevor slowly begins to give up hope.Meanwhile, 'pay it forward' has begun to pop up in major cities and soon falls into the lap of Chris Carpenter (Jay Mohr), a freelance reporter. When Chris's car is destroyed, a gentleman throws him the keys to his Jaguar and insists he takes it.  Chris begins to trace these occurrences of selflessness, and is continually enlightened in his journey from Los Angeles to Las Vegas.Pay It Forward is marketed much differently than how the movie actually falls together, though.  Outwardly it is a do good, feel good, moral type of film. But make no mistake.  Pay It Forward is a heavy-handed, gut-wrenching, and often manipulative tearjerker.  And although the performances are incredible by all, Pay It Forward as a story does not provide the two hours of escape from real life that most people are looking for. Instead, it immerses its audience in some of the most painful parts of it.  I was literally in a state of semi-shock as I walked out of the theater , not knowing exactly to make of it all, and still find myself rummaging through different scenes in my mind.This movie is definitely not for everyone.  It requires a lot of heart and soul, a little patience and an open mind.  A spin-cycle of emotions, Pay It Forward is more of a life lesson than a movie and depending on your point of view, will leave you with either an empty box of tissues or a 10 minute 'I-want-a-refund' conversation with the theater manager. Personally, I found myself in a tug-of-war between emotions and criticism.Rating 3 ½ of 5 stars (7 of 10) "},{"Title":"This is a great film for older kids","Date":"23 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Ignore the critics and the snobs.  I'm glad I ignored them This is a great film for older kids.  See it with them. My 16 year old daughter and I really enjoyed it. Seeing this movie might even help make this world a better place, at least if you buy into its philosophy. "}{"Title":"I wish they would Pay me Back!","Date":"23 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Let me first say that I was looking forward to this movie ever since I saw the first preview.  I thought Hollywood was finally going to come out with the 'Feel Good' movie of the decade.  ******warning SPOILERS*********  For the first 90 minutes of the movie I was really enjoying the story.  I felt like the characters were believable despite their overwhelming hardships in life (how many alcoholics, drug addicts, or disillusioned youth can there be in one movie, and that doesn't even take into account Spacey's character). Despite the obvious flaws (too much emotion-ripping drama) in the film up to this point (~90 minutes), I felt good with the movie.  The acting was superb despite what most people have said about Helen Hunt.Than came the final 20 to 30 minutes.  I believe that there is a Hollywood formula that director's feel drama's need to follow to hit it big and move the audience (ie Gladiator, American Beauty, the Green Mile, Saving Private Ryan, Titanic, etc...good movies, all of these).  Unfortunately, Pay it Forward was no different and I didn't like the ending.  It had a formulaic ending in which the main character dies to make the point of the story. However, the scene in which this happens is totally unbelievable.  From the point that Trevor is stabbed I felt totally taken out of the movie.  I no longer felt any emotion from the what was happening on the screen.  The ending was contrived to rip tears out of the audience.With all of the violence that happens in the world today it would be nice to see Hollywood put out a feel good happy ending drama that I could take my kids to see.  If I wanted to see a sad story that ends in the violent taking of a child's life I would watch the news more often.  I think the screenwriter should have taken a chance and ended the movie on a positive note, while that may have not been the popular thing to do, it would have made the movie much better. "},{"Title":"Kevin Spacey is fabulous as always!","Date":"23 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie makes you want to go out and Pay It Forward.  It is a simple concept, yet it seems so unattainable.Kevin Spacey and Helen Hunt have a chemistry that is seldom seen.  Joel Haley Osmont shows a maturity much beyond his age.  This is a movie you will want to watch again and again.  "},{"Title":"My opinion of the movie, not a professional critique, by any means.","Date":"23 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie seems to be getting unfairly maligned, and by so many people, it's depressing.  That so many people find it sappy or emotionally overblown in itself indicates the very point of the movie--that the world sucks.  Personally, I think this is the best movie I've seen in my life, because never before have I seen a movie combine the right balance of humorous and dramatic elements.  I'm of the opinion that people criticize the admittedly heavy-handed melodrama because the movie uses this very melodrama to illustrate that the truth often hurts.  In this case, the truth means that it's a lot easier to hurl snide, sarcastic comments at a very well-intentioned plot line than to actually take the film's altruistic message to heart, get off your butt and do something to try to change your world.  At least, most people seem to think the acting was decent, which is very nice of them to say, considering they don't seem to think much of the film itself.  I don't know that much about acting, but obviously I think the acting was perfect, and very effective at getting a relevant point across. If it takes what critics would call sappiness to wake people up, so be it. For myself, I intend to take its message very seriously, and I hope there are at least a few others out there who will do the same. "},{"Title":"What a concept!What a movie! What a cast!","Date":"22 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  We loved everything about this movie, from the concept to the entire cast. Helen Hunt and Kevin Spacey and Haley Joel Osment should get nominations as should the picture. It was another fine acting performance by the entire cast. A very moving and wonderful movie. We laughed, we cried it is just what you want from a movie and it leaves you with great hope. If you pay it forward you will be a better person.   "},{"Title":"Great performance by two of the leads, with a ending bordering on sappy","Date":"22 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  *THIS COMMENT HAS PLOT SPOILERS*This is the first film this year to be a major contender for the Academy Awards and it delivers on many levels, although not as many as it wanted to.I guess I'll start with criticism and end on the positive.  Helen Hunt cannot act her way out of a paper bag and she proved that again in this movie.  Although she had good moments, her words were emotionless, backed up only by facial expressions that did not match her tone of voice.  Why she received an Oscar and is hailed as one of the best, I will never know.Why Jon Bon Jovi?  Why?The very last scene in the film really detracts from the rest of it.  The nightime vigil sequence was okay, since that does happen in real life when someone touches a nation.  However, having the cars line up ala Field of Dreams was a bit much.  This is a small detail, I know, but it still bugged me.On to the positive - This film was great.  Although some thought it cheesy and sappy, I thought it was quite effective.  It worked, in spite of its potential to move into sentimentality.  I also read people did not like the ending.  I must admit I was stunned when Trevor died; I did not see that one coming at all, as obvious as it may have been to others.  I was stunned and saddened by that plot twist, but it felt necessary in the film. I was also disturbed that I was a given a glimpse of what many children face in schools.  That part of the film has stuck with me.Haley Joel Osment, get your Oscar speech ready.  Although he deserved it more for The Sixth Sense, Osment will no doubt be an Academy favorite, with a fantastic performance and the fact that his character dies.  The Academy can never resist that, especially since it was a child who dies.The big question mark for me is whether the studio will campaign him for a nomination as best actor or best supporting actor.  He has enough noteriety for the lead actor category, but he'll face stiff competition, especially with the star of Billy Elliott. However, I believe the Academy will hand him the Best Actor Oscar if he is nominated there.Helen Hunt, unfortunately, will also garner a nomination for Best Actress.  The Academy loves her (why?) and she plays an alcoholic, white trash mother.  As history has shown, those are the type of roles that get women nominated.Kevin Spacey will also receive his third nomination, but probably will not win.  With this phenomenal performance in American Beauty still fresh in the voters minds, I think they will give the award to someone else, possibly Osment if they face each other in the same category.  Beyond the awards, this is another great performance by Spacey.  He should be given an award every year for simply gracing us with his extraordinary talent.This film may/may not get nominated for Best Picture.  Some Academy voters might think it too sappy, but we all know that sappy often wins recognition.  However, I cannot imagine Mimi Leder getting a Best Director nomination, but we shall see.Overall, a much better film than people are given it credit for, despite some its obvious flaws. "},{"Title":"Little Pay off....","Date":"22 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Pay It Forward has an interesting premise, and a ton of potential. Unfortunatly, Leslie Dixon's clear lack of faith in her script's ablity to move the audience shines through. Sure, the theater was full of sniffles. However, they didn't seem to come from the story. The film succeeds in making people cry because its just too heavy handed. One problem...for any character...is just not enough. Every scene seems to revolve around pain and misfortune, and its gut wrenching. You leave the theater feeling as if you've been hitting yourself in the head with a hammer. Simply put, its hard to swallow. Osment proably has the strongest performace. His maturity and poise clearly shines through. Spacey, while not up to par with American Beauty, does a good job with an over done character. Hunt seems to be trying too hard in many scenes, but considering the material she was given to work with, it probably isn't her fault. Many of the supporting characters are poorly drawn, making the real point of this film a mystery. Despite all this...I may have been able to forgive the film...had it not been for the disgusting plot device of an ending. (*Spoiler*) The death of a child, especially in such a creul attempt at dramatic irony/martyrdom is rarely appropriate. In this case I'd consider it cruel. There was no reason for this to happen, other than to shock the audience. After being beat over the head for the previous 2 hours, this move literally nauseated me. Sure, I heard sniffles. But if you have to rip the audience's emotions raw to get them...the script obviously lacks something solid.  "},{"Title":"Gets interesting responses from different critics","Date":"22 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  As the rest of the population of this country, when I saw the cast in previews, I knew I had to see this move -- and so I did. Like expected, I cried and like expected I walked out of the theater with food for thought.Today, I opened several sites to see what other people thought of this movie and their responses and the diversity of opinions stunned me. People said it's manipulative and it forced them to cry. So manipulation of emotion was it's biggest downfall and the great acting was it's biggest plus.So let's think about this...Hollywood exists because it attempts to command our emotions and we all rave about it in every other review. When Titanic came out and swept the Oscars, it was BECAUSE it made everyone cry at the end and because the make up was outstanding. Somehow though, the plot of a sinking ship and a cheesy romance did not seem mundane, but the idea that a child is not being cynical of the world is lame. What conclusions are we coming to? To the idea that every single point in a movie has to be resolved and preferably with some blood so it doesn't cause anyone any tears.What so many of us lack is the ability to feel. To feel pain and happiness and sadness. If Pay It Forward brought it out in you, why trash it? Embarrassment? Lack of ability to think about the reality of life? So many movies that were so much worse then Pay It Forward have received praises from very respectable critics, but this movie is all of the sudden is manipulative. Every movie is, because if it doesn't touch you, it didn't meet it's goal. Sure, the screenwriters played to the emotions of the audience. Perhaps they went too far in the closing scene, but that does not make it a bad movie.What I would like to know is why the negative outburst. If somebody knows, drop me a line.  "},{"Title":"Are there really kids like this?","Date":"22 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Pay It Forward has caused me to look around in my world for kids facing situations similar to the character played by Haley Joel Osment and I ask, Are there really kids like this?  Yes, there really are kids like this - who face family, school and social situations - that seem unbearable.  And yes, there are kids like this who have to care for themselves (and sometimes those around them).  And definitely, yes there are kids who choose to see life in a different light and take action to make it better. Now I have to ask, Where are the adults who can relate to this boy and help these kids? (like Kevin Spacey's character - Eugene)I enjoyed this movie - even when it pulled at my emotions.  No, let me restate that.  I enjoyed this movie - because it pulled at my emotions. But tell me ... is not media (TV, Movie, Music, Advertising) about that very same thing?  Our emotions get manipulated every time you interact with the world.  If you walk away from this movie without any reaction ... then you just don't get it.I like this movie because it didn't try to cover up what kind of life this boy faced.  I like this moved because it presented an unbelievable and somewhat unachievable challenge to the boy - and he accepted it.  I like this movie because it causes me to think.  And that is something that many other movies fail to do.The writers, directors, producers and actors should get recognition (not criticism) for attempting to cause people to not just think ... but take action to change this world.  "},{"Title":"One of the Best Movies Ever","Date":"22 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I don't know what these people are thinking criticizing this movie to death. They obviously have way too much time on their hands. This movie was the kind that leaves you thinking about it for days. The story was unique- something you don't see these days- and the actors did a wonderful job. Haley Joel Osment stole the show. What a great performance. You could totally see how he was stressed out at home, but when his alcoholic-abusive father got the boot, he was so much happier and at ease. His emotions covered the spectrum & he did a great job carrying them off. I found Helen Hunt & Kevin Spacey's characters very believable too as well as their performances. "},{"Title":"Leave the cynicism behind for a night","Date":"22 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The acting by the three main characters was superb. The story was fresh and original. Sure, there were a few glitches and a couple predictable lines. But overall this movie moved me like no other has in a long time, the raw emotions of those actors moving me to tears.Cynics shouldn't even bother. For the rest of you, go and see. It's a treasure.  "}{"Title":"Not all world-changers are worth the attention","Date":"22 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It's always nice to see that someone is out to change the world for the better. As a child of the 1960s, I remember well that feeling of potential. A friend of mine then constantly wore a button reading G.A.D. (for give a damn). And the idea that people helping people can make a difference is noble, if not at all new.But it doesn't seem to work here. The three main characters have far too many problems to overcome. We're distracted by scenes that switch too frequently. When the audience consciously wonders -- several times! -- if we've now gone forward or back in time, something's wrong. I would have preferred fleshing out of some of the minor characters to give some balance.The ending seemed wrong, and made me lose my interest in the film. That's a shame, for even if it couldn't have been different (it would have to be different from the novel), it could have been more realistic. "},{"Title":"A Sweet Flick","Date":"22 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie, after having read many a lukewarm response from critics, and I have to say, I was pleasantly surprised.  I'm not one who usually goes for inspiration and sweetness, but with a cast like this, who wouldn't go? I thought it was an interesting, strong premise, and this was only enhanced by admirable performances by Haley Joel Osment and Kevin Spacey. I greatly endorse this movie, and I think that it's an enjoyable time.  "},{"Title":"I'm still a little weepy","Date":"22 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I never really cry at movies, so when I do I figure it must be pretty intense. Parts of this movie just ripped me up inside and I felt as if I might need to leave the theatre for a second to regain composure. Of course, I have a rule that I never abandon where I don't leave the movie before the credits roll.I loved how everyone in the movie seemed to take their characters so seriously, except maybe for Jay Mohr, whom I think never really takes a role that seriously. Most of all, I'd have to say that the person that surprised me the most was Helen Hunt.I never gave her a chance before, because she just all of a sudden started being in all of these movies one day, and I never watched her TV show, Mad About You, so I didn't know who she was exactly. I didn't know what to expect from her in this movie, but I can't ever turn down a Kevin Spacey movie, especially one as intriguing as this one. So I saw it, loved Kevin and Haley as per usual and went away thinking that Helen Hunt might not be so bad. I might even go see that Mel Gibson movie that she's going to be in later. Now I just completely suck. "},{"Title":"Maybe I wasn't in the right mood for this film...","Date":"22 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Maybe I wasn't in the right mood for this film. Normally I would pay double admission to watch Kevin Spacey play second triangle in a symphony orchestra.  The film represented a good premise, not reall well expanded upon.  Haley Joel Osment was great, Spacey was his usual, Helen Hunt perhaps a little one dimensional, but the real difficulty I had was with the film plotline.  I found the storyline very predictable and the plot turns annoyingly manipulative.I think I had the only dry eye in the theatre at the end, unusual for me. Am I in left field or does anyone else feel this way?  "},{"Title":"The happiest, saddest, best movie ive seen in a while","Date":"22 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie touched me and my heart. Pay it forward, so simple, so difficult and very beautiful. Haley Joel Osment did a wonderful job portraying the main character.... I will buy this movie, the book and all else.... I cannot express how much I enjoyed this movie. It will make you cry, it will make you laugh and it will make you want to Pay it Forward!!!! "},{"Title":"Great cast + Great story = Outstanding film!","Date":"21 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I saw 'Pay it Forward' this weekend and was mesmerized. As a fan of sentimental, lessons of life movies like 'Forrest Gump' and 'The Shawshank Redemption', I count this among my favorites. Helen Hunt, Kevin Spacey, and Haley Joel Osment are all outstanding actors. When I first saw the trailer for this movie, I thought, for once, a dream team of actors out to make a great picture. Most movies today are filled with a dream team of POPULAR actors out to make a lot of MONEY. Not that this will not make money. It will. But nobody is going to remember how much money it made ten years down the line. All that people will remember is how it affected them and what they learned from it. A remarkable film! 10/10. "},{"Title":"Outstanding ... Oscar for ALL!","Date":"21 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I felt suspended into the movie ... the actors, the story, the photography.Kevin Spacey is amazing!!  A treat for the eyes in every way.  I like him as a person, as he portrays himself, and learn from him as an actor.Having a chance to act with Mr. Spacey and Ms. Hunt would be another dream come true.Gentle as you go...  "},{"Title":"A possibility missed!","Date":"21 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I read the book. I got the point there. What a message! The threads were woven in a way that made sense and followed. I thought the book and movie were both predictable, but I cried anyhow because it touched me, as it did most of the audience in the theater. But I believe the scriptwriter actually thought they got the point and yet missed it. They told the story of the people. It's actually the story of the possibilities, the hope. Oh, some people will 'get' it. And it is a wonderful message. But there are threads that come from nowhere, that weren't in the book and I felt cut short on the lesson -- that it is supposed to be an 'unconscionable' act of good. Helen Hunt (in an absolutely wonderful performance) -- her character is not one of those her son actually chooses. Yet the thread is there in the movie. I didn't like it as well. The thread in the book made more sense, included more emotional strings, showed more of 'normal' patterning in passing it along. I went in thinking that if the director and screenwriter did their jobs correctly, this movie could absolutely change the world because it would gift those who saw it -- and chose to understand and let it affect their lives -- with the desire to 'pay it forward.' Instead, I think it's just slow and sad in that respect. There are a few wonderful lines and moments from the book that I think could have translated the message with only minor additions to the script. But, alas, it looks like the director had a different message in mind. The time jumps were confusing. The emotions were missing. There were character arcs that were incomplete. It's still a good movie, with good performances. But I wanted so much for the message to change the world. It can, you know. "},{"Title":"A very touching movie","Date":"21 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I saw the sneak preview and then took my daughter on opening day.  When I was at the preview, at the end of the movie nobody moved or said a word as the credits were rolling.  I have never cried in a movie as I did in this one.  It was very touching and had a very good story.  I see a lot of movies and I love it when something happens unexpected.  To me, that is an excellent movie.  I give this an 8.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Decent Movie, With Many Flaws","Date":"21 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  since i really like kevin spacey, and the amazing haley joel osment,i ve been waiting to see this movie for a long time. and i was disappointed.im not saying that the movie was bad or anything, it just wasnt as good as i thought it would be. the story itself is very good. the directing is ok, and the acting is excellent.**SPOILERS AHEAD**some parts were not that good. like when spacey told hunt about when his father burned him when he was a child, it was not so convincing. of course not to mention the ending. it wasnt only the worst idea in years, also it wasnt well done. the whole point from the ending is to make sensitive girls cry. specially that part when people came with candles in their hands, that was really weak.the rest of the movie was really good, it got some funny parts, and some good parts. kevin spacey was good, not as good as when he was in usual suspects or american beauty. not even close, but still good. hunt did well, also not as good as when she was in as good as it gets, but good. the star of the show in my opinion was osment. this kid is really amazing, he did better in the sixth sense( it was a harder role), but he was really good here. i cant beleive that a 12 years old boy can act as well as top actors like spacey and hunt. he was up to the challenge. if there is a reason for this movie to be a must-see, it is osment.i think the movie will be nominated for many oscars, maybe best picture, but for sure it isnt the best movie this year. almost famous is way better, and it is most likely to be nominated, and maybe win the best picture award.see it if you are a fan of one of the actors. 7/10  "}{"Title":"Makes me mad","Date":"21 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It always makes me mad when movies manipulate me into crying.  I always fight it and refuse to cry.  I get all fixed up with my eye make-up, then some movie like this makes me make it all a mess! I was doing pretty well in this movie at not crying until the end.  So just get your Kleenex ready about half way through the movie and have it handy.  Helen Hunt was very good in this movie, and I thought she was believable as a blue-collar type. I didn't like the portrayal of the teacher as such a bad dresser with the goofy tennis shoes with a suit.  I teach high school, and most of the men dress cooler than that!  Kevin Spacy was good too.  Haley Osment was exactly like he was in Sixth Sense - I kept expecting him to say I see dead people.  This movie was worth the price - it's very good, but I'm glad I didn't make my husband see it - only the sensitive type men will like it. Mine likes movies like The Ladies Man and Best in Show much better. Anyway - don't forget the Kleenex! "},{"Title":"Early Choice for an Oscar Sweep","Date":"21 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Let's come out and say it. Kevin Spacey was brilliant in this  film. However, while he deserves an Oscar for his work in it, it should probably be a win as Supporting Actor, as my vote goes to Haley Joel Osment for Best Actor. Osment  was an acting revelation in this film, surpassing his work in The Sixth Sense by miles. Yet another however though is Helen Hunt's performance as Osment's alcoholic mother. Hunt's characterization of a mother in recovery is amazing. The performances of these three amazingly talented  people is what drives this film. I would recommend it to anyone. "},{"Title":"a beautiful followup to american beauty","Date":"21 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  i went into the theatre last night with mediocre expectations. i left, having cried 17 times. no exaggeration. Kevin Spacey was amazing and i REFUSE to ruin the ending for anyone because it is astonishing. Helen Hunt, who I have hated in the past, made me love her amazing acting ability and Haley wowed me again. The story I was sure was going to one of those big-budget made-for-tears movies that bring the women in. It was amazing. behind the idea itself was some real substance... WOW "},{"Title":"One of the Most Outstanding Films of the Year","Date":"21 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film gives so much emotion and feeling of what can happen in the hopes of a child in spite of his circumstances.  The acting was excellent and I would see this movie over again and will purchase it when it comes out. What a concept it gives for humanity to think about! This young boy again proves what an outstanding young actor he is as he did in the Sixth Sense. The rest of the actors including Angie Dickinson were also excellent. "},{"Title":"Incredible!!!","Date":"21 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  FANTASTIC!EXRAORDINARY! It has been such a long time that I have seen a movie that made me FEEL something.  I see alot and the last few have been major disappointments.  This movie is no disappointment whatsoever.  Osment is great, of course.  Hunt was very believable(much like her character in AS Good as It Gets). But Spacey truly pays it forward by just doing what he does best.  He accomplished what he was out to do.  He made me FEEL something about his character.  Watching his emotions on screen swept me away. I felt his sadness. I felt his anger. I felt his hurt when he looked at Hunt.  This movie blew me away, and I am ready to go see it again and again.  With the message in the movie, I feel that EVERYONE should see it.You owe it to yourself.  And you owe it to 3 more people to recommend this movie to them.  Pay it forward!! "},{"Title":"An absolutely incredible film","Date":"21 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I sat through this movie not knowing what to expect. I came in part to see Haley Joel Osment, who I absolutely loved in The Sixth Sense. He is an incredible actor and in this movie he didn't disappoint. I was totally touched and inspired by this film. I was only halfway through the movie and I already wanted to see it again. No other movie has had this kind of impact on me, that I would want to see it again before seeing it the whole way through the first time. It's an incredible acting job by the three main stars, with a great love story, all intertwined by this wonderfully written film that will keep you captivated all the way to the stunning climax. This is a 4 star and a 2 kleenex box movie - see it and be touched. "},{"Title":"A very moving film...","Date":"21 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I've been waiting all year for a film such as this, and it's well worth the wait.  This is a very good drama, and the entire cast did a great job.   I hope this film gets the Oscar, because it would certainly deserve it. "},{"Title":"Hit over the head by an angel","Date":"21 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I'm sure this movie will make an enormous sum of $$$ and will also help usher George W into the White House.However...I'm getting awfully tired of Hollywood's idea of how regular folks live. I have a good job. Howcum Helen Hunt's character, struggling to make ends meet with two crummy jobs, owns a way nicer house than I do?I do not buy her as trailer trash. She has a very limited range. However, she had been christened as a quality actress (for having worked 6 years on a sitcom?) and so in the eyes of many, she can do no wrong. All right. Good for her.The kid is great. I only hope there are enough good roles for him. Spacey is fine.The story is weak; it's a slightly elevated AfterSchool Special. The characters are extremely familiar stereotypes. The only black character (Spacey's character was black in the book)is a gang member, and when's the last time you heard about Crips and Bloods? Well, you'll hear it here, along with every other Street Black Cliche they teach in Screenwriting 101. This character brings to mind Robert Townsend's Hollywood Shuffle.And the plot, well, let's see Why is it that nobody is initially willing to reveal the Pay It Forward concept, when the whole idea of it is that the concept must be passed along in order for it to work? Nobody pays it forward to three people as required, except for the kid, with very mixed results. The whole premise is right up the alley of the Hollywood elite it's not enough to do good for its own sake; one must be rewarded by knowing others have done good because of you. It's redolent of the PR firms who are so quick to trumpet the celebs who donate their time to charity for no compensation--never mentioning the enormous publicity value they receive from their good deeds.The PIF movement is evidently a failure a bag lady, a homeless guy, a lawyer and a street thug have participated in some minor ways, but it is considered a huge success. Why? Because, as always in the eyes of Hollywood, us regular folks comprehend something is worthwhile WHEN IT IS COVERED BY THE MEDIA.  "},{"Title":"Not Perfect, but Definitely worth seeing.","Date":"21 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  What a wonderful premise for a movie.  To challenge young people in what they can do to make this place a better world.I wish, I wish, I wish, there were more actual real teachers in our public school system that appeared to care as much as the character portrayed by Kevin Spacey.  Kevin Spacey plays a 7th grade social studies teacher who gives his students an extra credit assignment that inspires one child to make a positive difference in this world.I know it sounds schmaltzy (is that a word?) but, for the most part, it works.This movie will be enjoyed more by people who believe that we, as individuals, can make a difference.  If you even have a shred of hope in the decency of mankind, then this movie will work for you.The only things I would change, is one monologue given by Kevin Spacey, that I felt was unnecessary.  Sometimes movie makers get nervous that the audience won't get it unless it's spelled out for them.  I think this particular speech would have been more effective had it stayed subtext. Kevin Spacey is a great actor...his simple facial expressions and mannerisms tell us enough already.  We don't need to know everything.And I thought the ending was sort of done....how shall we say....neutral.  It either needed to be one way or another, but it sort of didn't come across as a strong choice. I know I am speaking in generalizations, but you don't want to know EVERYTHING... do you?T "},{"Title":"Exactly What I Expected From A Haley Joel Osment Movie","Date":"21 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I have been a fan of Haley Joel Osment's for several years. After his astounding performance in Sixth Sense, I definitely wanted to see if his acting stature could remain intact. And I was not disappointed. Haley shines in this movie, supported by many big name actors. Definitely a must see for any pre-teen or early-teenager.  "}{"Title":"Likable cast, over-the-top plot.","Date":"21 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Pay it Forward is a feel good movie with an interestingly constructed plot and sympathetic, if not particularly believable, characters. Unfortunately it doesn't know when to pull the emotional/inspirational plug. Predictably not stopping with the false-downer ending of its Christ-like child hero's death, it first provides the semi-upper of having us, along with his bereaved mother (Helen Hunt) and former teacher (Kevin Spacey), witness his altruistic message via a previously videotaped TV interview. That much of having one's cake and eating it too would have been tolerable, given the film's spiritually affirmative premise. But, no, the camera then follows the grievers to the window and out the door, where dozens of beneficiaries of the boy's 'pass it forward' campaign have lined up to light candles and deposit flowers, like so many modern day magi. And to triply ensure that the uplifting message is clear, the camera then withdraws via a crane shot to gradually reveal a vast multitude of one-little-candle lighters gathering in the night. That's when the airsick bags must be quickly removed from the theater seat bottoms. Up until the maudlin final scenes, the film works fairly well, largely because of the appealing acting jobs turned in by both Spacey and Hunt, both of whom are cast considerably against type. Spacey has here ditched has usual supercilious, super-cool pose, last seen in American Beauty, to play a physically and psychologically scarred social studies teacher who would like to, but doesn't really, believe in the assignment he uses to motivate his class (and the film's plot) suggest a way to change the world and try to put it into action. Helen Hunt plays an alcoholic, promiscuous, trailer-trash Mom with a heart of gold, somewhat reminiscent of Demi Moore's character in Striptease, but conceived and played with far more sensitivity and a bit more credibility. The film also makes interesting use of Las Vegas as its principal setting, in that one does not see much of the postcard landmarks of the Strip, but rather the less glamorous peripheries of the gambling trade and the not-at-all glamorous trailer parks and homeless encampments on the outskirts of town.All in all, Pay it Forward is worth seeing - and even emotionally moving in places &#150; but it suffers from Hollywood predictability and overkill. "},{"Title":"Very Good","Date":"21 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  In a year where the quality of the movies can only be described as lackluster, Pay it Forward certainly shines through. Sure, its easy to dis its Oprah-esque qualities of doing good deeds for others, but the story is fairly solid.As I hinted to before, this year has been anything but spectacular for movies... one only has to look to recent films like Dr. T and the Women and Nurse Betty -- hailed as golden by critics -- but are really flimsy pieces of work.Helen Hunt redeems herself in this film from her work in Dr. T, Haley Joel Osment is once again spectacular, and Kevin Spacey delivers another Oscar-worthy performance.The score has hints of American Beauty, and I personally felt the parallels between the two films, not necessarily in mood, but in the impact they will leave behind.If you see one film this year, spend your money on Pay it Forward, but please buy in to the concept of the movie -- just like American Beauty, one must accept the world presented in the establishing moments of the film, otherwise you'll leave disheartened.In the meantime, Kevin Spacey, make room for another Oscar on the mantle.   "},{"Title":"Well-acted drama","Date":"21 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Pay It Forward is a movie that I had been looking forward to seeing since it stars Kevin Spacey, Helen Hunt, and Haley Joel Osment. A movie with two Oscar-winning actors and an Oscar-nominee has got to be good, and Pay It Forward is a very good movie with the three stars giving strong performances. Osment plays Trevor, an 11-year-old starting 7th grade. Spacey plays Eugene, Trevor's new teacher who gives his class an unusual assignment think of a way to make the world better. Hunt plays Arlene, Trevor's mother who's battling alcoholism. Trevor's idea for his assignment each person should help three other people achieve something they couldn't have done on their own, and then those people each must do the same for three more people. And so on and so on. One of these deeds has Trevor trying to play matchmaker for his mom and teacher as he tries to get the two together. Then word catches on as other people do the exact same thing pay it forward. This movie does get a little distracting with it's flashback moments. It starts with a reporter who runs into a man who pays the reporter forward. Then the movie flashes back a couple of months ago as Trevor starts school. The film keeps going back and forth between the reporter (who's striving for a story on the pay it forward scheme once he hears of it) and the Spacey-Hunt-Osment characters (where the pay it forward odyssey starts). It's a bit jarring at first, but then the two stories are neatly tied up later. And guess what? The movie has a surprise ending, just like Osment's last film The Sixth Sense (even though this ending is kind of different than the one in The Sixth Sense). I didn't see this ending coming, and I won't reveal what happens. You'll just have to see the movie for yourself. Pay It Forward might get Oscar nods again for Spacey, Hunt, and Osment and I hope it does because their performances are the best thing in the movie. This is an extremely well-acted drama.***1/2 (out of four)  "},{"Title":"I left the theater...wanting to Pay It Forward","Date":"21 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I've been wanting to see this film for sometime.  I enjoy Spacey and Osment respectively.  Hunt is still growing on me.  I did enjoy this film.  I thought the concept and the message was originally put together.  It felt good to see a positive movie.  A good positive movie that isn't cheesy. Osment shines as the boy with all the hope.  Spacey never ceases to amaze me and continued to do so with his subtle, tense performance.  There were some problems.  The score did resemble American Beauty's (but I liked it) and I did have a problem with the stereotypical black person language...It was fine but a bit stretched!The movie seems to be taking a lot of slack for the ending but I found it logical and appropriate.  And I don't think Leder put it in just to make everyone weep, even though it did just that to me.  Overall, I absolutely enjoyed it.  It made me feel like I needed to do something, that I could make a difference.  And if that is the intent it deserves all the praise in the world. Osment gives another Oscar worthy performance and the screenplay deserves a nod as well.Overall, one hell of a movie 9/10   "},{"Title":"Do Watch the Movie Do the Movie","Date":"21 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The message is simple Do Unto Others and Don't Expect Others To Do Unto You.  You may not be able to change the world over night, but you can start it by helping others with no expectation of rewards.  Bad things can happen anywhere and at any time and spreads around.  So, we must do the same with the good in the world and spread it around.  This movie related this message.  Would it win an Oscar?  Possibly, but as Haley says in the movie paraphrasing here It is not grade that I want, but the change! I would recommend that everyone brings tissues to this movie as it is a tear jerker.  Do not wait until the video comes out because we must act upon doing the movie's message.  A message worth acting upon.  In a world that is...watch the movie, and you will know the rest of the sentence. "},{"Title":"Spacey & Osment shine","Date":"20 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  And the first half of this movie does as well.  It is brilliant. Then the middle sags into hollywoodland and I lost my involvement with the movie so that the ending did not have the effect on me it was supposed to, judging by the sobs around me.  Angie Dickinson in bag lady mode is a stretch. But the good points outweigh the bad. The setting of Las Vegas for a spiritual story is a stroke of brilliance, all the glare and false glitter as a setting for the jewel of hope within. Spacey inhabits every role so seamlessly, he never ceases to amaze me. Osment continues his excellent work in this also.  Helen does her Helen as usual.  She never lets me forget she's an actress in any of her work. I gave it an 8 out of 10 for a movie that is worth the price of admission. But, I was musing as I left the theatre, why do they never ever have a movie with a woman as the beast and a man as the beauty ? Would we have bought a handsome single Dad in this role in love with a horribly scarred woman ?  Hmmmm.  "},{"Title":"They should have paid more attention to the story.","Date":"20 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Humans suck.  If you require proof, check out the headlines of any major newspaper or turn on CNN- raging wars, people starving, rampant drug abuse and kids killing other kids for running shoes. Reuben St. Clair, a social studies teacher, believes that he can make a difference by going to the source.  He gives his sixth graders a simple assignment - make the world a better place.  What he doesn't realize is that he may provide a young man with the inspiration to do just that.The novel by Catherine Hyde had barely hit the shelves when the writers began work on the screenplay.  Paying it forward is a unique concept rather than repay someone who does you a good turn, you do a good turn for three others, which would in theory result in exponential altruism till all is right with the planet.  Okay, maybe I'm being a tad facetious, but movies that expound such optimistic sentiments are rare.   More importantly, the idea isn't that outlandish - while it might not be a global phenomenon, what is the worst thing that could happen?  A lot of people would help a lot of other people?  Unfortunately, the message gets lost in the translation.I had been anticipating this film for some time - I like all the principle actors involved in the project and the story line appealed to me - so I was one of the first people in line to see the sneak preview.  It did not take long however to see that there were problems the characters are unoriginal (drunken single mother, troubled teacher with a secret, outcast young boy), the relationship between the mother and the teacher becomes the focus of the film, and the coincidences are quite a stretch.  And is it that hard to come up with a score?  This one was lifted almost directly from American Beauty.  I was able to overlook these faults, but I could not forgive the ending, which was cheap and unnecessary - I had predicted it in the first five minutes and hoped they would prove me wrong.   Thankfully, the actors don't disappoint. With two Oscars on his mantle, Kevin Spacey is definitely doing something right.  Although Reuben is both physically and mentally scarred, Spacey is careful not to make him a walking victim, imbuing him with a careful balance of insecurity and a buoyant nature that are the source of his infectious inspiration.  Helen Hunt is uncharacteristically down to earth - her appearance the-morning-after-the-night-before was both hysterical and pathetic - proving that she is so much more than Jaime Buckman.  I was most surprised by Haley Joel Osment he showed a seldom seen maturity in The Sixth Sense that was pivotal to the believability of the film.  In this film it is his ability to play a regular kid - specifically the scene in which he is being interviewed - that is  indicative of his true talents. People will like this film, they will laugh and they will cry.  But I still can't help feeling having been unnecessarily manipulated. "},{"Title":"YOUR WEEKEND ASSIGNMENT IS TO SEE THIS MOVIE.","Date":"20 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It's a little early to be whistling the Oscar kazoo, but Pay it Forward does deserve attention - at least from audiences.The concept is bright and bold, centering around young Trevor McKinney (Haley Joel Osment) as he bakes a plan to revolutionize society.  Help three people in a very big way, then those three people will aid three more. (#1 - It has to be something that really helps people. #2 - Something they can't do by themselves.)  Don't pay it back - pay it forward!Though, every pyramid plan depends on the participation of those that are given favors, so once Trevor's Big Three are enacted, he begins to fear none of them were successful - or the disillusionment of youth, the first of a few major themes the film tackles.  Enter Mr. Simonet (Kevin Spacey), the heart-filled, dictionary-totting seventh grade social studies teacher who assigned each of his students the world-changing, semester long think piece.Although, Trevor was the only pre-teen to conceive something truly inventive - and, eventually, the movement screams across the Las Vegas border onto the streets of L.A.  A freelance writer chasing the story (Jay Mohr) defines it as a movement, and that is what it is, both spiritual and helpful.Arlene, Trevor's protective mother that chugs Abolut when nobody is peeking; Ricky, Trevor's neglecting, estranged father keeps propping up after years on the bottle; and Grace, Trevor's loving yet homeless grandmother that lives in the scrap yard of gamblin' town add conflict to an already hefty script.  Running at a bit over two hours, Pay it Forward is, simply stated, an experience of drama, humor and pain.It is the type of film built as a mantel piece.  It's not perfect - not shatterproof - but it does provide a solid entertainment roller coaster ride of emotions.  So don't beckon Oscars yet, just pay eight bucks, sit back comfortably in your favorite movie-watching row, munch on a few Swedish Fish - then pay it forward. "},{"Title":"Better than I expected","Date":"20 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I was looking to get out of the house.  Middle of the day.  Figured I'd see a movie.  I hadn't planned on seeing this movie, the previews didn't look too appealing, and the name sounds like a fast food restaurant promotion.Despite my negative expectation, I have to admit that I liked this movie. I'm not really a Kevin Spacey fan, and I can take or leave Helen Hunt.  I guess I'm just a sucker for touching movies.  Anyone that says this movie wasn't worth seeing should lighten up and get over their disappointments with life.I give this flick a Must See rating.  The kid did an excellent job, and I expect he will have a bright future in Hollywood.Just make sure to ask for popcorn without the butter, butter kills! "},{"Title":"A truly outstanding film","Date":"20 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is not only great, but also physically draining.  The emotions in this movie reach a point almost unbearable proportions.  However, this is what makes the movie great.  I have not been touched by a movie to such a great extent, since American Beauty.  All three title stars give oscar caliber performances.  A definite must see. "}{"Title":"Fantastic movie, incredible acting...","Date":"19 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I went into this movie skeptical and came out touched, for lack of a better word. The acting in this film was phenomenal, especially by Kevin Spacey. Helen Hunt was very real and Haley Joel Osment was excellent too, much better than in The Sixth Sense. I really found this movie inspirational and moving. I think it can bring out the idealist in all of us. I hope to see this movie sweep at the Oscars. "},{"Title":"Don't read too much about this movie!  Avoid Spoilers","Date":"19 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Pay It Forward is an excellent movie with excellent acting.  It is likely to get some recognition come Oscar time.  But I won't say anything else, because I don't want to ruin this movie.  Everyone else should do the same. 9 out of 10 "},{"Title":"The most touching film I have ever seen.","Date":"19 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Pay It Forward is the most touching film I have ever seen. It has a wonderful story and good moral values. Haley Joel Osment is the reason this film is so great. He does a phenomenal job of reaching into the hearts of the audience and one becomes quickly attached to his character. I would recommend this film over any other because it carries a lesson that is greatly needed in our world today. "},{"Title":"Best film since the Golden Age of Hollywood.","Date":"19 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  How many times have you heard They don't make films like they used to (in the golden age).  Well here they do.  Lots of people (especially Hollywood and the critics that hob-nob there) hate it when films don't applaud general chaos (the so-called 'drugs-sex-and-rock-and-roll' variety).  It's easier to push nose candy up one's nose, down a quart of tequila, and go out for a night on the town looking for some pay sex if a film tells you that there is some redeeming value in it.  This is why Hollywood awards hooker roles so much, it validates their life styles.  Heaven to bid if the film paints this as a no-no.  If a film reminds you that there is a higher road to take and that road is not easily traveled, then it's easier to trash the film and go back to a loser lifestyle.  Even Forrest Gump was a hero who had good fortune thrown at him via destiny as opposed to conscious decisions.  Try to live up to high ideals?  Oh no no, that's too cotton candy sweet, life is not like that at all.  Life is about wallowing in the gutter.  Get over it!!!!  Watch this film.  Live up to its ideals.  And stop embarrassing yourselves.  It's okay if your outlook on life doesn't rise higher than a worm's tummy, but don't admit it to anyone!  Better yet, go watch this film...and take notes. "},{"Title":"Best film since the Golden Age of Hollywood.","Date":"19 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  How many times have you heard They don't make films like they used to (in the golden age).  Well here they do.  Lots of people (especially Hollywood and the critics that hob-nob there) hate it when films don't applaud general chaos (the so-called 'drugs-sex-and-rock-and-roll' variety).  It's easier to push nose candy up one's nose, down a quart of tequila, and go out for a night on the town looking for some pay sex if a film tells you that there is some redeeming value in it.  This is why Hollywood awards hooker roles so much, it validates their life styles.  Heaven to bid if the film paints this as a no-no.  If a film reminds you that there is a higher road to take and that road is not easily traveled, then it's easier to trash the film and go back to a loser lifestyle.  Even Forrest Gump was a hero who had good fortune thrown at him via destiny as opposed to conscious decisions.  Try to live up to high ideals?  Oh no no, that's too cotton candy sweet, life is not like that at all.  Life is about wallowing in the gutter.  Get over it!!!!  Watch this film.  Live up to its ideals.  And stop embarrassing yourselves.  It's okay if your outlook on life doesn't rise higher than a worm's tummy, but don't admit it to anyone!  Better yet, go watch this film...and take notes. "},{"Title":"TV Movie-like misfire","Date":"18 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"      The cast is excellent, but the characters are very, very thinly written; all we ever learn is more information about their pasts -- their personalities are set in cement from the first appearance.    The plot is, unfortunately, much like what one would see on television -- obvious, forced, contrived.  Mimi Leder's direction is heavily manipulative, leaving nothing to the imagination.  Scene after scene she makes sledge-hammer attempts to force emotional responses from the audience.         The movie is moderately entertaining; with this cast, it could hardly be anything else.  But it's a long, long way from what it could -- and should -- have been.  "},{"Title":"Good, but predictable.","Date":"18 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  For the first twenty minutes, I truly enjoyed 'Pay it Forward'. I love Kevin Spacey and Helen Hunt and am learning to like Haley Joel Osment. However, as creative as Kevin Spacey is, 'Pay it Forward' is a chick flick for women who don't like chick flicks. I cried, yes, but was mad at myself for doing it. As soon as the three major characters had been introduced I knew that Helen Hunt and Kevin Spacey's characters would have to get together and it ruined the rest of the film for me. It's not *terribly* romanc-y, which saves it from the misfortune of being labelled a chick flick, but the only quality is in the characterization. 'Pay it Forward' gets some credit for continuing to focus on Trevor (Haley Joel Osment) even after it is obvious what is going to happen, and I liked the multiple plot lines. Kevin Spacey is lucky that he was a saving point instead of being dragged down in the plot; he gets lots of gold stars from me on his ability to a) act magnificently and b) portray an enormous variety of characters, including an excellent Mr Simonet; so I apologize to him in saying that the film was a flop.  "},{"Title":"Could've been great","Date":"18 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie could have been so much more than it actually is.  The concept is great;helping other people, and expecting nothing in return, only that they pay it forward. It has an idealism that is rare in today's movies.  The acting is also wonderful all around.  But ultimately, the film is defeated by its cliches.  There's the alcoholic mother who has to be saved. The disfigured teacher with secrets to hide.  The drunken father who comes home only to yell at his wife and beat her up.  The cliches prevent you from losing yourself in the movie, because you're continually thinking, Well, that was convenient.  The cliches in the movie defeat itself, which is a shame.  This could have been a great movie. "},{"Title":"A cinematic marvel","Date":"18 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film is truly amazing all around, and one of the most thought=provoking I've encountered in quite some time.  The acting is fantastic, the story inspired, and the musical score very contemplative.  It definitely leaves the viewer more than satisfied, and is to be highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Spacey is decent--too bad about the script","Date":"18 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I wouldn't have missed this new Kevin Spacey film, and he was fine in it. Too bad that the rest of the movie isn't fine. The script is unbelievable and it plays like a Disney movie. However, I think America will generally like this film since it pushes all the right buttons.That score--I've heard it before (I LOVED it in AMERICAN BEAUTY, but folks, this movie is NOT AMERICAN BEAUTY). That kid--I've seen him before (how many more times do we have to see him play sensitive undersized boy with quivering lip before the kid grows up?)That mom--I've seen her before in everything Helen Hunt plays, just ratched up a notch.Helen Hunt is one of those actresses I would like to like, but I don't.Kevin Spacey is good, as always. He usually doesn't miss when picking a script, wonder why he missed on this one.  Oh well, there will be other fine movies from him. This one is a  big yawn. "}{"Title":"Pay It Forward, see it for free","Date":"18 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie as a sneak preview.  I expected very much given all the great reviews I heard (one such reviewer was Jack Valenti of the MPAA). I'm a huge fan of Kevin Spacey and Thomas Newman (composer), and while the acting, directing and production elements of the movie are pretty solid, the script in my opinion needs a lot of work.Some of the lines just made me cringe.  Not in the way that they affected me deeply; rather I thought they were both cheesy and out of place.  Kevin Spacey does a great job at covering up the script problems with his part and he fits the role really well (although I must say it wasn't one I was thrilled to see him in).  Helen Hunt and Haley Joel Osment both give great performances.There are two notable musical interludes that I felt were not necessary. One of them I think was sung by none other than Jon Bon Jovi himself, but I could be wrong.  The other was a female singer I did not recognize.  These songs didn't clash with the theme of the movie, but I think film score rather than song would have been more appropriate, especially since Thomas Newman did such incredible musical work with the climactic moments in 'American Beauty'.Someone else's review mentioned that when the name 'Jon Bon Jovi' appeared on the screen, everyone in the theater laughed.  The same thing happened when I saw it.  I laughed too, with good reason.  His role should have been re-cast to a more competent actor.The finale came as a surprise, and I think was a brave choice.  Sure it was emotional overall, but in a cheap Hollywood sort of way.  Nothing that stuck with me in the way that American Beauty did.Overall, I give the movie 4 stars out of 10.  The plot is contrived, idealistic, and a bit far-fetched.  The decent acting makes up for the script problems, plot holes and shoddy, unrealistic character developments. "},{"Title":"Heart in the Right Place, Film so-so","Date":"18 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Mimi Leder gets really good ideas and great actors for films, but never really seems to deliver and this one is no exception. Unless you're heart is made from stone, you can't go wrong with this idea. It's so feel-good and innovative, but there were too many elements from other movies, Man without a Face, assorted trailer-trash movies, even the stolen shot from Field of Dreams. The characters, although well acted by the current best in the business, are only slightly deeper than ones in a soap opera and not that original. Spacey is excellent and strangely gentle but distant. Helen Hunt at times was really convincing, but other times was too glamorous. What is it with this Erin Brokoviching of our acting queens lately? The Kid, is impressive, but a little tiring. And the plot... well... I don't want to give anything away, only that the payoff is weak because it's not something that was echoed upon earlier in the film. I found myself loving the idea of paying it forward and even endeavoring to try it, but didn't like the film as much. "},{"Title":"Great acting, good premise, awful ending","Date":"18 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Pay It Forward has some powerhouse acting from Kevin Spacey, Helen Hunt and especially Haley Joel Osment. (Not to mention some brave makeup work for both Spacey and Hunt.) And the premise is pretty good, even if the script implodes during the final quarter. But the last ten minutes of this film were so manipulative, even cruel, that it marked one of the few times I left the theater angry. I really think the movie could have accomplished its goals without doing what it did. I recommend the movie, but be prepared to be put off by the finale. "},{"Title":"Thick Message, Thin Movie","Date":"17 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I had the opportunity to see this movie at a recent screening, and I was very upset.  We have come to expect BIG things from Leder, and I just was not satisfied with this movie.  The performances from Osment, Spacey, and Hunt were very, very good as expected, but the movie itself lacked in pacing, character development, and overall continuity.  The dialogue was horrific, upfront, and obvious.  The plot peeled like an onion, but the pay-off was minimal.  Also, I continually found myself in a state of disbelief regarding scenes, characters, and outcomes.  Although the message was bold and invigorating (and a bit overdone), the movie itself failed to convey such a lofty theme.  In short, the movie failed to captivate me, and I left the theatre knowing I should have rented that video as planned.  "},{"Title":"The only Must See movie in a long time","Date":"17 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I saw a special pre-screening of this movie and in my opinion has to be rated on the level of Forest Gump.  The acting was amazing and the plot gives you something that will stick in your mind for days to come. Absolutely Amazing. "},{"Title":"WHAT A PLEASANT SURPRISE","Date":"17 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  What an acting team, Spacey, Hunt and Osmond.  This was a fine movie and we really enjoyed it.  Hadn't heard much about this one but it is really worth going to see.  Don't pass this one up and it is great entertainment.  Kevin Spacey can do no wrong and keeps getting better and better.  Helen Hunt is so versital and what can you say about Haley Joel Osmond but what a child actor. "},{"Title":"A very well done film","Date":"16 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I was so glad to catch the sneak preview of Pay It Forward while I had the chance. This movie was so great to watch. I love Helen Hunt, Kevin Spacey, and Haley Joel Osment, so I went to see this movie for their star power. All of the performances were excellent and should receive Oscar consideration. The story, though yes depressing at times, is very nicely assembled and masterfully told. A film that will not soon be forgotten. It's one of my favorites this year "},{"Title":"This movie and the acting WILL move and touch you deeply!!","Date":"16 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  DON'T READ THIS REVIEW IF YOU HAVEN'T SEEN THE MOVIE YET!!I saw this movie on Thursday and haven't stopped thinking about for a minute and it's Monday now. I'm just trying to figure out the whole point of the movie. What were the writers and the director thinking when they made this movie? How can they have so completely taken you on this incredibly wonderful, thought provoking, emotional roller-coaster ride through the entire movie, only to turn around and rob you of a meaningful message at the end!! The performance of the entire cast was phenomenal! (Osment, Hunt, Spacey & Dickenson). They all blew my mind. Genuine, real, incredible!! Unless you're made of stone, you feel what they feel and the movie totally pulls you in, then, when you least expect it, it leaves you hanging with your mouth wide open. The ending totally contradicts everything the story is trying to convey.Soooooo, what's the point?!? If I had been the screenwriter or director of this movie, I would have never let the audience down with such an ending. For me, it destroyed the purpose and meaning of the ENTIRE movie. How can Hollywood churn out such a masterpiece of a movie; A WINNER, OSCAR, OSCAR, OSCAR, OSCAR, OSCAR... only to rip your guts out in the end. This is just my opinion and I could be wrong... BUT, I'm still wondering????  "},{"Title":"A Huge Disappointment","Date":"16 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I read another user's comments on here about Pay It Forward, and just as that person said the movie stayed with them for a few days, it took ME a few days to realize fully just how bad a film this was.Why so long? I suppose because the movie has got everything going for it- a phenomenal dream team cast, a proven screenwriter, a good director, a good concept and even a killer score (which I still think is awesome). Why would Kevin Spacey, a man with a nearly perfect track record of script selection, ever involve himself with substandard material? Well, I guess it can happen to anyone, and this proves it.The central message of Pay It Forward -- a commentary on the innate goodness in humans and the interconnectedness of us all-- is not a new one. In fact, if you want to see a movie that covers the exact same ground but does it believably, intimately and compellingly, save some money and go rent the often-overlooked Smoke with William Hurt and Harvey Keitel from 1995. You'll be glad you did.Pay It Forward, on the other hand, stumbles in delivering its message is in two areas (1) Believability and (2) Preachiness.Believability Over the course of the film, a number of events happen which are enormously convenient, almost Disney-movie style coincidences and predictabilities, all for the sake of filling in holes in the plot. I won't give anything away, but suffice it to say, a block of swiss cheese looks more naturally complete than this script. Furthermore, from beginning to end we see all of the lead characters' personalities change dramatically in a very short period of time. By the end of the movie, everyone, without an ounce of therapy or even much time, is allowed to become the person we all want them to be. We all know that, especially for people as emotionally damaged as the leads all are in this movie, nothing happens overnight. But here, again for convenience, it does. Also, I was particulary offended by the ultra-stereotypical portrayal (i.e. gun-toting, sling spitting hoodlum) of the only featured black man in the film-- this movie regresses about three decades in its handling of diversity.Preachiness I walked out of Pay It Forward feeling like I had just watched a 2-hour advertisement for The Church Of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints. It's no sin to encourage people to try to be better, or to show by example, or give people a new positive way to look at life, but it can't be done in such a way that assumes moral superiority, acts condescendingly or forgets the reality of most humans, and this does all three. I could tell from the way the Hunt/Spacey relationship was handled (as with any blockbuster, it seems that they HAVE to have sex to demonstrate that they are actually in love) that this movie was pandering to the lowest, slowest common denominator, and this carries right through to the finish.Finally, the film admits defeat by what happens at the end. As if to say, look, we really failed at involving you the audience in what happens up to now,  the script then has something occur that forces some emotional manipulation on us, much in the same way musicals do, where you're getting goose bumps involuntarily and hating yourself for it. I had to wait for the artificial goosebumps to go away before I realized what a missed opportuinity this movie was. "},{"Title":"Incredible","Date":"16 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Best movie I have ever seen.  The acting was blended so well within this film. It contained enough humor in it to keep things light at times, while not detracting from the films actual, serious subject matter.  Spacy, Hunt and Osment should be expecting many awards for their work in Pay It Forward. "}{"Title":"a very touching movie","Date":"16 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I am lucky to see this film just 7 days before its formal release. This emotional drama tells a touching story. KS, HH and Haley did a good job, especially in the moments when Trevor is in the front of the tape-recorder. I think this film deserves an Oscar. "},{"Title":"One good turn deserves three more","Date":"15 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Hopefully, we have all been blessed with at least one teacher  who inspires thought after the bell rings.  In Pay It Forward, Eugene Simonet (Kevin Spacey) is such a teacher, challenging his Las Vegas social studies youngsters to a year-long project of making a difference in the world. Student Trevor McKinney (Haley Joel Osment)ambitiously sets out to improve the lives of three people who are instructed to help three others who help three more, thereby paying it forward instead of paying it back.But young Trevor quickly discovers potholes on the road to good intentions, problems like an alcohol-abusive mother (Helen Hunt), a scarred teacher unwilling to talk about his past and a homeless man unable to kick his drug habit.  Just as reality slaps Trevor in the face, it cuts him some slack too.  The pay it forward movement starts spreading while Mom and Mr. Simonet try to get to know each other a bit better.  All this, woven through the fabric of a reporter (Jay Mohr) trying to track down the spark for pay it forward.Spacey, Hunt and Osment all turn in Oscar-worthy performances for Deep Impact director Mimi Leder, who once again saves much of the world while letting a small part of it die. Indeed, people will be talking about the Pay It Forward ending just as they did with The Sixth Sense.  Keep it to yourself.  "},{"Title":"So close...but the ending ruined it for me","Date":"15 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  After reading the comments on this picture, I think I would have to say that I fall somewhere in the middle. Although I think all the actors did a fine job, I don't think anyone was particularly Oscar-worthy. Some of the ideas in the film are good ones and intriguing, but the sentiment *is* laid on a bit thick at times. I definitely do not think this is the best film of the year, and it didn't change my life, but I certainly don't think it was awful. In fact, I was pleasantly surprised by the fact that the characters in the movie seemed to have some actual problems, not too Hollywoodized or overdone, and they were dealing with them just as everyone deals with life. Osment's character, Trevor, was someone I have met before, many times that person who keeps on seeing life's possibilities and very matter-of-factly going after them despite how difficult his life has been. He's not a hero or a genius, just an ordinary person with an extra measure of persistence and imagination. The romance between Spacey and Hunt was nicely done. And even though I thought from seeing the trailers that I would have trouble getting past their characters' make-up (Spacey's burn prosthetics and Hunt's trailer-trash getup), I actually forgot I was watching beautiful actors after a few minutes. However... ALERT! SPOILER WARNING! ...I do have a big complaint about the end. There was no very good reason for the fight to have the outcome that it did. It completely changed the tone of the movie for me, and was extremely distracting. I could have lived with the death, though, if it weren't for the big candlelight-vigil/Field-of-Dreams-ripoff scene at the very end, with the syrupy song playing over it. It felt manipulative and false. If we had been told a little more about the people who were affected by Pay it Forward, I would not have felt so cheated. And what happened to Jerry and the woman on the bridge??? I was waiting to hear what her story was, and if she paid it forward too. I know the movie was already two hours long, but I think with some tighter editing (maybe get rid of all the stuff with the father coming back and Spacey's big speech about how he got his scars) it could have been done, and it would have been more interesting and more truly uplifting. "},{"Title":"If you don't like sap, don't bark up this tree.","Date":"15 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Pay It Forward is the year's most pretentious movie in a movie that boasts a killer cast.  It's not everyday that one can see Oscar winners Kevin Spacey and Helen Hunt in a movie that also includes Angie Dickinson and Jon Bon Jovi. This is the kind of movie where every character has some sort of tragedy.  The writers try to make us feel sorry for just about every character by giving everyone tragedies.  One teacher (Spacey) has mysterious burns all over his body that he won't discuss.  Of course he eventually reveals the source of his burns so that we can really feel sorry for him.  This overblown scene coincidentally takes place at the Oasis Motel.  The symbolic irony is so thick you could cut it with a knife!Another character is a low-class single mom waitress (Hunt) at a sleazy Vegas bar where she has to pick up extra shifts to support her son (Haley Joel Osment).  There's the obligatory scene where drunken men hit on her and tease her with a tip.  This is of course so we can feel sorry for her as well.  Not only is she a single mother with a bad job, she's also a drunk who has an abusive ex-husband.  There are plenty of scenes of Hunt rummaging through the house looking for bottles of booze.  She is of course only using alcohol to escape her problems, so we can still feel sorry for her!The story itself isn't that bad.  Osment devises the Pay it forward plan of doing big favors for three people, those three people doing three big favors for three more people, and so on and so on.  If the story had stayed simple, it might have worked.  Instead they turn the Pay if forward plan into a phenomenon that eventually reaches a reporter (Jay Mohr), and the movie begins to get really hokey.This is a movie where every character is so thinly drawn that I thought they might disappear.  The characters are only defined by their tragedies or their vices.  Other than that, they don't exist. I won't reveal the ending.  I will just say that it infuriated me as a moviegoer.  It is completely insulting.  The writers pull out all the stops to ensure that we really feel sorry for these people, and they go to measures that are absolutely unnecessary.  They really are reaching for those Oscars.  Spacey, Hunt, and Osment are given plenty of scenes to be pitiful and overstretch those acting chops.  I guess the makers of this movie think that tragedies equal Oscars.  The only tragedy is having a movie with a great cast that prefers to be sappy instead of smart. My vote = 3 out of 10  "},{"Title":"Inspirational","Date":"15 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  What if an idea from an 11-year old could change the world? This is the premise behind the new film 'Pay It Forward' starring Kevin Spacy, Helen Hunt and Haley Joel Osment. It's the 1st day of school in Las Vegas and Trevor (Osment) has a new Social Studies teacher, Eugene Simonent (Spacy) who gives his students an extra-credit assignment at the start of each year; Do something to help change the world, not actually thinking that one of his students might actually accomplish something meaningful. Trevor comes up with 'Pay it Forward'. 3 big favors for 3 different people, something that they can't do on their own, and the only condition being that they pay it forward to 3 more strangers.It's interesting to see that all three leads carry some kind of emotional baggage and a reluctance to share what they are feeling. Arlene (Hunt) hides with alcohol, Eugene hides behind his intelligence, and Trevor just refuses to talk to his mom (Arlene). Of course, we see this change during the course of the movie as Trevor implements 'Pay it Forward' by bringing a homeless man into the house, playing matchmaker for his mom and Eugene, and helping a friend fight off the school bully, the outcome of which is foreshadowed earlier in the film.I liked this movie a lot. The performances were all universally good, even Hunt, whom i have never really enjoyed that much as an actress (she did not deserve her 1998 oscar win). Everyone makes their characters believable, and the way it plays out seems plausible, not contrived. My only issues with the film is that it is a little predictable and the ending seems far too contrived.Other than that, if you are looking for a movie amidst this year that actually conveys hope in the human condition and wonders aloud why we can't just 'Pay it Forward', this is it. Heck, see it anyway for the acting. This is one of the best films i've seen this year and i'll be paying my recommendation forward.  "},{"Title":"Story line spoils a would-be Oscar grand-slam","Date":"15 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Those who sit down to this slightly longer than two-hour film will be treated to excellent performances by each of the A-list artists  Kevin Spacey, Helen Hunt, and Haley Joel Osment.  Sound direction by Mimi Leder and adequate technical execution would complete this cinematographic triumph, but neither the king's horses nor the Academy's nominees can put this humpty-dumpty of a story back together after the tragically predictable climax.The child-like idealism reflected in the main plot -- a seventh grader's efforts to meet the challenge of his social studies teacher and change the world -- is tempered by the childly innocence of its proponent.  Combined with a practical exposition on the potential impact on children of substance abusing parents, the story is not only entertaining but socially pertinent. The climax, however, can be easily predicted by an attentive viewer, and its melodramatic execution undermines the overall quality of the film, in sharp contrast to the understated conclusion of last year's American Beauty.This moderate flaw does not diminish the expected superiority of the acting, which one hopes will lead Master Osment to a deserved Oscar and add golden statuettes to the mantles of Hunt and Spacey.  I suspect, however, that the imperfection will disqualify the film from winning Best Picture. "},{"Title":"not so great","Date":"15 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  pretty treacly- feels like an infomercial for a new cult or something.  performances are bad across the board- spacey and hunt have absolutely no chemistry (imagine that).  jon bon jovi is painfully bad, and jay mohr is just annoying.  people were laughing at the end when it was supposed to get all serious.  i'm sure it will do well, because american audiences demand so little from film, they don't like to have to think very much.  this film requires no thought.  the more i think of it, the more i hate it. "},{"Title":"A Must SEE!!","Date":"15 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Pay it Forward was one of the best films I've ever seen. Not only did I cry, but I laughed too. Everyone in the film did an excellent job at acting, especially Hunt, Spacey, and Osment. A Must see for anyone that wants to feel inspired to do something, and also for anyone who's looking for a great Oscar Worthy film.  "},{"Title":"I'm having trouble coming up with a word to describe how great this movie!","Date":"15 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Oh my god!!! I had been waiting for about a month(seriously) for this movie to come out and was ridiculously excited when I convinced my parents to let me go last night...I went in with very high expectations(with a cast like that...plus I've read the book) and was DEFINITELY not disappointed!! How they got Kevin Spacey from a one-eyed african american Vietnam vet(read the book) is beyond me, but no one could have played that part but Kevin!! I have loved everything I've seen him in, and this definitely maintained that streak.  Not only that but Helen Hunt and Haley Joel Osment(that kid is so adorable!) were both fantastic too!! Her hair was another thing, but I won't go into that.Anyways, the way the converted the story to movie was brilliantly done and all the characters, all the way down to Sidney G., were wonderfully brought to life! Jay Mohr kind of got on my nerves, but that's just because I don't really like him. The blend of drama and comedy was interesting, as I remember several scenes where the whole audience was laughing. But(and this is a warning, but hopefully not a spoiler) I saw rows of people behind me wiping their eyes at the end.  I don't think I've ever seen a movie with such an impact on its audience. I just hope the theatre that I work at gets this movie so I can see it far more times than my budget would allow! -)10++++/10 "},{"Title":"Osment, Hunt and Spacey give powerful performances","Date":"15 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a wonderfully acted, well directed film. Osment AGAIN shows tremendous range ... not just for a young actor. Spacey is riveting and Hunt is totally believable as the recovering mom.The story is a little sappy. The ending will bother some viewers, but I think that's the point. The film could have ended differently and still had a positive impact.The makeup is superbly done. There are several weaknesses that will not change the impact of the film.I give it a B-. "}{"Title":"Fantastic, Wonderful, !- Great acting, great plot, fulfilling...","Date":"14 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I never cry at movies. I am just not that kind of person- Titanic made me laugh at the end, unlike the people emptying their tear ducts next to me. However, this wonderful film left me euphoric (now everyone pull out their dictionaries...). I saw it at a sneak preview tonight, and I am still on a high. I cannot wait to see it again. If you feel disillusioned or happy, either way you will love this movie. The acting is fantastic- what would you expect with Helen Hunt, Haley Joel Osment (my personal favorite) and Kevin Spacey? I can't think of enough synonyms for the feeling that this film is as close to perfect as we can get this year. Just give the kid his Oscar already and give the rest of the cast their second or so. "},{"Title":"Great Movie.  Ending was a shock!","Date":"14 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Pay it Forward.  The reason I saw this movie, was truly because of the actors (isn't it always?)  I mean, you have Kevin Spacey, Helen Hunt, and Haley Joel Osment.  Who could ask for more?  The movie was truly inspiring. It made me think about my life and what I should do with it.  The three actors turn in top rated performances which will atleast get one of them an Oscar nomination.  (Haley is deserved)  The only thing wrong with this movie was that it was a little long.  But other than that, you get a great story and a shocking ending. 8.5/10 "},{"Title":"Spacey, Hunt and Osment deliver high caliber performances","Date":"14 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  As usual, Spacey and Hunt deliver exceptional performances, I was especially interested in young Haley Joel Osment to see if he could give as an emotionally charged performance as he did in The Sixth Sense. I was not disappointed. This is one talented kid! The movie had depth, the characters were layered and the emotions were flowing! I highly recommend this movie. Two thumbs up! "},{"Title":"My favorite movie of the year, so far.","Date":"12 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I just saw the sneak preview, and already I'm awaiting in on DVD. It makes me wonder if something like Pay it Forward could really work. Something needs to change this world. This movie is the first step. Like Kevin Spacey, and American Beauty, this movie rules! "},{"Title":"I cannot say enough of how wonderful this one is...","Date":"10 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I completely agree with what the other reviewers here said - this is truly the most amazing I have seen in a long time, if not ever.  I chronically despise 'blockbusters', hype, and the words must see, but for the first time in my life I can recommend this to everyone.  I do not even like to go to the cinema because of the current outrageous prices, but I will pay to see this again when it comes out.  Not to mention again on video, and again on cable, and again, etc.To quote a colleague that was also at the screening, Every person in the world should be required by law to see this every 3 months.'  Anyone with a heart will re-evaluate what is really important in their lives after viewing.And two words - take tissue (despite the way the trailer makes it look!)  "},{"Title":"best pic nominee? yes! winner? no!","Date":"10 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  HANDS DOWN GREAT MOVIE! 10 outta 10You see the names Spacey, Hunt and Osment and oscar potential already pops in your head, the fact is it remains when you walk out. To tell you anymore than the trailer gives you would only lesson your experience of seeing this movie. Unfortunately i'm bias for i am a huge kevin spacey fan.  I thought he delivered yet another oscar worthy performance, as did Helen Hunt.  As for Haley Joel Osment, surprisingly He was the one who stole the show(and this is hard for me to say b/c i'm usually in awe of KS's acting the whole movie).  It's like he took his loss for best supporting actor and said TAKE THAT! to the committee (by the way i do believe he should've won over michael caine, i don't care how old he is, this kid is for real!).  I see nominations for this movie all around but in honesty I think if any nomination turns into an oscar it belongs to Haley.  Spacey and Hunt are at their finest equivalent their winning roles but I believe Haley steps it up even more from sixth sense so in turn he should win this year hands down!As for best pic, i don't think it will win for the simple reason of it's parallels to American Beauty.  The committee likes to be original every year w/ their best picture choice and the music holds a similarity, kevin spacey's excellence is evident in both, and the world is a betta place than it seems theme exists w/ both movies.  Too many voters may see this as a nicer, viewer friendly american beauty w/ the leads shining again, which is why it probably won't win.  Bottom line GO SEE THIS MOVIE, if you love comedy, drama, inspiration, or just great acting this one is for you which pretty much makes it for everyone. "},{"Title":"Great, very moving.","Date":"10 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This was a very emotional movie which covered a gamut of situations. The makeup work was pretty exceptional -- I don't think I've every seen Helen Hunt look so bad before! Not to mention how realistic Kevin Spacey looks. Haley Joel Osment is as good, if not better, than he was in The Sixth Sense. Overall, definitely worth viewing.  "},{"Title":"Oscar's knocking at their doors-loudly!","Date":"10 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Knock-knock? Who's there? Oscar. Oscar who? An Oscar for you and you and you. Yep, Kevin Spacey, Haley Joel Osment and the gal in this, Helen somebody or other, are taking the phallic golden boy home. Get out and see this feel good love story-hope -giving warm film by three of our best American actors. Pay It Forward is the warmest, touching movie of the year-so far. Bye, Bye to Gladiator at the Oscars next spring. -Emily Blunt "},{"Title":"Phenomenal movie; a true hit; sure to be remembered as one of the years best!!","Date":"10 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Every aspect of this movie was spectacular.  Acting, plot and screenplay were all superb. This will be remembered as one of the best movies of the year.  Haley Joel Osment, returns with another brilliant performance. This is probably the first movie in a very long time that I had fewer than two complaints about.Pay it forward was one of the most original movies thus far this year. Mimi Leder used a great style of directing to blend the original story with an intriguing and successful style of telling the tale which kept the audience interested throughout.  All to often original ideas are lost in movies that just tell a story without making any effort at originality and excitement and keeping the audience interested, resulting in a boring movie. How you tell the story is at least as important as the story itself.  Pay it forward does not make the mistake of forgetting this.The director successfully blends first rate performances not only by the movies stars, but also by the supporting cast, who turned in equally brilliant performances.  The performances of the lead actors, Hunt, Spacey and Osment, were also different than their past performances and acting styles.  It is refreshing to see actors shine not as one role performers but in different varied roles that require them to display the full range of their acting abilities.Even those who have not been swept away by the past performances of this trio will still thoroughly enjoy this movie.  "},{"Title":"This is a Must-See movie.  It may change your life!","Date":"9 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  We were priviledged to see a sneak preview of this film on October 7th, it has now been added to my top 10 list of favorite movies, ever. The premise and story-line are amazing.  The acting was flawless.  Its an emotional roller-coaster.  If this movie doesn't make you cry, you aren't alive!!!!  I predict multiple academy awards for this one. "}{"Title":"Lame preview, EXCELLENT movie!","Date":"9 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Take it on faith that there's a reason why the previews are so lame.  They don't want to spoil the unfolding of the plot but, because this movie has ZERO special effects (it's a drama), it's hard to pull a crowd without saying feel-good hit of the season and Oscar-worthy...Personally, my eyes glaze over when I hear those words, but after seeing it, I can say that it's all that and more and I'm glad they did it that way.This is one of those films that make you wait before walking out of the theater so that you can find out who the director is.  GO SEE IT.  It's well worth the money. "},{"Title":"A modern after-school special","Date":"9 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Despite this film's considerable pre-Oscar buzz, Pay It Forward chokes on its own heavy-handed melodrama. All three principal actors (Kevin Spacey, Haley Joel Osmet, Helen Hunt) are solid, but the script pulls out a string of cliches and offers an embarrassing amount of racial stereotypes in the background. Plus, its suggestion that simply helping people can change the world is noble but ultimately rings hollow as a beauty pageant speech. Spacey is aguably the best actor in Hollywood today, but he can't save this sapfest from drowning. "},{"Title":"A great film!","Date":"9 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  If I had to sum up this film in one word it would be, WOW!  I thought this film was exceptional in every aspect.  The acting was superb. Kevin Spacey is at the top of his game.  He just has a way of picking quality films. Helen Hunt does an extraordinary turn as a trying mother of one great child actor, Haley Joel Osment, again worthy of an Oscar nod.  The plot was well thought out and well conceived.  Never has a movie had such a spiritually profound effect on me.  It makes me want to go out and do something really nice.  I recommend this film to all ages and not to give anything away, but I was so stunned.  By everything that happened.  A masterpiece sure to climb the charts.   "},{"Title":"too sentimental to be great, or even good for that matter...","Date":"9 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Too much sentimentality.  It ruins the film.  The performances are good, but the script is so bad that even Academy Awardwinners can't save this film. That said, there are a few AMAZING scenes in this film that make it worth seeing.  The romance between Spacey and Hunt is the greatest strength and weakness of the film.6But see it anyway for its good parts. "},{"Title":"A sure bet for best picture nomination!","Date":"9 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Absolutely a superb movie. My early pick for best picture.  Kevin Spacey was at his very best. A feel good wholesome  picture. Even granny will love it.If you only see one movie this year go to PAY IT FORWARD.  "},{"Title":"I wish I'd written it...","Date":"9 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  For nearly the entire of Pay It Forward, I kept thinking I wish *I'd* written this...  I still wish I had.  For several reasons.I have always thought that Random Acts of Kindness was a wonderful idea, and have tried to practice this philosophy more consciously in the last few years.  With varied success, but I've definitely found that the joy is in the doing.  This movie takes that philosophy to the next logical level, and the basic idea is brilliant and beautifully simple.  What a wonderful idea for a story... I wish I'd thought of it!Although the plot brought few surprises, there were many lovely moments that allowed the three main actors to display their considerable talent admirably.  Haley Joel Osment makes up for a slightly rushed and sometimes flat delivery of lines with his absolutely transcendent facility to convey thought and feeling through subtle facial expression and body language.It is not surprising that the film's youngest starring actor is so impressive. It is in the little things that one finds both the strengths and the weaknesses of this film.  The little moments between the characters were wonderful... the cereal eating scene between Trevor and Jerry, for instance, was priceless.  Yet the minor charactors are not developed as well as they could and should have been, and the movie would have been considerably improved had more thought and care been put into developing the secondary plotline.  It could have illustrated more clearly and interestingly a point that I think got lost in the terribly cliched and somewhat frustrating ending... that it is not in the perfectly executed action that true grace lies, but in the intention and effort itself.  It wasn't Trevor's successful attempt to help his teacher that touched and 'improved' the wider world - it was his 'failed' attempt to help Jerry achieve a life of sobriety.  Had this story line been better developed we might have been spared the maudlin ending... Trevor (and the audience) might have come to accept that imperfect effort still is valuable, that one doesn't have to be an 'angel' to make the world a better place.  I think that's a very important point to make.  I wish I'd written this movie!  "},{"Title":"What a great film!","Date":"9 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Pay It Forward is one the best films of the year. I was fortunate enough to catch a sneak preview of it and ever since, I have been raving about it. It will be nominated for a ton of oscars this coming year. It is so great! Everyone in the theater was crying at the end of this movie and so was I! It such a wonderful picture and I can't wait until it comes out so I can see it again and again! Spacey is amazing! Hunt is a joy! And Osment is a gift! BEST MOVIE OF THE YEAR! "},{"Title":"Absolutely Fantastic","Date":"9 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  If I had to pick my favorite movie this year; Pay it Forward would be my choice. This movie takes you on an emotional roller-coaster that leaves you thinking about the movie for days afterwards. The acting and directing are of Oscar award winning calibre. The only problem I have with this movie is the fact that I cannot sum up my enjoyment into words. "},{"Title":"Inspiring Idea, Competent Execution","Date":"8 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The concept is bold and the potential for failure is great.  With any you can change the world movie, the result can be grand or grating, holy or hokey.  Mimi Leder's effort (which at least proves she should be doing this type of film, as opposed to The Peacemaker) is well shaped, thanks to an adapted script with heavy doses of realism, a key requirement for this story's success.As expected from three recent Oscar favorites (Kevin Spacey, Helen Hunt and Haley Joel Osment), the performances are tight, especially a bionic performance from Angie Dickinson.  The soundtrack would have been hauntingly beautiful, if it wasn't so similar to the soundtrack for American Beauty. Instead, it was distracting and overused.  Some directorial moves are false, particularly the ending shot's Field of Dreams rip-off, but ultimately audiences will embrace this film thanks to everyone's effort. "},{"Title":"Have you Heard?","Date":"8 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Wow. I don't think I need to say any more. Because there really isn't anything I can say about this film to articulate what it means. I can try (and I will), but you simply have to see it for yourself. I mean that. I went to see this movie because I'm a sucker for Oscar buzz. And this movie has it. But forget all that. If you can't now, you will... I did. First of all, this movie had quite an effect on me. I would say the movie makes you want to go out and change the world, but I hope it doesn't... it should make you go out and actually change the world. Make some kind of a difference. Because that's what the young boy in the film did. And the world was better for it. On one level, the film is about three people... an altruistic 11-year-old kid, his alcoholic mother, and his physically scarred elementary school teacher. The teacher gives an assignment Think of an idea to change the world, and put it into ACTION. The kid comes up with Pay it Forward Do a big favor for someone else ... something they cant do for themselves, and instead of having them do something in return for you, they pay it forward... three big favors, for three other people. And that's just the setup... this film was incredible! Fantastic acting, an inspiring story, emotional, tragic, a total powerhouse movie. So I've told you... but what does it really mean... well you won't know until you see it. This movie pulls at you. You go through the same frustration as the boy when he wonders if the world can be changed. Or if it will just remain s**t and it would be hopeless for any of us, in all our vanity to attempt such a feat. Maybe it can't be done alone. Maybe it can start out small, and grow. Maybe this movie (as lame as this sounds) can be the beginning. "}{"Title":"Intriguing, Thought Provoking, Impressive.","Date":"8 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The words in the title of this message are just a few among thousands that could accurately begin to describe the calibre and content of this film.I see a lot of films, as I'm constantly visiting the local multiplex. I have to say, among the films I've seen recently, Pay It Forward had me from start to finish. Never once did I check the time. This movie is so in depth, it takes hold of your mind.Aside from the topical intrigue, the sheer power brought on by the supreme script-writing and storylines capture you. By the end of the film, every single member of the audience was completely silent.If you have the means, I sincerely implore you to see this film. Haley Joel Osmont, Kevin Spacey, and Helen Hunt all give Oscar-calibre performances. I really hope it earns its deserved share, come awards night. "},{"Title":"Saw sneak preview","Date":"8 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a very good movie with a thought-provoking plot and great performances. The make-up job on Kevin Spacey is amazing, and he does a very good job of bringing his middle-school teacher character to life. Haley Joel Osment gives another beautiful and believable performance, and Helen Hunt has never looked or acted better. Take some Kleenex, though, a lot of the scenes really hit hard. "},{"Title":"Helen Hunt and Kevin Spacey are AS GOOD AS IT GETS","Date":"8 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is the first Oscar worthy movie I've seen this year! It's a powerful story played to perfection by Helen Hunt,Kevin Spacey and Haley Joel Osmet. You'll laugh, you'll cry, you'll feel good.  And you will be overcome with goosebumps. It makes you wish the world would subscribe to the concept of random acts of kindness. This is a near-perfect movie...the perfection is so glearing that the excruciatingly cardboard performance by Jon Bon Jovi screams for an edit.  The filmmaker could have used an off-camera sequence to replace this distracting performance. Fortunately this is a forgettable  performance and you will find yourself applauding at the end of this movie!!! A MUST SEE MOVIE!!!   "},{"Title":"Wonderful, uplifting and realistic movie","Date":"8 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I just saw  a preview of this movie in Las Vegas. Not only is it very realistic portrayal of the city and its people, but it is also well acted, an uplifting story and all around good movie. This is as good a movie about Las Vegas as Leaving Las Vegas and its message is as good as the Christmas movie It's a wonderful life. All parents should take their children to see the movie and discuss it with them. All alcoholics should see it and all battered women with children. All teachers should recommend this movie and give that assignment in class. I hope it will be a big box office success and that all three main actors will get rewarded for their performances.  "},{"Title":"Bring the Kleenex","Date":"8 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This one just knocked Almost Famous down to #2 for 2000. Great acting is an understatement, the three leads are superb! Original script and fantastic soundtrack(think American Beauty) to boot. Haley Joel Osment deserves the Oscar. This kid is not a fluke - his facial expressions convey the equivalent of 10 pages of dialogue. I've always liked Helen Hunt, but now I'm in love. There is not one false note in her portrayal of an alcoholic mother trying to do the right thing for her son and herself. Kevin Spacey makes another excellent career choice - this guy can pick winners. Ending might disappoint some, but real life doesn't always have happy endings. And who would have ever thought we'd get to see Angie Dickinson as an old bag lady!!!!9++ "},{"Title":"I predict....","Date":"7 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I predict that there will be many who will just OOZE praise for this movie, and it's acting, plot, & thought-provoking elements. They will have basis for this praise, yet I am not sure it can be considered the BEST of the year, either.That said, either I allowed myself to be caught up in the movie too much, or it truly did have it's moments of surprise, time to time, with some, of course, more predictable elements. I went to see this based on my enjoyment of Haley Joel Osment in Sixth Sense, and also a growing interest in Kevin Spacey. I even watched it paying full price, which I never do! c)I was not really disappointed by young Osment's acting, and at least once during the movie found myself hoping for many more movies from him, wondering where he may end up...Anyway, I will go see it again, with a friend; I do not think your money will be wasted, unless you come & watch this movie without checking it out first (and it not being a movie you would like, anyway), or come expecting something it is not. I could not really tell the demographics of my fellow movie-watchers, but we all laughed several times, and I am sure there were many NOT-dry eyes as well!Oh, by the way, I would not suggest you take your kids, with some sex, violence and alcohol scenes making the movie not-so-nice for them. But then, that is my opinion. c)Go, watch, & enjoy! "},{"Title":"Practice Random Acts of Kindness.......","Date":"7 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  That is the message I got while watching this film, that if someone does good for you, you should do good to others.  And hey, I dig that, I mean, I too also live by that motto.  But with the new movie PAY IT FORWARD, it tells you that when someone does good for you, you should do good for three other people. The film starts with young Trevor McKinney (Haley Joel Osment) a boy who is just entering the 7th grade.  His social studies teacher, Mr. Ruben St. Clair (Kevin Spacey), who most students are afraid of because of his appearance.  His face is covered with burn marks on his flesh.  Mr. St. Clair gives his students a year long extra credit project.  The topic see what you can do to change the world.  Treavor decides to take this project to the heart, and why shouldn't he?  His mother, Alrene McKinney (Helen Hunt) has two jobs in different Las Veags casinos just to support her child. Trevor's dad had left Arlene alone to take care of Trevor, and since Arlene can't make things perfect for Trevor, she hides away and drinks her problems away.  After Trevor takes in a homeless man (Jim Caviezel) and sees what a success his pay it forward project is, he decides to work on a bigger project.  Trevor decides to find a mate for the lonely and feared Mr. St. Clair, and the mate is Trevor's mom!  As Trevor tries his hardest to get know one another, both Ruben and Arlene fall in love with each other. The theme that PAY IT FORWARD tries to bring to the viewer is well intention.  One, like I said earlier, the practice random acts of kindness.  Two, that everyone in life has it's faults, and we are all scared by it, whether it's emotional or physical.  Three, that it doesn't matter how one looks, but acts that one can find true love.  And four, that one person if they try hard enough, can change the world. And I enjoy messages like that, but what got to me during this movie is that at times it seemed too cute and it looks like it's a film that came from the Oprah show.  The message is strong, and if director Mim Leder wanted to make a strong movie, she should have had more emotional powerful scenes than lightweight scenes.  But there are some strong emotional scenes in this film. What makes the scenes strong isn't Leder, but Kevin Spacey, Helen Hunt, and Haley Joel Osment.  All three leads give wonderful performances that really make this movie stand out.  Spacey is in top form (as usual) as the both emotional and physical scared Ruben St. Clair.  A man who has never been in love because he feels that he'll get rejected by his appearance (I know how that feels).  Hunt is also quite good as the workaholic and alcoholic mother, Arlene, who feels that her ex-husband will return some day, and things will be better in the end.  But the other character's admit that she's only kidding herself, and Arlene knows it also, but is afraid to admit it. Then young Osment (who is the best child actor since Jodie Foster) gives another good performance as Trevor, who believes that one man can change the world, and he has the heart and ambition to do it.  But it's the support actors from this movie that fall short.  With such good actors like Jay Mohr, Jim Caviezel, Jon Bon Jovi, and Angie Dickinson, you figured that they too would be good.  But Mimi Leder let's the spotlight shine on the three leads, while the rest of the cast are watching in the dark outside of the light. I really did enjoy the location shots (in and around Las Vegs). Vegas is my second home, next to Phoenix, I know my way around Vegas as if I lived there.  And watching this movie I enjoyed watching the scenes the story takes place.  What I liked about PAY IT FORWARD is that unlike any other Vegas film, it's not a character.  In such previous Vegas films like CASINO, SHOWGIRLS, CON-AIR, and LEAVING LAS VEGAS, the city of Vegas played a significant part.  Where in this film, it's just where the story takes place (because it also took place in Vegas in the novel). What got to me was the choppy plot.  It seem to jump back and forth between scenes that it really doesn't explain the scene, just the message it's getting across.  And that's all fine and done, but why should we follow the message.  That is what Leder should have concentrated on, instead of the performances of the leads (the three leads can do fine without Leder's help).  And because the story is so choppy, it also leaves plot holes that never do explain itself by the end of the film. I did enjoy PAY IT FORWARD, and I can barely recommend it.  I recommend it for three of these reasons  1.) the wonderful acting performances by the leads, who can show that they can act great in any film. 2.) the location shots of Las Vegas, as it's the first time in a while that it's portrayed as a city, not a character.  3.) the message that it's sending towards the audience.  Where some filmmakers are sending messages of the negativity of the world, it's good to see something positive being sent out.  But PAY IT FORWARD isn't the AMERICAN BEAUTY, AS GOOD AS IT GETS, & SIXTH SENSE that most customers are going to expect to see.  **** (out of five) "},{"Title":"One precocious 7th grader awakens adults to big ambitions.","Date":"7 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  In nicely spare dialogue, this broken home story toys with chronology and prods its audience to savor an interconnection in a wide sector of individuals' behaviors. Frail characters often sparkle with promise, then disappoint themselves. If they recover, seem to see the light, then suffer anew. Crafty editing brings lovely surprises, never quite tidying up many scenes, letting viewers dangle in fascination. This film is tart and tasty, an entree that displays how a female director can bring fresh insights to domestic storytelling. "},{"Title":"A fantastic movie","Date":"7 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Pay It Forward is one of those movies where you leave the theatre with your faith restored in modern cinema. Kevin Spacey is fantastic as usual, and I was pleasantly suprised that the role he plays here is a lot different from anything else he's ever played, in a movie that's overall different from anything else he's done.(There were shades of American Beauty, yes, but overall, different.) Haley Joel Osment continues to prove himself as a great young actor. I definitely admire an 11 or 12 year old kid who can hold his own with Kevin Spacey. Helen Hunt was good in a sympathetic but sort of nondescript role. She complimented Spacey and Osment nicely.One of the things I loved most about this movie were its subtle, and sometimes not-so-subtle allusions to the stars' previous movies. A birds-eye-view shot of the neighborhood accompanied by music that sounded a lot like American Beauty, a pool with no water in it a la Jay Mohr's 'Mafia' and especially a cameo (you have to look really hard for it) by Spacey's 'LA Confidential' costar Guy Pierce are some of the highlights. My favorite part about 'Pay It Forward', however syrupy it may sound, was that it was a movie that genuinely inspired emotions in me that hardly ever come out. I haven't cried at a movie since 'An American Tail', where basically I was 3 years old and was scared of the big cat, yet here I am, bawling my eyes out at more than one instance during this movie. (This is where I regret all the times I made fun of my best friend for crying during everything. I'm never going to live this down.) 'Pay it Forward' made me realize that everyone can change the world in their own way. I know that because of this movie, I'll never look at anyone's genorosity in the same way again. "},{"Title":"Definite Oscar Contender","Date":"6 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Pay it Forward is perhaps the most poignant movie I have seen this year. Haley Joel Osment delivers a strikingly real portrayal of a young man that is light years ahead in thinking to his contemporaries.  The movie speaks to the soul and brings hope to a life that is s**t.  It is definitely the feel good movie of the year, delivering Oscar worthy performances by all 3 of the main cast members.  Kevin Spacey plays the teacher that everyone wishes they had or the teacher that everyone once had and have never forgotten.  Helen Hunt gives a performance that reminds us of the one given in As Good As It Gets.  This movie is done in a way that reminds us of American Beauty and all its glory.  Mark my words.  This movie WILL win an Oscar.   "}{"Title":"Movie plot and script prove worthy of such talented thespians ss Osment, Hunt, and Spacey","Date":"5 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This sweet, simple, yet ingenious script, tells a story equal to the incredible talent in front of the camera.  Most noticeably, film proves that young Mr. Haley Joel Osment's special performance in Sixth Sense was no fluke - for this child has the chops.  Only small complaint is not that the script lacks originality nor heart, only that the plot - while unique and certainly not without twists - becomes relatively predictable and staid in respect to the love story subplot between reluctant and flawed hero Spacey and the talented Hunt, who basically reprises her role from As Good As It Gets.  Despite that caveat, the novelty of the brilliant in theory, although obviously impossible to implement, idea brought forward by Kevin Spacey's character comes shining through as he is perfectly cast against type as a somewhat squirmish teacher who instructs his class that they must perform three selfless acts and convince the three people for whom they perform these acts to do the same in perpetuity in order for the students to pass.  The idea, in short, is 1 becomes 3 becomes 9 becomes 27, followed by 81, 243, 729, 2187, 6561, etc., so that in less than several weeks Spacey's character has the lofty goal of having over 2,000,000 participants in his goodwill revolution.Included as a student in the class is the wonderful Osment, whose relationship with Spacey allows his radiant acting to transcend being labelled as a great child thespian and rather proves that he is more than ready for the task to being called simply a great actor equal to Spacey and Hunt. Hunt and Spacey have each brought home their hardware from the Oscars, and I suspect that this year Osment will rightfully join them (unless Will Smith sneaks in with his spin in Redford's Bagger Vance).  In short, Pay It Forward is a special movie with a heart as big as teacher played by Spacey's noble -- albeit naive -- attempt at social reconstructionism. "},{"Title":"There is nothing here except a few good actors... I See Poor People","Date":"1 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I just do not understand how the actors ended up participating in such a pile of garbage. My guess is that it was sold as an intersecting drama of the Magnolia type except with an optimistic message that ended up being a near linear one note storyline.For their part, the actors give some dimensions to a very flatly written characters. That is what bumps this rating from the lowest one star.This movie is really as bad as the haters say it is. I cannot understand how anyone fell for it. Maybe people want to be optimistic and disliking this movie means disliking nice. I have always been skeptical of Helen Hunt but find myself liking and believing her in most parts. My only problem with her here is her decision to participate at all ($?). The same goes for Spacey. If you make it to the end, you will find yourself not only bored and manipulated but insulted. "},{"Title":"Great idea... horribly told story...","Date":"25 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The biggest problem with this story is the beginning and the end. It starts off showing by demonstrating the results (so far) of one boy's efforts to change the world. What happens? A man with a good career and no umbrella is rescued from the rain by a man with a better career and a car. He's given the car! Not offered a ride. Just given a car. Where does this leave a thinking audience? It leaves us trying to rationalize how this string of good deeds has wound up at something so petty and simplex; it leaves us wondering why THIS is the deed chosen to show us the gravity of his efforts. Then the end, which I won't discuss in spoiler terms, is contrived and pretty much tacked on. It's tacked on because there is little-to-no narrative build up to it, and it doesn't actually offer anything in terms of relevant commentary on the rest of the story. It's put there so we find it ironic or tragic, yet, in reality and in narrative, it's simply one of those random things that happen. If a good deed, or one of his good-deed-dominoes, had led to that ending, then tragic it would have been.So, five stars is for good intentions and lack of effort. "},{"Title":"Jon Bonjovi","Date":"11 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Jon Bonjovi is one pathetic douche bag he is a terrible actor and a terrible singer i think he should be banned from all entertainment because i'm sure he can't write either. I cannot stand his voice nor his face. He kind of looks like he was his in the face by a burning hot pan. I bet if I shaved a dog's ass and taught it to walk backwards it would look better than Jon Bonjovi. I hate him and his music I wish he would just leave and go some where else. I am willing to bet the my farts sound better than his voice and probably smell better than him too. I can't believe they let him into the movie, it was decent til his terrible acting ruined it, total vibe kill. "},{"Title":"I wanted to like it...","Date":"15 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I really did want to like this movie. I thought it was an original premise and it could have been a great feel-good movie. Then they went and ruined it in the end by killing Haley Joel Osment's character. I was left wondering by this. Was the whole movie meant to be ironic, and the message that trying to help people will only eventually lead you to trouble? Or was it just to wring tears from the audience? Sadly, I think it's the latter, and it was shamelessly manipulative in this regard. I couldn't take it seriously; I actually started laughing in the theater. Another movie that COULD HAVE BEEN good was ruined by the ending. And I know it happens that way in the book (which I've never read and surely never will); I don't care. Maybe it was a bad book too. So I gave it 3 stars because it started good and was pretty good throughout, despite the overacting of Helen Hunt and Kevin Spacey (who, by the way, was black in the book, so it's far from a pure translation by any measure). Haley Joel Osment, Jay Mohr, and Angie Dickinson really carried the movie; they all put in excellent performances. But the ending was easily one of the worst of all time, and I can't in good conscience give a higher rating to a movie that ended so badly when the ending ruined my enjoyment of the movie so much. "},{"Title":"If everyone would Pat it Forward what a wonderful world it would be","Date":"30 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" One of my favorite movies because of the message and the morale of the story. We could fix a lot of our world's problems if we took the time like this child did, to go out, make a difference and Pay it Forward. This movie has changed me in a couple of different ways, mostly that when I do stop to help someone, or pay the toll for the guy behind me, etc. I just simply tell them to pay it forward The song Calling All Angels will have everyone in tears, it is a beautiful song with a beautiful message. The ending of the movie is perfect and makes you really stop and think as you watch the credits roll by. I speak of this movie often, I recommend it to people all the time and it truly is one of the best kept secrets because most of the people I recommend it to, have never heard of it. It is a great movie and one I am proud to own. "},{"Title":"Two Thumbs Up !!!!!","Date":"11 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"           I watched 6th sense since and I was so expected to watch this movie when it came out. I watched it and I think it's so great !!! Mimi Leader is so underrated !! She handles the film so gorgeous !!The film might not moved everyone on earth, but the important thing is true love never die ! Love in the world ! It moves me deeply almost every part of the movie. Thomas Newman is usually great in his art of scoring. I especially love the music of Possibility.It shows us how to give love to your side people and the society. It's a great educated movie ! It's great script of pay it forward. I have to thank Kevin Spacey and Helen Hunt for their professional acting !!! They are so great in the movie. Haley is so great and cute. Don't miss it !!!!! Two Thumbs up !!!(8 out of 10) "},{"Title":"Important details","Date":"4 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This comments include Spoilers.This movie is one of my favorites and I would recomend it to everyone, especially abused and/or alcoholic women. This is a masterpiece that might be shocking and sad, yet, very hopeful. Pay it Forward has a whole bunch of good things that help this movie to become a great movieFirst of all, cast and screenplay. There is no better way to achieve a perfect movie than having one perfect actress and two perfect actors coexist with a perfect idea (converted into a great screenplay). Helen Hunt (Academy Award Winner), Kevin Spacey (Twice Academy Award Winner) and Haley Joel Osment (Academy Award Nominee) are the fundamental pieces of this great construction.Then, Excellent cinematography. Something that not everyone notices, yet, something really important for filmmakers, film critics and film lovers. Almost All the movie, a very bright and enjoyable combination of colors serves as the canvas for this excellent art piece. (Minor spoiler)At the end, these bright colors switch for dark and unappealing, symbolizing how sad and dark its ending really is.The last one (great spoiler part), Little but important details. First of all, I want to expose that I really feel bad when excellent movies like this one, receive bad reviews from people who do not understand a specific part of the movie that they believe it's bad. This is particularilly focused on the end of this movie. First of all, let's remember that Helen Hunt's character is a drunk. She drinks practically for everything. Even though, she has the power to overcome this defect, thanks to her son's Utopian ideals. Let's also recall that Spacey's character is traumatized, not only because of his scars, but also because of the event that caused them. This is why the ending is important, even though it is sad. First of all, we see the reconciliation of Hunt and Spacey, where they really show the passion that they wanted to give the other. When he and Hunt are kissing, Osment falls stabbed. Spacey HAS to run to Osment and then for help. Looking at this scene, we realize that he is wearing tennis shoes. In fact, Spacey's character always uses tennis shoes, like some kind of Signs predestination. And, the most important one, when the doctor (wearing the last bright-colored outfit of the entire movie), announces that Trevor (Osment) is dead, Hunt falls desperated, soaked in tears. For an alcoholic, it is a perfect occasion to start drinking and don't stop for a while (imagine that your son, who is the beginner of a philosophic, philanthropic movement, is now dead, assassined). Yet, when she and Spacey are watching the news, a small flash shows Spacey bringing coffee to Hunt. This, believe it or not, is a very important and relevant part of the movie, because, instead of drinking liquoir, she drinks coffee, meaning she was influenced by the power of hopefulness of her son.Instead of crying only sad tears, I cried a mixture of these and happy ones, for him to have accomplished changing the world, starting with his mother and his best friend.Rate 9.7/10 "},{"Title":"i was moved","Date":"28 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  i had nothing else to watch.. so i was watching an 'ugly' kevin spacey telling his class to come up with something.. some idea to change the world.... and the sheer brilliant honesty came in then on... i guess, only the innocence of a child can do some things.the trio of spacey, helen hunt and osment did perfect justice. and then the end of it.. the camera moves from the empty bedroom of the kid to the poor mom and the teacher.. watching the kid's words( his interview which he gave moments before dying to save another kid from young bullies) aired on t.v. .. and well, he did his big thing.. something more than fixing up your bike... and for him.. it had finally worked !!!!.. he wasn't there to see it. well.. i cried kinda.. forced or not.. i dunno. but i cried. and the flicki won't forget in a hurry. do please see.its good. "},{"Title":"What a waste of a brilliant idea","Date":"16 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  There is no doubt the casting of the movie is brilliant. I could not tell which actor I like to watch more, Kevin Spacey, Helen Hunt or adorable and mega-talented Haley Joel Osment.But, this movie is the perfect example that the perfect ingredients don't necessarily give perfect outcome. Again, as in many movies targeted to the audience who look for more than pure entertainment from the movie, there are too many cliches furious mother enters the classroom to talk to the teacher, lonely teacher irons his shirts in the darkness and quietness of his home, hopeless drug addict who fixes the car in return for the favour, etc. Why aren't for once these small illustrations of characters more subtle and respectable of audiences' intelligence instead of being so hollywoodishly watered down?The movie was enjoyable, but nothing more. The main reason to say that is that I did not get the impression the actors themselves have adopted the idea of the movie itself!  I have watched the extras on the DVD and must say that I was expecting a hint from at least someone from the crew that they actually tried the pay it forward principle in their lives. Not seeing it confirmed my suspicions that this was just another pretentious and, sorry to say, shallow movie playing with our emotions and hopes that the world can be changed with the random acts of goodness. What a waste of a brilliant idea!It is nice movie to see, the idea stays with you only because it is so lovely, not because the movie had actually managed to raise to the task of transferring to the big screen its simplicity and actual beauty. Thankfully, few years later we were given Amelie and the experience of the enjoyment in the small acts that do affect other people's lives and inspire to do the same after we leave the cinema!  "}{"Title":"Almost perfect until the end","Date":"3 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A great-ish movie marred by a contrived and maudlin ending. Watch it for some magnificent and nuanced performances, including those of the supporting players. Who knew Mimi (THE PEACEMAKER, DEEP IMPACT) Leder had a film like this in her? The trick is to watch it right up until the kid finishes his interview with the reporter and then shut the damned thing off. Too bad, so sad. This could have been on my Top 100 greatest films list. As it is, it is a curiosity worth a watch. It may remind some of FIELD OF DREAMS, especially at the end. I was sort of reminded of THE WAR with Kevin Costner. Why I don't know.  "},{"Title":"How difficult is to be altruist","Date":"28 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  To do good for others is not so easy and this is well shown in this film. Children are not spoiled persons and their thoughts or dreams are usually the best, particularly when they are small. Good values of the society help to develop good children in good adult persons, when these values are absent, i.e. egoism prevailing, then nothing can be achieved. I like this film very much although excellent actor Kevin Spacey was too nasty to look at him this time, moreover when he was together with the always attractive and sexy Helen Hunt, but without this aesthetic aspect, from the ethical point of view, this is a very nice material, good to be shown to other children and parents. It is not necessary to describe the plot this time, it is enough to say that the film is worth to be seen by large audience of the society.         "},{"Title":"Biased reviewer, love this film","Date":"22 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I am totally biased, because this movie truly changed my life.I went, almost solely because Kevin Spacey is an amazing actor and I would go watch him sit in a chair and talk for 2 hours. I also love Helen Hunt and Hayley Joel Osment, so I figured this was a sure bet.Little did I know what a powerful impact it would have.The basic premise is Spacey as a new teacher in Osment's class. Hunt is the alcoholic mom to Osment and thus he has great reason to want for more out of life. He is given that opportunity when Spacey challenges his social studies class to change the world.SPOILER SPOILER SPOILER SPOILER SPOILER SPOILER SPOILER SPOILEROsment comes up with the idea of 'Paying it forward' ie, when someone does something helpful for you, instead of paying them *back*, you pass it on. You do a good thing for 3 people. It has to be something they cannot do for themselves and it has to (I think) cost you something. (Not financially, has to involve a sacrifice) The alcoholism runs deep in this family and the way Hunt decides to honor her son's idea is truly one of the most touching scenes I have ever seen in a movie or television.I do have some gripe.It was hard to follow in some spots, because there is a little, 'flash forward, no wait, flashback 'essence, ala Pulp Fiction. And I think the ending could have been different. I don't believe it was an overdone, sentimental chick flick as the main reviewers seemed to when it was theatrically released. It was a very moving film that handled very draining problems with hope, honesty and at times, humor. Highly recommended  "},{"Title":"OK but too many false messages and attempts to gain sympathy","Date":"11 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie was pretty bad. It was about a young boy who receives a project from his teacher and he decides to use the chance to start a movement called pay it forward, where one person goes and does three good things for three people and each of those people do three things for other people and so on. This was based on a book and the book's characters were African-American but they changed them to Caucasian for this film (I have no clue why). This was somewhat durogatory, as the one black character in the film was portrayed as a gangster/thug (he steals a radio and then pulls out a gun in the hospital after he is stabbed by his sister). It also portrayed every single homeless person as either a heroin addict or alcoholic, as Helen Hunt's mother in the film had a bottle of liquor in every scene. I am not denying that many people have substance abuse problems, but not all of them do. This film was sad at times but it was generally stupid. Feel free to email me with any questions or comments. "},{"Title":"Pretentious ending spoils a good film","Date":"5 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The first 115 minutes of this picture are first rate, with excellent acting by Spacey and Haley Joel Osment, some solid writing, good photography, and an effective blend of humor, sadness, drama and mystery.  The last part of the film is so pretentious and self-important, however, that it left me angry and questioning everything I had just seen.  A good effort goes down in a sugary, quasi-religious Hollywood ending that steals its visuals from the Field of Dreams.   "},{"Title":"manipulative, uncreative","Date":"27 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Pay it Forward was painful for me.  I have a great deal of sympathy for the premise, and I haven't read the book so I can't comment on the adaptation aspect.  1) This film's ending is as unnecessary and manipulative as other people are saying.  You might very well cry, but if you have any self-respect you'll feel dirty while you're doing it.  After all, it has all the subtlety of porn.  2) Anybody who was shocked by the big personal revelation of the Spacey character should not be allowed to vote.  3) Even the paying forward concept is handled in a very uncreative way. "},{"Title":"forced and unrealistic, but it's okay","Date":"7 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  'pay it forward' is not a great film, but it's not bad. i like the simple concept of 'pay it forward', and i wouldn't be surprised if something like that really happened in real life. the acting was average by the actors...kevin spacey could have delivered his lines a bit more convincingly. my main problem with this film is that it's very unrealistic...this is mainly due to the fact that so much info is cramped into everything. for example, the teacher happens to have an abusive childhood as well. the grandma's homeless, etc etc etc. it's not over-acting, just over-plotting. the ending was controversial, but i think they made the right choice of ending. take away the over-blown slow motion and it would have been okay for me. i would have had a good cry at the end of this movie, but something about the whole movie just irritated me. i can't quite put my finger on it, but i just couldn't bring myself to feel emotional about something that was so unrealistic.  "},{"Title":"Kevin Spacey is the movie","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Spoilers below--Warning  Excessive sugar in this movie.Pay It Forward has real emotional scenes but blows it by overloading.  The idea of the movie is compelling but what happens is pure schmaltz.  If Ms. Leder and company had dialed back the effort to make the audience tear up then this would have been a really good movie.Some examples would help explain what is wrong.Do we really need to make the grandmother an alcoholic street person to show that she was a bad mother?  This is Vegas--so why not make her a compulsive gambler?  Or maybe an original idea like just a bad mom?Does the teacher need to have the exact same home life as the kid?  Would it not be more interesting to make him care about the mom and kid?  Did the producers, director and writer think that the kid and mom were unworthy of love or just plain uninteresting to the teacher without some gimmick?Well anyone who sees this movie will get the idea.  The problem with movies like this is that they have no substance, it is all sizzle without the steak.The only reason to see this movie is to be in awe of what Kevin Spacey can do with a bad script.  This guy is the movie and you keep your attention on the movie just to see him.  Helen Hunt is okay but really cannot hold up to Mr. Spacey's charisma.  On the other hand, Mr. Osment is yet again so flat that the viewer almost wants a mirror held under his nose to look for signs of life.  Having his character die was the best part of the movie because then his screen time could go to Mr. Spacey.One more very major bone to pick with this film.  Ms. Leder should be ashamed to have ripped off Phil Alden Robinson and his masterpiece Field of Dreams.  The last scene of Pay It Forward is a complete repeat of the last scene in Mr. Robinson's masterpiece.  In Field of Dreams, it was just the right touch but in Pay It Forward, it is one last insult towards the intelligence of the viewer.Shame, Shame on Ms. Leder for being such a hack.  "},{"Title":"Pay It No Mind (People Magazine)","Date":"30 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  * This comment contains major spoilersI've already commented on this movie once before.  But I watched this movie again recently and I felt as though my first comment really didn't go in depth about exactly how bad this movie is.  I should have turned it off as soon as I got to that scene where Arlene smacks Trevor and instantly covers her mouth with her hands and rummages through the cupboards looking for her hidden vodka. In my other review I said that I was looking forward to seeing the movie because Helen Hunt was such a good actress.  I have no idea what I was talking about.  Helen Hunt is one of the most overrated, overacting actresses in the business today.  We know that she's an alcoholic because she has bleached blonde hair that never seems to be combed and a wardrobe that makes Erin Brokovich look like Princess Diana.  Her appearance is so snobby to where seeing her as a trashy alcoholic is just plain ridiculous.  And by the way&#133;no one's bangs should move that much when they speak.Kevin Spacey is a marvelous actor.  It's a shame that he went from his Academy Award Winning role in &#145;American Beauty' to this over dramatized piece of muck.  He's the glue that held the whole movie together.  He was given by far the worst lines in the movie but he managed not to chew the scenery.  His performance was the only likeable one in the whole movie.  This will no doubt haunt him for the rest of his life.Haley Joel Osment is playing the same role as he does in every movie he's always a little boy who is pretty much raising his mother because she has her own problems.  He is without a doubt a child acting prodigy.  But after you see him cry for the 3rd time in a half an hour it just starts to get repetitive and annoying.  No wonder his mom was an alcoholic.  I don't drink but being around him day in and day out would make me want to hit the bottle as well.  Oh and Osment gets to say his first sh*t in this movie.  His mother must be so proud.In the book, Eugene Simonet (Kevin Spacey) was supposed to be African American.  But in the movie they hired Kevin Spacey and you all know what race he is.  It seems as though this was a racist decision.  Whoever was in charge of casting the movie declared that when they read the script they automatically though `Kevin Spacey'.  When have you EVER seen Kevin Spacey play a whiney role such as he does here?  The only black character in the movie has to be stabbed by his sister, carry a gun into a hospital, steal, and speak like a complete idiot.  And then there are the kids who sneak knives into school and beat up Trevor's little asthmatic friend.  Of course those kids have to dress like punks and look Hispanic.Oh and then there's Bonnie, Arlene's sponsor.  The woman who plays her should stick to animation (Pepper Ann).  She bursts into her house talking about how you have to call your sponsor and seems to be caught up on her not being supposed to date for a year.  It's strange to me that she's worried about her dating someone who doesn't drink but she has no objections to Arlene working in 2 bars.  You know from the beginning that Bonnie's only real reason of being in the film is to ask Arlene `Are you in love with this man?'  So that Arlene can reply `You know what?  I think I am.' Jon Bon Jovi leaves almost as soon as he gets there.  He chews up the scenery however he is not a terrible actor.  He is pretty good at being a drunken fool.  Is it a coincidence?  I don't know&#133;And then there's what it all boils down to  The Ending.  The ending was just an excuse to make everyone cry so that their attention wasn't aimed at how bad the plot, acting, and direction was.  Trevor tries to help his friend out and then he gets stabbed with a short knife in the lower right side of his abdomen.  Now I'm not doctor, but as far as I know there are no valuable organs located in that region of the body.  There is no reason for him to die on the operating table.  Then the final scene with hundreds of cars gathering around a suburban house carrying candles and crying while a song calling Trevor an angel is playing in the background is nothing but propaganda.I saw this movie with my mother in the theater and nearly everyone walked out of the movie crying.  My mother and I were sitting there with a look of disgust on our faces.  What they saw as beautiful dramatic cinema, my mother and I saw as a melodramatic bit of propaganda.  I'm proud to say that not a drop fell from my eye.This is one of those movies that prepubescent teenage girls watch at slumber parties to rid themselves of the everyday traumas of their middle school lives.  Or else it's one of those movies that cynical teenagers such as myself watch with their equally as cynical best friends so that they can make fun of how terrible the movie is and feel better about themselves.This movie has only two redeeming qualities.  One is the always great Kevin Spacey.  Another is a wonderful score by Thomas Newman.  It is very similar to that of American Beauty, but hey who's complaining?  Take my advice and go watch a blank tape.  Paint your room magenta.  Just don't waste valuable hours of your life watching this dreadful piece of human celluloid.  "},{"Title":"Idealistic piffle....but still a good show","Date":"22 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This was one of those little heartstring pullers which appear plausible until one enters the human equation and then the whole house of cards falls. The writer would have the viewer believe that one can enter a compound of junkies, thieves, murderers, and assorted trash and leave intact. Welcome to the unreal world. They also would have one buy into the idea that people change over night after taking a sip of the milk of human kindness. A very good film but don't take it too seriously. Loved the ending, it was more in tune with the way things really work. "}{"Title":"What trashes the good name of film.  Yeah, it's got SPOILERS","Date":"11 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Film had been just about everything to us.  Being that, through it's long history, I believe we have learned some things.  When a film very wringfully does, it can be tragic.  Pay it Forward is such.Trevor McKinneley (Haley Joel Osment) is starting seventh grade at his local public school.  When he arrives in Social Studies, he meets his new teacher Mr. Symmonett (Kevin Spacey).  He has a special plan for each class each year that he will tell them to find something to change the world and make it a better place.  Trevor is one who takes it very seriously.He immediately comes up with the concept of pay it forward.  To do someone a favor and instead of them paying it back to a person, they do someone else a favor and ask them to do the same.  Trevor finds a homeless man Jerry (Jim Caviezel) and gives him food and shelter for awhile at his own house where he lives with his mother (Helen Hunt).  She in semi-divorced to an abusive husband.  She is a recovering alcoholic who still turns to a bottle of whiskey that she hides.  When she discovers the stranger her son has brought home, she is shocked and furious.She goes to her son's school to confront the subject that Mr. Symmonett has bestowed.  After the anger passes, as in any film of this kind, a certain tension arouses.  Trevor makes an attempt to get them together. Eventually, a relationship has begun to grow.  All of this in in the midst of several things we have seen in film, TV, and more, and can get old, but it can be let to slide if the film is overall rewarding.The idea of pay it forward has become a failure from what Trevor has seen. His people have not continued the chain properly.  His main focus seems to be on keeping the two together and improving their life.  Soon, things are disrupted and Trevor's father appears.Trevor's mother feels she should give him another chance and drops what she has with Symmonett for the time being.  Then we discover why he has the burns he has.  That his father was abusive towards his mother, so he took a step to him.  As a result, casoline was poored on him and a match lit. This is suppose to be the persuason to talk her out of going back.  It is, of course, a sentimental and sapped seen whcich, again, we have seen many, many times before.  There is still hope however.Eventually, Mr. Symmonetts predictions were right and the husband is no better.  After this, it seems that the life improvement Trevor wanted is starting to come into tact.  His mother goes to visit her mother who is an alcoholic at the poverty lanes.  She makes peace with her and accepts her into the family.Finally, we come to a track of a very big step in which a reporter from LA comes to inform them that Trevor's concept has reached all over the country. They go to the school in Mr. Symmonett's classroom and do a taped interview.  It goes very well, making the concept and Trevor's own a life, a success.  Mr. Symmonett and Trevor's mother come together and re-institute their relationship with affectionate passion.  Here, a nice movie.  One to bring a date on, even take your kids.  A feel-good movie.  Maybe not the best of the year, but something to enjoy.  If only that was.After the interview, Trevor sees that two bullies are harassing and beating another kid.  Trevor has seen this before and decides he can do something about it.  He rides his bike into the middle of it.  The kid is freed, and after he runs, one of the bullies draws a knife, stabbing Trevor in the chest.  Mr. Symmonett and his mother run to him as the bullies go off.  The next seen is the hospital where we see, pretty much without sound, the two waiting.  The doctor comes to them and gives them the news.  We see Hunt fall into Spacey and we know.  Around the theater, the tears start to come. At the end, the couple stay in the house in mourning as the community comes for comfort.  Now, as I'm in the theater, everyone seems to be pulling out their tissues.  crying all around.  What's in my mind?  This is some of the worst writting ever.We have had tragedy in film all the time.  This film is not Romeo and Julliette and shouldn't expect to have some magical affect by taking an incredibly cheap way out.  This problem, I assume, is in many films thinking that it will simply work with tragedy.  Take those tissues away from your eyes and throw them at the screen!  This has to have the worst ending ever.There may be those who believe there is symbolism in the ending.  There isn't.  I hear the book is different, but still has the same key of ending, whcih would not make it better.  It seems that for 2000, people have decided to take a jump from a glorious mountain to a rcoky bottom of horror.  M. Night Shymalan really made it with The Sixth Sense.  Then comes Unbreakable.  So here there's Spacey whos both really made it with The Sixth Sense and American Beauty the previous year, being oscar contenders, Spacey being a winner.This sort of thing in movies is not acceptable.  I think it does not seem enough, my fingers seem under pressure, that I am not making it clear that I hat ehtis film.  Because I very much do.  This is one of the worst films of 2000.  One of the worst scripts ever.  How could filmakers be this ignorant. Moreover, why did I notice so many people crying.  Maybe this film doesn't just say something about the dark parts of movies, but of normal humans as well.  The film is trash, belongs in a dumpster, not a projector.  The actors need to get their priorities starightened.  Gives film, what I live for, a bad name. "},{"Title":"Unnecessary crap","Date":"15 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I felt like the ending was awful, I also think that they added (as they do in MANY movies) more garbage that is totally unnecessary so they could get the ratings. I guess people like to see the violence etc.I went away from the movie just sick to my stomach and thinking well, that's two hours of my life I will never see again "},{"Title":"Disappointing translation to the screen","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Having just read the book upon which this film was based, I was very disappointed in seeing how much the movie changed the story. More importantly, the items changed were significant and marred the possible impact of the film on anyone who might view it.Why was the teacher changed from black to white? Why was his name changed from St. Clair to Simonet? Why was the long period of tracking the Movement never addressed? Why was the visit to the White House not added? Why did they choose to have kids from Trevor's school stab him as opposed to his attempt to intervene in Washington, D.C.?All in all, a very poor rendition. "},{"Title":"o.k. acting, horrible, cynical story","Date":"28 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Every character was engulfed in some personal tragedy and was merely holding on for survival.  For no reason at all, one of the protagonists is killed. One of the pay-it-forward gestures included aiding a criminal in flight. What?  Not a single redeeming characteristic - no hopefulness, no redemption of any of the characters, not even any scenery.  Steve Martin's Grand Canyon ran us through some of this much more successfully a few years ago.  The big mystery is, how did such a mess of a story attract 3 of the hottest actors around? "},{"Title":"The story of Jesus.","Date":"10 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  You may think I jest, but it's true. This is the worst telling of the story of Jesus I have ever seen. Many people here applaud the basic premise of the movie, as do I. The general idea is inspiring. Or it would have been if the movie didn't suck so much. We get every dramatic cliche ever written in this story. SPOILERBurn victim can't love because no one ever loved him, not even his father. Vegas waitress is a drunk. Kid is insecure. Mom and Burn Victim fall in love, as she can see his inner beauty. Kid creates Pay it Forward. Kid helps drug addict. But addict goes back to drugs. Of course. But he still helps someone. Makes you feel all warm and fuzzy inside. Kid dies trying to Pay it Forward.  Because Kid doesn't see any effect from his actions, he doubts himself. Like Jesus. When he is stabbed, it is in the side. Like Jesus. Everyone cries and lights candles. Like Christmas. Roll credits.SPOILER ENDSThe real shame here is that we are given three good actors who aren't given the opportunity to act. It seemed as though Leder got the Welles/Kubrick meglomaniac virus and told them how to do everything, from movement to their speech patterns. What is left is nothing but excrement. Stay away.  "},{"Title":"You All Are Joking, Right???","Date":"21 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  7.4??? Please tell me this is an IMDB user plot to sucker people into seeing a manipulative overacted (ask me what happened next, ASK ME! ASK ME!!!!) piece of self-indulgent, feel good hooey, marked by one of the most cynical (and unnecessary) endings I have ever seen.  It's as if Lederer knew that she had descended into soap-opera and the only way to hide it was to not let people speak at all, just show the music video and the thousand points of light.I understand you feel cheated out of two hours of your life, but hey, it's Christmas, so don't try to snooker your neighbor into seeing it too. "},{"Title":"They almost had me.","Date":"27 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I've seen quite a few cynical attempts to cash in on the willingness of the paying public to buy into maudlin, melodramatic, overly sentimental, dog-dies-at-the-end type movies.  But brother, this one takes the cake!Maybe I wouldn't be so disgusted though, if I hadn't nearly been taken in.No doubts I may have about a movie, however grave they might be, can keep me away from a Kevin Spacey performance.  I have never missed one of his films since being astounded by The Usual Suspects.  And he does an admirable job here as a disfigured, isolated, middle-school teacher. However, it isn't enough to save the film.Don't get me wrong.  Up until the end, the movie has it's charms.  Helen Hunt plays the alcoholic single mother of a bright middle school student, Trevor(Osment)who becomes infected with the semi-utopian, activist ideals of his teacher Mr. Simonet (Spacey's character).  Trevor comes up with a scheme to better the world as a part of homework assignment given to him by Mr. Simonet.  His idea involves helping people so that they will, in turn, help others.  He puts this plan in motion by first taking in a homeless junkie, then trying to fix his mom up with his teacher.  Complications ensue.In addition to Kevin Spacey's usual awe-inspiring turn as the teacher, Hunt gives her normal performance, which can almost be described as a shtick now. It involves delivering her lines in a flustered burst of words, and trying her best to seem really, really earnest.  I'll give her this, she certainly looks the part of the trashy, alcoholic, casino waitress in this movie. That's good, right?And then there is Osment, the much acclaimed child-star of The Sixth Sense. He does an adequate job in this one, which is pretty remarkable considering the fact that he is just a kid.In any case, all the pain, suffering, and redemption of humanity taking place here seems heartfelt if somewhat over sweet.  But that is before they hit you with the below-the-belt sucker-punch in the last minutes. Completely pointless, and completely irritating.If any less a talent than the aforementioned Mr. Spacey were involved in this inexpressibly putrid product of the Hollywood Machine, I would be tempted to write him off.  Unfortunately, I am weak and Mr. Spacey is strong.Kevin please, don't put me through this again.  And, oh yeah... Shame on you. "},{"Title":"Looking for the real story?? Read the book!!","Date":"26 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" **SPOILERS**   SPOILERS** I must start by saying that I read this book last winter and I cherish it. If I hadn't, I'd probably like this movie with the exception of the ending. But, alas, the ending was one of the few parts that even remotely resembled the original story. Okay, I know...the movie is NEVER as good as the book. But in this case, the screenwriter and casting director have taken what started out as a beautiful story about the power and resiliency of the human spirit and the belief in the good of other humans, and put it through the Hollywood money machine and spit this movie out. They took a wonderful story and took out everything they feared would offend someone, got really big stars, made the love story the focus (instead of the real story) and are now standing in line hoping to ride Spacey's and Osment's coattails to the bank.I was most offended by what they did to the main character of the teacher. He is supposed to be African American and (used to be) incredibly beautiful. Spacey doesn't meet either of those criteria obviously. Where's Denzel when we need him! He's literally missing half of his face, including an eye, due to an injury in the Vietnam War. Heck, they even changed the character's name! What's wrong with Rueben St. Clair?? It's obvious they hoped to capitalize on Spacey's post-Oscar success (plus they were probably afraid that people wouldn't pay to see a black man and a white woman involved in a love story). What we end up with is the early Lester Burnham with a little makeup. When Eugene goes into the casino, I actually thought I was watching Lester Burnham! Even the closing music sounds like the American Beauty theme!I thought Helen Hunt did a good job with what little of Arlene she was given to play. Arlene was my favorite character of the book, so complex. You can't help but love her, warts and all.The book also focuses much more on how a simple class assignment becomes a nationwide movement. It is brimming with more interesting stories and more interesting people. I'm so sad they didn't make it onto the screen. What puzzles me is that they chose to leave out some wonderful characters and invent some that didn't appear in the book (Arlene's mother? I don't remember her from the book, I'd check but I gave my copy away)SPOILER....I was also interested to see that many people didn't like the ending. Halfway through the movie I leaned over and said to my husband, If he doesn't die at the end of this movie, I'm going to ask for my money back! That was one of the few plot points that stayed true to the book, even though they completely changed the circumstances under which it happens.END OF SPOILER.....So, if you love the story of pay it forward and can live without the one-note focus that the Hollywood sanitized version gives you, read the book. Yes, the ending is sad. But you will be so uplifted by the journey that even after the fall, you'll still be higher than before. "},{"Title":"Good cast. Awful movie.","Date":"25 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Watching the commercials, I was intrigued about the Pay it Forward idea- you help 3 people, they help 3 more, in 45 days the whole world is fixed blah blah blah. Unfortunately, this idea (and even its consequences to some degree) make up about 25 minutes (maybe less) of screentime.The rest of the movie forces you to endure lame examples of cliche societal problems (as if we didn't know there was injustice in the world) domestic abuse, drug addiction, homelessness, violence in schools, alcoholism, missing kids and even yes... kiddy porn.My question is WHY?Why did Spacey's character have to be lonely AND burned? Why did Hunt's character have to be a single mother AND abused by her ex?Why can't everyone have just ONE thing wrong?This movie went WAY beyond what it needed to to establish the world is a bad bad place.  I'm giving it a 2. This movie is terrible. "},{"Title":"Such a waste of talent...","Date":"24 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  First off, I must admit that there were incredible performances from Haley Joel Osment, Helen Hunt, and Kevin Spacey.  The movie seemed so promising from the beginning.  Introducing each individual character in such a likeable manner, you would think that the whole movie would leave the theater with a smirk on your face.  Then, you start to notice the first flaw in the movie, and you kinda let it go.  Then, you start to feel really depressed because everyone starts to reveal their own personal demons... yeah, exactly.  Then the most ungodly of things happen, and suddenly you feel like you've just witness Jesus dying for our sins.  Do you see why it is such a waste of talent?  Haley, Helen, and Kevin gave extraordinary performances for what seems to be a script geared more towards the best TV movie of the week.  Utterly disappointing... "}{"Title":"They should take Kevin Spacey's Oscar back!!!!","Date":"17 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Apparently some people love to see the same miserable story over and over again.  Why must they try so hard to make the audience cry, and in doing so, compromise the story.I thought the movie made Kevin Spacey (whom I love) look absolutely horrible!  watch for one of the worst lines in movie history I couldn't figure out why that water smelled so bad!  Helen Hunt managed to play the same role she plays in every movie!  The audience actually laughed out loud when Jon Bon Jovi's name appeared on the screen, and his menacing character as an abusive husband is just as laughable as his reputation.Why the heck did Thomas Newman practically use the same score as he did with American Beauty?  Can you say 'MARKETING?'  At the end, I expected one person to start clapping slowly and then another and then the whole crowd.  It is that bad.  I've seen half the scenes in other movies.One scene actually is remarkably close to a scene in Oliver Stone's Platoon (believe it or not)!!!In summation... DON'T SEE THIS MOVIE!!!  PLEASE!!!2 out of 10 (i'm thinking about changing that to one... the more i think about it, the more i hate the movie.) "},{"Title":"Who Knew You Could Turn 'Human Interest' Into Bile","Date":"17 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I'll be honest; I was tempted to give this movie a 1/10, but I thought I'd be gracious because of Helen Hunt. She was alright considering her character was about as one dimensional and cliché as they come, thank you Hollywood... Directorially, this movie was one of the most amateur films to date. Its premise is unique, I'll grant them; the idea that one person could potentially change the world however unrealistic it may be. The cast was dynamic with what they were given, so I make no jabs at the actors. The cinematography was following the trend of '00-04 for dramatic films; thankfully CRASH broke the iron bars on that one in the later part of '04. The stylistics and technique heaved Commericial Hollywood which, and I mean this with certainty, is NEVER a good thing for a human interest film. The idea is that it's supposed to be grounded in life, rooted in realism; not plastered with fantastic angles that destroy the tone of the film. More than anything it's the clichés that ruin the film. The alcoholic mother; the intelligent young boy screaming inside; the brilliant teacher who has a hurt perspective on the world and its people; and finally the thugly looking school boys who stab Trevor in the left side of this abdomen resulting in a William Shatner like death pose... Just as a side not, a stab that far left wouldn't damage the liver or stomach and probably wouldn't puncture any vital organs so that'd give him about 2 hours to live before help arrived, and knowing California and that it happened at a school, help would've arrived in about 6 minutes... Well, I could go on with the costumes, lighting and character development, but I'm not going to be one of those people, well I probably already sound that way, and tell you what you should or shouldn't do. Between my critique and other people's comments or postings, you understand the film was not well received and I wouldn't waste a minute on it. "},{"Title":"i was moved","Date":"28 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  i had nothing else to watch.. so i was watching an 'ugly' kevin spacey telling his class to come up with something.. some idea to change the world. well, it wasnt all about being a smarta** or else.. they were the kids... abt it started then on. the trio of spacey, helen hunt and osment did perfect justice. and then the end of it.. the camera moves from the empty bedroom of the kid to the poor mom and the teacher.. watchin the kids innocence aired on tv.. and well, he did his big thing.. something more than fixing up ur bike... and for him.. it had finally worked !!!!.. he wasn't there to see it. well.. i cried kinda.. forced or not.. i dunno. but i cried. and the flicki won't forget in a hurry. do please see.its good. "},{"Title":"Ruined by the writers.","Date":"13 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Only in Hollywood could screen writers take what might have been a wonderful story and ruin it by adding their own sadistic twist to it.  Let's face it...nice stories don't need the murder of children to make them interesting.  I came close to asking for my money back from Blockbusters.  "},{"Title":"Pure Kitsch","Date":"23 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I went into the theatre with admittedly rather high expectations, because I think that Spacey and Hunt are very good actors. I'm sorry to say that the admission fee was not money well spent. The story and concept of paying forward sounds intriguing, but gets totally smothered beneath about five inches of sugar-coating. The ending is predictable, and the characters Kevin Spacey and Helen Hunt play seem uninteresting, stale and two-dimensional. On the whole, a waste of time.2.5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Honestly, this is unforgivable.","Date":"19 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  First the good Pay it Forward ends with Jane Siberry's beautiful Calling All Angels. Then, the bad I will never again be able to listen to Calling All Angels without thinking of this lamentable tripe. 21% of IMDb user have rated this a 10? What's the matter with you people? I stand by my 2 rating, and I think cinematic history will bear that out. Hopefully, this will soon be dismissed as an unfortunate dip in Kevin Spacey's acting career and a catalyst for the merciful end of Helen Hunt's. Contrived, maudlin, and fairly racist to boot (note that the only minorities here are a jive-talking black prisoner and a couple of young Latino gangsters). Mimi Edwards seems intent on inheiriting Joel Schumacher's crown as the least subtle, most exploitive director in Hollywood. "},{"Title":"Hollywood's remake of Jesus Christ story","Date":"22 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It's kind of a remake of the Jesus Christ story.  A guy (a young boy in this case) comes up with a brilliant new idea of how to make people and the world better. SPOILER ALERT The idea looks absolutely non-practical to many around him.  However he finds his first followers among destitute people who become his devout disciples.  Gradually the number of followers grows, miracles happen, human lives are saved.  Finally, the leader brings on himself the death of a martyr, the movement he started becomes a powerful force, and the masses worship their hero.  "},{"Title":"Cheesy, heavy-handed schmaltz that didn't deserve my dollars","Date":"21 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie was simply awful, and as someone who has always believed in random acts of kindness I felt that this did the idea more harm than good.From the word go the plotline revolving around Kevin Spacey's injuries was painfully obvious - telegraphed for the audience who may have left their imagination at home.An unashamed Hollywood attempt to prove that they can make positive moral statemtents... or something.  It fails abysmally. "},{"Title":"Sweet and Sour","Date":"11 August 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Wonderful concept, but not a wonderful movie. HJO did a fantastic job, K Spacey and Angie D were provocative & delightful. HH just isn't a compelling BIG Screen presence - she has the same 6 facial moves in every role she gets, and they just don't always work. This 'mom' part is way too gritty for her - contrast that with Angie's incredible grit & tenacity in the Grandma part.The time-shifting written into the screenplay seems to be a distracting and unnecessary ploy, trying to make the story more mystical than it really is. And the score, if you can call it that, is truly vapid. A single 2 bar 6 beat phrase, beaten to death throughout the movie. Puh-leeeeeze.The idea of Pay It Forward is a great idea. Never gonna happen in the real world, but a nice gesture. The strong classroom scenes, and very convincing & fine work by HJO & Spacey are worth the time spent. During the 'setup' (first half or so of the story) it really seems like it will turn into a great movie. The characters are interesting enough, and the story is increasingly compelling.After that it just begins to unravel... too many scenes of 'mom' self-destructing and methodically over-(re)acting. If she's in this much constant crisis, how does she hold it together to work 2 jobs? Contrast that to the character flaws which develop in Spacey's role, actually drawing us into more curiosity & caring for him.The sub-plot of the reporter is injected using 'is this a time-shifting scene or not' so much that in itself it detracts from the story. Too obviously, in the end it becomes a false reward for the compassion & brilliance of the young hero.Finally, without giving a spoiler, the ending must be mentioned. It could've been written SO much better, and not have dumped ALL the momentum the film had developed. That 7th grade class could've done a superior re-write on this! It easily derails and nullifies the entire story, and for what? A simple-minded attempt for a tear jerk ending.Especially if you have youngsters watching this movie I HEARTILY RECOMMEND STOPPING THE PLAYBACK at the scene where the 2 adults meet between the lockers. Now, make up your own ending. Trust me, it will be better than the one filmed. OK, send the tykes to bed, and if you can't stand the 'suspense' go ahead & watch it. See what I mean?!? (Sorry, but you were warned.)Why, oh why doesn't this DVD have an Alternate Ending??? The producers actually thought this is the only/best way out?!?? In all the thousands of movies I've seen, THIS is the single, extreme & worst example of a terribly written ending, ever. By far. And it could easily have been brilliant, and just as teary... How sad - FOR US WHO LOVE GREAT MOVIES! Insead of a 'must-buy' this is a 'must see, ONCE' because the ending is so implausible. Boooo.Bye bye, Angie. You did real good. (  "},{"Title":"A real winner","Date":"6 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Here's a movie that just kind of slipped by.  Well done from the very beginning especially the first day of class for the new students. Outstanding performances from all lead actors.  This kept you interested all through the movie with a great ending "}{"Title":"Like waiting 2 hours for pizza, then get bag of flaming poo!","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie had alot of promise for living up to it's title. It could have Paid the audience forward with a wonderfully spun tail of local boy does good, but they forgot the title. I guess I could build up even more before I say it but it will still have the same meaning... THIS MOVIE ENDING TOTALLY SUCKED!! Never before have I viewed a movie where the ending totally enveloped all that was good about the previous 2 hours and spit it into the crapper.That ending was like a black hole that sucked all that was enjoyable about this film into oblivion. In this world of escalating teen pregnancy, violence and drug abuse, I think we all get about as much reality we can take during the day. And this movie didn't lack any reality for that matter, given the background of it's characters. However, I guess that just didn't wasn't depressing enough for the genius screenplay team on this one. Assuming that the book didn't contain the same overwrought ending, this thing should be totally skipped by the DVD makers and the film preservation society. Do yourself a favor, save your money and just watch the news. You'll get just as much satisfaction out of it. "},{"Title":"Shockingly badq","Date":"17 December 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" If you're ever short of a definition for the word mediocre, this'll clear it up for you. Appalling sub-movie of the week bilge. Kevin Spacey reveals the soft fleshy ham that lies beneath his technique, Helen Hunt relies on eyeliner to turn her into a recovering alcoholic. Dreadful script ellipses through awkward questions, director looks for pretty shots to endow hollow profundity, inappropriate production design (mm - she has to have the largest, cleanest, most well-designed trailer I've ever seen...) leads all in all to horribly overworked tv movie of the week. I paid money to see this and feel seriously robbed. All involved should feel deeply ashamed. Was it for the money guys, or did you really think emoting is the same as acting? Shame on you.  "},{"Title":"Pay it no mind -- you don't need one","Date":"20 October 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Warning  slight spoiler -- I discuss a scene in the first reel, and recommend that as the time to ask for your money  back.I finally registered at IMDB just to plead for you to miss this  movie.  This is the worst type of script  it is lacking in ideas  and character development, so it becomes self- referencing.  Characters in a scene discuss how they felt about the action you just witnessed in the previous scene. This movie is so blatant that it is painful.  Cinema for the brain dead.The characters are one dimensional, the conflict is  ludicrous, the music is painfully pedantic, and the story is an insult to your intelligence.  And don't even get me started on the depiction of the minor black character (have you heard of Stephan Fetchit?)I believe that screenwriters should stop reading self-help books and foisting bad movies on the public as some type of shared therapy.  If the previews were any indication, this is the trend for the holidays.You can almost feel the screenwriting books coming  through the story  1. who is the character, and what is their wound or weakness?  2. what is the life affirming quest which your protagonist engages in? 3. Always put in a pole dancing scene to indicate when the movie goes downhill past the point of no return ( hint it's in the first reel)All in all, a painful experience.  If you thought Milk Money was great cinema, this is for you.  If you know who  Kieslowski is, run away from this unsophisticated piece of kitsch before you get depressed and stop going to the  movies altogether.  No oscar for this please.  On a positive note, this has raised my opinion of the film Dogma. "},{"Title":"Meticulously Calculated Melodrama Doesn't Work","Date":"14 October 2007","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" There are four types of bad Hollywood movies &#150; those full of violence, blood, sex and unnecessary amount of swear words; those made by Quentin Tarantino; those that have an absolutely unnatural happy ending (with heroes kissing and walking together away into the sunset); and, finally, those that are very carefully designed to be sad, teary melodramas that simply have to make you cry. Paying It Forward is exactly the fifth type of a poorly made film. From the very beginning and up to the end of it, you clearly see how it was calculated and designed. You feel how the film crew was meticulously and precisely calculating the moment when we had to feel sad, when we had to cry, when we had to smile, and when we had to wipe our misty eyes and go for another Kleenex. Hey, men, the real films are not made like that. This sweetie, sugary-treacle monster of a melodrama is so naive false, pretentious and puffed-up that it never makes you cry. Instead, you really wipe your eyes and ask yourself all the time Do I really see that? Or, am I just sleeping? See, all what Helen Hunt and Kevin Spacey try to achieve looks so falsely and overblown. I didn't believe them when they discussed their heavy past, when Hunt's film husband, a drunkard, played by impossibly poor actor Jon Bon Jovi, appeared. But the worst part is that blue-eyed, angel-faced, innocently looking little boy, so young, sweet and smart that you immediately realize &#150; such boys never exist. He is as if stepped from the pages of 19-century moralist books which described exactly that kind of godly and for some reason always dying at the end boys. Remember, Mark Twain mocked such pseudo literature long ago? So, this young boy is always full of deadly seriousness, grave moodiness and he is always about to cry. Right, all the women and sentimental men will surely cry when seeing him and wanting to adopt this sweet little candy floss angel. With only one problem in mind &#150; that is all not real. I never believed them in all their hardships and joys. All the time, I felt that carefully though-over plan that the crew and actors followed. The last part of the long film was simply unbearable. That most unnatural death, that laughable procession of candle bearers (this was intended to force a final tear from us, but failed flatly as a totally false and pretentious fake) and the slow, silly final song were much too much. Such amount of saccharine was used maybe only in Titanic, but that film is simply beyond all borders of a good taste. I have to underline the idea that I am in full agreement with the film's main message about making good things to other and never expecting anything in return. I totally and wholly disagree with the shallow and childish way it was delivered to us. Sometimes, I feel our world is really that stupid and hopeless if we need to chew and swallow such terribly cooked syrup. The final suggestion? It's bad; it's very insincere, very floppy and it doesn't work. Once, when you start counting minutes thinking about the time left before the film ends, you understand that it is a flop. I started doing that after 20 minutes. Rating &#150; 1. Extremely poorly done syrupy family-view trinket. Watch this only if you want to see how all bad elements come together and ruin the whole thing. And the fact that this film was seriously considered for some Oscar only shows how naive and short-sighted many critics are if they think this trash may be regarded good. "},{"Title":"I guess that everyone got the message .","Date":"26 March 2007","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie was just plain awful ,but I think that is funny how it try to cover it mediocrity proclaiming every minute  this movie have a deep message ,this movie is sad ,everybody should cry . Besides being a big waste of talent and money , the movie have a ridiculous and poorly made script full of cheap sentimentalism ,horrible performances and the worst of all , a obscene excess of saccharine that goes to the limit in the forced and manipulative ending . Seriously ,I can't believe that many people consider this  a life lesson for everyone  .Pay it Forward  it's nothing but exercise of marketing ,just as The CareBears  but Pay It forward  got better reviews . After all ,the director Mimi Lederknows very well how to sell a bad movie ,just think in Deep Impact . "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies I have ever seen.","Date":"29 November 2001","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie has a good cast, a decent plot, but horrible direction and a terrible script.  The movie was trying to be so many different things, except original.  Its nice to think of paying it forward and its a pleasant idea, but the way they tried to bring it across was so bad it is comical.  I had to laugh at the forced cheesy script and the pathetic stereotyping this movie showed.   If you want to see an original movie with the same main actor but a good script, see American Beauty. "},{"Title":"The kind of tearjerker which purports to change lives forever, but rarely ever does","Date":"15 November 2001","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Melodramatic hogwash or inspirational story of love? Actually it's a bit of both. Good cast struggles through do-gooder drama heavy on speeches and meaningful silences and long, long looks into the camera. Pleasantly set in and around Las Vegas, Kevin Spacey plays a physically burned middle school teacher whose class assignment prompts overreaching student Haley Joel Osment to make a difference in the world. OK character-study has some strong and bright moments, some funny scenes, but suffers from frenetic direction and editing, and a finale that's a bogus piece of shameful boloney... And can we finally call a moratorium on children calling each other fag on the schoolyard? Yes, it's the ultimate put-down for the 7th-grade set, but I was really surprised a screenwriter like Leslie Dixon couldn't rise above this tired and ugly cliché to find some new trick in the book. It's one small example of how Pay It Forward wants to be something special, but just doesn't have the creative goods to pull it off. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Slay It Forward","Date":"6 July 2001","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It is a rare thing indeed when a movie goes from pretty good to absolute crap in the span of a minute. However, this is the case here. I'm not going to give it away, just to say that if you see this one coming, I'll tip my hat to your psychic powers. Do yourself a favor, don't watch this. "},{"Title":"Below Average","Date":"15 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It's hard to know where to start to review this film, whether it be the weak characters, big name actors that should know better or the flimsy story which is meant to leave us feeling motivated to go out and do good.Helen Hunt is completely unconvincing as a hard up, alcoholic single Mum...she's just too nice, soft and good looking to work in this role.HJO is almost a carbon copy of himself from the Sixth Sense (a far superior film in every aspect).Kevin Spacey is just not gritty enough within his role of HJO's teacher.Las Vegas seems a very strange place for this to be set also - this is never really explained or touched on. It could've been set anywhere really and it wouldn't improve matters.The whole idea that doing something good for 3 people which needs to be something difficult for yourself is a good enough concept however, human nature is generally too selfish to deal with this. The fact that someone does something good for you, you then have to pay this forward to 3 other people will leave a lot questioning whether you would bother if the good thing has already happened to you - there is no concept that it will be reversed if you don't do anything good for anyone else.For me, there was just not enough in the story to buy into the concept. Inherently, if you have to tell people to be nice to others and only then when someone is nice to you in the first place, there really is no hope for us all, surely...?In conclusion, if I can stop 3 people watching this film, I have certainly paid it forward. "},{"Title":"My rating 8","Date":"15 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" So, the moment for moral talking came. We will abstract the play of the actors, the requisite and the stage production. They are not bad, do not get me wrong! The most important thing this time will be the idea.Made up by a kid or not, real or not, it is important. It shows the insignificance of the pompous speech, egoism, material goods, career. The only thing left is the love between the closest ones and between people. The altruism and the mutual aid. Paying it forward.(Time for commercial) And paying it forward, as we saw, is being made by teachers and humanitarian sciences, when they are made from heart. In no way I want to bent the other fields of the knowledge but I want to say clear that human relationships are what makes life good or bad. Why others are not able to see the help as a good to them, why they think that when they are making bad to the others are making good to themselves &#x96; these are questions which stay outside the movie which shows the presence of a childish, unencumbered psychically and conceptually world.Does living in such a world is hard to achieve or absolutely possible, this is up to every one of you and the answer concerns the rest.http//vihrenmitevmovies.blogspot.com/ "}{"Title":"Too Melodramatic","Date":"3 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Even though I rate this movie a seven out of ten, I felt like the message was a bit basic. I felt like it promoted amateur humanitarianism and gave people a short lived surge of inspiration. The publicity Trevor earned by providing relief to three acquaintances gives people false images and fantasies of receiving world renowned recognition for helping an elderly woman with her groceries. A kind gesture, yes, but you didn't throw the world off its axis. What's more, as children we are all taught to treat others how we would like to be treated. Pay It Forward is emphasizing the same golden rule, only with more frills and a tear provoking scenario to add to the lusciousness. It's a simple, generic, easy way to help save the world.I feel that instead of inspiring people to help others, its turned into inspiring people into helping themselves. The thought that goes through peoples head is I can make a difference. I can change the world. I can become famous. I can be on TV. I am now a humanitarian. I'm dropping out of school to help the homeless seek refuge. It all begins with I It's always about the viewer. I think the lust appeal is more prominent when one is to think of the publicity at his or her funerals- people bowing their heads towards the candle flickering in their hands, floating lanterns, and replete with the crowds chanting the name of the blessed deceased humanitarian who helped three people; the sequel to Mother Theresa. Get real.Pay It Forward is excessively melodramatic. Over all, it is a sweet story, but has an unoriginal theme that falsely gives a boosted reality of society. We're all small and insignificant in the whole scheme of things. All of our hand prints left on the world are fainter than mist. "},{"Title":"Powerful, inspiring, beautiful - an underrated masterpiece","Date":"17 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Although this film came out nine years ago, I wish I'd seen it sooner. I'm terrible for that; discovering wonderful classics years after their original success. It was truly the best film I've seen in ages, because of so many factors - the superb acting, the excellent storyline and the flawless directing by Mimi Leder (who also did Deep Impact, another favourite of mine). First of all, I thought the concept of the film was really interesting - and after a little research, I discovered that it's based on a real idea. Paying good deeds forward is a simple idea, but a brilliant one, and it seemed so much more inspiring when carried out by a little boy in the film. This is just about the only HJ Osment film I've ever seen, but I can see why he's praised so much, and sixth sense must be amazing with a star as talented as this actor. The audience really felt everything he did, and he could express this feeling without a word, just a sad, pained expression. His mother, Helen Hunt (who I know only from Twister, being inexperienced) was also fantastic, and I really felt for her when she lost her temper in one scene - the sorrow and regret in her eyes was just amazing. Kevin Spacey, who I'd only really heard of before this, did a great job too, and I was so glad when he finally got together with Hunt's character - they really deserved each other. I was crushed about them losing Trevor though, what a way to tear the family apart... though the ending with the mourners was sweet. A touching film, and one which really got me thinking about the problems in our world - and what one person could do to change things if only luck was on their side. The cast, both main and supporting, were believable and emotionally connected with the audience the whole time. I highly recommend this (if you've been able to read this past all my spoilers)! "},{"Title":"Just Pay It Forward. 3 big favors for 3 other people. that it.","Date":"23 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Pay it forward is my favorite movie, right before Titanic. ) This movie is perfect in every way. The story, the casting, the AMAZING soundtrack and more..I saw is so many times so I know every line and every scene in the movie.I wont tell what's happening in the end but this ending is very necessary to be realistic.When I think about it I really don't know how it's possible to create this kind of story which is so brilliant.Enjoy = "},{"Title":"Commmon places","Date":"23 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I did watch this film because of Kevin Spacey. Then I realized, that if a film lacks qualities at all, it does not helps, if there is such an excellent actor playing in them, like Kevin Spacey. This movie, although its message is full of good will, and should be followed, is full of common places. The characters are simple, everything is easily foreseeable, thus the plot very very unoriginal and boring. The three lines in the plot, which in my opinion ought to make the story deeper, is just reducing the main idea...the so called catharsis at the end, with the people with flowers and candles, is something which for a first rate movie is not necessary. A DONTHAVEtoSEE film at all. "},{"Title":"I feel bad for Kevin Spacey","Date":"14 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I'm sure at some point in every good actor's career they're faced with the same dilemma as Spacey have some dignity and keep doing movies that don't suck, or make money at the risk of looking like a sellout. I respect Spacey's decision since I usually just pretend this movie doesn't exist......which is what everyone should do. At the risk of sounding like a sociopath I have to say this this movie is sentimental uncompelling trash. The story isn't thought-provoking in the least and there's really no discernible message, it's just bad and I'm sorry to say that no one is impressed or inspired by a bunch of people helping a bunch of other people (which is what this movie is). My favorite part is the end where the kid dies, ha ha ha "},{"Title":"Hope and Love","Date":"7 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Eleven Years old Trevor McKinney (Haley Joel Osment) is entering the seventh grade. His social studies teacher, Eugene Simonet (Kevin Spacey), introduce the course with the same speech as every year ... and as every year, he gives his students an assignment ... Find a way to change the world and put it into action. Of course, Eugene Simonet hopes rather than believes, that at least one student would stand up and go for it. Indeed his hopes are not in vain as Trevor McKinney takes this assignment at heart. He thinks that if he could help three persons to fix their lives, they would, each of them, pay it forward by helping three persons each ... three helped ... nine ... twenty-seven ... and so on. No need to tell you that this assignment will change Trevor's life, his mother's, Arlene McKinney (Helen Hunt), Eugene Simonet and many more ...Inspired by the novel called by the same title from Catherine Ryan Hyde, Pay It Forward is the most genuine idea I saw about how to make this world a better place. I do believe that most of you already had this kind of thought ... the same way I did ... why people are like this ... why do they behave so bad toward each other ... why life has to be that difficult all the time for most of us ... I could ask as many questions as I like, the only answer would be it is the way it always has been. It's the human nature. and all this kind of crap. On the other hand, humanity has got a lot of goodness ... and this movie shows that. No matter the troubles you are in, as long as you do not give up you can make a difference to make life a little bit better, no matter the level you are acting. Goodness is reachable for each of us. I call that HOPE and LOVE. Trevor says in the movie something like Bad people have given up for the loss of those who haven't. It is so true... Pay it Forward is a movie about the true love of life. Do not miss it ! "},{"Title":"This Movie Surprised me...thank god!","Date":"12 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" At first...I did not even want to watch this movie. I thought it would be gay. I mean....what could it possibly be about..but I watched it. Thank God I did because it was a great, GREAT movie.This movie is about a little boy named Trevor (Haley Joel Osment) who get's a new social studies teacher. This teacher is very wise. He gives them an assignment that is for ALL YEAR ROUND. The assignment is Think of something you can do to the change the world and Trevor talks about this method of Pay It Forward. It is a method where you help 3 people, then those people help three people, then those people help three people, and so on.This movie is so interesting. It is very emotional and you get a couple good laughs out of it.....plus.....Jon Bon Jovi is in it and he rocks!!! "},{"Title":"Absolutely Wonderful","Date":"30 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is one of the best movies I've ever seen. It is very deep and well-made. It conveys a beautiful message and has well-developed characters and a well-developed plot. What more can I say about this movie, it's terrific! Another thing that I really like about this movie is that it is not afraid to stick to reality. When Trevor died at the end, I agree with everyone, that indeed, it was very sad, but a positive angle of the ending is that the movie shows realism. Many times, people expect the they all lived happily ever after conclusion, but this movie is unique because it does not do that. Things like this happen in real life, so this movie was bold to do such a thing. Without a doubt, this is a wonderful movie. It has a strong hold on your emotions at parts, and the actors are wonderful in my opinion. This movie is great, and I think that everyone should see it. "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"30 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It's a human drama. It is one of the best dramas I ever seen. The film is so sweet,include love and hope. The boy's character touches everyone,he's trying so hard to make the world a better place.I think the movie shows what we can do for change the world better. In our world helping other people Pay it forward is the most important we can do. It is not only a moving story. Everybody who sees this film think our life again. I like story but I don't like only ending. It was so sad. When I become a teacher, I will show it to children. And Also I think the movie will seen for family.It include the importance of family.I recommend it. I'll watch it again!! "},{"Title":"I highly recommended this movie!","Date":"30 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I usually watch the movie Pay It Forward so that this is heart-meaning and tragedy. Amazingly, I didn't realize that ending! I prefer movie that have good plots and actors like this movie. I had ever seen that kind of movie which is a boy is trying to help people who are around him to do it so as social studies homework. However, some happening are change his life. Those actors are really cool when they in this movie because they seem so natural. The director of this movie is also done well. She rearranged the story not the order but when we see it we can make connect hole of the story in our head. The means when we watch it we always focus on the screen. "}{"Title":"Surprisingly good","Date":"1 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" There are 3 stars in the movie. I guess the kid is the real star and he's great plus Kevin Spacy is excellent. But Helen Hunt - I like her and I've seen a lot of stuff with her. She always looks good because she's a natural beauty like men dream about, but this is the first time I've seen her in a role that was really sexy. It took me a minute to recognize her because she looks like an ordinary person in the movie, dressed like trailer trash, complete with personal problems like a real single mother. Kevin Spacy plays a middle school teacher. He's got physical and emotional scars and while he seems to be a good teacher and inspires the kids he's portrayed as leading a solitary, lonely life. Thruout the movie we see characters act bravely, performing extraordinary favors for strangers, which a reporter traces back to the kids social studies project. "},{"Title":"Not as good as it seems at first glance","Date":"26 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Pay It Forward is a stimulating but ultimately disappointing film. It is disappointing for several reasons. 1. The plot is full of unlikely coincidences and spoils the credibility of the film. It is possible and perhaps likely for abused people to meet and love each other but by so heavily accenting this and placing the emphasis on it at crucial moments of the plot the director misses the opportunity to deepen less obvious moments. 2. The acting is inconsistent. Some scenes are explored fully enough for the actor to GRADUALLY convince the audience of the emotion s/he is trying to convey. Other scenes are so hurried and so overdrawn that the actor must distort the exact feeling s/he is trying to convey. 3. The subplots are too many and too coincidental. 4. Some of the emotion in the film is worthy of exploration. Other emotions are just cheap shots. The film can be riveting but it is not riveting for what it does but for what the reader imagines it could do if it had been better--that is, more honestly, made. Finally, it's a great disappointment. Avoid it. There are enough such disappointments in life. We don't need more in art! "},{"Title":"best ever","Date":"31 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In a world where hope is fading and our young people filled with self absorption...this movie breaks open hearts which have become hardened..by life on life's terms.I watched this movie with my stepfather... His mother committed suicide..having lived her life filled with hopeless negativity... I believe that change starts within each human being...and the theme of this movie was right on the mark...How many people suffer in silence, taking their bitterness out on themselves with self destructive behavior...and sending it outward in a shower of rage toward others?? I was one of them....The unconditional love which Helen's character portrays toward her alcoholic mother..is so key. Key to release..freedom from the pain...of not having her expectations met...Who does? Don't we always want MORE? Don't we think we are ENTITLED? It is only in self forgetting that one finds...and of course I did not write that one...you have St. Francis to thank for that.....Call me a sap...I do not care..for I care to believe that there are those left who will not give in...to the insanity of hopelessness and despair...those people who still believe in love at first sight...and love that has nothing at all to do with materialism...physical beauty...age, creed, or any other shallow attraction....This movie changed the way I think...and to me...that merits more than a few tears on a Monday evening.....It talks about HOPEIt speaks of Loveand it captured my Heart and makes me want to Pay it Forward..... "},{"Title":"We loved this movie~!","Date":"5 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I was at first hesitant at watching this movie but loving Helen Hunt, and Haley Joel Osment I couldn't resist watching at least one time. I watched it and loved it. It didn't end like i thought but sometimes that makes a movie more interesting. It was more a real life movie than lots, not a lot of fiction included. I am planning on buying the DVD I liked it so much. I would recommended it to others (as i have).Helen Hunt played a wonderful part in this also.I was surprised that Jon Bon Jovi could act as well as sing, not that i thought his part was all that but it added to the story line well. "},{"Title":"movie + school","Date":"6 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" we watched this movie at school and we did a project on it... we had to help 3 people and then they help 3 more so on and so forth.. well i got an At... the part of the movie i had so much was when Trevor gets stab and dies, my friend and i wee crying in class when we saw that part.. even though i've seen this movie 3 times already i always cry on that part.. well the movie was awesome. i would see this movie over and over and over (go on and on) again. The whole movie it's self was dramatic and i love that ... dramatic and romantic movies are like the best movies ever.. There were kids in my class mostly boys who were going all wow whoa oh yeah when they were shooting the part when they're at Trevor's mom's job (also known as) the strip club. now that was funny "},{"Title":"A good film spoiled by too much schmaltz.....","Date":"22 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I'd managed to avoid this film until two days ago, when it was the only thing on TV which I hadn't already seen.  I turned to it, giving it 15 minutes before I planned to turn it off.  Well, surprise, surprise, I watched it to the credits!No, I hadn't read the book, but I had seen the fuss around it when it was first released, and I was determined then to give it a miss.  The penchant for sentimentalising the pain of loss in American culture generally grates the teeth of we from the colonies in the southern hemisphere, and this film is no exception.  However, it's not done to the level of cringe-making, at least not until the final scene, which for me had overtones of the end of `Field Of Dreams'.This film was saved by three quite exceptional individual performances - those of Haley Joel Osment, Kevin Spacey, and Helen Hunt.  In particular, Kevin Spacey developed his character by internalising, even withdrawing his energy, so much so that it was possible to truly believe that he'd been a victim of horrific abuse.  This was a pleasant change from the eccentric and energetic performances which have become Spacey's signature.  Osment, as usual, carried the role of the child with his usual mastery.  Few children of his age could achieve what he did in this film. I consider that my mild enjoyment and appreciation of this film came from the fact that I hadn't expected anything from it.  It's not great in my eyes, but nor is it a turkey.  I found it entertaining, while the main concept presented by the story provided plenty of food for contemplation. "},{"Title":"reality bites","Date":"5 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  you know why everyone hates the ending to this movie? its because that's how life really is and no one wants to admit it. life is full of pain and suffering no matter how much hope a person may have. so many innocent hearts bleed each and every day, and that is their reality. this movie touched my heart with the selfless spirit of Trevor, no matter how much he suffered himself. "},{"Title":"Preachy and Annoying","Date":"21 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Haley Joel Osment, straight from his award-winning role in The Sixth Sense, plays Trevor, the only child of an alcoholic Las Vegas waitress, played by Helen Hunt. But she has a heart of gold, and really cares about her son. And he cares about her too. Trevor also has a caring teacher, Mr. Simonet, played by Kevin Spacey, who gives Trevor's class an assignment 'to do something that will change the world'.  Young Trevor designs a plan for good-deed doing that is tailor made for the southern California/Vegas milieu. In Trevor's plan, he will do three selfless good deeds with only one string attached. The recipients must perform three good deeds in return, paying the good deed forward as opposed to paying it back. This is unlike the world's major religions where believers are expected to perform good works all the time, but this is Hollywood and time is at a premium. Three will have to do.What is astounding is that the people behind Pay It Forward have obviously bought into the story's message and the movie becomes a Touched By an Angel for atheists. Completely predictable, the story telegraphs its punches from a mile away.  Not even the star-studded cast can rise above it's shallow preachiness.  "},{"Title":"Very interesting experience!","Date":"27 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I was very suspicious about this movie but I decided to watch it anyway because of Kevin Spacey. He's such a terrific actor he is capable of saving almost any film that otherwise would definitely stink. I'm damn glad I took the risk because Pay it forward turned out to be incredibly interesting experience.Do you remember Clint Eastwood's breakthrough western, A Fistful of dollars and especially the ending of it? Gian Maria Volonté plays this really stubbly, psychopathic bad ass called Ramón and he tries to kill Clint. He shoots poor Clint repeatedly right in the heart with his trusted rifle but no matter how hard he tries, Clint will not die. Why? Because he has a hidden bullet proof armor under his clothes. I'm the kind of a guy who finds that an extremely touching movie moment. I'm deeply moved every time I see that scene.Usually I hate movies that intentionally try to make people cry because these films do not work on me and therefore it's so very painful to watch when a flick persistently tries to push tears out of the audience with no result whatsoever. However, Pay it forward was a touching movie. I didn't burst into tears but I'm almost ashamed to admit that I was moved because the whole idea of Pay it forward must be the corniest one ever.This doesn't bother one bit because this was very entertaining motion picture from start to finish and acting was of course terrific Kevin Spacey, Helen Hunt and Haley Joel Osment were all fantastic. Even Jon Bon Jovi pops in for a refreshingly small little visit. I can't recall ever seeing another movie that is so cunningly designed to make the audience cry. Even not quite so sentimental nature will be having difficulties of resisting it. I seriously have to keep this movie in mind next time I'm on a first date. When the film starts to work on her I'm happy to be the nearest shoulder around... "},{"Title":"Feel Good Movie!","Date":"14 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Its the kind of film that once you have seen it, you sit back and think...Not only does it fill you with a warm feeling it also provokes 'reality' thoughts.Maybe even some of us who feel insignificant in the world can change someone else's life for the better? "}{"Title":"Beautiful about utopia versus reality","Date":"5 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  There's something about this movie, that make you feel good. It's not because it ends happily - it doesn't - and it's not because it describes the world as filled of happy people that does each other good all day - it doesn't do that either. I guess it's because it's about people that makes an effort. Makes an effort to understand other people, and makes an effort to do something good beyond our everyday life.  "},{"Title":"Greatest Message about Challenges kids face today","Date":"5 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This Movie consists of a message society cannot hear too much about right now. With Bullying, Violence, both in Schools and at home at an all time high; along with global fear about terrorism - there cannot be too many movies with this theme. I loved the song at the end -- and even though there may have been a few scmalzy moments they were far and few between compared to the actual power of the message.Thankyouto the Producers, directors, and actors for an Incredible show.Kids, Parents, and Bully's everywhere should watch this and take the same school assignment home with them.  "},{"Title":"Beautiful.","Date":"28 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I am a BIG fan of these mellow-dramatic movies, and this one lived up to its full potential. I loved this movie a lot. I cannot see how so many critics bashed it, it was so beautiful. I strongly recommend kids see this movie because it is really good for all. My Take 10/10 My MPAA rating PG-13 for strong mature thematic elements, drug/alcohol content, language, sexuality, and some violence. "},{"Title":"A very touching movie.","Date":"9 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  'Pay it Forward' is a very emotional movie. Many parts of the movie hit me really hard. I found that there was a very good plot and every character learned a lot from the child. The characters also seemed very real and they made their parts very believable. I also enjoyed the fact that Helen Hunt was a main character. She is an unbelievable actress. No matter what part she plays she always seem to succeed in making the story better.If I had to pick one part in the movie that was not as great then I would have to say that I wanted to know what happened to Jim and the lady that were on the bridge. Did they end up going for coffee? Did she jump? I mean, it totally leaves me hanging. I think it would be nice if they would have wrapped up that portion of the movie as well. That scene alone was poorly done. It seemed to pop out of no where sort of. I did not see the point to it but that is probably because they did not conclude that scene. They should have at least been shown at the end with the others that were there.Besides this minor screw up though, it was an awesome movie. I'm not sure if I would see it again because it is a real tear jerker but it has a lot to teach people. All around, the actors and actresses were great and the plot was fantastic. I just think it is so cool that a boy with a big heart can touch so many people. This is definitely a movie that I recommend to all of you out there.  "},{"Title":"Too melodramatic, but GOOD","Date":"8 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  SPOILERS This movie really isn't that bad.  The kid dying was necessary for the movie to not suck.  A lot better than I thought it was gonna be. C+, 6/10 "},{"Title":"Why the downbeat ending?","Date":"4 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I think that Frank Capra would have been pleased with this film. He directed those classics like It's A Wonderful Life that had positive messages about giving and helping others. That kid from the Sixth Sense (I couldn't make heads or tails of that film!) gives another fine performance as does Helen Hunt and that guy who was the killer in Seven (the one with the messed up face in the film). I love the idea of paying it forward, but just one question. WARNING POSSIBLE SPOILER HERE> WHY THE HELL DID THEY GIVE THIS FILM SUCH A DOWNBEAT ENDING!!!! WHAT WERE THEY THINKING? It ruined the film for me. I would have liked it if they had shown Trevor and them all together in the end. This film needed a happy ending to go along with its positive message. This film has got one of the saddest endings I've ever seen. I felt so bad for Hunt's character because she was finally learning to connect with her child and she lost him forever. I never want to see this film again. "},{"Title":"Who is the better actor/actress","Date":"31 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I watched this film on a movie channel and I was not really interested at first. I decided to watch the first 10 minutes to see if it gripped me. It did.The superlative acting talents of Haley Joel Osmont, Helen Hunt and Kevin Spacey helped make this film enjoyable.The story can be seen as a sort of parody of the really gifted youngster who does not have a voice with which to show his talent. However this is not the case. The idea the Trevor (Haley Joel Osmont) has in the film is a unique one and we follow the trail of a journalist trying to find the origin of the Pay It Forward scheme. So that consumes some of the film.The changes the characters go through are excellently played and I really did spend a lot of the time trying to figure out who was the better actor from the 3 starring roles.  "},{"Title":"This movie is great!","Date":"23 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is really, really great. One of the strongest drama-movie I've ever seen. Everytime I see Haley Joel Osment in a movie I get amazed over how well he's acting. He deserves an Academy Award soon. Kevin spacey and Helen Hunt are also great in this movie! It's a great script and the movie has a message. Eveyone who hasn't seen this movie, definetly should!  "},{"Title":"Less than the sum of its parts","Date":"27 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  When I think of any part of this film, I am quite impressed by it. It's  got a great story, for the most part well-written script, nice direction, a-list cast in top form, pretty camera work despite the gritty location - the list goes on. The only thing about the film which put me off was the soundtrack, which was engaging for about five minute  and then annoying for the rest of the film.  In spite of all these great bits, it disappoints, badly. I was completely unaffected by the ending, and felt that the film was ultimately, strangely bloodless. "},{"Title":"So so...","Date":"13 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Not really good, not really bad. As the movie goes on it becomes more violent, more truculent (I'm not sure if that word exists, but anyways...) and the ending is completely pointless. Trevor´s idea is impossible in real life. Maybe it could work for some people, but I don't think it could change the world. Would it end with murders, crime, terrorism, poverty? I don't think so... On the other hand the acting is great. That kid, I can't remember his name, is talented. Some situations are interesting and some scenes are touching. 5/10. "}{"Title":"*Not* a feel-good movie!","Date":"21 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  9/21/01 PLEASE, if you're looking for a feel-good movie, something to take your mind off the recent horrors of the real world, do NOT watch this movie.  I thought I was getting a feel-good movie, and I could not have been more wrong.  I will not ruin the movie for you by telling you why.  While it would have been an excellent film under other circumstances, it was the WRONG movie for me to watch last night. "},{"Title":"Good movie until the end","Date":"12 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie was great right up till the end... I won't be a spoiler, but the ending was unnecessary and soap-opera-ish.  I was impressed by Helen Hunt (hey... who knew she could really act?), less so by Kevin Spacey.  Haley Joel Osment is a natural, but it isn't as demaniding a role as 6th Sense or AI.  It just sucks that they had to ruin a pretty good movie with a lousy ending. "},{"Title":"This is not a Bad world","Date":"11 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Pay it foward might be give you a good sensation because you can think that if this film has been true the world  could be better or you can recive a bad sensation because this is a eutopy.Haley Joel Osment is The best actor in the Film and he has got future in the great world of the films,Kevin Spacey is excellent and he´s better than in American Beauty.Helen Hunt is correct but all people knows that she get the true fame with As good it gets.The final it´s too sad and in a part I Do not understand it.  "},{"Title":"A truly amazing film","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I had never heard of this film before I watched it....but it totally stunned me.  An amazing idea, great acting from Spacey and Hunt and the whole the bobs along at a nice pace.This movie might not change your life forever, but it will for 2 hours.Watch it. "},{"Title":"a great movie","Date":"6 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  this is one of the best among the best movies. the idea behind it- is terrific.  But , there is a but, the ending of the movie seemed a little awkward to me. The movie had to end that way to fill the gap of the idea - that is understood but  I can't totally buy it. but anyway , it is uniqe to me,  and that is very rare these days. everything is played out. I am going to give it a 9.2  out of 10.  I hope someone out there gives this movie a physical form.  "},{"Title":"A must see film!","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  What can i say? Spacey is brilliant in another top class film.  Osment and Hunt also offer a stunning performance. The idea behind this movie is excellent and Mimi Leder does an exquisite job of portraying it to the audience.  The idea of how helping another individual, no matter what it may be, can change and have an impact on the world.  I give this film a 9 out of 10 and would recommend it highly to anyone. "},{"Title":"what a wonderful idea","Date":"2 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  i had been putting off seeing this movie for a long timebut tonight i couldn't find anything better to rent tomorrow i won't be able to find anything better period! this is a very emotional and touching movie i cried at the end.  thats something i can't say i've done in a long time.this movie poses a question to you when you watch it and when you think about itwhat could happen if i actually tried to help someone else for no other reason than to make their life better. and asked them to do the same thing for someone else. this world could be a great place. i think i might just try it, and i hope you do to. who knows  it could be really cool. watch this movie!  it will make you laugh,cry, and best of all think (i agree with the above,, that critic didn't know what he was talking about if he didn't love this movie) i sure did. i hope you do too "},{"Title":"A waste of top-notch talent & great idea","Date":"1 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The movie, unfortunately, felt compelled to follow the novel's lead and succeeded only in wasting the abilities of Hunt & Spacey in what is essentially no more than a Made-For-TV series of artificial & blatantly manipulative plot twists & turns.  It is sadly & entirely formulaic.  "},{"Title":"yeah, ok.","Date":"30 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The premise was great. The actors were great. The characters were weak and flat and the only times when it seemed like they were round, were due to the acting abilities of the actors who played them. The screenplay was weak as well. I'm not going to reveal any vital info here. The movie goes along pretty well until the major sucker of all, the ending. Everyone who advised you to turn it off right after the interview at the end was right.   "},{"Title":"View It FastForward","Date":"6 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The beginning was promising, interesting idea and some big names as actors. However, the longer it continued, the more it became dull and way too slow. Somehow Kevin Spacey didn't fit in his role, imo he's much better in more complex roles, like Verbal Kint or in Se7en. The kid was good, just like in 6th Sense and Helen Hunt was ok also. Some very good supporting cast thou, Angie Dickinson and James Caviezel especially and Bon Jovi wasn't nearly as bad as in U-571 and No Looking Back (those were horrible flicks anyway). Pretty watchable movie, too slow paced, but I bet most people will like this. "}{"Title":"give it a try","Date":"5 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I have to admit I am a bit surprised.  I did not think I would like this movie at all.  The film did not have an earth shattering effect on my life, but wow, these are some great performances.  The acting might have been a bit better than the actual film, but nevertheless, I found the movie to be quite good, even moving.  I thought it avoided being truly sappy and in the end the film as a whole compensates for any overly cheesy moments early on. There are a lot of little moments within this film that carry so much more weight than the bigger, more Hollywood moments.  Without being pretentious, all the supporting characters in the film speak great truths (directly and indirectly) about life and I get the feeling that this movie needs to be watched closely in order for the best parts to be absorbed. One more thing, Angie Dickinson is the best.          "},{"Title":"Kevin Spacey Rules","Date":"1 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"       If there was any doubt that Kevin Spacey is one of the greatest actors working today it had to be erased by his astonishing performance in Pay It Forward. Compared with his work in American Beauty where he played a loser, in Pay it Forward he plays an entirely different character, a teacher (named Eugene Simonet) and he's equally convincing.          Spacey's character assigns to his class a project where they are suppose to come up with an idea that will change the world. One of his students named Trevor (played by Haley Joel Osment, in a great performance), comes up with an idea where if you help someone, that person has to help three other people, there by paying it forward. One of the people he helps is a homeless drug addict played by Jim Caviezel. Caviezel has a great scene with a woman who threatens to jump off a bridge. His line to her there will be stuck in your head for  weeks.     Helen Hunt plays Trevor's alcoholic mother Arlene. Hunt has some of the best scenes in the movie. Her scene in the bus station should have gotten her an Oscar nomination alone. She also has a scene where she starts to drink after she slaps her son but spits it out in the sink. She is just as good as Ray Milland in Lost Weekend and Nicholas Cage in Leaving Las Vegas.      The director Mimi Leder (of E.R. mostly) knows how to stage a scene. The final one, even if you don't buy it, was certainly one of the best staged of 2000. The scene where Arlene slaps Trevor was also well done. Hunt's scene in the bus station and Spacey's outside his house shows that Leder knows how to get great performances out of actors.           Overall, Pay it Forward, was one of the most surprising movies of 2000 and it was certainly one of the best.  "},{"Title":"INSPIRING - IMPORTANT","Date":"29 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I would agree with some of the criticisms of the script mentioned by other reviewers, but I would not agree with the priority placed on those flawed moments.  The overall message of the film was so filled with hope that it even got me (the eternal pessimist) to considering my part in this great scheme.  Any film can be torn apart at the weak edges, but few films can claim the importance of a film such as this one.  In a world where television and film have become the education tools of choice, a story that promotes this type of mindset is not only inspiring but essential to our progress as a society.  Things can change and we need be reminded of that constantly. For some reason it is far too easy to forget.   "},{"Title":"** Horrible!","Date":"22 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Horrendously cheesy film that leaves an excellent performance by Helen Hunt swamped by directionless direction by Mimi Leder (maybe she should stick to the action genre after all) and a hackneyed screenplay. The plot follows the plight of a troubled and shy young boy (Haley Joel Osment, his first post-Academy Award nomination role) who is given an assignment at school to change the world by his burn-scarred seventh grade teacher (Kevin Spacey in a disappointingly melodramatic performance). His idea is to do something generous for somebody, in the best case a stranger, who you then instruct to pay the kindness forward to three people instead of paying the donor back. The film's alternate plot follows Jay Mohr as he tries to work his way backwards through the story to find out who it was that originated the Pay It Forward movement; despite Mohr's noted talent, this subplot is so distracting and quite frankly so boring that you just want to close your eyes and stick your fingers in your ears every time the film goes in his direction. Hunt's lyrical performance as Osment's mother truly is the film's one reward, and any time she's left alone with any of the characters is pretty much the only time you feel any genuine, non-manipulating emotion coming your way. However, her role is so close to that in her Academy Award-winning performance as Carol in As Good As It Gets that most viewers will find they're not getting anything too new out of it. The film's ending is probably one of the very worst of the year, giving one the impression that they simply ran out of money and had to just the end film right there. Best to leave this one alone.  "},{"Title":"A good premise does not equal a good movie.  Here's proof.","Date":"25 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I'm sure you've heard the premise behind Mimi Leder's Pay It Forward.  It's a really wonderful one.  A young boy (Haley Joel Osment) gets an idea for how to change the world.  Okay, maybe the premise isn't all that good, but his idea sure is.  Do something really nice for three different people, and they in turn must do something really nice for three more people.  Believe it or not, I've tried it.  If nothing else, it makes people very happy.  As far as changing the world...  I don't know.  Maybe.Changing the world is just what this movie tries to do.  Or if not that, at least make sure everybody leaves the theater in tears.  The movie is nothing if not shamelessly manipulative.  What is even sadder than this is that the actors are so good.  Then again, it's sort of obvious why they're good.  Two Oscar-winners plus one Oscar-nominee clearly equals Oscar, right?  Wrong.I am geniunely concerned by how sex is becoming so casual on screen.  Sex as plot element is all right, or at least acceptable.  (The Graduate is my personal favorite example.)  Sex as the obligatory thing that people do when they're in love is not.  What is just as disturbing is the fact that, in the case of Pay It Forward, sex is seen as being the ultimate goal of the relationship.  There is a point in many films where the audience is fully aware that two people are in love.  In Disney fare it's a fairly passionate kiss with a choir trying to soar in the background.  Here, it's sex.  Sex without commitment.  Sex that, we're lead to believe, will make everything okay.Don't get me started on the ending.  It's so shameless, so unnecessary, so contrived that I could just vomit.  I can picture a team of writers hunched around a table, squealing with glee as they write the last few scenes of the movie.  This'll make those poor saps cry, they're saying to themselves.  Well, some people cried, but I didn't.  I was too busy busy being sickened.Pay It Forward ultimately possesses the subtlety and finesse of a three car pileup, except that it is possible for somebody to walk away unharmed from the latter.  I've heard that Pay It Forward has a lot of Oscar buzz.  I listened, and I couldn't hear it.  Instead, I got stung.** (out of ****) "},{"Title":"I think i just may...","Date":"3 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I went to see this movie for the sole reason that Haley Joel Osment is an inspiration to everyone, a brilliant actor not only gifted with acting talents far beyond his years but manners and humble appreciation for what he has achieved. I took along a friend who loves Kevin Spacey, but hates sappy movies, fearing the worst i said i would pay for the popcorn so she could bury her head in it when the 'sappy' bits came. My mother and sister had read the book and asked me to comment on it when I had come back. From the first moment to the last scene I was inspired, not only is the concept of 'pay it forward' brilliant but so is the message, that maybe some little things help in the larger scale of things. Thinking about all the little things i could do so that the world may function a little seem few but in retrospect if the pay it forward movement actually took place it could change lives. Kevin Spacey and Helen Hunt bonded on screen magically and the stories behind both of them were apparent in their characters. This film might not appear to a blockbuster victory but my friend never once dived into that popcorn for longer than a few seconds, sappy it isn't, splendid it is "},{"Title":"Don't believe the newspaper movie critics...","Date":"2 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Yet another reason to disregard the reviews by paid newspaper critics. Although there were moments where the dialogue was in need of a serious rewrite, the film itself was very good. The ending (no spoiler here) was not the typical Hollywood, test marketed ending and perhaps that was the reason for the horrific reviews in the Los Angeles Times and others... but see for yourself just how wonderful Haley Joel Osment is, and keep in mind that this is VERY REAL and true to life. Sometimes bad things do happen for good reasons in this world, and that is the morality behind the film.The casting of Helen Hunt left something to be desired. She is the wrong choice for an alcoholic mess of a woman, but that is probably the biggest fault of the film (except those dreaded bad-writing moments, of which there are few) so, sit back, enjoy the film and remember that one plus one plus one can change the world... "},{"Title":"Do yourself a favour and see this movie!","Date":"22 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I wish I would have known about this movie a few months back. It would have encouraged me to change my stock portfolio -- invest in Kleenex!This is one of those quiet movies that went largely unnoticed at the box office, and by myself as well. I knew that it was superbly casted Spacey, Hunt and Osment, but the plot seemed a little thin, if not vague. Wow, I was so wrong. I guess you can't always go by movie trailers!Don't let this movie go unwatched. Unless you're a truly jaded cynic this movie will inspire you and harrow you to your very core.Do yourself a favour and see this movie. Then do others a favour and pay it forward.  "},{"Title":"Garbage.","Date":"22 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The levels to which this vile film stoops to emotionally rape the viewer (including hijacking several true-life tragedies to advance its aimless plot), and the cliches and character stereotypes in which it traffics (several downright offensive), combine to create one of the most intellectually insulting films to come out of Hollywood in some time. All wrapped up and tied with a bow for the simple-minded Forrest Gump crowd, giving middle-class white America another delusional myth to pat themselves on the back about. Everyone else, beware. "},{"Title":"Great actors, disappointing movie","Date":"4 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I felt that the acting in this movie was simply awesome.  You can't beat that trio when it comes to this type of movie.  That being said, I must say that by the end of the movie, the plot simply sickened me.  Without giving out the end of the film, we see the boy's idea developing on one front, and the romance between his mother and the teacher develop on the other front.  This is the kicker.  In the end, tragedy strikes, and that leaves the mom and teacher devastated.  In my opinion, in the real world, no relationship could stand that kind of devastation, especially that early in the development of a relationship.     But, I suppose that there are some that will see past this and say that this is one of the best they have seen.  If you want to see it, see it for the acting. "}{"Title":"Unnecessarily depressing.","Date":"4 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie actually angered me. It sends a terrible message. The ending was horrible and cheesy. I really wanted to like this movie but was so put off by the ending that I can only give a 4 rating. I will not recommend this movie to anyone. "},{"Title":"Fake, insulting garbage.","Date":"25 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The levels to which this vile film stoops to emotionally rape the viewer (including hijacking several true-life tragedies to advance its aimless plot), and the cliches and character stereotypes in which it traffics (several downright offensive), combine to create one of the most intellectually insulting films to come out of Hollywood in some time. All wrapped up and tied with a bow for the Forrest Gump crowd, giving middle-class white America another delusional myth to pat themselves on the back about. Everyone else, beware. "},{"Title":"Sadly, badly thought out; a waste of the wonderful Mr. Spacey.","Date":"21 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Despite what the trailer says, this film is not an Oscar contender at all.  It was a great idea that seemed to have been ill thought out by committee, with little consistent logic.  The ending wholly undid any cohesiveness the plot had.  The pace was slow; the story unfolded disjointedly and left you with a number of loose ends and questions.  A lot of potential not explored, ending pointlessly.Nonetheless, Kevin Spacey was wonderful; Haley Joel Osment could have been if he'd been given anything to do but scowl, pout and cry.  I felt sorriest for Helen Hunt, whose character was trashy and two-dimensional.  The entire script was choppy and full of undeveloped ideas and characters, alas.  "},{"Title":"A pity...","Date":"21 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Pay It Forward has a great premise take the concept of a pyramid scheme (a la Amway) but make it about giving away favors. Unfortunately, that's all the movie has going for it.  I happened to read the book the movie is based on about a year ago and I thought that there was something there, somewhere, for a great movie.  But the book just didn't work.  It was a group of emotional and personal stories of people (great), until the third act, where the book became too literary and just drifted into complete fantasy.  Also, there were a huge number of Disney elements (strange random events) in it that just wouldn't be believable in a movie. Therefore, when I found out that a movie was already in the works, I was certainly curious to see how many of the problems of the book would be resolved.  I was even more curious to learn about the casting of Spacey, Osmond and Hunt. Unfortunately, the movie is as much -or more- a disappointment as the book is.  At some times, it seems nobody read the book, which leads to some good and bad things.  First the bad ones - The main character of Reuben St.Clair (Trevor's teacher), was changed from a one-eye African American Vietnam -with a frightening and repulsive face-, to Eugene Simonet, a Caucasian teacher with a past history of child abuse and with a makeup that is neither scary nor repulsive.  Sure, with that, you get Kevin Spacey to play it and he does a good job, but this was a role for Denzel Washington, Lawrence Fishburne, Sidney Poitier, or any other great black actor.  I'm surprised noone has complained about this. - Unlike the book, here there are in total FOUR characters with alcoholic problems in the movie, which is too much.  There's also TWO homeless characters, one of which is absolutely ridiculous (come on, would you let your old MOTHER be homeless?). - The beautiful story (in the book) of the old neighboring lady here is changed for the grandmother of Trevor.  And you just can see the big hole in the script how this has nothing to do with Trevor's Pay It Forward plan. - The 'movement' of Pay It Forward is not seen as something taking over the world, but barely effecting one or two cities (and how this happens is confusing at best).  This makes the ending and the final scene have no emotional significance. - The reporter.  He is never given a good character arc as in the book and he is almost redundant.  The casting of Jay Mohr (who, since 'Jerry Macguire' plays unsympathethic characters) was a great choice, but only if you brought him from being a despicable figure looking for a prize story to actually caring. - The reason for the teacher's burns.The good changes - The change of location to Las Vegas.  It makes a much more visual setting and there's a great irony of having something extremely good come out of what is usually considered a city of sin. - The mystery surrounding the burns of the teacher. - The school violence.  While this event is still heavily handed, the setup, hints and conclusion are way more plausible than what was in the book. - Some of the dialogues -since the book had no memorable ones.  Although they are uneven, and almost seem to have been written by two completely people one in tune with the material and another one not at all.Pay It Forward is a very uneven movie and that is why the criticism will vary so much.  Although I was hooked for the first 20 to 30 minutes, I started glancing at my watch by the end. There are some great scenes the Kevin Spacey monologue introducing himself to the class, the fight between mother and son, the silent dinner eating cereals with the homeless man, the love making scene and its aftermath, etc. However, there are also some horrible ones  the revelation of Eugene's burns, Eugene and Trevor's talk on the benches and after class, all the scenes with the character of Angie Dickinson, etc. The score is very unoriginal and almost a copy of the one in American Beauty.  The cinematography is competent and sometimes even beautiful during some high school scenes.  Haley Joel Osment, once again, performs miraculously well while Spacey and Hunt do a decent job, but not a great one. In summary, this is a movie that would be worth doing a hopefully better remake several years from now. "},{"Title":"too much of a regular movie","Date":"15 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  what a great premise!  but unfortunately this movie gets bogged down with the typical hollywood content a down on her luck single mom tries to elicit a commitment from a (physically and emotionally) scarred man.  and somehow this plotline quickly takes over the rest of the movie.  i feel like the premise (and the trailer that touts the movie as being about 'paying it forward') are nothing but cheap gimmicks to bring us in to see another movie featuring helen hunt playing tough yet vulnerable.  now had this film actually been about 'paying it forward', we'd have a great flick on our hands.  and by the way  holy cow, is the final scene stupid. "},{"Title":"Garbage.","Date":"7 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The levels to which this vile film stoops to emotionally rape the viewer (including hijacking several true-life tragedies to advance its aimless plot), and the cliches and character stereotypes in which it traffics (several downright offensive), combine to create one of the most intellectually insulting films to come out of Hollywood in some time.  All wrapped up and tied with a bow for the Forrest Gump crowd, giving middle-class white America another delusional myth to pat themselves on the back about. Everyone else, beware. "},{"Title":"Young kid tries to change the world with the idea of doing someone a big big favour which they then have to pay forward to 3 other people","Date":"2 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I've seen this film a few times over the years and I'm sorry but I remain of the opinion that it really is a load of rubbish. There's a great cast, Kevin Spacey and Helen Hunt play the adult leads with the-then child actor Haley Joel Osment playing the 11-year-old protagonist of the story. Unfortunately their talents are under-used, with both Spacey and Hunt's roles subdued and Osment unfortunately shifted into misty-eyed heart-string-tugging mode all too often. Angie Dickinson puts in a decent cameo as a homeless alcoholic drifter but her character is slightly-sketched by the scriptwriters. Most of the key elements from the novel are completely missing or hastily - and badly - re-drawn, and to fatal effect. If you haven't already seen it, don't bother with this film, read the book instead. It'll take you longer but it's well worth the effort. This really is one of the very worst examples of what a complete pig's ear Hollywood can make of a great novel once it gets its hands on it. Even a really good cast can't save it. Maybe it can be done again in a few years, next time with a decent scriptwriting and directing team who are really up to the job and aren't just wanting to cash-in on the success of the book. "},{"Title":"Sappy story","Date":"13 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This one is perfect for fans of The Secret. It's a sappy story about a kid who wants to change lives, including his teacher's.Now, I like Kevin Spacey (The Usual Suspects) a whole lot, and I like Helen Hunt (especially with Mel Gibson or Jack Nicholson). I just don't like films that star kids. They are always sappy and this one even has Jesus Christ (James Caviezel) in it. Jesus with a drug habit? So, if you want cheap sentimentalism, horrible performances and worst of all, an excessively saccharine ending, then check it out. If you want the real story, then read the book.Hey, I have an idea. Let's tell three people to not watch this film and have them tell three more and see if it will go away. "},{"Title":"It's life, Jim, but not as we know it!","Date":"31 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** Before viewing Pay It Forward I read the Rotten Tomatoes summary of reviews, so I knew I was in for a shamelessly sentimental and manipulative experience. I still decided to go along for the ride. These days sentimentality has become a four letter word (something wrong in the maths department here) and it seems to me most critics like to keep it that way. So I had to see for myself. I did and I found out. The critics were right. Well, up to a certain point. What's really wrong here is that - quote an old philosopher - this is life, but not as we know it. The plot of this movie is very much fiction. And although the whole plot is hampered by this in the end it gets even worse. The writers come up with a very odd - sort of - happy end.BIG SPOILER start! So these two people have just lost their little boy. They're watching  his final interview on TV. (This should be an unbearable experience so short after his death.) After a while Spacey looks out the window and -start the schmaltzy music - here's all these people paying tribute to that darned little kid of theirs! Life isn't so bad after all! The end. Now we all know this story isn't over yet. What will happen is that she will start blaming him for what happened. She will start drinking again. In short the lives of our main characters are ruined forever. BIG SPOILER end!The movie starts out as a dream and we're invited to go along and enjoy. OK. Unfortunately it ends up insulting your intellect. And not even Spacey's finest acting can make up for that.  "},{"Title":"Life sucks. Then you die.","Date":"10 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Final Score 7.9 (out of 10)`Pay it Forward' at times feels like it was assembled from leftover scraps from other movies. Released in 2000, the movie stars Kevin Spacey and Haley Joel Osment fresh off the heels of their monster hits 'The Sixth Sense' and 'American Beauty' and featuring a Thomas Newman score straight from the 'Beauty' cutting room floor. But even if the execution is a little schmaltzy, the movie has an intriguing concept. It plants itself neck deep in the feeling of misery, hopelessness of its main character - David (Haley Joel Osment), a junior high kid neglected at home by his divorced mother (Helen Hunt) and picked on at school. Right away the movie grabbed me as David walks into his junior high through a metal detector. There is probably a certain age limit to which the tone of this movie can be accepted above a certain age the idea of a metal detector in a junior high seems like hyperbolic manipulation by the producers, below a certain age the bit will be seen as stone cold reality. Movies like to talk about the dangers of high school because the kids are a little older and easier to accept in peril, but this movie knows the real punks are in junior high.  It is brutally honest and in-tune with the culture - and that's it's biggest asset.When given a high-concept assignment by his 7th grade teacher Simonet, to `think of an idea that will change the world - and put it into action', David jumps on the idea to not just change the world, but to make it a better place. His creates `pay it forward'. The only rules being that when somebody does something nice for you, you turn around and do something nice for 3 other people and it spreads like a chain letter. The concept has a child-like simplicity to it, but is also strangely `possible' - as David's teacher would say. The simple goal of paying it forward to restore basic civility to the world. The idea spreads with a little help from Simonet (Kevin Spacey forced to use burn scar make-up as a character trait) who shares David's world view due to his own tragic upbringing. David, Simonet, and the screenwriters themselves all ultimately share the same vision and have no bones telling us Life sucks, then you die. It's gutsy and a little more ambitious then many are willing to admit - which I strongly admire. Potential viewers will need to ask themselves if they want to wade in this pool for 2 solid hours as director Mimi Leder (`Deep Impact', John Doe) apparently does.I personally liked Pay it Forward. Beyond its concept, it is well acted by 3 pros (Osment can put this on his increasing credits as the best child actor around) who let it all hang out. I felt the cynical, repressing tone works. Leder beats people over the head with things that need to be beaten over the head. The brutally open approach to this material is preferred to the sweet, contrived domestic drama someone like Chris Columbus would have spun.  However, the movie's credible vision is reined back by some huge flaws.  If only it's execution were as good as it's aspirations. The biggest and most nonsensical is a sub-plot following a reporter (Jay Mohr) supposedly tracing the pay it forward phenomenon back to David. It might have sounded like a great way to break from the linear storytelling on the page, but Leder just can't pull it off. In a glaring omission, the timeline of this sub-plot just doesn't fit into the timeline of the primary plot resulting in a final scene that makes no sense. Leder knocks the movie off it's legs in the final few minutes in a daring way and then flips around and ends it however she wants regardless. It's like fitting a square peg into a round whole and bleeds of studio re-shooting even if that's not the case.The movie drags as it enters the third act - really drags - and we're about to give up on it until it pulls out its last shocking twist. It also doesn't spare a cliché of the genera leaning back on sap at times; afraid to truly take the social atrocities by the neck and shake hem around. The lamest and most tired cliché rears its ugly head as Bon Jovi appears on the scene as Hunt's scumbag husband who has returned as a `changed man' but `turns into a different person when he drinks'. We hear a similar story of Simonet's dad. It begs the question why must alcohol always be the underlying villain? Can't movie dads just be evil? "}{"Title":"Could have been better...","Date":"1 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The movie I would rate at 2 1/2 stars out of 5 at best. This movie was good with some decent performances from good actors.but the ending was just plain awful, a little farfetched, and seemed rushed.Basic plot is it is 7th grade and the first assignment for the class is for the students to come up with a way to change the world. Well Trevor really takes that idea and runs with it. He creates a pay it forward plan where you help 3 people in a way they can't help themselves. He puts it into action but thinks he failed. Later he learns that it truly was successful. The movie does have it's funny and great moments. But other scenes just drag it out forever!! Now on to my little rant about the ending. But first...******SPOILER SPACE!!!!**********READ NO FURTHER IF YOU DON'T WANT THE END RUINED****Ok you still there? Good. Now like i said the ending seemed rushed and was poorly done. He tries to help stop the bullies from beating up another little kid and one pulls a switchblade and Trevor is stabbed in the lower left hand side of his abdomin just a bit above the waist. Now I know a little bit of medical knowledge from my dad. There is no real way that Trevor should have died from his injuries like the script plays out. There are NO major arteries or vital organs down there that would cause him to die. A person can get stabbed there and bleed for hours before he'd die. Now the ERs in Vegas must really be poor if they can't treat a simple stab wound with out the kid dieing. Then the sappy music with everyone in Vegas bring flowers out to the house. The ending would have been better if had ended with Hunt and Spacey kissing. Or maybe a shot of them getting married. But the kid dieing from a little wound like that I can't believe. "},{"Title":"Dumb adults/smart kid","Date":"2 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Greetings again from the darkness.  As I always attempt to avoid purchasing a ticket to a Helen Hunt movie at the box office, I watched this on video at home.  Actually one's living room is the perfect setting for what should have been a Made-For-TV movie by a fine TV director.  The (usually) great Kevin Spacey walks through his role, but who can blame him?  Working with Helen Hunt must squelch all creative juices from everyone on the set.  She is just flat untalented and does not belong in Hollywood.  Haley Joel Osment is the central character in the film, and seems to be about 110 IQ points above his closest competitors.  Yes, the message is sweet ... it is just delivered in trainwreck fashion.  The most interesting storyline is the homeless man that Osment helps out.  This storyline just kind of fizzles out to prove that even the best of intentions don't always work out.  I think director Mimi Leder proves that with this movie. "},{"Title":"This movie is junk.","Date":"28 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Okay, I was curious.  After all, Kevin Spacey, Helen Hunt, and the young Haley Joel Osment all come with impressive pedigrees.  It just goes to show that it's not always the talent, is it?  The story is a poorly told one that includes almost every insipid movie cliche in the book. The ending is enough to make you ask everyone who's already seen a movie to tell you how it ends so that doesn't happen to you again.  It's contrived, sloppy, and there is NO Pay-OFF to Pay It Forward. "},{"Title":"A great first 40 minutes derailed into the next 70 minutes of poorly done love story.","Date":"17 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Pay It Forward is a great concept, in fact one that I and many others practice as a way of life. In a sense, it is firmly embedded in the Christian faith, and probably others. The trailers for this film concentrated on this concept. However, after the first 40 minutes or so the story takes a big detour and becomes primarily a love story, and that was my big disappointment.CAUTION -- SOME SPOILERS FOLLOW --The very first scene shows Mr Simonet (Kevin Spacy) ironing his own shirts, to establish his simple, non-pretentious approach to life. The very next scene establishes the initial theme of the story, when a reporter's (Jay Mohr) car is totaled by an escaping crook, on a rainy night, and a stranger shows up to give him a new Jaguar, no strings attached. This intrigues the reporter, and a sub-theme becomes his search for the story behind this extraordinary generosity.Cut to 4 months earlier, Mr Simonet, the new teacher, the first day of his 7th grade class in LasVegas. Year-long assignment? Propose a plan to change the world, and put it into action.  On the way home, Trevor (Haley Joel Osment) sees a homeless man, brings him home, feeds him, gives him money,lets him sleep in the bed of the non-running pickup. Mom, Arlene (Helen Hunt) doesn't know, until she is surprised the next day. He actually returns once more and gets the truck running, and Trevor's help has resulted in a job and room elsewhere. Later in the story we see the same man encountering a woman contemplating jumping off a bridge, and he talks her down.  Eventually we find that the pay it forward movement has spread to various parts of the country, and we extrapolate to it changing the world.It would have been an order of magnitude more difficult to write and film a whole 2 hours with a primary focus on how the pay it forward propagated itself, and some of the success stories. But it could have been a truly remarkable movie, too. Instead, the screenplay diverged into the development of a romance between Arlene, who had always made bad choices in relationships, and kept allowing her abusive husband back periodically, and Mr Simonet, who grew up abused and burned about the face and torso by his father, and as a result kept a fairly secluded existence.The director, Mimi Leder, has a lot of TV credits, including LA Law, ER, and several TV movies. That may explain the rather abrupt way the film went from antagonism between the male and female leads, to the I can't live one more second without you dialog near the end. After the first 40 minutes, which I found totally absorbing, I was not able to take the story or the characters very seriously. Then, the end, with Trevor getting stabbed at school and later the long lines of lights at night driving to his mother's house, all the while with a background song about Angels, just seemed too contrived to be taken seriously. I'm not beyond choking up in touching movies, like I did several times in Finding Forrester, or Billy Elliot, two recent films dealing with teenagers finding themselves. But I never felt even a twinge of that in Pay It Forward because after the first 40 minutes none of it seemed credible to me.I saw the DVD and it is a very good video transfer, and proper use of 5-channel surround sound. The director's commentary plainly states that the film is intended to be a love story, and as such it is completely unfaithful to the advertisements for Pay It Forward.  A story, that if well-done, could have been a 9 or a 10, I rate it 7.  Could have been so much more. "},{"Title":"Could have been better.","Date":"16 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Play it Forward is a thin no-brainer drama/love story which deals with the notion of doing good things for three people with the stipulation that they will do the same...sort of an upside-down pyramid sales scheme to make the world a better place. It's and old concept, especially in the days of Inet email chains, with a fresh face put on it in this film which tells of a boy who pays it forward as part of a school assignment; his mother and her stuttering relationship with her son's teacher; and a parallel story about a reporter seeking the origin of the pay if forward plan.Overall the flick is a good shoot which viewers may find it a bit like a Big Mac. It's good if your hungry but no matter how you cut it, it ain't steak. "},{"Title":"Pay it back","Date":"8 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  One of the worst films of the year. It's a good movie trapped in a mediocre one. Completely overwrought with characters that go beyond the norm of a cliche, Pay It Forward is nothing more than a waste of two hours with characters who pop in and pop out, each one more meaningless than the next. It's hard to believe that such an impressive cast would show up in such a trite film. There are more than enough plot holes to make this film edgeless. Kevin Spacey is Eugene Simonet, a physically scarred social studies teacher who inspires a particular 7th grader named Trevor McKinney (Haley Joel Osment) on the basis of a different kind of extra credit assignment. The purpose of the assignment is to do a good deed for someone, something that is a little more than simple but a lot less than difficult. Trevor's idea is to change the world with a particular system of paying it forward where you do a good deed for three people and it branches out. His mother, Arlene (Helen Hunt) is an alcoholic working two jobs, one as a strip club waitress and the other as a cocktail waitress. One of Trevor's deeds is to pair Eugene with Arlene in hopes that they will have a relationship. Helen Hunt lays on the mascara as an alcoholic with a fairly odd wardrobe. It seems her entire face is craving for an oscar nomination which inevitably becomes a cliche. Kevin Spacey seems to be restricted to high school drama antics as an actor just experimenting with his character. Haley Joel Osment is fairly credible as Trevor but unfortunately, the film doesn't pick up. Things you expect in the film fall below par as characters in the film just disappear and aren't given a proper exit. Director Mimi Leder should just stick to films featuring nuclear bombs (The Peacemaker and Deep Impact respectively) because this one is a bomb itself. You know a film isn't going to be good when the audience snickers when they spot Jon Bon Jovi's name in the credits. The famed rocker makes a cameo appearance, and like Spacey, is restricted to being some kind of high school actor. He and Spacey seem like they're still in beginning rehearsals. It's pretty hard to believe that the cast (Angie Dickinson, Jim Caviezel, and Jay Mohr) all appear in the film. The character development in this film is so unbelievably thick that you begin to choke including a last minute addition to Spacey's character that had people giving it negative criticisms. Forget about the relationships between the characters because they're just so out of it. I don't know about the reviews that said it was manipulative but I will say it's crappy. Grade C- "},{"Title":"You All Are Joking, Right???","Date":"21 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  7.4??? Please tell me this is an IMDB user plot to sucker people into seeing a manipulative overacted (ask me what happened next, ASK ME! ASK ME!!!!) piece of self-indulgent, feel good hooey, marked by one of the most cynical (and unnecessary) endings I have ever seen.  It's as if Lederer knew that she had descended into soap-opera and the only way to hide it was to not let people speak at all, just show the music video and the thousand points of light.I understand you feel cheated out of two hours of your life, but hey, it's Christmas, so don't try to snooker your neighbor into seeing it too. "},{"Title":"Good idea quickly descends to pure unadulterated crap","Date":"17 March 2007","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This should have been a good or even a great movie. Unfortunately, it quickly unraveled into a movie that lacked cohesion and organization. It became disjointed, disorganized, and totally maudlin. It slapped the great cast in the face and wasted the audience's time. ALL THUMBS DOWN ... and the writer and director should go bury their heads in shame!!! The idea of Pay It Forward is a terrific idea and deserves better than this dreck.I can't understand why this site insists on a minimum number of words for a submission. That just doesn't make sense. I have said everything relevant that there is to say about this dreadful movie. What more is there to say? "},{"Title":"piece of crap of monumental proportions","Date":"14 February 2007","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" How could Kevin Spacey agree to do act in this trite piece of s**t???? It truly boggles the mind that he could star in this after making such jewels as the usual suspects? it's even worse than K-Pax and that's saying a lot. It is trite, manipulative, self-serving and about as subtle as Crash. It's at the top of my list of Movies That Make Me Angry, along with Chocolat, The Notebook, Story of Us... You'll love it if you're into feel-good clichés and unoriginal screenplays and movies that insult your intelligence and waste your time. Kevin Spacey should be ashamed of himself and Hollywood should stop pouring millions into crappy movies that belong on the Hallmark Channel or Lifetime. "},{"Title":"Throw this one in the dumpster","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is truly a movie for the emotionally broken.  The concept is a good one, but the movie typifies the liberal's view of doing good.  Not only are all of the characters from broken homes but amazingly, they are the only ones that are paying it forward!  Of course, some of the payments leave much to be desired.  I will gladly give up the ending of this hunk of manure- The young boy that is at the heart of the movement gets stabbed to death by another youth at school.  Doesn't that just fill you with delight.  But don't worry, there will be hundreds of concerned, touched people to carry torches to his mother's home, in honor of this special young boy.  Oh, how touching, everything will be OK now.  His mother can go on sleeping with the current man of the month.  Please, someone find the master print of this movie and send it to the next galaxy! "}{"Title":"Could've been really good.","Date":"21 June 2001","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Maybe if someone else had directed it. You can't really blame theactors for TRYING SO HARD, they've all been good in other films,but in this one you can really see them all working up a sweat.Even the kid! A well intentioned muddle directed with a ham fist,this is a movie that would shame the Hallmark Hall of Fameseries. Music that DEMANDS you feel something, an obviousscript, a big disappointment for all involved.           "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies I've ever seen","Date":"11 November 2000","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Unbelievably bad. I thought the acting talent would save this movie, but I was wrong. The plot is so predictable it makes you want to cry, and if you've read ANYTHING about the movie and the idea behind it, there is really no point in watching it. The acting WAS good, but it was no substitute for one of the most pathetic character development schemes I have seen in recent times. Don't waste your money. "},{"Title":"Truly amazing","Date":"7 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  (Spoilers, I think)Now, often, I don't cry while watching or after a film.  But this film, well, it didn't make me cry, but I did well up a tear in my eyes (which almost never happens, not even Titanic).  Because this film has an amazing way about it- it is a film that, if you appreciate extraordinary films, you will cherish this as the film of the year.  For me, it is one of the best (of the year).It could've been done in to the ground if not for the acting and plot though.  And for each actor or actress in this film, they give their all and pull through.  Kevin Spacey (in one of his best performances yet) plays a burned (literaly and figuratively) teacher named Eugene who gives his students in 7th grade an assignment- try and change the world.  One student, Trevor (played in excellent form by Haley Joel Osment) takes this to a whole new plain, by making an idea where you help three people out, in a big way, and they don't pay it back, but forward to 3 other people.  He decides that one of his targets will be Eugene and that he can be with his mother Arlene (Helen Hunt in her best yet).  A sprawling story to be sure, that keeps on getting touching, dramatic and funny.  But one thing, don't forget Jay Mohr (as Chris a reporter who gets into Pay It Forward and is enveloped) who gives one of the many highlights of the film with his, possibly best, performance.Like Deep Impact, director Mimi Leder's last film, she knows how to make us feel for these characters in a way that done the wrong way we wouldn't care. But she does it just right, and makes this film enjoyable, heartfelt, thought provoking and funny (Mohr's line Your just giving me a new Jaguar is priceless), this is one of the best films of the year.  And hopefully, you'll pay it foward to tell people to see this diamond in the rough (rough because of some bad films out now).  A++ "},{"Title":"Pole dancing, too much dirty talk","Date":"31 May 2008","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I did not watch it all. I bought Pay It Forward because I like the young actor Haley Joel Osment, who played in Second Hand Lion. He is a good actor with a lot of heart.Even in this movie he was good. In the beginning of the movie the mother works in bar as a waitress where there is pole dancing. Her clothes are skimpy and they want you to feel sorry that she is a single mom trying to make it with her kid. Yet this kid is home alone in bed late at night with no mother. She is so stressed when she gets off work, (I say that sarcastically) that she has to have her liquor that she hides in different places in her garage. The premise of the movie may be honorable to help change the world and make it better but the use of dirty words as a game between adults, pole dancing women and more made me just stop watching. I don't need to be offended with more than I can bare. "},{"Title":"SPOILER SPOILER SPOILER****don't read if you don't want to know what happens in the end!!!","Date":"10 July 2002","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I really liked this movie until the last 15 or 20 minutes. Now -DON'T READ ANY FURTHER IF YOU DON'T WANT TO KNOW  WHAT THE SURPRISE ENDING IS!!! When Haley Joel Osment's character was murdered the entiremovie (and the day of watching it) was ruined for me and myhusband.  It was just too much.  I wasn't expecting (nor did I want)a Disney-like happy ending but I wasn't expecting this either. Thefilm wasn't exactly a happy little jaunt from start to finish anyway!  Isobbed for the remainder of the film (and a bit afterwards) andtook on a let's never speak of this again attitude towards it.  Themessage of the film was completely ruined by this scene.  Is wasunnecessary to have an ending like this.  What a shame. "},{"Title":"Worst ending to a good film ever","Date":"16 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The first 110 or so minutes of this film are great. They're worthy of a 9 or 9.5. The big three (Spacey, Osment, Hunt) all play their roles beautifully. The concept is original and engaging, the story is uplifting, if a little fantastic a la Forrest Gump, and I was completely absorbed.Then the ending came. I sat there, first in shock and disbelief, and then in rage and disappointment that some low-life Hollywood stupidhead stuck this trite, melodramatic, heart-string-tugging ending onto it. I actually yelled at the (TV) screen, No! How dare you! It was going so well!If you think people like Julia Roberts and Matt Leblanc are good actors, then go ahead and see and enjoy this film. Otherwise, stay far, far away. "},{"Title":"Film Goer-guy-person","Date":"10 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This was the biggest disappointment of the year.  I love all the actors in it and so was very excited to go but I have never felt like a movie tried to manipulate my emotions more.  Spacey did all right, the kid was trying too hard to act and Hunt was just plan bad.  Don't go!  Save yourself the time and I won't spoil anything about the ending so I'll just say three words...Field of Dreams.  You want a good movie go rent Memento then go see The Man Who Wasn't There.  Trust me. "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies I've seen","Date":"19 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  *******WARNING********SPOILERS**************This one easily qualifies among the top ten of the worst movies I have seen. Aside from its predictable plot and disgustingly sentimental ending, the moral of this film really sets an all time low. According to this movie,* a child has a responsibility to help his/her alcoholic, abusive parent to recover.* no social misery is so severe that it can't be helped by a buck for a cup of coffee.* everybody deserves a second chance. Unless, that is, if you are a male alcoholic. Then you are evil and enjoy setting kids on fire.The list can be made longer, but I think I've made my point. Beware of this one, it's a real turkey. "},{"Title":"ABC After-School Special with alcohol","Date":"31 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The basic story was good. But it had about as much subtlety as an ABC After-School Special. I guess it's supposed to be for 12- and 13-year-olds. For me, it was painful to watch - really, really, really painful. Crudely directed, crudely acted. Even Kevin Spacey was pretty bad. And Haley Joel Osment was even more annoying than in Sixth Sense. Apologies to those of you who liked this movie. Obviously, it's supposed to be a feel-good movie. It just heaped the feelgood on waaaaaaaaayyy too heavily, and the other emotions, too. It might be good as a remake if the director gives it some subtlety. Oh, and maybe about 30 minutes shorter. "},{"Title":"Pay It Forward will change your life forever","Date":"2 February 2001","Score":"5 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Haley Joel Osment, Kevin Spacey and Helen Hunt shine in this terrific movie. It's a movie about life, about the world how it is today, and how you've got to flip around the things you don't like in this world. Too hard, too difficult, impossible, you say. Well, this movie is giving you an idea how you could do it. Because nothing will happen if nobody begins with it. (You'll understand this after you've seen this movie.) And don't believe Leonard Maltin, I'm very disappointed in this critic. This movie was probably too emotional for him. But if you, like me, not afraid for a movie that touches your heart, you've got to see this. So go out, and watch Pay It Forward, and maybe, we can actually change lives. It sure will hange yours. "}]