[{"Title":"A *Good* Bad Movie","Date":"11 June 2005","Score":"87 out of 99 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" If you're a hard core movie fan, you learn to appreciate good Bad Movies. There are movies that go so far off the tracks in terms of one or several essential features of film art -- casting, script, sets, pacing, editing, lighting, coherence -- that there is no way that you could, being honest, recommend them without qualifications to an unsuspecting viewer.Movies that go off the tracks in these essentials and offer no redeeming features are just plain Bad Movies. You you make fun of them, and then you forget about them.But some Bad Movies offer, amidst the badness, unique moments of grace and truth. You allow yourself to be sucked in, and you studiously ignore or forgive all the screw-ups that went into making them Bad Movies. Angel Eyes is a *Good* Bad Movie.Why Bad? Genre incoherence is the biggest problem here. Angel Eyes was marketed as a supernatural thriller that offered spooky, scary insights into fate, love, danger, and perhaps life after death. Ads, and the first portion of the movie, hinted at a weird alternate identity for one character. Was he a ghost? An angel? A devil? Would Angel Eyes be another Sixth Sense or Wings of Desire? That's all just smokescreen. I'm not revealing any spoilers by saying that no one in the movie is a ghost, an angel, or a devil; that conceit from the ads is jettisoned pretty quickly.There is a subtext of fate, destiny, love and death, but that isn't worked really hard, either. That whole subtext could have been skipped and you'd still have pretty much the same movie.The movie you get is a movie about traumatized people finding love and rebirth. And that is one great theme.Another problem with the movie is its misunderstanding of how quickly people can recover from trauma. But, hey.I say but, hey, because this movie has a lot going for it, and it's worth seeing for what it has going for it.Jim Caviezel is an underrated actor. He's not wooden; he's subtle. It's tragic that we've gotten to an era where audience's eyes can't appreciate a quiet actor in the Gary Cooper mode.Caviezel is a worthy inheritor of the Gary Cooper mantle. He's stunningly handsome, has a big, gorgeous body -- he's a former basketball player, and it shows -- and he possesses Cooper's quiet masculine tenderness and humility.All these qualities have allowed him to strike the perfect note of a very male spirituality in a number of films, from Frequency to Thin Red Line to Pay It Forward to The Passion to Angel Eyes. In his early scenes, when the movie doesn't want you to know quite what he's about, he is perfect as a perhaps ghost-angel-devil-weirdo homeless bum-savior.He's equally good, later, as an entirely corporeal lover.He plays a wounded man, and Caviezel has the gifts to convey his character's inner pain. You believe that he cares as much as he does about what wounded him; you believe that his wounds could have done to him what the movie wants you to believe they did to him.Jennifer Lopez is equally good. Face it -- Jennifer Lopez is a fine actress. Yes, she appears on tabloid covers. Yes, she made Gigli. Yes, she poses in naughty clothes a lot. Yes, she is a Puerto Rican from the Bronx.And you know what? She's a fine actress. Don't let her non-silver-spoon pedigree keep you from appreciating what she can do on screen.Lopez is as good as a cop here as she was in the more celebrated film, Out of Sight. She's winning, charismatic, natural, and lovely to look at. Even in a white t-shirt and navy blue cop uniform slacks, she is beautiful.Like Caviezel, Lopez plays a wounded character ready to be reborn by love. She's equally as good as he, but she conveys her different wounds in a different way. One wounded person retreats; another lashes out in violence. It's interesting to see which party picks which method.Sonia Braga is in this movie. Any movie with Sonia Braga in it can't be all bad.Victor Argo, in a very small part as a very flawed man, is JUST PERFECT. 100% believable and heart-wrenching. I'll never forget his moments locked in silent misery, a misery he causes and a misery he feels.Finally, there is a not-to-be-missed scene between an abused family member and the abuser. A character speaks into a video camera at a family reunion and ... the scene just took my breath away. At that point I wanted to cry and surrender my full respect to the movie, in spite of everything it had done wrong so far.Don't let bad reviews prevent you from seeing this movie. Nothing's perfect. There's enough heart and beauty here for the discerning viewer to appreciate. "},{"Title":"A gem of a film, best appreciated after you dust off the dirt","Date":"26 November 2004","Score":"46 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I stumbled on this film--because there was nothing obvious that made it look like a film worth your time. It's a film with a lot of misplaced evaluations. For instance, Jennifer Lopez was nominated for a Razzie award but the film shows a very fine effort from the lady. Again some comments on the photography infer the late cinematographer Piotr Sobocinsky has done a shoddy job because obvious Toronto landmarks appear in a film set in Chicago. This again is a fault of the Director and editor, not the cameraman who was one of the finest in his business (Kieslowski's Dekalog and Three Colors--Red). An intense viewing of the film affords the viewer to appreciate the opening shots, the alley shots, and the corridor shots that evoke feelings. It is quite different from the typical Hollywood camera-work.There are flaws in the film. The film jumps to situations without a build up--Catch appears on a life saving situation, seemingly out of nowhere; two beers appear on Catch's table in the restaurant, without him ordering the second; no mention is made of why Catch chose this name; etc.Yet despite those faults the film sails through as fine entertainment because of fine believable performances from Caviezel, Lopez, Sonia Braga, and Shirley Knight. The casting of these four was perfect (thank you Lopez for insisting on Caviezel!). The film is great entertainment because the film refrains from sex and promotes fine values--including family values, reconciliation, dealing with bereavement and doing good to make a better world. How many films are brave enough to deal with such subjects today without depicting sex and violence?The film touches on subplots that could have been fleshed out--Catch's lonely neighbor who invites him share a pizza, Catch's friend who recognizes him at the restaurant but Director Mandoki clearly steers clear to present the two psychologically wounded persons and their healing by coming together through a sheer accident. The film may be very Christian in character but it presents a very secular, humane scenario that will uplift any viewer. Though unevenly woven, the film has several sequences that show Mandoki has fine capabilities. One only wishes he took greater care of details.Flaws apart, the film is above average cinema that the publicity has shrouded by misplaced evaluations. "},{"Title":"Absorbing, human, and very good characters. *** (out of four)","Date":"12 June 2001","Score":"40 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  ANGEL EYES / (2001) *** (out of four)By Blake French	Luis Mandoki's Angel Eyes begins as a melodramatic tragedy that feels as if it's missing something. Its centerpiece is a love story between an unlikely couple who save each other's lives under different circumstances. At first, the film plays with interesting ideas about fate, love, destiny, mystery, and the past, but does so with stunning blandness. The male lead, James Caviezel, plays Catch, a mysterious character with an absorbing, revealing past. But his inceptive existence switches back and forth between two negative impressions Catch is either a balmy character, or Caviezel delivers a boring, uninteresting performance. To my pleasant surprise, however, by the time the movie reaches its emotionally effective climax, it proves these original perceptions to be wrong.  	Jennifer Lopez stars as a tough Chicago cop named Sharon Pogue. She patrols the crime-ridden South Side of Chicago with her police buddies, including her partner and friend Robby (Terrence Dashon Howard). In the same neighborhood lives Catch-who sleeps in an empty apartment and delivers goodwill to many around him. He wanders around the area as if he is in some kind of existential daze, thus some believe him to be a lunatic, but for most, he appears to be a peculiar but harmless figure.	Both of these characters have undergone deep emotional struggles. The vast majority of the conflict in Angel Eyes lies inside the characters. I do not want to give away any of the movie. Therefore, I must be terse in my explanation. Experiencing violence early in her childhood, Sharon has taken a stand against her father's abusive ways and is still paying the price; her entire family disowned her. However, her parents have invited Sharon to an upcoming marriage celebration. Should she attend, forcing her to come to terms with inner demons and face her father for the first time in years?	Angel Eyes provides no easy answers for its characters. Sharon's private and public lives are well developed and intriguing. The film gives her a lot of dimension-I especially like her family related aspects. I will not reveal any more information about Catch; based on the advertisements, his different people will have different expectations of his identity. By explaining anymore about him, I risk giving away a large portion of the movie. Although the film does not contain startling identity twists or surprising ninety degree turns, it is very deliberate about what information is revealed at what time-thus the lack of information in the beginning. Angel Eyes deserves to reveal itself on a full scale, rather than me giving its plot away right here and now.  Luis Mandoki has a certain knack with directing love stories that disclose their plot at the perfect moment. In 1999, his film Message in a Bottle examined another troubled soul coming to terms with his future. He does the same kind of thing with Angel Eyes. He's keeping a lid on his demons as Sharon does with hers, explains Mandoki about the character's behaviors. It's only when they fall in love and then risk losing that love that they are forced to examine who they really are, present and past.	Screenwriter Gerald DiPego creates character's who connect with the audience. The story is about the conflict between isolation and connection, says DiPego. We become isolated because we're afraid of opening up to each other, especially these days. On the other hand, there's a longing inside of us to connect. I think our salvation lies in keeping connected. 	As Angel Eyes concludes, each of the two character's has come to terms with their troubles and past. What they discover, I will leave up to you to find out. This is an uncommonly absorbing picture because we believe these characters live in our world, not in face their most private and deepest fears, and, although nothing is truly solved by the end of the movie, for Sharon and Catch, for better or worse, their problems become a different, more fulfilling internal battle. some movie fantasy. So often movies end with a fluffy, soft attitude for their characters-but not in Angel Eyes.    "},{"Title":"Jennifer Lopez delivers one of her best performances","Date":"20 May 2001","Score":"30 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was put out as a thriller on the commercials, making it seem like the premise is about a cop who meets a guy who turns out to be a serial killer. When in fact, this movie is a great love story. Jennifer Lopez plays Sharon Pogue, a tough female police officer, who is still recovering from an abusive childhood. Apparently when she was seventeen, she called the cops and got her father (Victor Argo) arrested after he beat her mom (Sonia Braga) up. She hasn't been in contact with her family since then; until now, when the family reluctantly invites her to a ceremony renewing her parents vows. The there is Catch Lambart, played by Jim Caviezal. He is a wanderer who lives in an apartment equipped with about three items - a bed, a light, and a table. Catch never smiles; however, he does walk around looking for good deeds to do. The two emotionally torn people meet when Catch tackles Sharon's assassin who is seeking vengeance of the death of his brother. The two quickly fall in love. But now Sharon wants to know about Catch's past, which he wont say a word about. And basically the rest of the movie is about the Sharon trying tragicly dealing with her abusive childhood, Sharon trying to find out more about Catch, and Catch knocking down the wall he built around his past. I can honestly say that Jennifer Lopez delivers one of her best performances surrounded by the character of Karen Sisco in Out of Sight, and her should-have-won-an-oscar performance in Selena. Jim Caviezal also did a great job, keeping it real. But Jennifer Lopez is the major power-hitter in this movie. Jennifer never had to belch an emotion out, it was natural for her. Guys, ask a girl on a date and GO SEE THIS MOVIE!!! "},{"Title":"Out of the blue - a good movie.","Date":"27 October 2003","Score":"28 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  So let me set the scene here, I was in a motel, in the middle of nowhere, and was flicking through the channels of the limited cable that the motel offered... I spotted Jim Caveizel (or however on earth you spell his name) and put down the remote as he is an actor that I admire and respect.  Of course JLo then came into the scene and my instinct was to pick up the remote and flick the channel but I didn't and I am glad that I made that decision.  Not being a fan of JLo I have never seen Angel Eyes and had no reason to seek it out either on video or on the TV but hell when you are in a motel with limited cable options you don't have alot of choice right?  Nevertheless, I was thoroughly delighted that I left the remote where it was and watched this movie because in the end I loved it.  I loved it more for the subtle points than the big hollywood this is a romance you better weep points.  Hang up and I'll call your machine in this day and age how relevant is that? how many people (if they would be honest) would much rather talk to a machine than the person because it is impersonal and they can save face?  The teeny tiny aspect of him playing the notes of the trumpet on her back as they were dancing... okay so I am married to a musician so that resonates with me but it spoke volumes, no matter how much he had tried to block it out, his soul was still there, and in his soul was his music.  I thought both leads played their roles with skill and conviction.  I was never quite sure (until the end of course) if Catch was a good guy or a bad guy, and I liked the fact that it kept me guessing.  As I said I am not a JLo fan, in fact I could be described as quite the opposite but in this movie she played her part beautifully, with conviction and totally believably.  Jim Caveizel as always was understated, calm and played his role with a sympathy that is rare to see.   Loved this movie, and cannot wait to see it again.  I will agree with everyone however about the advertising hype that surrounded it, they ended up portraying it as a psychological thriller, if they had stayed true to the story and advertized it for what it was, a beautiful romance, I think it would not have died as it did.  Shame on the publicity people for burying such a fine film.   "},{"Title":"Bravo, Magnifico","Date":"21 May 2001","Score":"25 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Jennifer Lopez did a great job of acting along with a strong script that probed into a good topic for thought.  The action/mystery was a revealing approach to a somewhat predictable plot but was carried on with such intensity and emotion that it made tears from the audience.  I really enjoyed what became a romantic movie that held substantive quality above simplified action thrills and special effects to deal with family relationships and the horror of loss and the liberation of love. "},{"Title":"A great movie that was promoted badly","Date":"4 September 2002","Score":"28 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Do you remember the previews for Angel Eyes? Many of us don't. What few of us remember is a 30 second preview that ran only a handful of times that showed Jennifer Lopez as a female cop. That was it. Na drama, no emotion, the previews told the audience a story about a female police officer, nothing else. This is probably the biggest reason why nobody went to see this movie when it went to the cinema. Only when it hit the video stores, did people start wo watch. A beautiful film, Angel Eyes is a romance. Dealing with redemption, it deals with many degrees of love and hope. In fact, many people detail Jennifer Lopez as Angel Eyes. This is not true. Take a deeper look and you will see that James Caviezel is the true Angel Eyes.  "},{"Title":"Lopez shines in effective drama","Date":"14 August 2003","Score":"16 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I have to admit two things, one is that I'm not a big Jennifer Lopez fan. Secondly, she's very good in this film. The film opens at the scene of a car accident and a female police officer (Lopez) is telling the survivor who is all banged up that everything will be okay and to look at her. Then the film shifts to a year later and Officer Sharon Pogue is a Chicago cop who doesn't relate well to others except other cops and hates the whole dating process. While in a diner with her fellow officers she notices a man (James Caviezel) across the street looking at her and then suddenly a car drives by and starts shooting the place up. Sharon takes chase after the car crashes and chases a youth down into a secluded area when she is ambushed and the youth gets her gun and is ready to kill her when out of the blue the man who was staring comes out and saves her.*****SPOILER ALERT*****Later in a bar she meets him again and talks to him. She asks him his name and all he says is Catch. She's intrigued by him and he says he likes her but he says very little about himself. He wanders the streets a lot and also helps a handicapped woman named Elanora (Shirley Knight) with groceries. Meanwhile, Sharon has family trouble and her parents (Sonia Braga and Victor Argo) are going to renew their vows and she's not sure if she should go. When she was a young girl she called the police on her abusive father when he was beating her mother and after all these years he still has not forgiven her.This film was directed by Luis Mandoki who also has shown in earlier efforts that he has a good flair for portraying relationships with believable emotional attachments. The problem is the area of the story surrounding Catch. We know right from the get-go who he is and what he's hiding. The film goes just a tad too long and of course there is an upbeat ending. I think it would have been totally appropriate to have a more open ending with some questions on the future of the characters. But the film is enhanced by a very good performance by Lopez. Not only is she believable as a tough cop but we can understand her emotional problems dealing with others. Its a performance that rings true and reminded me of why so many people are intrigued by her. Her character is the core of the film (not Catch) and she does a terrific job of balancing her emotions between the tough cop and the lonely and vulnerable woman. This isn't a great film by any stretch of the imagination but it is an underrated one. One of Lopez's shining moments. "},{"Title":"Confession that I'm not that much of a psycho after all.","Date":"3 September 2003","Score":"22 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was a truly touching film, and an excellent performance by both Caviezel and Lopez. My view of Lopez has gone up a lot since seeing this film. It made me cry, which is a rare occurrence when I watch movies. The scene with Catch at his family's grave was just beautiful, the words were right from the heart straight to mine. Caviezel should do more films like this. "},{"Title":"Lopez has a surprise","Date":"28 May 2006","Score":"19 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Surprisingly moving film with Lopez proving she is more than just her looks for a change. It's an early chance to see the guy who was later to play Jesus Caveziel. The director creates a touching scene when they are at the relative's graveside. Lopez plays a woman alone in Chicagio with no real friends until the shy man (Cavaziel) comes into it. They form a rapport over their shared insomnia. They start a disastrous relationship as it is afflicted with a cat and mouse game with both playing hot and cold. Because of their isolation and loneliness, the film is concerned with the need with forgiveness of self and others, reconciliation and redemption through a relationship. This is demonstrated through Cavaziel's previous secret life which he is running away from like the Lopez character. I can recommend this movie as I really enjoyed an intelligent and psychological work that had the courage to direct Lopez in something more challenging than popcorn liked Anaconda. Prior to this the most convincing thing I'd seen her in was in a couple of sketches by the actor Stephen Armourae and that was just pencil, paper and pastel. I hope she continues to be cast in these more demanding roles. "}{"Title":"Great Film, Awful Marketing","Date":"6 January 2003","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have to say, I thought this was one of the best movie's I'd seen in a long time back when it came out.  It's a shame the producers chose to use perhaps the worst marketing ploy in the history of film.Sharon Pogue (Jennifer Lopez) is a lonely woman in Chicago with no real life to speak of.  She is estranged from her family, has problems with insomnia, and her only friends are the people she works with.  Enter Catch (Jim Caviezel), a shy, quiet man who saves Sharon's life.  They both seem to have problems with insomnia and reclusive behavior.  They start a cat and mouse game - she brings him to her apartment, he seems to want to leave, he wants to come back, she tries to kiss him, he doesn't want to be kissed.  She stands him up, he gets upset, then he doesn't seem to care; so, she follows him into his apartment, etc.  It seems like it would get repetetive, but the story is actually quite good.Lopez gives a good performance, probably second only to her portrayal of Karen Sisco in Out Of Sight.  Caviezel is good at these sort of parts, and seems to be in danger of being stereotyped as the guy that weird stuff happens to.  People often complain that the two of them have no chemistry together, not realizing that this is the whole point - their relationship is made intentionally akward by director Luis Mandoki, most likely to make it seem all the more impressive that they still want to be with each other.I have one big problem with the advertising, and two smaller problems. They tried to make this seem like some sort of cop thriller - it is not. You'd think by watching the trailer that Catch is a menacing person, the opposite of what the character really is.  They should have made this film out to be what it really is - a chick flick about an unlikely couple with no chemistry who love each other enough to stick with each other anyway. Consequently, the film only brought in about $24 million.Which brings me to my second problem, the budget.  Why did this take $38 million to make?  I noticed that this was released by Warner Brothers, and distributed by two different production companies, internationally.  That was unnecessary.  They could have easily made just as good a film for a lower budget.  Even with Lopez's $9 million paycheck, the rest could have been shot for $5 million, putting the total budget at $14 million.SpoilerAlso, Catch seems a bit too spacey.  There perhaps should have been more attempts to humanize him, which could have been done without killing the aura of despair around him.  I also didn't get the sex scene - the character didn't seem like the type to have sex with someone after only a few weeks.End spoilerDespite these last few problems, I rated this film very highly, as it is one of my favorites.  I just noticed the bad parts from watching it so many times.  Don't be fooled by the advertising - is it worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Catch and Pogue","Date":"18 July 2008","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Mandoki's 'Angel Eyes' is one movie that I had walked out on, twice. But for some reason, I stayed through the whole film during the third viewing, and I'm glad I did. Now, the problem with 'Angel Eyes' is the incoherence during the entire first hour. The story unfolds into something different each time while not staying within the frame of the main story. It's confusing. It's misleading. That works for some movies but not for 'Angel Eyes'. The reason why I had walked out earlier was because at some point the movie really drags but once the characters confront their own pain, the conflicts are presented and somewhat resolved. I appreciate Mandoki's attempt in telling the story of two lonely characters One who is traumatized by a past event that changed his life and the other who has been neglected (almost disowned) by her family because she did the right thing. In spite of the mess in the beginning, he gets most of it right towards the end. The confrontation scene between Sharon and her family at the 'vow-renewal party' and the scene where Catch visits his wife and child's grave are very well executed. I liked the chemistry between Caviezel and Lopez. James Caviezel delivers a quietly subtle performance. It seems as though the part was made for him. Jennifer Lopez is a mixture. While she was terrible in some scenes, there were some shining moments of excellent acting, especially in the beginning and the latter half. She also carries off the copper role very well, just like she did in 'Out of Sight'. So, I guess it wasn't such a bad watch as I had thought earlier. Just needed some patience. "},{"Title":"Poetic Tale of Love and Forgiveness","Date":"16 July 2004","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Possible SpoilersAlthough Sharon Pogue, the central character in this film, is a Chicago police officer with a beat in one of the city's roughest districts, this is not a traditional 'tough cop' thriller. Rather, it is the story of a romance between Sharon and a mysterious stranger named Catch, which begins when he saves her life while she is confronting a violent criminal. Catch is a strange figure who lives alone in a deserted building and who wanders the streets performing acts of kindness to strangers. Sharon finds herself emotionally drawn to this baffling young man, who appears simple-minded but gentle, fey and vulnerable yet nonthreatening, and the two begin a romantic relationship. As the film progresses, we realize that Catch had a previous life very different to the one he leads now. We learn, for instance, that his real name is Steven Lambert and that he is a talented jazz musician. There are also hints of a secret in his past which has left him with an overwhelming sense of guilt; we eventually learn what that secret is, although I will not reveal it here. Sharon also has psychological problems arising from her difficult relationship with her family, particularly with her abusive father, which started when she reported him to the police because of his violent behaviour towards her mother. The main themes of the film are the need for forgiveness- of oneself as well as of others- reconciliation and redemption. We see how Sharon and Catch deal with the shadows of the past which are threatening to destroy their chances of happiness. Unlike some, I did not see Catch as a Christ-figure (possibly those who did were influenced by the fact that the same actor, Jim Caviezel, also played Jesus in Mel Gibson's recent 'The Passion of the Christ') or the film as an overtly religious one. The themes of forgiveness and redemption are capable of being understood in a secular way as well as a religious one. It is, however, possibly a spiritual film, and certainly a poetic one. Certain scenes- such as the one where Catch and Sharon realize their love for one another while swimming in a disused quarry and the one in the nightclub where Catch rediscovers his love of jazz- struck me as having a particularly haunting quality. I was also impressed by the two leading actors. This was the first of Caviezel's films that I had seen, other than 'The Passion', and I was touched by his portrayal of the lonely, guilt-ridden but kindly Catch. As for Jennifer Lopez, I was pleasantly surprised. On the previous occasions I had seen her in films- such as the truly appalling 'Anaconda'- she struck me as being not so much an actress, more a singer who had wandered into the movie business because someone - probably her accountant- had told her it would be a good career move, without her having much idea of what would be required of her. In 'Angel Eyes', however, it seems that, by and large, J-Lo has at last realized what this acting thing is all about. Although some of her lines are occasionally indistinct, the overall impression is one of emotional and psychological truthfulness. That, in fact, can be taken as my overall impression of the film as a whole, not just Miss Lopez's performance. 7/10  "},{"Title":"Not 100% but nonetheless captivating","Date":"28 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I found this movie really engaging, even though it's imperfect directorially. Much of my admiration, though, may be because I fell madly in love with Jim Caviezel and his quiet, handsome, troubled but gently noble character (so bear that in mind!)...Jennifer Lopez did very well - a sparky performance as always. Her police officer role appears to come very naturally to her, and the pairing is interesting with the initially mysterious Caviezel character. Overall this movie may not win awards, but the lead characters are well drawn and their developing relationship is engaging, unpredictable and endearingly life-like. It's a nice romantic movie which draws you in. "},{"Title":"Not Your Usual Mindless Summer Film Fare","Date":"5 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Angel Eyes differs from the usual mindless summer film fare. Audiences under age 30 may classify this brooding, lethargic, romantic mystery with Jennifer Lopez and Jim Caviezel as downbeat, impersonal, and tiresome. Neither Message in a Bottle director Luis Mandoki and Sharkey's Machine scenarist Gerald DiPego cater to neatly tying up all the loose narrative threads at fade-out nor pander to erratic attention-deficit style editing to ingratiate audiences with their lachrymose cops & lovers yarn. Instead, every scene in Angel Eyes portrays life as an experience where people sometimes cannot resolve conflicts. Mandoki and DiPego dole out plot details like bread crumbs to string us along, and this piecemeal strategy maintained my attention.Angel Eyes will either intrigue you or will infuriate you entirely with the way they draw out the inevitable. They give their characters room enough to develop, and a gifted, first-class cast exploits every opportunity. Admirably, much of this provocative, above-average, but uneven 'chick flick' springs from the characters and their reactions to the obstacles thwarting their desires. Unwisely, Mandoki and DiPego rely on some plot contrivances that undercut credibility but deepen dramatic impact.Angel Eyes opens in Chicago at the scene of a tragic traffic accident. Windy City cop Sharon Pogue (Jennifer Lopez of Maid in Manhattan) comforts an accident victim until the paramedics arrive. Mandoki and DiPego create an intriguing aura of mystery early on in the story, because the victim remains anonymous. Cleverly but effectively, they capture the action from the perspective of the injured passenger. A year elapses, and the main plot gradually begins to unfold. Angel Eyes depicts Sharon Pogue as a tough, resourceful, fearless police woman who can handle anything that the criminal element can dish out. She tackles one big hoodlum, body slams the dastard against the hood of her police cruiser, and the cuffs and stuffs him. Later, at the precinct house, the thug gives her lip and grabs her. Pogue roughs him up without a second thought, only to have her partner Robby (Terrence Howard of Iron Man) reprimand her. Don't bust my balls, Pogue complains irritably as if she were a guy.Indeed, shunning her glamorous pop diva persona, Lopez delivers a persuasive, rock-solid performance as a dedicated but lonely, insomniac cop with a woebegone past who prefers the graveyard shift. Basically, Sharon jailed her abusive father Carl (Victor Argo of The Yards) ten years ago for beating up her mother Josephine (Brazilian actress Sonia Braga of The Rookie), and bad blood has existed ever since between them. Essentially, her father disowned her after his arrest. Surprisingly, her mother invites her to attend a ceremony where they plan to renew their marriage vows. Sharon's working class brother Larry (Jeremy Sisto of The Suicide Kings) isn't overjoyed about seeing his hard-nosed sister. Eventually, Larry batters his own wife Kathy (Monet Mazur of Mystery Men) in a fit of rage. Arriving at the scene, Sharon slugs Larry in the mouth in front of her own brothers-in-blue! The cops refuse to arrest Sharon when Larry cries police brutality.Later, Sharon is hanging out with fellow cops at a diner when black gunmen in a car wheel up and unload a fusillade of bullet at them. The fleeing gangstas wreck their car, and the cops chase them. Sharon pursues a lone gunman, and the suspect ambushes her. Shooting her twice in the chest, he takes aim at her face when a mysterious stranger intervenes. This unshaven Samaritan knocks the assailant off Sharon and saves her life! When Sharon recovers, she learns that her dark-haired hero in a trench coat calls himself Catch (Jim Caviezel of Frequency) and just happened to be across the street when the gunfight erupted. An awkward relationship blossoms from their chance encounter. Catch behaves as if he were suffering from amnesia. Despite Sharon's attempts to draw him out in conversation, he refuses to talk about himself. Aimlessly, he wanders the streets at night and performs good deeds at random. For example, Catch spots a car with its headlamps burning. Opening the door, he reaches inside to switch them off. Just as he does, the angry owner accuses him of stealing. Catch decks himself out in a wardrobe like the Nicholas Cage character from director Brad Silverling's City of Angels, but he is a flesh-and-blood entity, not an angel.Eventually, Sharon and Catch date. At a state park on a picnic, they frolick in the lake, then get intimate on the beach. Unlike most citizens who ask Sharon how many people she has shot in the line of duty, Catch praises her for her unselfish sacrifices. Their oddball but believable relationship endures its share of ups and down like most real relationships. Specifically, Sharon comes clean about herself with Catch, but he retreats into silence or anger about himself as if he were playing hard to get.Angel Eyes rarely strays from the issues at hand. This character driven drama deals with sudden death, dysfunctional families, and spousal abuse, but it offers no facile answers. Like Mandoki's earlier effort Message in a Bottle, Angel Eyes shows that life gives those a second chance at love that wants to take it. Like his even earlier movie When a Man Loves a Woman, Angel Eyes shows that some of life's problems lay beyond our reach to resolve them. Wow, how many movies seize life by the horns anymore? The romance between Sharon and Catch has depth with occasional interludes of comedy. Lopez and Caviezel share a chemistry that makes their affair seem not only credible but also interesting, too. They don't behave like brainless, sugar-coated, naive lovers. Pop tunes don't blare on the soundtrack while the principals ride around in product placement sports convertibles. Indeed, Angel Eyes takes itself seriously and gets away with this sober attitude more often than not. Only when the coincidences seem really contrived, such as when Catch jumps Sharon's assailant, does Angel Eyes blink. "},{"Title":"Serious J.LO","Date":"20 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I saw this film for the 2nd time last night with some friends, and we all enjoyed it. I kinda have a soft spot for J.Lo, I think she is a little under-rated, I loved her in films like Blood & Wine, Out of Sight and recently Bordertown. In Angel Eyes she is beautiful, aggressive, soft and hurt ... I think Jim Cavaziel helps bring her down from any 'Star Scene Stealing' - he is so calm, and dashing here, I think she was as transfixed as us! It's a gentle film, that doesn't feel the need to rush proceedings, letting the audience sit and figure out the mystery, and even if like us you figured it out at least 30mins before the end, I think you will still want to stay with it and see how the characters wind up. Check it out, and curl up with this engaging drama. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Well-done and a surprise performance...","Date":"4 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I must say that Jennifer Lopez delivers a believable and real performance here. As a Chicago cop, on the front lines, we see the stark reality and violence she seems to live on a daily basis.Jim Cavieziel also delivers an excellent performance as 'Catch', a man who is emotionally damaged but this is not revealed until the latter half of the film.There are some excellent scenes as Lopez begins to open up, dating him, and views his trumpet playing in a city jazz club. She looks tearful as she realizes that Catch is more complicated and sensitive than he appears.There is also a parallel family issue of estrangement with Sonia Braga as the disapproving mother that also adds a twist to the interesting story.Overall, an excellent film that is highly recommended. 8/10. "},{"Title":"Very powerful, though incomplete, plot; well-casted, too","Date":"19 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Out of all the JLo movies made so far, this is the only one that seems to... dig deeper than the surface of human emotions. The writer, and maybe the director, must've had more than a vague idea of where they were going with this film. Some scenes cause me to tear up, which is a rare commodity for any simple romance made in the last... 10 years.Jennifer Lopez is asked to play more here than the typical pretty girl who makes her way up, in one way or other, like the movies she normally lands. This took quite a bit of insight and understanding on her part, possible even an emotional connection to the movie to nail the part. Keeping all that in mind, the male main character seemed to get an even better idea of what's asked of him. The way he carried himself was almost dead-on, though possibly even overdone at times (but I blame the director for that).That said, what worked even more is the chemistry the two had going on. Never before have I seen Lopez's eyes light up the way they did with James. It seemed like they'd truly sunk into their roles, and the interaction between them felt chillingly real.What was truly underdone, however, is the family abuse issues that Lopez's character's family was going through all through the plot. This didn't seem like a movie about civil issues, and therefore the parts where they went into detail about family violence seemed a bit... off- the-wall to me. At the very least, if there was a serious connection between violence and maybe the reason Sharon became a cop in the first place, they sure failed to show it.This movie, hands down, I believe, needed more insight and more beyond-the-surface conversations. It needed less words and more visuals. It was mostly well-written, but needed some touch-ups. The transition of Catch from his old life to the estranged new one was very meekly done. There could've been more about his family, how good a father he was could've been shown, even in flashbacks. More details for the backgrounds of both characters could be in order.But mostly, though this film is very underdone, and some parts made me laugh at them more than with them, I end up seeing it again and again, and it still acts as a tear jerker to me. I'll say it again - Lopez seemed to find herself in the right place here, where much more than her natural charm was put to the test. Give this movie a try, it's.. not like the rest, not like many movies made today. "},{"Title":"Great film","Date":"10 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The scene when Catch is playing, Nature Boy on the trumpet at the jazz club is just so genuine & touching. A big applause to the real musicians that were playing the tune.The Director might have made it a little less subtle of how Steve takes the name, Catch after the accident. It is the last word he hears his son say as he is throwing the toy in the car before he is killed. Dad...'catch'.The way the film deals with domestic violence & how it can tear a family a part at its foundation but then is glossed over for appearances seems to be right on the mark. And despite the renewal of her parent's wedding vows, the underlying problem isn't going to go away. "},{"Title":"A good date movie","Date":"19 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I never liked Jennifer Lopez, but she is excellent in this movie. Although you spend a lot of time wondering about 'Catch', Lopez shines in every scene she is shown. It's ironic that each has saved the others lives, but it's when they heal each others heart and soul that they find each other. Both characters have pasts they are trying to deal with, both hide those pasts from each other and refuse to speak of them. But, when they can't handle the past and present, they always turn to each other.If you don't like Jennifer Lopez, watch this movie and you may change your mind. "}{"Title":"Passed a couple of hours","Date":"19 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Saw this for the first time on a minor TV channel recently. Essentially a romantic film, and casting JL as a police officer may indicate that this is a police thriller, which it is not.It is fairly apparent at an early stage what Jim Cavaziel's past hides, and JL coming to terms with her past is the more complex aspect of the film.I can only recall seeing Jim Cavaziel in one other film (Thin Red Line) and his performance and character here is reminiscent of his character in TRL.Jennifer Lopez gives a fine performance. I have not seen her in many films, but she generally puts in a good performance. I think it is her choice of films which is suspect rather than her acting.I am not a fan of romantic films, but this one is different enough to make it worth watching. "},{"Title":"Gen-X movie, Starring J-Lo","Date":"28 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is a typical Gen-X movie of the '90s (although made in 2001) where a working class anti-hero(s) finds some small measure of peace in the end. The picture is shot beautifully, with one beautiful scene followed by another. Even if there aren't so much dialogs between the main characters, you know this is about romance. I've never seen J-Lo look so beautiful ever in a movie than this one, and for that alone this movie scores high marks. Jim Caviezel delivers his usual high quality low key performances, and if you watch this movie, it's kind of strange that an out going girl like J goes out with a low key guy like Jim. Other typical Gen-X elements are found like troubled characters (both Jim and J has family problems), small comradely of special interest groups (the guys J hangs out with), and a bit of street gang violence. The focus of this movie is of course Jim and J, and this movie wouldn't have worked if the two main characters weren't able to carry the entire movie. But they do. And brings reality to this drama. This is a movie where there's nothing great is going on, but is a great movie. "},{"Title":"Romantic, heart-warming, and thrilling","Date":"17 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I first saw this film with a friend of mine, and in my opinion, ANGEL EYES is a romantic, heart-warming, and thrilling romantic thriller. If you ask me, Sharon (Jennifer Lopez) and Catch (James Caviezel) made a perfect couple. One of the things I liked most about this film is when Catch played the trumpet when he and Sharon went out to the nightclub. I thought that he sounded really good when he played for Sharon. In addition, if you ask me, Sharon made a good cop. They made the perfect couple, if you ask me. In conclusion, I highly recommend this romantic, heart-warming, and thrilling romantic thriller to all you Jennifer Lopez fans who have not seen it. You're in for a real treat, so go to the video store, rent it or buy it, kick back with a friend, and watch it. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good for J.Lo's film","Date":"27 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I urge everyone to distrust the low rating this film got on IMDb and try and see it somewhere. Perhaps, you will be surprised to find what a solid and impressive drama Angel Eyes is.Jennifer Lopes is notorious for a bad choice of films she plays in with her rather limited acting ability. But this movie is a nice exception. Here, she is very comfortable in the role of a slightly boorish and internally disturbed policewoman and, with this performance, she really hits the mark. Her co-star James Caviezel also gives an excellent portrayal of a man who is recovering from the loss of his family.The storyline itself is well-rounded, consistent and believable, leaving no blurred moments or gaps. Although the assumptions of the film may seem too melodramatic, in fact the film is not in the least cheesy or mushy. On the contrary, what we see is a very realistic and uneven development of a relationship between two complex characters with an open (not sleazy happy) ending. The message of the film is also very sound and clear - life is not a smooth simple line and you never know what will take you to your destination.The film delivers this message softly and is, definitely, worthy of your attention. "},{"Title":"Under Appreciated","Date":"24 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  There are many films in the past years that are so under appreciated, tossedaway from theaters and dismissed by the masses. Films like Donnie Darko andRounders fall into this category. And Angel Eyes follows their path. It's a very  well-written, well-acted drama with the unstoppable Jim Caviezel and Jennifer  Lopez. As many have said, this IS Lopez's best film to date and she truly shines.  And Caviezel is amazing. He's one of my favorite actors and his performance,like all of his other films, is utterly spectacular. The dialogue is flawless and  although the story takes a while to progress and the pacing is slow, Angel Eyes  is worth checking out. "},{"Title":"High calibre acting from the leads","Date":"1 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Angel Eyes features terrific performances from its leads Lopez and Cavizel. Lopez is tough and vulnerable and Cavizel is passive yet yearning. This movie can't be pigeonholed into a single genre. It has elements from many. I recommend it on the strength of the performances. It also admirably avoids the usual Hollywood ending. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Intense, compelling, beautiful love story","Date":"23 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sharon (Jennifer Lopez) is a police officer in Chicago.  One day, in pursuit of a criminal, she finds herself in a dangerous situation.  At the last minute, a mysterious stranger named Catch (Jim Caviezel) saves Sharon from certain disaster.  From this moment on, Sharon and Catch begin a relationship that springs easily into romance.  Yet Catch remains an enigma, revealing little of his past and living in a spartan apartment.  Sharon, too, has something to hide a strained relationship with every member of her family.  Will Sharon succeed in mending ties with her relatives while gaining access to Catch's true self?Those viewers expecting a cop movie will be sorely disappointed.  This is a romantic drama with a beautiful, dreamlike quality that goes straight to the heart. Plot, character development, setting, etc. are all fairly well-done but ultimately remain secondary to the love story. The romance between Sharon and Catch is so intense and compelling that it ranks high among films depicting the nature of love.  Caviezel, especially, gives an attractive performance any female viewer will sigh over.  Those searching for a good love story need look no further; it's here in its many splendored glory. "},{"Title":"I thought this film was brilliant","Date":"10 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have to say I can't believe some of the reviews I've read of this film here.  I thought this film was extremely well acted, had an original story line, and a quirky but interesting script.  I'm impressed by Jennifer Lopez's acting, James Caviezel's interpretation was fantastic and there was great chemistry between them on the set.  I was intrigued right throughout.  It was well-paced, and just had a good feel about it, something which I find is missing in 95% of films being made these days.  9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A gentle love story","Date":"11 January 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" First, note to all brain dead film makers If you're going to open your film with a location shot that includes Toronto's CN Tower, don't set the story in Chicago.I'm sick of seeing obviously Canadian cities substituting for New York, Boston, Chicago, etc, etc. If you're going to film in Toronto, Vancouver, or Montreal then, you airheads, set the story in those cities. Or . . . don't choose filming locations and shots that scream you're not even in the U.S., never mind the city you purport to be the story's location.That aside, I really enjoyed this film, mainly because Jennifer Lopez and Jim Caviezel are so likable together here. This is one of Lopez's better performances as well. She's as good as she was in Out of Sight. The film is a gentle love story about two people haunted by having unwittingly destroyed their families. They have a brief, chance encounter during one family's tragedy, and then as strangers are drawn together a year later; neither having a conscious recollection of the other. The relationship that develops after their second meeting gives both the strength to acknowledge and come to terms with their losses as well as find healing in each other. "},{"Title":"Another excellent performance by Jennifer Lopez","Date":"3 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Once again, Jennifer Lopez proves that she is a wonderful actress. Ms. Lopez truly the star of the movie. Also, the story itself is good and there is a strong performance by Jim Caveziel. This movie explores some very sensitive subjects ... death, loneliness, grief ... as well as renewal, restoration and redemption. At times the movie borders on sentimentality but manages to avoid that pitfall as Ms. Lopez's fine performance transcends any weaknesses contained in the script and transforms this movie into something special. A man experiences devastating personal loss, a woman has unrequited anger, both are alone yet both overcome their personal issues to come together and move forward in their lives. When managed correctly and respectfully, these themes are the ingredients that make for a good movie and in this case it works. "}{"Title":"Not believable","Date":"21 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you are one of those who watch with child-like eyes and accept what you see without really demanding believable acting, stunts, story and script, then this movie is for you. The message of the movie was delivered, but it's been delivered many times before and much better. It left me wondering how a good-looking policewoman would get involved with a vagrant? He dresses, acts and lives like a loser and yet--unlike her colleagues who are rightfully wary of him--she becomes involved with him. All of this after a totally unbelievable scene where she is rescued by him after he comes out of nowhere to overpower an armed and dangerous killer who was about to blow her away...I didn't believe it any more than I believed her manhandling several 6 foot 2 inch 200 lb thugs throwing them against the car and handcuffing them like they were match sticks. Boy is she strong!! This movie is not worthy of taking up theatre time and space. 4 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Powerfully Emotional and Profound Film","Date":"6 October 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" So this is what Jennifer Lopez can do when she tries! She is well cast as a tough Chicago female cop. I once had a friend who was a female cop in Washington, DC, I hung out with her cop pals sometimes, took part in their banter about their latest arrests, was even taken to see them in the cells, and all of that sort of thing is completely accurately portrayed in this film. This is obviously very much Lopez's own natural element street life and all that goes with it. I can actually believe that she could have become just such a policewoman. She should play more such roles with true grit, as they suit her better than normal romances. She actually looks completely natural when she is punching people in the face and laying them out cold. (I hope she doesn't do that at home.) Apparently she insisted that the mysterious man in the film must be played by Jim Caviezel, which was the perfect choice, and her instinct was spot on. Caviezel does a wonderful job, and his mysterious eyes are just right for someone who does not actually know whether he is dead or alive, and could be either. The deeper purpose of this film is to show the dark, swirling psychological whirlpools of Lopez's family story on the one hand and Caviezel's tale on the other hand. Lopez is superb at conveying her searing emotional turmoil, which is constantly erupting above the surface as rage. Both her father and her brother are uncontrollably violent wife-bashers. She did the right thing as a girl by calling the police when he was beating up her mother, and had him arrested. Not only did the father never really speak to her again, but the mother could not forgive her either, which is of course typical of many battered wives, who suffer from the psychological sickness of not wanting to put a stop to it, and who have married these men on purpose (subconsciously, of course); the sister-in-law is another one who is just the same. Really, there is nothing more annoying than a battered woman who secretly wants it. The irony is that Lopez herself, in going 'to the side of the law' and becoming a policewoman, ends up using her fists a lot herself, but this time to stop crime, not to beat up a spouse. This shows how violent impulses can be turned away from the bad and be used for the good sometimes. (However, special forces soldiers, who are an extreme version of this, generally end up as psychological wrecks, and I know some.) Caviezel's dilemma and the coincidence of their double meetings border on the supernatural, and talented director Luis Mandoki and equally talented writer Gerald di Pego (they earlier collaborated on the excellent 1999 film 'Message in a Bottle') stress all the most mysterious angles in this tale, which makes the whole film more profound than it might otherwise have been, without ever descending into affectation. Shirley Knight gives excellent acting support, and the whole cast are good. This is a highly worthwhile film, which takes a star who often does superficial films and puts her into something real, with excellent results. "},{"Title":"Lopez Eyes.","Date":"15 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Angel Eyes (2001) Dir Luis Mandoki / Cast Jennifer Lopez, Jim Caviezel, Sonia Braga, Victor Argo, Jeremy Sisto Title suggests goodness through eye reaction as seen through Jennifer Lopez in the opening. Jennifer Lopez plays a cop, abused as a child and caused tension within her family when she turned her father in. Jim Caviezel plays Catch who saves her from certain death. She believes she can assist in his facing a trauma. Directed by Luis Mandoki who previously made the wretched Message in the Bottle, another film about someone unable to come to terms with his past. Lopez holds strong as a hardened woman enacting justice upon any male threatening her vulnerability. She struggles to understand Catch as well as deal with her family. Caviezel is appealing as this traumatized individual who must face issues that he hadn't let go. Needless to say, both their stories bring about the obvious closures. Sonia Braga plays Lopez's mother and Victor Argo portrays her father who struggle with their feelings towards their daughter but the dealing of this is too conventional. Jeremy Sisto plays her equally ticked off brother who also advocates distaste for her. This may be because thriller and drama do not collaborate well here. Often unfocused the film regards punishment for doing right. Unfortunately the film has an appeal of an episodic crime show. Score 6 / 10 "},{"Title":"Brilliant Plot Exposition but kind of a dopey ending","Date":"30 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Saw the movie on cable, and thought it was well acted. JLo gets busted on a lot as a lousy actress, but I think she did really well in this one. Caviezel gets many of these roles as a tortured soul seeking redemption (see also Frequency). I thought it was brilliant how the two main characters are displayed as so alike with painful pasts, yet they both need the same thing. There were some neat twists in the story, like Sharon remembering Catch from the accident. The end was kind of Disney-like (except for the seat belts), but you feel like these two deserve a happy ending, after all they've been through. Overall a very good movie. Definitely a 'chick flick'. "},{"Title":"Slow but I loved it!","Date":"26 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" J'Lo is know to be sexy and hot in Selena, Anaconda and Out of Sight. But in the movie Angel Eyes, it's all but eyes. It was more toned down than Out of Sight, but J'Lo is always hotter than ever. Playing a tough cop is always a good thing for her to be. But in the movie, she got a little more serious there. The guy called Catch is like the person who wants to start over, but when your family dies how can you forget? A terrible car accident claims his son and wife, and he doesn't want to talk about to anyone around. The cop played by J'Lo has a few skeletons of her own. The father was abusive in the past, and her family is bond by it. She gets mad at her in-laws, and they fight with her as well. The only comfort she finds are her partner and Catch. It was painful, but this movie was promising. I think it makes a good romance movie as well. This is what I called a match made in heaven. RATING 3.5 OUT OF 5 STARS. "},{"Title":"J-Lo 'aint just a pretty face!","Date":"7 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Before I saw this film and, in fact before I saw any film starring J-Lo, I simply cast her off as another celebrity who had succeeded at singing and was now trying to be an actress as if the transition was obligatory. However, it seems I misjudged her as I really enjoyed this film. Ok, so this wasn't just because of Jennifer - James Caveizel was brilliant as the mysterious Catch, the plot was intense and intriguing yet very moving and the cinematic effects perfectly portrayed the distorted visions and flashbacks seen through Catch's eyes. Nevertheless, Lopez played a credible role in making this a surprisingly poignant film. Her performance was not only believable but passionate and of a very high quality. Having also seen Ms. Lopez in last year's The Wedding Planner, which, although was only a light hearted romantic comedy, proved she could do funny and sweet at the same time, I believe she has now established herself as a plausible actress and am keen to see more of her upcoming films. And let's face it, having acted in a variety of films - thrillers, romances, comedies - and being one of the most famous r'n'b singers of the 21st Century with REAL talent, J-Lo 'aint just a pretty face! "},{"Title":"Angel Butt","Date":"3 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Closer You Look. The Better View You Will Get.Aside from all the jokes this is actually a pretty descent picture. Don't just watch this movie because of J.Lo cause you'll be surprised at how good it really is.3(***)out of 4(****)stars "},{"Title":"A hokey and atrocious romantic thriller","Date":"22 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Jennifer Lopez is a great singer but she keeps on getting the wrong roles as an actress. This 2000 Warner Brothers release being one of them. Lopez portrays a Chicago cop with a tragic past who falls for a lone drifter (James Caviezel) with similar problems of his own. The film tries to focus on too many different elements and yet still pass its story off as cohesive. It all winds up being a huge mess that is totally unsure of what it wants to be genre wise and storytelling wise.    "},{"Title":"Very touching and realistic","Date":"23 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I recently watched Angel Eyes and I was amazed at how realistic the film was and how great the characters were. Jennifer Lopez does an excellent job playing Sharon, a police officer who's struggling to win the acceptance of her family. Jim Caviezel's performance as the mysterious rescuer Catch was astounding. Overall, the film gives us an actual view at how precious life is and how we could all rebound from personal loss. Four star rating "},{"Title":"A Must Have For Your Movie Collection","Date":"29 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've seen mixed reviews on this movie but I have to say it's one of the few films I've REALLY enjoyed.  Action and comedy are more of my genres for movies so at first I wasn't sure if I'd like it.  But this film won me over and has become on of my favorites.I loved the scene when Sharon goes to her parents party and tries to talk to her father, but he won't even give her the time of day.  After she tells her story to the man walking around with the video camera, I was hoping her father would come to his senses and go over to her but he didn't.  It was a great twist because usually movies have a happy ending to a troubled situation such as that one.Kudos to Jennifer and James for two fantastic performances! "}{"Title":"Not that bad","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This wasn`t bad,just boring.I actually fell asleep.The premise is good enough.A kind of Ghost like story with fine performances,Lopez does an OK job,but i`ve seen her better.Anyway;I thought this would be a thriller,but it wasn`t.It was more of a romantic drama. So-it wasn`t bad,just boring.Rating-5/10 "},{"Title":"an old fashioned romantic love story.","Date":"12 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"     Granted that  the story is predictable & has been done a thousand times before. Its is very well written  & excellently acted by Jennifer Lopez & James Casaviel (probably spelled wrong),  This is a star vehicle & the 2 of them make the most of it. There is very little action, BUT for those who want a well done romance, this is it. First rate production & music score especially the  trumpet, piccolo duet of NATURE BOY Rating    ***1/   93/100      IMBd    9 "},{"Title":"Angel Eyes (2001)","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Fresh from the romantic comedy 'The Wedding Planner', Latin superstar Jennifer Lopez took on a completely different character in this, 'Angel Eyes'. After saving a man's life (it is part of her job, being a cop and all!) he begins to watch over her - much like a Guardian Angel would - and even rescues her from being shot. In between trying to sort out her many family problems,   Sharon Progue (J.Lo) and her 'angel eyes' Catch (Jim Cavaziel) end up falling for eachother. The acting is very good. All those who have doubted the sexy singer's acting ability can breathe a sigh of relief - Ms. Lopez (or should that be Mrs. Judd?!) proves that she CAN act. Jim however, seems too distant to be her love interest, and overall, although compelling, Angel Eyes wasn't the part-thriller, part-romance I thought it was. nearly-6/10. "},{"Title":"Not just another rip-off of Ghost or City of Angels","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I am not usually a romance fan, and thought this was going to be a spooky thriller, like The Sixth Sense, and early on I was afraid it would be a rip-off of that film, or Ghost or City of Angels. Instead, it was a romantic movie with things t say about relationships, love, loss and loyalty. Although not deep in some ways it had more to say than the other films mentioned.J Lo is called upon to act more here than in earlier formula roles, and conveys her character well. The entire supporting cast is superb.Well worth viewing. "},{"Title":"Confusing But Entertaining Drama","Date":"14 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"   The first two-thirds of Angel Eyes leaves the viewer a little confused, trying to figure out just what is going on. The story in a nutshell has a dazed man Catch Lambert (Jim Caziezel) wandering around the streets of Chicago seemingly running away from his past. He happens upon Officer Sharon Pogue (Jennifer Lopez) to whom he is mysteriously attracted. He tries to start up a relationship with her but keeps walking away. He lives in a barren apartment and his only friend is a wheelchair bound woman (Shirley Knight) for whom he buys groceries each week.  Officer Pogue on the other hand, is having her own problems. Her brother (Jeremy Sisto) is beating his wife (Monet Mazur), she hasn't spoken to her father (Victor Argo) in years and has trouble communicating with her mother (Sonia Braga). As her relationship with Lambert develops he begins to face his past while Sharon tries to patch things up with her family. At the beginning, I thought we were going to have a police drama, but as the story moved along it turned out to be a pretty absorbing drama. The acting is good all around although it's hard to imagine J-Lo as a hard nosed cop and even harder to accept her beer drinking and cussing as one of the boys.   "},{"Title":"romance, romance","Date":"7 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A lovely movie for a dark, long, cold evening alone at home... The story starts slowly and starts to blossom from minute to minute. Although the story isn't really new and although you can guess the secrets and the ending after a short while, the story still keeps you under its spell. Jim Caviezel is simply gorgeous. He's charismatic and charming and ... THOSE EYES! Jennifer Lopez proves that she can do more than just look pretty (which she does anyway). The relationship between the two is very realistic and never too clich. The love-scenes are cute and the ending makes you happy. Two people learn how to trust each other and themselves, learn how to cope with their past and take the risk of a new start...  "},{"Title":"A quality sensitive drama of relationships and romance.","Date":"30 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  We were surprised by how good this film was. 'J Lo' really shines with super acting, as does the lead man Jim Cavaziel (who also is in the film 'The Count of Monte Christo' - what a different role!). Although it starts out with some violence and action, it settles down to a serious drama with a decent story and nice script. Well worth watching if you like good drama and unless you crave for smash 'em up, sex flicks, or other dribble. "},{"Title":"Talking about Caviezel...","Date":"22 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I rented this movie on friday and watched it both on friday night and sunday night. I loved it. But reading the users' comments here made me wanna say a few words. It took me months to rent this movie, cause I already had a bad impression on jennifer lopez and jim caviezel. I absolutely hated her as an actress in 'the cell' and 'the wedding planner'. It looked like all she could do was whisper with an annoying husky voice! -- especially in 'the cell'. After watching 'frequency' -- which I also loved --, Caviezel also got in the list of actors I hate. He was so... slow, apathetic. But in 'angel eyes', he's just perfect! J. Lo doesn't get it right yet, but Caviezel played Catch just the way he should be. You actually feel that Catch could only act like that, look like that and react like that. The whole time he seems perfect. So it bothered me that everyone only commented about J. Lo and completely forgot about someone who did a great performance in this film. Adding to that the director's performance, we do have a great great movie. It's one of my faves now. "},{"Title":"Amazing","Date":"5 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I didn't think I would like Jennifer Lopez as an actress but I saw this movie and was surprised and deeply impressed by her acting.This movie has a lot of heart and a lot of greatness. It has issues in the story line that are not resolved in the end making it more realistic and more...touching.I LOVED this movie. "},{"Title":"Very Good!","Date":"26 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Jennifer Lopez and James Caviezel were great!!!!  The movie got a little slow at times, but the ending more than made up for it.  Very emotional when the characters come to terms with their pasts and take a big step to move on with the future.   "}{"Title":"A GOOD MOVIE HAS TO BE SEEN","Date":"19 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Indeed it's a good movie. The story is very simple, but it works. The time goes by and we almost do not perceice this... at the final scene, we leave the cinema with a feeling that not everything is lost... I think that a good movie is a good movie and a good movie doens't need too much words to define it.   "},{"Title":"Angel Eyes is a very good film, Caviezel and Lopez star.","Date":"12 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  SPOILERS - Set in Chicago, Sharon (Jennifer Lopez) is a tough cop who is estranged from her family because some time back she had her father arrested for spousal abuse of her mother. It cured him, but he never forgave her. She comes upon a bad wreck, the mother and son die, but the father, Catch, she coaxes to hang on, he fades in and out, all he remembers are those Angel Eyes looking at him, he thought he was dying.  A year later, he sees Sharon, is attracted to those eyes but doesn't quite know why. Meanwhile, although she has a great guy relationship with her police buddies, most who are married, she is lonely and unhappy because she has no special person and she misses her father.Sharon and Catch seem like an unlikely pair, but somehow they get along, do things together, go swimming in their skivvies, and more! One night, he is attracted to a club, doesn't know why, inside he is mesmerized by the music, then he walks onstage, picks up a trumpet, proceeds to play. An old friend calls him by his real name, which he denies, but Sharon looks it up, finds photos of the wreck, remembers being there, presses Catch to come to terms with his loss.Dad never does come around to forgive Sharon, but she accepts that, she and Catch go off together, he drives.  A few words, like mine, cannot in any fashion describe how fine this film is. The dialog and acting are well-done, treats real personal loss issues without tying everything up in a neat package. Lopez continues to show us what a fine actress she is, seemingly able to play any character. The DVD is basuc, Digital Dolby 5.1 sound but with no signifucant extras. "},{"Title":"Dull tripe","Date":"8 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I thought this movie was utter, senseless trash.  Then, after turning on the director's commentary and starting it again, I noticed something  My DVD player had skipped around 20 minutes of crucial exposition and character development.  Interestingly, it had done so during cuts so it was unnoticeable.It's still trash, though.  It just makes a bit more sense now.  "},{"Title":"A Very Nice Surprise!!","Date":"24 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I like to comment on movies that really surpass my expectations. I loved this movie! One thing I really liked about it was the style. It was compelling throughout, yet it had a nice slow and wonderfully detailed pace.I also enjoyed the unique interaction between the two main characters. They were both extremely likeable, and the dialogue between them seemed very realistic. Their characters were believable, and that's important for me.The movie tackled some tough issues, and it didn't end by tying a nice pretty bow around every issue. Many times I will enjoy a movie, but the end seems rushed or roughly put together. I didn't sense that in this movie. I thought the end was great. The acting was great, the directing was great, and the music (especially the trumpet scene) was very nice. It's not the greatest movie I've ever seen, but it's rare when I can't find any faults. Good Movie! "},{"Title":"Jennifer has been much more angelic than this","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  What a let-down to those of us who were so impressed by Jennifer Lopez in THE WEDDING PLANNER. Couldn't somebody have wanted her to do more of what she did best? Instead we get this morose drama with no particularly likeable characters in it. The only suspense I remember is -- Will she or won't she make peace with her father? I won't spoil it in case you really want to find out, although I ceased to care well before the movie was over. Come to think about it, do I remember very much to give away if I wanted to? That's about how memorable it is.  "},{"Title":"Lopez to remain B actress, she should have raised the stats by going to college...","Date":"20 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Lopez is pretty. Pretty is all she has. She cannot act! After hearing what a piece of garbage Wedding Planner was, I decided to give her a chance in this one and boy, was she a disappointment. I think she either should enroll in some community college in the Bronx (why was she ever allowed out of there in the first place?) or she should stick to shaking her booty as a forever fly girl. That was the only role that ever suited her anyway. I have a tendency for beating up personally for bad acting but bad acting shouldn't go unnoticed and everything else has been said about the plot. I recommend In The Bedroom for this week.  "},{"Title":"Intriguing character study.  Excellent acting and directing.","Date":"20 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  `Angel Eyes' is an excellent character study that is not likely to have much mass appeal.  It requires a very patient viewer due to its deliberate pacing and subtle presentation.  The great majority of viewers want to be actively entertained when they go to the movies and this is not that sort of film.  Viewing this film is more like trying to navigate a ship through a fog.  You have to stay alert and try to figure things out as you go.The story by Gerald De Pego is well written, presenting two very flawed characters that spend the entire story struggling to overcome a considerable amount of emotional baggage.  I give director Luis Mandoki extremely high marks for his presentation.  Mandoki takes his time and unfolds the story gradually with great nuance.  He takes great care to make sure to avoid being obvious.  Despite the fact that it is readily apparent that Catch (James Caviezel) is the same man that Sharon (Jennifer Lopez) helped in the car wreck in the opening scene (no spoiler here, they almost spoon feed this to you on the movie jacket) everything else needs to be discovered. Mandoki artfully introduces characters in a consistently nebulous way.  When we meet a new character we are not exactly sure during the beginning of the scene to whom we are being introduced and why he or she is important.  It is as if we are overhearing a conversation between two people and we are trying to figure out how they know one another.  The viewer is forced to think (a risky concept with today's fast-food-cinema mentality).  Mandoki constantly supplies us with vague information, forcing us to ask ourselves, `Okay, how does this fit in.'  It makes the film much more intriguing.My only criticism of Mandoki is that he tries to do too much with Sharon's family relationships. He makes it a full blown subplot that bogs down an already convoluted tale, taking us away from the real story which is about Catch and Sharon.  The entire party scene after the renewal of vows is completely superfluous.  The scenes of Sharon and her partner having soul searching conversations should also have been cut.  Another annoying detail is that Sharon and Catch are constantly driving around wearing no seat belts, which seems to me to be terribly incongruous given that one is a cop and the other a serious auto accident victim.The acting is terrific.  This is the best performance I have seen to date by Jennifer Lopez.  This part tests her talent with its breadth and she delivers a full ranging performance. Sharon is an extremely complex character filled with self doubt, anger and misplaced aggression.  Lopez plays her flawlessly with a delicate combination of toughness and emotional vulnerability, which is a difficult balance to achieve.  Her love scenes are tender and sincere, and her banter with fellow cops is smart and feisty.I was impressed by James Caviezel's performance in `Frequency', but I enjoyed this role even better.  Catch is an enigmatic character drifting through a period of anomie.  There is a duality to him, defeated and despondent, yet with a hint of seemingly inconsistent strength that emerges occasionally from his listlessness.  Caviezel's performance appears uneven as we watch it, yet it is perfectly presented and fits the character completely once we learn the whole story about him.  It is a marvelous interpretation of a complicated and puzzling individual.This film is a wonderful character study that is likely to be grossly unappreciated for its intricacy and strong direction.  The character development is masterfully done and the acting is superlative.  I rated it an 8/10.  It is an intelligent and sensitive story for the refined viewer.      "},{"Title":"An Excellent Movie.","Date":"9 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"     Angel Eyes is an excellent movie with intelligence behind it. Jennifer Lopez and James Caviezel were great and the movie was also very heartwarming and fun to watch or entertaining. This movie was also very sad, but was very good and never kept you bored. Some movies like this make you fall asleep face-first into your popcorn bag, but Angel Eyes defenitley was not like that. Angel Eyes is very entertaining and had a lot of thought put into the writing of the film. Angel Eyes is a great movie. I give it a 10 out of 10.   ) "},{"Title":"Good story, good acting, marvelous trumpet","Date":"7 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A female cop (Lopez), with huge personal problems, helps a man (Caviezel) to survive a terrible car crash. After three years he comes back as her guarding angel.The movie is a little mystical. Two characters in it are faced to confront their normal life problems of the heaviest kind. They have trouble coping with that so they seek help with each other. Together they can find strength and courage to go on, to live.The story is good. Not brilliant, but good. It is directed almost perfectly though. Jennifer is beautiful and charming as always, and movie by movie she gets better. Her companion, Jim Caviezel, did a great job playing a very mysterious character. But all that fades when confronted with a scene where Jim's character plays a trumpet. This scene alone is enough reason to see the movie. A beautiful blues song played in an extraordinary manner. Absolutely incredible.Angel Eyes is definitely worth seeing. Whether you are a big Jenn fan, or look for a good, emotional story - go see it. If nothing from above, the trumpet will make visiting a theater a time well spent. "},{"Title":"Jennifer Lopez is tough, sensitive and real","Date":"26 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Jennifer Lopez gave a phenomenally strong performance in 'Angel Eyes', proving that she is, without a doubt, one of today's most capable young actors.  Throughout the movie, she is tough, sensitive, beautiful,  and ... best of all ... real.The story, however, fails to live up to the studio hype.  The trailer clearly attempts to market 'Angel Eyes' as a thriller.  It is not.  Instead, it's a captivating, often puzzling love story.   j.lo's love interest, 'Catch' (James Caviezel), is a bit creepy and somewhat comatose through most of the flick -- often reminding me of Anthony Perkins as Norman Bates in Hitchcock's 'Psycho'. But that's as close as 'Angel Eyes' ever gets to being a thriller.  After a while, you begin to wonder why Sharon (j.lo) would waste her time on such a loser.  But, despite the movie's flaws, 'Angel Eyes' is well worth seeing for Lopez's stellar performance, arguably her best to date.   "}{"Title":"Surprising!","Date":"6 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was expecting another slasher/stalker flick. I was pleasantly surprised that this sensitive story was laid out so well. There was some mystery, without becoming too abstract. Romantic and Bittersweet, but not coy or maudlin. Ms Lopez proves she's more than a pretty face. A very strong performance, worthy of some positive comments. Her co-star, though unknown, helped carry the sensitivity of the inner depths of the mind....and soul.A feel good ending that reminds us love can be, without being perfect. I recommend this film to those needing a reminder. "},{"Title":"started off promising.....","Date":"25 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie started off rather well.  I was intensely interested in the movie for about the first twenty five or thirty minutes.  After that point, however, I realized that whoever wrote this movie was only talented enough to toy with a good idea, but in no way capable of developing it into an excellent story.  Instead what happens is that this movie goes so far as to insult the intelligence of its audience.  It tries to have a mystery, but it really doesn't.  There are sub plots that really bog the movie down.  It is extremely predictable, starts to feel lengthy, and it gets washed in a sea of sentimentality that only serves to grate on ones nerves.  Seriously, just skip this movie.  Honestly, you won't miss much.  4 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Sensitive exploration of different kinds of love","Date":"20 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Angel Eyes is set against a background of police work, mean streets and domestic violence, that could have provided the context for a crime thriller. In fact, the movie is character-driven, emotional and ultimately gentle. Despite its violent action and hints of the occult, this is essentially a love story, about two people - police officer Sharon Pogue (Jennifer Lopez) and solitary drifter Catch Lambert (Jim Caviezel) - finding each other, coming to terms with their respective pasts, and getting ready to move on. But this isn't the only loving relationship in the movie, there are several other love themes, though one or two are hardly hinted at.It's a little difficult to accept Lopez as an ass-kicking cop tackling guys twice her size. But she has a sure touch in her scenes with Sharon's fellow officers, with her dysfunctional family, and with Catch, when she convincingly conveys the insecurity of a woman trying to hide her inner hurt under an aggressive shell. Dark and handsome Caviezel is well cast as the mystery-man, also trying to hide his past as much from himself as from other people. Like many fine humanist films, not all the loose ends are neatly tied by the close, but the ending is definitely upbeat. (Personally, I think a note of bathos is struck right at the very end, but to say what would give too much away.)Incidentally, like Moulin Rouge, the film features the 40s hit tune, Nature Boy, by Eden Ahbez, but in a solo trumpet version, without the somewhat corney words.  "},{"Title":"Even handed & repectful - totally unique.","Date":"17 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I really do not know why I decided to rent Angel Eyes from the video store tonight, but I did.  After the first few scenes I thought I had the movie pegged and was prepared for some formulaic supernatural thriller, but I was mistaken.This movie develops and carries your interest along and you find that there is no real need for violence, or special effects, it seems to operate on a level I have not seen before in a movie which is why I called it unique.There were some funny things that stand out, like Lopez' job and her somewhat masculine ways that seem odd, or over the top until you start to realize that this movie is operating on the symbolic level.I liked it alot because it was a very human and gentle movie that does not take you into a fantasy world of technological or violent fantasy, Angel Eyes reminds you of what being human is about, and helps you think more about other people and what they might be experiencing.I liked it for the evenhanded and gentle way it respects the viewer and does not manipulate them with pablum, special effects, over-the-top scenes, or black-and-white realities, for that I almost give it a ten because it is so rare that it is tried, and even more rare that a movie and be so right-on.Great job by the actors, and congratulations to them and the studios for taking a chance and trying something different! "},{"Title":"Absorbing moving picture.","Date":"17 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  It got panned by the critics.  Though I can't figure out why.  It's such a romantic movie.  Has a surrealism unlike I've ever seen.  But hey go out an rent it.  Bad things... a couple.  Some of the actors seem a little miscasted. Sure Jenn looks latino, but her sister doesn't.  And Jenn doesn't play a cop very well.  She's too pretty to be one.  (not to say otherwise)Anyway I loved it and the critics didn't.  Who cares. )8/10Quality 9/10 Entertainment 9/10 Replayable 7/10 "},{"Title":"Good, intriguing, heartfelt drama","Date":"10 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  OK, so this movie doesn't look like much on the outside--judging from the trailers.  And having the name Jennifer Lopez posted above the title probably made it seem like a pop-culture showcase for an up-and-coming young star.  But it's nothing like that.  And Lopez does a pretty fine job. The story is deliberately paced, and without any twists, but proves to be compelling and intriguing.  At the start of the film, we hardly know anything about Jim Caviezel's character Catch.  There's an aura of mystery that surrounds this friendly, helpful loner.  And I'm not going to give away his character, since the truth about Catch doesn't completely unfold until the third act.  Angel Eyes is an interesting film that doesn't take the melodramatic path.  In fact, it's amazingly character-driven.  What ropes the audience in are the interactions between the characters.  It's a movie about humanity.  About family.  About facing your fears.  And of course, it's about love. Caviezel does a superb job.  I liked him in Frequency, but this role required much more depth and he pulled it off with flying colors.  For those of you who missed this movie in theaters--and that's probably most of you--I suggest you check it out.  It's very interesting and unusual, and unlike many of the melodramas and formulaic thrillers in recent years. My score  7 (out of 10) "},{"Title":"J. Lo is a much better actress than singer","Date":"7 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The movie's not bad, I really liked some parts. Some parts I would qualify in German as 'kitsch', but not necessarily in the negative sense. But the story's somewhat illogical (how does this 'catch' find the woman, did he search for her?) and a little bit 'lifeless'. I have to admit that J. Lopez was the reason I wanted to see 'Angel Eyes' - she really acts very much better than she sings (although it's astonishing, how unerotically she's in the film). "},{"Title":"heartbreaking, though sometimes stiff","Date":"5 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The film had a bit of a slow beginning, but I felt it really picked up momentum and made its story and its characters extremely convincing.  I especially liked the fact that the conflict with the father was not completely resolved one way or the other, because that would have made the whole thing very unbelievable.  This way, you remain with a bittersweet feeling in your heart, feeling for the two main characters and hoping they will find happiness together. "},{"Title":"This movie is well worth renting or buying!","Date":"3 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm sorry that I didn't see this in the Theater when it was first released. The trailers made it seem like some kind of supernatural, crime, thriller. But to my surprise it was more of a love story with a twist.  Jim Caviezel is a fantastic actor, especially when you figure out why he's acting the way he is. I hope to see him in more leading man roles. Plus he's got great eyes, and a smile that takes your breath away.  And not since Jennifer Lopez's performance in Selena, have I realized what a great actress she really is. I highly recommend this movie!!!   "},{"Title":"Not bad at all","Date":"29 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Angel Eyes is a touching movie about two people, each facing different struggles in their lives. One was faced with a great tragedy, the other with an ongoing one. They were meant to meet, it had to be fate, the movie suggests so ... and indeed proves how importantly this weird relationship helped both of them. Like many other movies, this is a simple movie, don't expect much, even though it does have a tragic side to it, it is still a feel good movie!James Caviezel Catch fits his character greatly. He is a good actor, you can feel it from his expressions, there is something deep about the character he played, and it drives you to seek answers for all the questions you have. Jennifer Lopez Sharon is a breath of fresh air, with an innocent face that's really comforting, and a sharp edge to it that fits with being a Cop. Writer Gerald Di Pego was always trying to show the troubles in both of the leading characters lives. He succeeded in doing that. How they both helped each other was truly inspiring, and if you look deep, you will find that he helped her also, maybe the writer didn't emphasize on showing this point. Director Luis Mandoki offered more of the usual, nothing new.The movie is really a moving one, the story is not the most original, but if you like Jennifer go see it, if you want a nice romantic (yet different) story go see it ... Not bad at all. 6/10  "}{"Title":"A hidden gem!","Date":"28 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  When I first saw movie theater previews for Angel Eyes I wasn't interested in seeing this film. It seemed like just another creepy thriller or an imitation of Ghost. Having just watched this film on video I now realize how wrong I was and how misleading those movie previews were. This is not a supernatural thriller, but an absorbing mystery/drama with excellent performances from Jennifer Lopez, who proves herself to be an incredibly talented actress, and James Caviezel, who we just don't entirely understand (despite some hints along the way) until two-thirds into the film when he begins to play a trumpet in a Chicago Blues club. Only then do the pieces start coming together. This film is about mutual sadness, optimism, and fate. Both Jennifer and James' characters are sad people with unexplained pasts. Partial resolution wins out in the end, and a satisfying cinematic experience is the ultimate result. The only complaint that comes to mind is the closing scene... Why didn't these characters strap on their seat belts when James' character decided to drive? When you see the film, you'll understand what I mean. Aside from this, if you're interested in a genuine touching drama with optimistic elements and fine performances, then see Angel Eyes. It's a hidden gem! 8/10. "},{"Title":"loved it","Date":"19 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Yes, the marketing campaign for this movie was an abomination in the bizarre lengths it went to misrepresent. But the movie, if you give it a chance, is an excellent, well-filmed romance/drama like you've never seen before. My wife and I loved it. Caviezel and Lopez were each great and great together. Loved it.  "},{"Title":"Moved me to tears!","Date":"10 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Well I didn't realise Lopez could act like this - she has certainly improved on previous performances. James Caviezel is absolutely gorgeous (both physically and his acting performance!). I hadn't connected him until afterwards with his role in 'Pay it Forward' - but then he was competing with Kevin Spacey. This film has been written with such realistic depth that the bizarreness of the plot is eclipsed by the stunning realism of the relationships. I loved this film and would happily go and see it again tomorrow. I have to admit though, I would describe this as a 'Ladies film' - yes I realise that is the kiss of death for approx half the population. But absolutely lovely romantic weepy. Girls - go with a mate, leave the fella at home and don't forget the tissues!  "},{"Title":"A romantic, heart-warming movie, with loads of excitement.","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Angel Eyes is a very touching movie, with two brilliant leads starring in it. Jennifer Lopez and James Caviezel play Sharon and Catch and they are both great here, as usual. They both have amazing chemistry too, which is always a good thing to have in movie, especially, in one like this. The script is really good too. It doesn't let on, what's going to happen next and it's not predictable at all, unlike some other movies out there. There's a nice ending to round of the movie too, which I would definitely recommend to anyone, especially, if you like these kind of movies and if you're a fan of Jennifer Lopez and James Caviezel. I give Angel Eyes a 10/10 "},{"Title":"Tolerable date movie","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Jennifer Lopez as a stunning Chicago cop who falls for a mysterious stranger. Well acted by Lopez but very slow in parts. Needs much punchier editing. the script veers from interesting to slow and predictable and the love story angle, on which the film hangs, is rather two-dimensional. "},{"Title":"Angel has eyes- no legs","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  CONTAIN SPOILERS!!! A basic formula movie, with a few nip and tucks to make it appear slightly different, this movie might have been direct to cable if it didn't have the guarantee teen, and pre teen audience. Jennifer Lopez plays a troubled cop who gets involved with a troubled victim, and their troubles united to lift them both. At times, it seems that the film is trying to escape its formula, and do a bit more-- and at times, it succeeds in doing a bit more. But I suppose the trouble I had with this film, is that it never succeeded in delighting or surprising me-- and it never actually said anything about the troubles the two were going through-- and like so many films of late, it wasn't really about anything. --Borrowing heavily from the stock image footage of the Sixth Sense, it appears that this movie is trying to mislead us to believe that the main male character Catch is dead. It drops the same hints as the Sixth Sense-- The man is killed in the opening scene, we flash forward a year later- he never changes his clothes-- he runs into a kid with highlights in his hair-- and the color red keeps reappearing in his presence. --But, unless your a pre-teen with no attention span, you will never for a moment think he may be dead-- or wonder if Catch is the same guy from the accident. -Oh by the way-- in the opening scene we never see his face--why?? -- This comes off more like cornball tricks, than it succeeds in adding any interest. --I suppose that some thought was given to this script, and it is true that Jennifer Lopez is a far better actress than I would have thought her capable of. It is, a somewhat enjoyable film, which, really should have been enjoyed on cable. --And-- please, someone tell Hollywood that most people don't swear every other word-- and please tell them to get a camera man that's able of holding the camera still when something's going on. --These elements are also popping up often inn films today-- with the addition to, what I call, the double ending syndrome They could give a sad ending --and they didn't want to give a happy ending-- so they did both-- playing to both sides of the fence-- which only weakens any story. "},{"Title":"Romantic, heart-warming, and thrilling","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this film with my boyfriend, and, in my opinion, ANGEL EYES is a romantic, heart-warming, and thrilling romantic thriller. If you ask me, Sharon (Jennifer Lopez) and Catch (James Caviezel) made a perfect couple. One of the things I liked most about this film is when Catch played the trumpet when he and Sharon went out to the nightclub. I thought that he sound good when he played for Sharon. Also, I thought that Sharon made a good cop. They made the perfect couple, if you ask me. In conclusion, I recommend this romantic, heart-warming, and thrilling romantic thriller to all you Jennifer Lopez fans who have not seen it. You're in for a real treat, so, go to the theater with a friend and see it. "},{"Title":"Jennifer Lopez is something to watch for...","Date":"16 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  just watched this and I think it is nice romance film with some downbeat twist that worth to watch. This is my first Jennifer Lopez film that I've seen and I think she's outstanding. Jim Caviezel and Jennifer Lopez succeed to create this sweet chemistry even though this film not meant to be some smarmy romance film but still the sweetness appeared as well.... Hollywood, watch out for these two....or already?? -) "},{"Title":"A movie with flaws, but depth and strength","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I don't like most movies these days, and I really normally dislike Jennifer Lopez movies because they don't typically include much intelligence or anything for the movie-goer to do but sit back and watch.  There are a few problems with flow and time (as in they are both really difficult to get a hold of and understand), but they don't detract enough from the movie to keep me from buying it on tape.There is super chemistry between Pogue and Catch, the two main characters, but it isn't that perfet Hollywood chemistry that is far too common but a more realistic kind of feel between two people with problems and hard past lives. There is alot of question in mind mind, watching this movie, as to whether it will turn out the way I want it to. This is worsened because I was never quite sure what I wanted to happen between these two people. As you watch, you realize that even if they end up together, Jennifer Lopez and James Caviezel WILL have problems but they will also know enough about themselves to know how to fix them.A warning for the less involved moviegoer If you are not looking for a movie to work your brain, if you have never had real relationship or personal problems, or if you just want a pretty picture to watch for a little less than two hours, then really don't go to this movie. It will be boring for you and you won't get it.  If you want a movie to watch where you won't be able to figure out everything from the first few minutes, the two main characters are real people with flaws and hard lives, and the love story has problems, this is the movie for you. "},{"Title":"Romantic, heart-warming, and thrilling","Date":"8 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this film with my boyfriend, and, in my opinion, ANGEL EYES is a romantic, heart-warming, and thrilling romantic thriller. If you ask me, Sharon (Jennifer Lopez) and Catch (James Caviezel) made a perfect couple. One of the things I liked most about this film is when Catch played the trumpet when he and Sharon went out to the nightclub. I thought that he sound REALLY good when he played for Sharon, AND, Sharon made a good cop. They made the perfect couple, if you ask me. In conclusion, I HIGHLY recommend this romantic, heart-warming, and thrilling romantic thriller to all you Jennifer Lopez fans who have not seen it. You're in for a real treat, so, go to the theater with a friend and see it.  "}{"Title":"This movie touched me deeply.","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I went to see this movie tonight hoping to see a halfway decent romance, but not expecting much, so I was very pleasantly surprised when I really, really enjoyed this movie.I guess what I enjoyed most about it was that it had plenty of depth.   I love movies that have depth and make me feel lots of emotion.  I also like a good mystery and this movie had enough mystery in it to keep my interest.  I felt that the two main characters had a good amount of chemistry between them. I found myself wishing there could be a part two or that the movie had been longer because I wanted to see more of these two characters together.  I will definitely buy this movie when it comes out on dvd, so that I can watch it over and over again.  I don't understand why this movie hasn't been a big hit.  It was so different from other movies and that made it really refreshing to watch.  I've never seen anything like it before. The movie also had some nice spiritual messages in it... messages which touched my heart.  If you like romances with mystery, depth, some painful emotion and a little bit of weirdness, go see this movie.  It's definitely worth the time and money.   I rated it a 9.    "},{"Title":"Forgive, forget and let go!","Date":"2 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Having nothing to do on a Monday evening I thought I would go to see Angel eyes, but little did I know what I was getting myself into. A movie that could have so much potential if was just a little more thought out and put together. I thought this movie was horribly done not to mention the title was questionable. I thought it was too jumpy in places and it didn't flow well it had to many gaps which got answered eventually before the movie is almost finished but then I was to bored to actually follow through with what was going on, I was thoroughly disappointed if it was just plotted out well to me it would have been so much better. The message in the movie was the only thing that was meaningful to me and it's exactly what I am going to do I am going to forgive myself for paying money to actually go see the movie and forget and let go! "},{"Title":"Not for the Inexperienced","Date":"1 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you are young (less than 25), have not experienced real love.  If you have not experienced loss, pain, true human emotion ... you're probably wasting your money here.  If you are more well-rounded, scarred, troubled individual you will get a lot out of this movie. It takes the hard route of being a non-Hollywood story trapped in a Hollywood (budget) production.  But I love this movie.  If you like Romance films with substance, then this is a classic.  It is a shame that they spent $38 million on it (must have been Jennifer Lopez's makeup and hair), because it means that it will be forever deemed a flop due to not quite making it back at the box office.  Jennifer Lopez's acting just gets better and better and (despite what some people have written), I saw huge chemistry between the two stars.  You just need to read the subtleties.  The soundtrack is great also.  This film is so much better than the Wedding Planner.  If you like Romance of any kind, and you have had to deal with tough things in your life, then you will definitely enjoy this movie.  I've watched it twice already, and it just keeps getting better.  I don't find any part of it slow or boring, just beautiful.  I guess I should rent When a man loves a woman now, also directed by Luis Mandoki.  "},{"Title":"Angel Eyes are Wide Shut In Creativity!","Date":"5 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I am praying to the saints above that Jennifer Lopez will next star in a better film than her recent one- `Angel Eyes.' Why? Because `Angel Eyes' was one hell of a disappointment. The film is about a tough female cop who is salvaged from a near death situation by a mysterious drifter. Yes! You got it! The female cop falls for mystery man. The film's main premise is for us to discover who he really is and what happened to him; or in other words- is he an angel? However, the devil in me just wanted to see good shots of J-Lo's most heavenly `ass'tronomical possession. Speaking of Lopez, I do think that she did perform quite admirably; even though the filmmakers put too much pressure on her to carry this dreary movie.  Jennifer, next time you read a script like this one- just say no! J-Lo! Without a doubt, Jennifer Lopez is the only savior of `Angel Eyes.' *** Average  "},{"Title":"A Great Film","Date":"4 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Angel Eyes was a very enjoyable and moving film.  I actually expected it to be mediocre but went to see it anyway because of the actor.  Outside of its basic premise, it was actually a complex film that dared not to take the easy choices.Inside its main story line offers a disturbing look at family that left me very glad for the family I have and challenges me to remember what family means.Jim Caviezel is fast becoming one of my favorite actors.  His portrayal of Catch adds more diversity to his career.  His talent has been demonstrated in a wide range of characters and I look forward to seeing what he does next.The biggest drawback to the film was its marketing.  It seems as this was positioned as a thriller.  I feel this was misleading and many people may have been disappointed that this wasn't a slasher film.  I kept waiting for the bogeyman to jump out from behind a dark corner.  That wasn't the story...just the marketing. "},{"Title":"Two Thumbs UP!","Date":"2 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Its nice to see a movie that tells such a human story about people for a change.  I loved the character of Catch.  This is Jennifer Lopez's best movie since Out of Sight, which if you haven't seen...RUN to the video store and rent it.   "},{"Title":"Nice movie!","Date":"29 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"    ***SPOILERS*** I thought it was kind of good too.  I was absolutely sure about 3/4 of the way through that the ending was going to disappoint.  Instead, we got this really awesome speech from J-Lo at her family's get-together about one of her days when she was younger, it's a real surprise.  She's not that bad of an actor!  And I'm glad they didn't go and do something depressing like make him disappear like the girl in Sweet November or Powder, or Michael, or who knows how many others. "},{"Title":"Terrible Editing Spoiled It For Me","Date":"29 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The producers of this film spent plenty of dough on Chicago police uniforms and Illinois license plates to try and make us believe this story takes place in Chicago.  Too bad the editing was so terrible that the big car accident flashback scene clearly showed the unmistakable skyline of Toronto, Canada, marked by the distinctive CN Tower, tallest freestanding structure in the world, and the clearly recognizable downtown bank buildings including the Canada Trust tower.  And as a native of the Toronto suburbs, I really enjoyed seeing the various neighborhoods of Toronto and especially the shot of the red and white Toronto streetcar pass the Toronto cemetery.  The problem is that I dropped $10 American on this sloppy, poorly edited mess of a movie -- that's 10 American dollars -- and I would like a refund.     "},{"Title":"Could have been a lot better","Date":"29 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Seems that movie was rush into production. The plot is going nowhere and the script is simply awful. Too bad because Jennifer Lopez actually delivers a good and solid performance in this one. She's good in the role of the tough (but not too tough) Chicago cop who falls for that strange fellow, Catch, played by James Caviezel. Contrary to Lopez, he fails to deliver a good performance. His character is not too believable and the chemistry between the two is not present.The editing job was botch. And what about the movie pretending to be in Chicago. Two times at least, you clearly see the Toronto famous landmark, the CN-tower. The accident itself actually seems to have happen on the Gardiner Expressway, the highway leading to downtown Toronto. And by the way, a face to face collision on that expressway is not possible because it is divided! Oh well!Positive note Jennifer Lopez. Negative note a bit of everything else!Out of 100, I gave it 71. That's ** out of ****. Seen at SilverCity Odeon in St. Catharines (Ontario), on May 27th, 2001. "},{"Title":"A classic! Jim Caviezel should play SUPERMAN in any sequels -","Date":"26 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I know there have been a lot of people putting down this movie because they expected a thriller, and possibly for Jim Caviezel's character to be a psychopath out hunting for Jennifer Lopez.  But this movie is so much more - somehow it reminded me of GHOST.***SPOILER ALERT***For a long while into the film, I actually believed Catch was a ghost, but then I realized everyone could see him.  I also wondered about the accident scene at the beginning - how DID it relate to the story?  But the storyline was well-crafted, and, like slowly peeling away the layers of an onion, the hurts of the main characters surface - Catch feels guilt, and Lopez feels anger, which comes out in her handling of criminals and her driven nature.Jim Caviezel is excellent, as always.  This role, along with those from FREQUENCY and PAY IT FORWARD, have convinced me of one thing.  If it is ever decided to make more SUPERMAN movies, he is the only logical choice to play Clark Kent/Superman, with the possible exception of Dean Cain from the Lois and Clark series.  Those eyes of his remind me of some of Chris Reeve's old closeups.  Nicolas Cage will never do for Superman - it MUST be Jim!  He sure can show the emotion - I admire his work!Jennifer Lopez is a great actress who needs more dramas to showcase her work.  All the actors in this film did it proud!  A 10 + ! "}{"Title":"Angels packing heat ?","Date":"22 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I looked forward to seeing this movie the moment I saw the trailer for the first time. I found that the movie started a bit too slowly, but did gain a nice bit of momentum as it progressed. The way the movie's  plot secret segued nicely into a well written ending was something I enjoyed. I particularly liked the scene in the jazz club, I thought it added a nice piece of feeling to the overall production. However, I still can't picture Jennifer Lopez as a tough city street cop in Chicago. That was a very tough sell for me. All in all a decent picture, worthy of a respectable 7. "},{"Title":"Good film but a little slow.","Date":"21 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film wasn't at all what the trailer made it out to be (to me).  I was expecting a thriller but instead it simply tried to be an emotional piece bringing two lonely hearts together and making them face their fears along the way with each other's help (unwanted or not).  It really is a good film overall with great acting but it's a quite slow in parts.  Just when you begin to think that something needs to happen to move it along, it does but it's short lived.  I enjoyed this film but it seemed to to be missing something to give it a higher rating than a six.  I do recommend it but I would see it during a matinee and save the bigger bucks for Shrek or Pearl Harbor or Mummy Returns.  But enjoy, because overall it is a pretty good flick.  ) "},{"Title":"Excellent cast","Date":"21 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I very much enjoyed this film. Jennifer Lopez was angry yet vulnerable, Jim Caviezel was appropriately haunted(and a little old-fashioned.). I enjoyed how the story unfolded. It is a damaged romantic film and the cast is what makes it work. It avoids being too maudlin or plot-constrained. It was great to see Sonia Braga, too.  Romance in  movies is not a bad thing; it just has not been done very well over the past several years. Also, I wish critics would give Ms. Lopez credit for being a good actress. She is able to communicate complexity, and perform in action scenes. And she looks great, too.    "},{"Title":"atmospheric love story","Date":"21 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The cast turns in very good performances -- Lopez proves yet again that she is a real actress. The movie is a love story about two people that have been hurt in different ways. Lopez plays a tough cop who, as a kid, turned her father in for spousal abuse, whose family hasn't forgiven her years later. Caviezel plays a loner who rescues Lopez, and who has some connection with her that is the mystery part of the movie.The lead performances are very strong, managing to consistently strike the right tone for this somewhat brooding (but quite engaging) movie. The only jarring note is the uplifting music that comes at the very end, and which was probably tacked on at the insistence of some moron studio executive. "},{"Title":"Good Start Bad Ending","Date":"20 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is an ambitious movie which tries to be dramatic and psychological but it miss his target. First part is good (if you are patient and indulgent), second part is very boring and, the final seems the same of a soap opera. Acting is very good and the two first characters are well played by J.L., who improved a lot, and J.C., an interesting almost new actor. You can see that on TV.   "},{"Title":"Angel Eyes was really enjoyable","Date":"19 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  After seeing previews I did not know if this was going to be stereotype female cop show etc. But it developed nicely and anticipation was building. Jennifer Lopez is more than just another pretty actress, she demonstrates an ability to act and project. "},{"Title":"Awful, but not as bad as The Muse","Date":"19 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Those were 110 minutes that I'll never recover. The dialogue was at no higher than a fourth grade reading level. (Short, mundane sentences with one-syllable words.) Not particularly interesting. No chemistry between Jennifer and the fellow. A couple of people in the theater walked out 20 minutes before the end, and the audience poured out as it was ending.However, the movie was good natured and not annoying (though certainly not even close to good), distinguishing it from an even worse category of painful films (The Muse, Battlefield Earth ...). "},{"Title":"It makes that 1 hour and 50 minutes in the dark, worth the rest of your life.","Date":"18 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is an unexpected surprise, and for a few reasons.  First, Jennifer Lopez shows off her acting skills quite brilliantly, definitely the best I've ever seen her!!  She should do more dramatic roles just to prove that she isn't just some ex girlfriend of a rapper who can sing and dance.  Second, the previews do this movie no justice at all.  I'm not going to give away why, but they are downright misleading.  So, for all of you who have decided not to see the movie because you think it looks questionable based on what you've seen in the preview or you have no faith in Ms. Lopez's acting skills, You have been mislead!!!!  Trust me, I was, and I'm extremely glad that I gave this movie a chance.This movie is at the heart of what it means to be in a relationship with someone.  Not just the typical kind of relationship, but any kind.  Family, friends, co-workers, lovers.  It's all there, and not crammed in for time or plot mind you, but it all fits into the movie's scheme perfectly.  It not only left me feeling for the film's characters, but also feeling for those who have written their parts in the story of my own life, and that's what makes this movie not only a joy to watch, but important.  It made that 1 hour and 50 minutes in the dark, worth the rest of my life. "},{"Title":"Terrific Performances By Lopez and Caviezel","Date":"16 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** In the lifetime of every individual, there are defining moments which, when added together, equal the sum total of all the good times and bad that person has ever known.  And from that whole list, there is probably one that stands out-- that one `special' moment, or the most significant-- one that was so good you'd like to relive it over and over again, or so bad that you'd like to erase it from your memory forever.  In `Angel Eyes,' starring Jennifer Lopez and James Caviezel, director Luis Mandoki takes a look at the effects of such a moment in the life of Chicago Police Officer Sharon Pogue (Lopez), and again with a man who calls himself `Catch' (Caviezel); unrelated moments from their past, that are destined to play an even more significant role in their future, when circumstances bring them together on the streets of Chicago.A drive-by shooting at a restaurant puts Officer Pogue in pursuit of one of the assailants, but as she chases him on foot, he gets the drop on her and pins her to the ground.  He has a gun to her head and is about to kill her, when another man comes out of the shadows and tackles him, saving her life. Afterward, Sharon meets with him, but he turns out to be rather evasive, identifying himself only as Catch, while refusing to say anything about what he does beyond the fact that he likes to walk the streets.  Sharon, nevertheless, is somehow drawn to this gentle, enigmatic man, and a relationship begins to develop between them.  But it's the personal issues with which each of them are dealing at the time that ultimately has an impact on what happens between them.  In Pogue's case, it's anger and frustration; but with Catch, it all remains a mystery.  And after a fellow officer takes it upon himself to check out Catch's past, all that Sharon knows about him for sure is that there is no record of him in any data base; according to the files, he doesn't exist.  As her friend puts it, `He's a ghost.'The mystery surrounding Catch is what drives this film, and Mandoki does an excellent job of presenting it.  He creates an atmosphere that cloaks Catch in shadows, yet keeps him elusive, rather than sinister.  Catch seems to float through life, calm and strangely prepossessing, yet detached and ambiguous.  He performs random acts of kindness which he takes in stride, and the only clue you have to any of this is an automobile accident which occurs during the opening credits, which leads you to believe that it had something to do with Catch, especially since Sharon Pogue was one of the officers on the scene.  At the same time, Sharon is attempting to sort out some very private matters concerning her immediate family.  And as the story unfolds, Mandoki reveals the pertinent pieces of the puzzle very gradually and paces it perfectly, which maintains the suspense and amplifies the mystery.As Sharon, Jennifer Lopez gives arguably her best performance since 1998's `Out Of Sight,' in which she also played a cop.  After her turn in `The Cell,' which wasn't bad, and the forgettable fluff of `The Wedding Planner,' it's good to see her in a challenging role, something she can really sink her teeth into.  Which she does, and beautifully.  It's tough for an actress to make a character like this believable (Tyne Daly came close in `The Enforcer,' Jamie Lee Curtis was a disaster in `Blue Steel'), but Lopez pulls it off and proves that there's more to her than just a pretty face.  She makes Sharon a very real person, entirely three dimensional, emotionally complex and a woman who seems very capable of doing what she does for a living.  She's beautiful and tough, but sensitive as well, and most importantly, Lopez makes it convincing.As Catch, Caviezel gives a memorable performance that really captures the essence of who this guy is.  And his success with this character lies in the fact that he plays him straight, making him exactly who he is supposed to be rather than trying to shade him with some kind of `dark side' to enhance the mystery ensconcing him.  He makes Catch a person you can readily embrace, who though perceived by others as enigmatic, is really only a man coping with a terrible secret and living his life as best he can.  Catch is a unique character, in that he is cryptic and accessible at the same time; and Caviezel captures his spirit with astounding acuity and nuance.  It's an honest portrayal, devoid of any pretentiousness or falseness-- quite simply an excellent piece of acting.The supporting cast includes Sonia Braga, Terrence Dashon Howard, Daniel Magder, Jeremy Sisto, J.J. Evans, Alfonso Arau, Victor Argo, Monet Mazur and Shirley Knight.  Extremely well developed and delivered, `Angel Eyes' is a story of loss and love, and redemption; but more than that, it's about `Time'-- how much we're given and how we use what we have.  Call it a reflection on mortality; it's a film that will make you stop, think and consider-- about the way things are, and perhaps how they could be-- if you'd only take the time to make one of those `special' moments that last forever.  I rate this one 9/10. "},{"Title":"Actually Pretty Good","Date":"16 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I received passes for this as an advance screening.  I checked around the internet and did not see any reviews, which usually means the movie will not live up to expectations.  This was not the case.  It was actually a good movie.  JLo stars as a cop with relationship problems.  I would recommend the movie but be prepared for a tear jerker. This movie is a *** out of *****. "}{"Title":"Not What I Expected!","Date":"16 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The trailer and ads for the movie made it look like it was going to be a suspense, thriller type movie...it was a love story about people with issues (and they resolve their issues at the end of the movie). J-Lo's character was great...she showed a lot of depth and of course she looked great (no booty shots though). They could have hacked off about 30 minutes of stuff from the movie and made it a lot better, but I would recommend this movie to a friend (it's a good date movie). I give it a B-.  "},{"Title":"Interesting Start but Fizzled","Date":"30 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Sharon Pogue (Jennifer Lopez) is a tough cop who has issues with her abusive father. She's closed off in her personal life. While eating at a cop hangout, a couple of thugs drive by shooting several cops. Sharon chases down a suspect and is save by the mysterious Catch (Jim Caviezel). He has secrets of his own, and is closed off as well.It starts off with an interesting character from Caviezel. It's hinting at some big mystery. If it kept at that tone, I think the movie could have gone somewhere unique. Instead, it goes more on the romantic route. Fair enough.The mystery isn't much of a mystery anyways. All the tension at the start fizzles out. There isn't much left at the end. A lot of good actors are wasted in limited roles. There are a lot of scenes of the two leads pondering, pining, slowly reminiscing. Not all of it is necessary. The two leads eat up most of the screen time.The emotional resolutions aren't very satisfying. Both leads make big long speeches as a cathartic release. I can't really think of a less dramatic way to resolve things. The movie starts off with promise but it ends with a whimper. "},{"Title":"Unusual and charming film","Date":"27 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" When I look around at reviews of movies on this site I honestly wonder if I am seeing the same films.Angel Eyes is one of those curiously (and, in my opinion, unjustly) maligned films which is actually a great deal more complex than the naysayers would have you believe.Jennifer Lopez has rarely been better. She strikes all the right notes as a feisty, and lonely, Chicago cop, Sharon Pogue who has made some difficult choices in her life and finds herself at a crossroads, alienated from her family.She meets Catch when he saves her life during an arrest that goes wrong. These two lonely individuals are at odds with life, carrying a great deal of personal pain, and they gravitate together perhaps recognising a need in each other.Jim Caviezel is superb as Catch. He has the right qualities of subtlety and stillness to make us believe in the damaged soul that Catch is.This is a lovely, understated film about loss, loneliness and the redemption of love. Well worth a watch. "},{"Title":"tough life?","Date":"23 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" couldn't agree more with Jugu Abraham (jugu_abraham@yahoo.co.uk)'s comments on this movie!especially when Jugu talks about the movie business 'handling' a modest yet good movie like this, or Jennifer Lopez's 'true acting' in so Razzie a manner!? (sure JL's face has some kind of a smile on it often times that doesn't quite go with a sad moment, but hey, that's her natural looks after all! many people are like that ...)well, what better can we expect of the paparazzi / tabloid movie industry of Hollywood and its mostly pseudo-intellectual elite? (for the most part though; otherwise, there is a reasonable deal of thoughtful stuff in Hollywood too to be fair.)yes, i think it is really tricky to tell a sentimental story without too sentimentally ruining it while at the same time delving deeper into people's minds and emotions. especially in movies. and this one has done a really good job indeed considering just that fact.and Jugu, you're so right; a movie can be so emotional, sexy, provocative even and all that without necessarily showing sex so directly. in fact, the Stephen-King-style psycho-analytical thriller clich's and their so naive imitation clones in the last three decades or so, with all the torn apart and violent sex in so many mediocre movies post-'60s, blended with all the shoot 'em up / blast 'em off / kick their butts video games post-'70s, plus all the hype and superstition that is being fed to people in the name of dooms day SciFi (majority of them at least) have removed that soft and peaceful and humane experiences of life almost totally! (Why does everybody have to rush things these days? Catch'es MIL in the scene JL goes to talk to her about his past.) the 'blues caf' scene is particularly good, with one of the best choices of old and forgotten yet so beautiful a melody that is so appropriate not only to the scene, but also to evoke emotions and memories many of us seem to have lost and forgotten ...(yes Ray Romano we used to play the Love Story on our pianos at home in the not so distant past, didn't we? ... whatever became of that?) another part that is SO good by all standards, is when JL talks directly into the camera in the party scene. not only it is so innovative technically speaking, but it is to the point! a clich' of our lives (recording our clich' moments of life on video almost constantly) is broken, or put to good use to use a better term, in this particular section of the movie.there is action in this movie, there is adventure, there is drama, there is fun, there is even sex and violence and everything that the industry requires a financially successful movie to have, yet it is neither of them. it is just plain good stuff in here! there are great movies (in terms of production) that are seldom great. there are small movies (in terms of production) that are just so great in content and the effect they have on the viewer can last forever perhaps. this one is one of them angel eyes.... it doesn't have to be perfect, it can be whatever it is! - from the movie. "},{"Title":"Jim Caviezel, Passion of Christ, Monte Cristo","Date":"27 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I had seen the movie Angel Eyes few months back on my T.V. and for the first time I saw the actor Jim Caviezel. I was mesmerized. The depth of soul of this actor reflected first in his eyes and in every word and move, the elegant sensitive way he plays this part, becomes so real that it moves you to the core of yourself, is outstanding and with not to many equals in his craft. He is a gorgeous man, witch is a plus, but more so is the combination of talent, expresivity and beauty, not to mention also his roots in the vine of God. I realized that, after he played Passion of the Christ which was no accident,( I am also a believer) part that he accomplished beyond human expectation. I am an older women.I have been a singer for 35 years of my life.A song with a good story will penetrate my soul, so in my humble attitude with all respect I recognized the enormous dept of this actor and wish that he will mount like an eagle, that God will bring his way the best scripts and recognition from people that matters so he can bring to us the public work of value and quality on a profession that many times leaves a lot to be desired. Sicerely Carmen Greene.  "},{"Title":"Very good.  Don't be fooled by the bad IMDB grade.  7/10","Date":"8 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is by far Jennifer Lopez's second best movie (only to Selena).  She shines.  She acts.  The script is very well written.  This is a lost Hollywood gem that didn't get the respect it deserved, a real good movie. B, 7/10 "},{"Title":"False Advertisement.","Date":"25 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  They try to make this movie look like a paranormal thriller. Even the logline claims that Jim Caviezel claims to be J-Lo's guardian angel. Well, not only does he NEVER say this, or hint at it, but there is NOTHING paranormal about this movie. IT is billed as like a Sixth Sense, but the only similarity is that there is a beginning and end to the movie. Don't get me wrong...this is NOT a bad movie. This is actually a good date flick/romantic drama that can bring tears to your eyes, but you're waiting for the big twist or surprise the whole time, and there are none. This is simply a straight drama about a female Chicago cop who is torn by her damaged relationships with her family, and her love interest, a nice guy who walks the streets of the city without prupose, mainly because he's in shock from the death of his wife and child a year ago. That's it.....then the rest of the movie is how they get over their internal conflicts together. Case closed. one thing I did admire about this movie, outside of the likability of both actors, is that J-Lo's character DOESN'T rectify her differences with her family. It makes for a more believable story instead of a sappy ending, BUT...the way Caviezel's character comes to grips with his internal conflicts is way cheesy, with far too much exposition to himself at a gravesite. We've seen far more effective scenes in scenarios like this, where the character didn't have to spell out the obvious to us so blatantly. J Lo can act....so can Caviezel. I was rather impressed with J Lo's range....it could be her best performance.  "},{"Title":"Jennifer Lopez's best film","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  STAR RATING*****Unmissable****Very Good***Okay**You Could Go Out For A Meal Instead*Avoid At All CostsAs far as the lovely Ms.Lopez's film career goes,this is her best offering yet.Certainly better than last year's awful The Cell,Angel Eyes is a unique film,a little contrieved and pretentious yes,and perhaps it doesn't quite play out the way you want it to.But it follows a very intriguing and original premise,skillfully mixing genres in drama,romance and most integrally,thriller.In fact,this is ultimately the kind of thing Stephen King would find most pleasing.*** "},{"Title":"A Human Story","Date":"25 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Warning  Might be spoilersTo me,  it's no wonder a lot of people did not find appeal in Angel Eyes. #1 It was not a blow 'em up Bruce Willis or Arnold vehicle with irritating one liners and one dimensional characters.  #2 You have to expect people to be disappointed,  even angry,  when a movie's trailer gives a completely different impression of what the movie is about.  Angel Eyes is a very good example of the dangers of being blatantly misleading and dishonest in hopes of drawing a wide scale audience.  I for one was going to see this movie no matter what,  but I'm a bit disappointed in the way Warner Bros. marketed this movie as a ghost story or a supernatural romance a la GHOST,  THE SIXTH SENSE,  CITY OF ANGELS,  etc.  The fact that Jim Caviezel roamed the streets in a black trenchcoat unshaven seems right out of CITY OF ANGELS. Also,  why did they feel they had to include a scene where he claims that the dog he found in an alley and adopted (I thought the dog was adorable by the way) told him his name was Bob???  I didn't see any necessity in that, except as part of the marketing ploy!!! That's a shame.Because,  all gripes aside,  I really LOVED Angel Eyes. It was not a ghost story but a human story about lonely,  isolated people who have been through personal tragedy and have lived through it.  Anyone from a dysfunctioning family (and who among us isn't???) can relate to Angel Eyes,  and if you are not afraid of a movie that deals with dysfunctioning families,  I strongly recommend Angel Eyes to you.  If you liked American Beauty,  you will more than likely enjoy this. But rather than dark humor and cynicism,  Angel Eyes presents this issue in an earnest,  almost hopeful light.  The cast sparkled with life.Jennifer Lopez portrays Sharon Pogue,  a tough talking Chicago cop who spends the days taking down huge,  tattooed,  filthy-mouthed thugs and the nights alone in bed,  wide awake.  In a frantic,  violent moment she meets a stranger who calls himself Catch (Jim Caviezel) and they begin a strange relationship filled with love and joy,  yet frustration and suspicion. Like Sharon,  Catch is a haunted soul living with personal pain.  But unlike Sharon,  he refuses to open up about his past and would rather start from scratch.As for Sharon's inner skeletons,  she has been ostracized from her family because she had her father arrested for spousal abuse a decade earlier.  So much realism abounds in this movie.  Instead of being grateful to her daughter,  the mother,  wonderfully played by Braga,  is hurt and continuously makes sorry excuses for her husband's behavior.  When she discovers that her brother Larry is hitting his wife now,  the devastation is brilliantly displayed on Lopez's face.  Larry was once the go-between, literally putting himself between his dad's fists and his mother's body. Although Jeremy Sisto did not have as many scenes as I would have liked, he was excellent as Larry and gave him a face that was permanently sad, frightened, angry, ugly and damaged.  As Catch,  Jim Caviezel was marvelously poignant,  and I saw all the deep seated pain he lived with in his beautiful eyes.  Through most of the movie Caviezel looks like he is about to cry.  I don't understand critics who saw him as a dirty-looking creep who had no chemistry with Lopez.  True he is tired and unshaven most of the time,  but the chemistry they have is spiritual and emotional;  they are bound by mutual circumstances.  The physical chemistry comes later at the side of the lake.  That was one of the classiest love scenes I've ever seen.  No overt nudity,  just a very sweet and sexy shot of the two of them embracing.  I think Caviezel is very appealing as a leading man because he's tall,  handsome and has a great body as well as being a superb actor.I must comment on Jennifer Lopez as well.  A lot of people didn't like this for one reason  They don't like her.  Well,  I for one am no fan of her music,  but I really liked her in Angel Eyes.  To be honest,  I believe many actresses could have pulled off this role,  and many actresses might have done a superior job to Lopez's,  but I am compelled to say that the devotion and sincerity in Lopez's performance really impressed me.  She wanted to be in this movie,  she loved this story,  she believed in this story,  and she gave it her all.  She really made an effort to make Sharon Pogue a character you would love,  relate to and cry with,  and she succeeded.  Angel Eyes is powerfully honest,  cathartic and genuinely moving.   "},{"Title":"Who edited this movie?","Date":"24 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  My friend and i went to see Angel Eyes last night, at my insistence - we were the only people in the theater!!  The film didn't hold my attention at all but i couldn't stop counting the amount of times the microphones came into shot!!!  I cant believe the director let this happen - in nearly every indoor shot a green and red mike popped into scene and on the outdoor ones it was the big fuzzy one!! I have read the other reviews of this movie and can't believe no one else found this unbearably distracting!  I wish i had gone to see the other film playing at my cinema and i certainly don't recommend Angel Eyes.  Weak characters, weak story and unsuitable music.  "}{"Title":"It's alright, depending on the scenes","Date":"22 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  There are some scenes in Angel Eyes which are actually pretty good in this spring season, and even though the film is aloft with miscalculations (the ending music is a downer), it gives power in it's core.Jennifer Lopez gives her 4th or 5th best performance here (definately behind The Cell, Out of Sight and U-Turn) as a Chicago cop who meets a stranger out of chance and they fall in love, though she may or may not know all of what he is.  Co-star Chazviel is a big boost in the mix almost giving off a Last Tango In Paris type of vibe (men, you will really like the sex scene with JLo) in this story which is effective in many parts.  B+ "},{"Title":"dreary","Date":"19 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I may be in the minority here, but I found this movie no better than your basic TV movie of the week. Jennifer Lopez seems to be under the impression that to come across as a hard cop with personal problems, the answer is to swear a lot. Jim Caviezel seems to wander through 2 thirds of the film like a cross between forest gump and rain man. If you want a weary romantic thriller without the thrills then this is the film for you. It ticks all the required boxes for a movie of the week....troubled cop..check,romantic loner...check,family that wont talk to cop...check,plenty of pouting...check and an end that will make one member of your house reach for the tissue box and the other the sick bucket.....as you can guess wife loved it. "},{"Title":"GREAT MAGIC BETWEEN A MALE & FEMALE !","Date":"25 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"                    Did not know if I was going to enjoy this picture as much as I did, but once the film got going, I was immediately drawn to the great acting of James Caviezel (Catch,(Steven Lambert) and Jennifer Lopez (Sharon Pogue).  Sharon and Catch both had deep seeded problems to  resolve in their lives and were unaware why there was such a strong magic in drawing these two human beings together in a beautiful love story. This film showed that some couples are destined for each other and become SOUL MATES and others are not so fortunate in life.  A great film to view and enjoy and especially when Sharon tries to show her father how much she really loves him.  Shed a tear or two with this one, it hits your very heart strings ! "},{"Title":"Hollywood Trash","Date":"19 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"     SCREEEEEEEEEEEEECH!!!!! SLOW DOWN NOW!!!!! The trailers for this movie made it look like a suspensful mystery/thriller, but it sure as hell wasn't that. This film had the plot similar to that of a movie of the week, and that exactly what I felt like I was watching. When I think about it, there was no way to market this film, it just is so flat and un-interesting.    Talent was wasted, so was money. This same movie could have been made for 3 million without doubt. It simply is trash, I was sucked in by previews promising a suspense ride. Cheap Hollywood trick to bring in the money, it is Hollywood trash. "},{"Title":"If you are a regular Lifetime channel viewer, You might like this movie.","Date":"18 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  If this movie was the only thing on TV I wouldn't watch it.  Pay movie theater price for it?  I want my money back.  Bad ass female police officer with abusive father falls in love with mysterious heroic stranger.  What a thriller.  Was this movie about Jennifer Lopez's character or about the recovering accident victim?  I kept thinking Catch was going to be a serial killer or something of that sort.  Unfortunately, we had to be dragged down this melodramatic movie like a bad soap opera.  This movie should have been called Touched by an Angel, not Angel Eyes.   "},{"Title":"Horrible Editing","Date":"28 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I can't tell you how many times I have seen the C.N Tower in this movie. Even thought this movie was shot in Toronto, it was taking place in Chicago. I think editing was horrible. Viewers see Toronto Sun newspaper boxes, and there was a scene with a Canadian flag draped over a park, and my gosh, the downtown Toronto skyline is very noticable in some scenes. To top things off the acting was horrific. Jennifer Lopez should stay away from scripts as she possibally can. She deserves a razzy award. "},{"Title":"Low-key drama rewards patience","Date":"15 January 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" ANGEL EYES Aspect ratio 1.851Sound formats Dolby Digital / DTS / SDDSThough not terribly convincing as an experienced Chicago cop, hardened to the world's excesses, singer-actress Jennifer Lopez gives an otherwise finely-judged performance in this atypical romantic drama, directed with great sensitivity by Luis Mandoki (WHITE PALACE). Here, Lopez' empty life is changed forever when she's rescued from a near-fatal confrontation with an armed criminal by handsome stranger Jim Caviezel (The Passion of the Christ), who seems to come out of nowhere. Grateful for his intervention, Lopez is unable to resist their subsequent friendship, which quickly blossoms into something deeper, until she discovers they have met before under very different circumstances...Both central characters are blighted by past misfortunes (Lopez is at odds with her family over an incident which occurred ten years previously) and both are wary of romantic involvement, which leads to the inevitable complications Lopez' hard-bitten cop is unwilling to lower her defences, while Caviezel is the angelic loner whose refusal to confront the past renders his life meaningless. There are no melodramatics and no great visual statements, and the ending swaps bombast for sentiment at every turn; Caviezel's climactic graveside soliloquy is an acting tour de force. Sonia Braga and Shirley Knight play small but crucial supporting roles. "},{"Title":"Good acting makes it watchable despite the weaknesses of a script that fails to build on an interesting mood in the first hour","Date":"19 July 2004","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sharon Pogue is a hard working single police officer. She cannot seem to find 'love' and instead puts her effort into helping others through her job.Catch is a lonely man who also wants to help people and, when he sees Sharon he falls for her. A drive-by shooting on a caf where Sharon and her colleagues are eating at sparks a chase where Sharon finds herself shot and about to be killed when Catch saves her. Despite his weird, semi-vagrant appearance, Sharon is intrigued by Catch and the two become close very quickly.I had no idea what this film was about when I sat to watch it as I have never been a real fan of Jennifer Lopez and generally wouldn't bother to go to the cinema to see it and get put off by all the hype that seem to come with anything of hers. In a way my fresh eyes may have helped me with the start because I was interested in where the film was going and was intrigued by what appeared to be a pair of very damaged lives. This interest continued for the first hour until the writing proved itself not to be good enough to keep this up and falls into more simplistic romantic fare. The connections become convoluted, the romance unlikely yet obvious, the complex lives become summarised and glossy and all the time my interest just waned away as we approached an ending that felt like it has no relation to the opening 30 minutes. Of course it would be easy to dismiss the whole film but the first hour was interesting &#150; the sentimentality and unlikeliness of the 'couple' was kept at bay by interesting threads and downbeat writing. However as these were just forgotten as the film sinks into a romantic drama.What manages to just about keep it going (and makes the first hour so interesting) is two very good leads. Lopez is more diva than actress at the moment and, looking at her ability at times, it is a shame that her fame has overtaken her actual talent. Here she struggles a bit because she is far too sexy to be alone and far too savvy to fall for what is basically one step from a homeless guy. However she is appealing and sympathetic and it is not her fault that the material gives her nowhere to go from a good start. Caviezel is a good actor given the chance and he manages to make good work of such an unlikely character and keeps him interesting until the mystery is removed and the emotionally shutdown person becomes a great solid guy after all. The background to the characters are interesting but they are not used well and instead of being open wounds they are loose ends that the film just ties up with little problem. The lack of logic is also a pain as neither of these people would really be in the situations we find them. Support is interesting from Sisto, Howard, Mazur and Braga but they are given far too little of value to really work with &#150; and Argo in particular is just wasted.Overall this is a film of two halves. The first half is interesting and the characters, lives and acting all combine to keen the cloying sentiment at bay &#150; but it can't last and the second half falls into obvious clich, simple answers, happy endings and sentimentality. It is a shame because it did interest me at the start but it gradually falls to bits and, by the end, I simply had stopped caring.  "},{"Title":"Saw it a long time ago it was good.","Date":"11 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Angel Eyes stars Jenny from the block Jennifer Lopez,who plays a cop who was saved by a handsome man who falls in love with Lopez's charcther. His behavior is very strange around Lopez's charcther until she discovers that he is suffering from memory loss as his wife and child died in a terrible freak car accident a few years ago,and Lopez thought he was dead. The Acting is good,James Caviezel is great,Lopez is good too. The story is bit weird sometimes as it can get really confusing in a few places.Bottom LineIf you want a good J-Lo movie watch Maid In Manhattan instead.5.5/10 "},{"Title":"Touching The Chords of Life","Date":"23 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The trials of our lives define us, but it could also break us apart. Moments in time are forever frozen, and our darkest hours never fade. And we could surrender, wander lost, but life would go on without us. And we would disappear, but if we fight to survive, overcome the hardest memories that wait to be confronted, we will find ourselves once again. And love would come and steal our heart, heal our pain, and close the door on a life no longer lived. And we could start over, a clean slate, and we become more defined. And it is inspiration that flows through powerful stories such as Angel Eyes that touches the fabric of our very lives. "}{"Title":"Dark Effort to Bring Two People Together Amidst Violence","Date":"6 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Angel Eyes is the opposite of Casablanca, when what happens to two little people is worth more than a hill of beans than the rest of the world. I went in expecting an erotic film noir, and was surprised that instead it's the intersecting story of two damaged people in dysfunctional family situations surrounded by our violent society who learn to work through it by leaning on each other. (I'm quite sure there were a couple of sexy shots in the trailer that got edited out of the final, along with an explanation of the title.)Though you never forget it's Hollywood -- Jim Cavaziel, the primary reason I went to see it, has the saddest face since Emmett Kelly, so when he suddenly smiles you think Gosh, what a beautiful smile! and a second later J. Lo's character says You have a beautiful smile! (My dad the dental historian says the perfect smile is an American conceit that's being exported around the world now as a status symbol.)The camera adores Lopez as much as it did Garbo and just when you're thinking for the zillionth time Gosh, she's beautiful Sonia Braga as her mother leans into her and says You're so beautiful! I also thought it about time that since Selena Lopez is finally playing a character with Latina roots.Not that there's any Latin music; the blues and jazz choices are nice, but make the inconsistent use of pop jarring.The movie probably would have worked better as a small indie, and with a lot less uses of the F-word.(originally written 5/20/2001) "},{"Title":"Somber and Beautiful","Date":"2 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I really thought the overall mood of this film was haunting. I really love this film for some reason. The relationship between Sharon and her father was interesting, and the scene at the anniversary party was very emotional. I thought Jim Caviezel was excellent and eccentric and did a great job of portraying a struggling man who suffered a great loss.My favorite scene was at the end when Catch showed up outside the Pogue household. Sharon asks him, What are you doing here? He simply replies, You invited me. (I think I recalled that correctly.) And when he explains why he is the way he is, it just really touches something inside me.No film is perfect-- even I had a few issues here and there. For example, I wish they had touched more on Catch's relationship with Elanora. But I thought it progressed at a nice rate and eventually it became a very somber, yet powerful love story.  "},{"Title":"Not a Thriller but...","Date":"18 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I got the notion that Angel Eyes was a supernatural thriller.  It's opening scene seemed to confirm that notion.  Our point-of-view is from the victim's of an auto accident.  Chicago police officer Sharon Pogue (Jennifer Lopez) is comforting the victim.  The camera pans around the scene of the accident a couple of times as if the victim was having an out-of-body experience.But no.  This movie is a romantic drama.  One year later, the victim, Catch (James Caviezel), is wandering the streets of Chicago.  The details of his life before the accident have been subsumed deep in his psyche.  One night catch sees Sharon in a diner window.  He is entranced, unable to make the connection that he has seen her before.  In a violent twist of fate, they meet and make a connection.I believe romance is one of the most difficult acting assignments.  For one thing, it needs more than one actor to be convincing.  Ms. Lopez and Mr. Caviezel are believable as lovers.  They appear sincere together as her character deals with family issues and his character deals with life issues. "},{"Title":"More than a chick flick...","Date":"30 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm not a particular fan of Jennifer Lopez, but I don't think of her as a bad actor. Angel Eyes was involving, and emotionally deep, certainly what one would call a chick flick. However, the nuances of the characters and the plot that develops are really quite interesting.  Jim Caviezel is a relatively new actor, and looks like he's got a good career ahead of him. Together, he and Lopez make this movie. So, even though the poster makes it look like a sappy chick flick, its a bit more than that. I do recommend it, even if you only watch it once.  "},{"Title":"Great love story!","Date":"26 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  First time that I've seen this movie, and it was on TV. I own the DVD yet have not watched it. I must say that I will now watch the DVD. I thought the plot was good about two people connecting and having to deal with there pasts to move on in there lives. It will cause some wet eyes for some people towards the end of the movie. I feel it was worth a 7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"This movie is a bit different and well acted but didn't go beyond OK for me.","Date":"15 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I saw Angel Eyes awhile ago, it was OK, definitely A serious type of movie and an unusual one and Lopez doesn't play her usual type of role.This movie, although it is well written and different, didn't do it for me at all though . Jennifer Lopez does do an OK job here,it's not her usual fluff role and she proves she can actually act but I still just couldn't get into this film. I felt it was to dreary, to plodding and as good as Lopez was I never felt I was watching anything other then Jennifer Lopez portray a movie character. However, that being said, I can appreciate that it is a bit different and very well acted.The film is not what I'd ever consider to be bad, and it was Poignant and touching in many places and yes I shed a few tears so because of that I did rate it average. However, it just did not appeal to my personal tastes although some people may love it but was a good role for Lopez, as she shows she has some talent with this movie.Angel Eyes was a very sad movie that most definitely isn't a fluff type of film and that I could appreciate even if it did not appeal to me personally. I didn't like it all that much but would recommend it to any fan of Lopez who wants to see her in a more serious role. "},{"Title":"Great movie, but kinda sad","Date":"14 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was a great movie. It had many very sad parts all the way through, and really does work your emotions. I love all of J-Lo's chick-flick comedies, but this was definitely not one of those! Nothing at all funny about it. However, it really is a good movie. Jennifer plays Sharon, a female cop. It was sad that the man in the movie had died, but it's nice that he got to watch over Sharon. They become friends, and there are many sad any happy parts throughout the movie.True, it is not a real happy movie and is slightly a tear-jerker. Still, if you like J-Lo and movies that are both happy and sad, I recommend this movie. Again, don't go in it expecting a common J-Lo chick-flick like Wedding Planner or Maid in Manhattan. Be prepared for some sad times, keep an open mind, and you will enjoy this movie. "},{"Title":"Yawn","Date":"21 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I really dislike this movie. The Plot is predictible and the acting is so-so. I don't understand Sharon's family at all- and I would have had another way to have the film. Maybe its my stance on violence towards women and children- but how in ANY world is that acceptable? I just finished watching this movie and I'm sorry that I wasted my time with it. I wish I could get back the time and money I spent at Blockbuster. I see why people have  slammed this movie over and over again, and I agree with them. The title song is awful too. Anyway Please avoid this movie- I know I wish that I had. But If you're like me and you have to make up your own opinion, good luck.  "},{"Title":"Sucky plot, but J-Lo is still watchable","Date":"22 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Will you hang up, and I'll call your machine...That scene was intended as either a Dear John or an apology message.  Either way, it was a key moment in the story.Yes, the whole move was cliched.  Yes, the plot sucked and was predictable.But I still enjoyed watching J-Lo.  I think her performance here was at least as good as Wedding Planner - that one was just better written.A definite 5 1/2. "},{"Title":"Not what I thought it would be, not bad..","Date":"31 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was tired the night I went to the video store to lent this DVD and therefore picked a movie crediting Miss Lopez. She normally guarantees shallow entertainment. Well, not this time. This time the character she plays is more dense.Nevertheless I would never watch the movie again. Why? I do not blame the movie that I fell asleep, but it certainly lacks any suspense.However, while watching it I hoped the faint hints that the movie might provide more than it actually does would turn out to be more than just hints.What is it about? Tough cop Sharon comes from a family where Daddy beat Mommy and she will surely pay back the violence to all the villains she arrests on the streets. While thus coping with her trauma the extroverted way, her boyfriend Catch does not overcome his traumatic experience the loss of his wife and son in a car accident. He simply became Catch and puts it aside.After some difficulties he cherishes Sharon and thus makes her trust men again while she brings him to finally finding his peace with his lost family. Thats it. Nice, but nothing apart from that.A wholesome of questions remain unanswered We learn that Catch did not spend enough time with his beloved ones but we do not learn why. Why does he leave doors open? Why is he so mad with Sharon because of an adjournment of a date?Certainly not bad, but watching it once will certainly do for a lifetime. "}{"Title":"Confused","Date":"23 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was not as good as the previews made it out to be. I found it confusing and unclear. Catch (Jim Caviezel) seemed to have the mindframe of a child sometimes, at first I assumed he was disturbed in some way from the accident, because he thought he had killed people, and so was a recluse, living in that empty apartment. Then I saw the action figures in the drawers and I had no idea what was going on, did he have amnesia? If so, why did he have the toys, and why was the house left untouched? Sharon, Jennifer Lopez's character again confused me. Things with her Dad were at first not properly explained, everything was just left in the air for the viewer to wonder about. I also did not like how things with her Dad were not resolved, especially after the heartwarming little speech she gave.It was good in terms of cinematography and the narrative was there, it just wasn't clear enough. There were details that were skipped out on. It was enjoyable, and the romance between the couple was good. It was very much about resolving the past, especially with family, and of course, falling in love. Overall though, it wasn't thorough enough. "},{"Title":"An exercise in mediocrity.","Date":"22 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  With romantic comedies being as ubiquitous as computers running on Windows software, it takes a very short time for moviegoing couples to desire a more dramatic, poignant, and stylized experience to help strengthen the bond within one another.  And while these types of movies are not released at the rate of one every three and a half hours, they're often just as clichd--they're nothing more than ho-hum expressions of mediocrity which provide as much excitement as picking scabs from your toes.Jennifer Lopez plays a hard-boiled cop who has a much stronger penchant for pummeling down crooks than listening to common sense.  By a twist of fate, or a disappointingly imperious plot point, she is rescued from death by James Caviezel, a passerby who simply calls himself Catch.  Catch likes to be benevolent towards people he turns off the lights of parked cars, alerts neighbors when they leave their keys in the door, and delivers groceries to incapacitated ladies.  Officer Lopez, on the other hand, likes to shout out expletives during the most comical or romantic scenes of the movie.The two find that they have something in common they don't like talking to people, and they prefer leaving messages on the answering machine rather than speaking to one another face to face.  By hiding behind this veil of anonymity, it becomes quickly apparent that they both have problematic inner demons to contend with, and the movie's focus is split between the romantic affair and said dissonance.Unlike the majority of all romance movies, Angel Eyes attempts to add its own idiosyncratic intellectual property by switching from one to two major problems that interfere with the relationship.  But these problems are so ineptly handled at the end, thanks in part to the incredulously colorless acting, that it shatters all the previous efforts of the movie.  The characterization, the metaphors--all are rendered useless when the film decides to mire in its own melodrama.It's at this point that you begin to shift in your seat and feel the eyes on your back accusing you of being a fool for expecting anything more than mediocrity.6/10 "},{"Title":"Sappy, stupid, awkward & hopeless","Date":"20 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Jennifer Lopez, portraying a Chicago cop, is able to grab 200+ lb. street-types who eat nails for breakfast, and rough 'em up good, slamming their heads against cars and walls at will, no problem. This is stupid, but let's go along with it. The romance part, however, is just too sappy and disgusting to swallow, sorry. The creep is a lousy actor, and it's obvious he and JLo have zero chemistry together. But the really impossible part is the script. Nobody acts this stupid, and nobody wants to see other people do it either. "},{"Title":"Dig deeper and you still won't find much.","Date":"17 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Angel EyesOne common element in the trip through life is the inevitable accumulation of emotional baggage (some people even collect a full set).   The key to making the journey smooth is learning how to adapt to the challenges while denial and avoidance can be very effective tools in the short term, refusal to face your demons can lead to a solitary, miserable existence.  Feeling better now?Sharon isn't a people person  she has trust issues, hates having to reveal anything about herself and carries a chip on her shoulder.  While these attributes lend themselves well to her job (she's a police officer), it's small wonder that she's not very good at this dating thing.  Her carefully insulated life is thrown off balance, when a complete stranger saves her life and she becomes obsessed with trying to discover his secrets, and, in turn, learns acceptance.Whether deliberate or accidental the marketing campaign for Angel Eyes is very misleading the ads suggest a nether worldly plot, filled with plot twists and deep hidden meanings, when the movie is in actuality a love story.  Despite my testosterone, I am not averse to a good romance; indeed I've willingly sat through many of them.  The key here is good.Jennifer Lopez, the latest pop-diva-cum-actress, has been noticeably unremarkable in her most recent onscreen incarnations.  Likewise, James Caviezel who appears to have found a niche playing introspective stupefied strong silent types. Together however they sparkle their interactions are fluid, natural and completely believable.  This chemistry enhances the many humorous scenes in the movie as well as the intimate ones. Unfortunately, these alone can not sustain the movie.The plot is filled with most of the conventions typical of the genre (a fated meeting, characters who overcome dark pasts and learn to love again.), the pacing, although initially brisk and smooth, hits a brick wall half way through the film and the Cops style bouncing-camera-schtick eventually becomes distracting.   In addition, the lengthy monologues and surprises that aren't further undermine the film.What begins as a promising love story, ultimately degrades into a lackluster exercise in mediocrity.  Wait for the video or catch it on cable. "},{"Title":"Baffling","Date":"27 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've become sort of a connoisseur of bad movies, and I've found that there are two extremes.  There are bad movies that get you rolling on the floor at the more insane parts, and there are bad movies that make you want to curl up and die.Angel Eyes is a new breed entirely because it starts like the first type of bad movie and ends like the second.  If something compels you to subject yourself to this movie, then watch for the scene where Catch gives possibly the most unromantic theory as to why certain people were destined to meet each other.  It doesn't involve Midichloreans, but it wouldn't have been much worse if it did. "},{"Title":"It sucks!!!","Date":"29 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I could try to write an in depth critique of Angel Eyes but like the film, it would be complete waste of everybody's time. Instead of going to watch this wretched piece of stinkpile, try coming up with some better ways that $30 million could have been spent. Trust me - it sucks!! "},{"Title":"A classic! Jim Caviezel should play SUPERMAN in any sequels -","Date":"26 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I know there have been a lot of people putting down this movie because they expected a thriller, and possibly for Jim Caviezel's character to be a psychopath out hunting for Jennifer Lopez.  But this movie is so much more - somehow it reminded me of GHOST.***SPOILER ALERT***For a long while into the film, I actually believed Catch was a ghost, but then I realized everyone could see him.  I also wondered about the accident scene at the beginning - how DID it relate to the story?  But the storyline was well-crafted, and, like slowly peeling away the layers of an onion, the hurts of the main characters surface - Catch feels guilt, and Lopez feels anger, which comes out in her handling of criminals and her driven nature.Jim Caviezel is excellent, as always.  This role, along with those from FREQUENCY and PAY IT FORWARD, have convinced me of one thing.  If it is ever decided to make more SUPERMAN movies, he is the only logical choice to play Clark Kent/Superman, with the possible exception of Dean Cain from the Lois and Clark series.  Those eyes of his remind me of some of Chris Reeve's old closeups.  Nicolas Cage will never do for Superman - it MUST be Jim!  He sure can show the emotion - I admire his work!Jennifer Lopez is a great actress who needs more dramas to showcase her work.  All the actors in this film did it proud!  A 10 + ! "},{"Title":"don't waste your money","Date":"20 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  this was the worst movie i have ever seen in my life...so if i can spare anyone else the 2 hours of my life i can't have back - it will be worth it! the dialogue was poorly written, plot was weak and there was no chemistry between the stars of the film. As you watch the film you keep hoping that there will be more to it, something that will surprise you and make it all worth it....but no.  "},{"Title":"5.4 Stars Overall !?!?!.....C'mon people....Seriously?","Date":"22 July 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This was a great movie in all aspects. I only give a 10 when I know we will watch it again....and we will. Jennifer Lopez and Jim Caviezel are just so matched for their roles. Jennifer is hard...as nails. Her body is toned to match her ferocity. You gotta admire her character. Jim Caviezel simply captivates one as a person who could command any role he wanted to. The man is amazing, especially since he seems to have very limited emotional variations no matter what character he opts to play. They story is so believable that is causes one to go back and rev up the popcorn to watch it again. One thing that I might mention (as I so often have) is that it isn't a great idea to read the reviewers BEFORE watching the movie. One tends to impose other peoples impressions into the film. Therefore, one is not watching it for the joy of the show, but rather, to critique it based on others viewpoints. Bad idea especially for a great movie hopefully you are about to watch. Role the projector, Sam.....Q(- "},{"Title":"A Nutshell Review (DVD) Angel Eyes (2001)","Date":"2 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The only time I remember actually seriously watching a JLo movie, is The Wedding Planner, and that I had no choice since it was the only in-flight entertainment movie. Here, she stars opposite the guy better known as playing Jesus Christ in Mel Gibson's Passion of the Christ, Jim Caviezel.In Angel Eyes, Jennifer Lopez plays a Chicago cop Sharon Pogue, who has some anger management issues, as well as date issues (waitaminute, you gotta suspend your disbelief at JLo not managing to snag a date). She comes from a home in which she walked out on, from domestic violence. She doesn't get chummy with family, and her friends are only the work colleagues from the Chicago Police Department.Jim Caviezel plays Catch, a mysterious man who at first, looks like a stalker as he follows Sharon, only to have him help her apprehend a crook and saving her life in the process. Sharon starts to fall for Catch, and vice versa, but both of them have a past in which they build a wall around, and try as they want to open up to each other, they can't.However, from the minute go, you'd already have a rough idea of who Catch is, just that the director Luis Mandoki, prefers to stretch that mystery for a tad too long. You know what had happened from the circumstances, and that might irritate you as the movie plods along with the fairly obvious.And that's what the whole premise is about - 2 people trying to love and find each other, but first, have to let go of their past. Sharon has to make peace with her family, while Catch has to reconcile his, and move on. It's so simple, it makes you want to cry. The acting's deliberate, and there are minor plot points thrown in to spice up the story, but fact is, it isn't working. Perhaps for the sake of finding out exactly what happened to Catch's past life, that you might want to sit through the entire movie.Code 3 DVD with no frills attached, rent it at your own peril. "}{"Title":"Strange, preachy religious movie not worth your time.","Date":"6 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Lopez is the cop who needs rescuing, but doesn't want it. Caviezel is the fella who wants to rescue her.Mixed-up and messed-up movie with Caviezel doing yet another of his Christ figures (give us a character, for chris' sake).For most of the movie you're going what is with this thing - so you expect one kind of explanation, that would mean the acting in the movie is not terrible, just weird - then when we get to the ending, the explanation is poor.Doesn't know if its a cop thriller or a relationship drama, or a preachy, symbolic religious movie.3/10. I wish i could get my three dollars back. "},{"Title":"Had potential, but lacked that good pull.","Date":"28 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a movie that had potential of being a good movie, but it lacked that pull it needed to get you into the movie. Although just when it was getting to that point, the movie somehow seemed to go nowhere after the fact. First off, when I first saw the previews for this movie I thought it was going to be some murder/mystery suspense type of movie. That is what the trailer implied, nonetheless we get stuck with a kind of destiny type love story. Don't get me wrong i'm all for a good love story like other moviegoers, but don't have me expecting one thing, and get something else in return. Second thing, it was really hard to convince me that Jennifer Lopez was playing the character of a cop. She just couldn't pull of the mentality that goes along with being a cop. I should know i'm dating a cop right now, and even he said the same thing...who the hell is she fooling? Jim Caviezel though has great potential in the film. I think it was just the film itself that dragged him down with it. Guaging from his past performances he's going to be an exceptional actor of this time. As for Ms. Lo she needs to do the Mariah thing and stick to one thing...singing. If I had my choice for casting in this movie I would have chosen someone like Angelina Jolie, or even Jodie Foster. You know some actresses that know how to bring forth a performance. "},{"Title":"There's something about Jenny","Date":"3 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  After watching this uninspired film, I began wondering what's wrong with it, as it has something unusual in modern films a good female character. I think this seemingly rude cop-woman, albeit vulnerable, is the kind of character a fine film can be built around. J. Lpez shows some of her maybe Bronx-borne gesture, and that's OK for me. But the film has several flaws 1) Jennifer Lpez has a too charming, glamorous appearance for the restless woman she is supposed to be. Maybe she is too beautiful for the part. 2) I can't feel any magic between she and mind-troubled James Caviezel. Take a look at Sodenberg's delightful flick Out of Sight to see how magic works between two actors (Jennifer Lpez and George Clooney) 3) Some sequences were for me straightly boring, badly-paced, worst edited.So, a bad film, in my opinion. "},{"Title":"One MAJOR problem","Date":"1 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I think there was only one thing really wrong with this film - however it is was a major problem and so really brings my rating down.The problem was the character Catch played by James Caviezel, and the relationship between his character and the one played by Jennifer Lopez (Sharon).  I understand Catch was supposed to be depressed after what happened, however by walking around like a zombie and not being able to carry a conversation in a logical direction he came across as just weird.  He reminded me a lot of the villain in the movie Psycho (the original version).Anyways, maybe his mannerisms would be understandable to Sharon if she knew about his past, but for most of the movie she didn't.  And yet, she was all to willing to let this (crazy for all she knows) guy into her life.  Sure she prodded him for information at times, saying she needed to know about him to continue the relationship, but when he didn't provide any the relationship continued anyway.  At these points most sane people would have put a stop to it, for some reason she did not.  Then at one point she told her partner that Catch is harmless.  Harmless?  The way he was acting I'd have leaned the other way personally.She was supposed to be intrigued by Catch - well I didn't buy it.  I may have if Sharon's interest would have been due to knowing she had seen him somewhere before.  If she had only said to her partner I can't let him go, I know I've seen him somewhere before, but I'm not sure where.  That would have made her interest in him much more credible in my opinion.  (Note I watched this film on TV.  Maybe she did say this sort of thing and I missed it, though I am 99% sure she did not).For largely these reasons I felt there was next to no chemistry between the two characters, and in a love story that is pretty damning.5/10 "},{"Title":"Mediocre romantic drama.","Date":"11 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have nothing against Jennifer Lopez personally, and in fact she's not bad at all in her emotional scenes here, but she's ludicrously unconvincing as a cop. And Jim Caviezel has to get credit for his big monologue which is pretty touching, but otherwise seems to have confused enigmatic with zombified. As for the movie itself, it has nothing new or interesting to offer, and its twists are twists only in the minds of the screenwriters (save for the little tidbit that explains how Catch got his new name); it's trivial, long and predictable.     (*1/2) "},{"Title":"Sap Town, USA","Date":"19 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the sappiest movies I've ever seen. Jennifer Lopez plays Sharon Pogue, a police woman. She meets some guy who, from what I remember, walks around in a daze, helping people out when they are in a pickle (I can't believe I wrote that). This is all due to the fact that (SPOILER) he is the survivor of a recent tragedy. Pogue and unknown/uninteresting fall in love because he saved her life, or was it the other way around?  It's just that Lopez doesn't seem interested in on-screen characters unless they save her from a gang with guns, or the old Mack truck.  Anyway, they fall in love. The end. Roll credits and we here the title song, which is probably the sole reason this movie was made. I don't know why else they would name it Angel Eyes unless they were trying to promote a song from half a century or something ago. Or perhaps its the Ace of Base song they like. I can't really remember. Of course, Sharon's brother abuses his wife because that's the J.Lo stamp. She's marked it as her own. Now we can move on. 2/10 "},{"Title":"A sappy soap opera that doesn't make sense","Date":"11 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Watching this movie confuses me.  Is the character trying to forget his past or does he have amnesia from the trauma?  We don't know, since in some instances, he seem to know some things that he has no reason to know.  But then, he is so easily told to re-remember those things that happened before the accident, which just means he blocked everything out.  And what is the point of holding to those action figures so dearly when he doesn't know what their purpose is for?  And if he is trying to block out his pre-accident life?  Why is he hanging on to those toys so dearly?  Same goes the regular visit to the mother-in-law.Besides that, the film doesn't do much of anything.  The stories on her side of the family just creates drama without forwarding the story.  It also doesn't take us long to realize that he is the guy in the accident and she is the cop that rescued him, so there was no surprise even when they revealed it.Jennifer Lopez tries so hard to be a tom-boy trying to fit in with the guys in this movie that I am surprised that she is not taking showers with them in the public or gym showers.All in all, a movie that you could easily skip.  "},{"Title":"i just didnt get it","Date":"18 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ive watched this twice now. I cant figure out what it is supposed to be about. seems like it missed some editing and a script supervisor. performances were decent but it just didnt have any direction. didnt really care for it at all.  "},{"Title":"J-Lo's great, shame about the story...","Date":"10 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have to go against the grain here and state for the record that I really rate J-Lo as an actress. She has earthiness, sexiness, and an intensity that belies her status as diva/pop-bubblegum-favourite... If only she could get hold of more scripts that match the quality of Soderbergh's 'Out of Sight' ... even The Cell! The film certainly has a feel of 'The Bone Collector' about it at the start; this soon gives way to a rambling, predictable collection of (albeit entertaining) scenes involving the two leads. There is depth of emotion, an interesting chemistry between Lopez and Caviezel, and a compelling domestic-violence sub-plot, but you're left feeling cheated at the end - this could have been so much more had it not got lost in the somewhat humdrum intricacies of the Lopez/Caviezel relationship. "},{"Title":" I want you to know that you're not alone","Date":"10 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Jennifer Lopez is illegitimate as Sharon in this frisky suspense movie. The supporting cast is fair. The costumes are casual. One of the fair films in the genre, Angel Eyes promotes little thrills. 5 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Same old story","Date":"13 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Angel Eyes tells the story of a musician who has been traumatized by the death of his wife and child and a cop who has been traumatized by her abusive father.  All seems hopeless and barren until they meet, open up to each other, fall in love, toss away all their demons, and live happily ever after.  Blah, blah, blah.  Basically this movie is full of contrived, sentimental moments, jolty dialogue, and mediocre acting.  I wonder what Jim Caveziel was thinking?  I loved his detailed, subtle performance in Thin Red Line but, he is just reduced to a gawking weirdo in this film.  JLo may be lighting up the presses with her ever-constant man exchanges, but her performance, once again, is pretty darn average.  She is capable enough to make watching her performance tolerable, but little else.  The JLo Glow has failed to inspire me.  Basically, if this movie is on cable and you really don't have anything else to do, watch it, but definitely don't go out of your way to catch this one.  "},{"Title":"Hollow, Trite, Formulaic, ugh...need I go on?","Date":"4 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  To quote the comic guy from The Simpsons, Worst dialogue,ever. Did I care about these characters? No. Did I see the endingcoming a mile away? Yes. Was this story original or compelling inthe least? No. Am I insulted by how many times this movie wentfor the tears and missed? Absolutely. Hey, I like James Caviezel- and I have nothing personal against J- Lo (as some reviewers obviously do...) but this movie was dull,trite, and totally forgettable. Some say, great love story... Bah! The Terminator is a great lovestory- Somewhere in Time is a great love story- Prelude to aKiss is a great love story- NOT this film. Some say, Great chick flick- BAH! Where the Heart Is is a greatchick flick- Fried Green Tomatoes, ... Steel Magnolias... you getthe picture. I can't give this film more than a 4/10 and be honest w/myself. "},{"Title":"EVEN LOPEZ'S BODY CAN'T SAVE THIS ONE","Date":"21 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Almost but not quite terrible film concerns cop Lopez falling for a weirdo who saves her life and was intertwined with her thru other events. Lopez is so bad that her 'naturally jive'manner of speech comes off as pretentious, silly AND phony. Commercial breaks wouldn't hurt this film but they would likely edit out Jennifer's wonderful hourglass/ "},{"Title":"Huge snorefest except for the first 30 minutes","Date":"15 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I very much regret dragging my friends into this boring, badly acted and badly filmed piece of trash - they'll probably never ever again let me choose the movie for the evening!Angel Eyes was billed as a mystery thriller. The first hint that it was not going to be one was the first two minutes that already gave away all the mystery by making sure everyone whose IQ isn't below that of a gorilla knows who the mysterious stranger that Sharon will encounter later is. The first half hour or so the movie actually works as a weird love story about two people who do not dare to really open up to each other, but then all the traumatic experiences of their childhood and disfunctional families come up and transform the movie into a horribly boring experience for the viewer.The hapless spectator is tortured by endless shots into the faces of the protagonist telling their sad stories and trying to look traumatized. And it does not end before the movie does...J-Lo tries to come over as a tough cop by doing a kind of John Wayne walk, which looks plainly ridiculous. And she's not looking all that good in her bikini, either...The one good thing about this garbage is Jim Caviezel looking absolutely gorgeous in his trenchcoat, with his stubble, deranged hair and lovely blue eyes (if there are any angel eyes in this movie, it's those). Unfortunately, that's not enough to save this snorefest. One of the worst movies I ever saw. "},{"Title":"Jennifer viewing only","Date":"1 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'll admit only seeing it because Lopez was in it and she's lovely.  Otherwise a bit tiresome and not really that interesting.The whole guardian angel thing has been done to death by Bruce Willis and Nicolas Cage in recent years and is just a bit boring now. "},{"Title":"Scored high by females and older males.","Date":"25 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  According to IMDB.com's gender stats, Angel Eyes is very much a chick flick. A Lopez tour-de-force which tells of a female Chicago street cop and a quietly peculiar man who meet and begin working on their personal issues together, the film delivers some action, has a bit of an edge to it, and is almost believable in spite of the slick Hollywood veinier. Perhaps the ladies score it higher because the female is strong and assertive and the male laconic and sensitive...go figure. Good stuff for the ladies and mature males.  "},{"Title":"Sweet, yet so idiotic.","Date":"29 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Not too often does terrible acting squash a half decent story. It is safe to say that ANGEL EYES did it good. Jennifer Lopez, hot off the heels of a new music album and a number one movie, THE WEDDING PLANNER, attempts to strike gold once again, thinking her acting is what once again everybody pays to go see and watch. Jim Caviezel, who I thought was excellent in FREQUENCY, fails to save Jennifer from looking terrible. ANGEL EYES is a pure bomb, with nothing special to remember. Walking into a theater with only ten people waiting for it to start on opening night, I did not expect much. Walking out of the theater that night with five people left, I should have expected less. It took me a long time to recover from such an awful movie experience as this month's pick of the litter I chose. ANGEL EYES, WHAT WOMEN WANT, MISS CONGENIALITY and ENEMY AT THE GATES (the latter being the worst). Finally recovering and finding the notes, I give you the synopsis.Lopez plays Sharon, a Chicago cop partially recovering from a terrible accident she witnessed a year earlier and still battling her family problems. One day she's saved from a passerby that sort of caught his fancy from the beginning. The name's Catch and from the moment they talked, they shared a lot of things in common until they grow to love each other. Together, they battle their inner demons.For ANGEL EYES, a movie with Lopez as a star attraction, there are plenty of faults. Technically in Chicago, you can see many of Toronto's main attractions (The CN Tower, Honest Ed's, Sam the Record Man in the window reflection). Sharon also claims to need no makeup, yet as soon as she looks in the mirror after a long day of work you can see it clearly. There is no need to say that Jennifer Lopez 's acting is what drove the movie into the dirt. To be fair, the overall production did half of it, Jennifer just made it easier to point the finger at. Her unbelievable acting job of handling the perps and fellow co workers would have Ed Wood Jr. 's standing ovation. Do not waste your time on ANGEL EYES. With bad movies all over the place these days, the last thing you need to do is waste your money on them. "},{"Title":"What is this movie","Date":"21 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ok, is this movie a Drama, thiller, Love story. Well it is none of the above. This movie does not know what it is. It jumps arounds trying to add something to the movie. All you have is a movie that jumps around, makes no sence and has bad acting  by Jen Lopaz (like she could do anything but bad acting, if you could call it acting). I received free tickets to the movies but I feel was ripped off 2 hours of my life.  "},{"Title":"Sappy, stupid, awkward & hopeless","Date":"19 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Jennifer Lopez, portraying a Chicago cop, is able to grab 200+ lb. street-types who eat nails for breakfast, and rough 'em up good, slamming their heads against cars and walls at will, no problem. This is stupid, but let's go along with it. The romance part, however, is just too sappy and disgusting to swallow, sorry. The creep is a lousy actor, and it's obvious he and JLo have zero chemistry together. But the really impossible part is the script. Nobody acts this stupid, and nobody wants to see other people do it either.  "},{"Title":"You won't believe your eyes...","Date":"17 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" ...or so the catch line was when this film was marketed on television. Not only did I not believe my eyes - I could not believe the performance given by Jennifer Lopez. She can be a talented actress when the plot and script provides, but she was ridiculous in this movie.Jennifer Lopez plays Sharon Pogue, a police officer who is rescued from an ambush by a mysterious stranger named Catch, played by Jim Caviezel (who plays yet another quietly reserved character as he did previously in Frequency and The Thin Red Line). The plot basically suggests that the two characters have met previously or known each other in the past. Catch is basically a nice guy. He delivers groceries in his spare time to a disabled woman played by Shirley Knight. Both Sharon and Catch share the same characteristics both in personality and lifestyle. Neither have much of a personal life and of course, two very attractive people such as these two characters find a connection in each other. The plot basically revolves around Sharon's own personal crisis' involving her estrangement from her parents and Catch's shady past and whether the two can put these things aside to be as one.Unfortunately, Jennifer Lopez is not very convincing as this character. She does not rub off as someone who can ignite sparks on the big screen whether it be as a love interest or as a comedienne (ie. The Wedding Planner). She is more suited to characters that portray heroism through females (ie. Out of Sight). Until I see her in something a little more believable, then maybe I would believe my eyes.Save this one for video rental.4/10 "}{"Title":"Changed expectations.","Date":"26 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" So this was the first movie I went to see with my girlfriend at the time. Why did we choose it? I can't remember, maybe because I wanted to drool when watching Jennifer's beautiful rear.To be honest, I didn't expect much from it, but I have to admit that it's a regular-almost good dramatic feature that would work better as a regular transmission for Hallmark Television.The plot is good at some points but feels more like a direct for t.v. effort. The acting works pretty good and J-LO demonstrates she's a good actress. She performed fine at least. Jim Caviezel delivers a very good performance and demonstrates he's a serious actor. I wonder if he could've worked better in dramatic theater. Sonia Braga delivers a good performance as always.Oh, well, I could only recommend it for fans of the delicious J-Lo or if it airs on late cable.Oh, and I got to see J-Lo's naked ass in this one in a steamy sex scene near a river. "},{"Title":"about two miserable screwed up people who deserve each other","Date":"13 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Ther are silly films,really silly films,and there is Angel eyes. It is way too long,there is no performance strong enough to anchor it,there are very few believable characters.The exception being Mr Victor Argot as Miss Lopez's father,a small role with little dialogue but a first class example of how good actors can do less is more. Miss Lopez herself is far from convincing as a Chicago cop I'm afraid. Too physically flawless to resemble a real human being,she would not survive ten minutes in the blisteringly macho world of the real thing. Mr Jim Cazaviel with doe eyes and designer stubble seems to have persuaded a lot of people that he has given a performance of great sensitivity,but I am not amongst them.He is not traumatised,rather he is catatonic. No one was more surprised than I when he sat in at a jazz club and played a version of Nature Boy that Jack Sheldon would have been proud of. The various sub - plots about domestic violence and guilt transference don't work and are merely tedious. Quite what the title refers to I am at a loss to explain.I thought originally it might be to the 1950s Matt Dennis song of that name but I was to be sadly disappointed. If you want to watch a movie about two miserable people who walk around with faces as long as a wet week in Southend Angel Eyes will hit the spot.It will make a change from listening to your Leonard Cohen CDs. "},{"Title":"disappointing","Date":"22 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Unfortunately, the only good thing about this movie was getting to look at Jennifer for two hours, but I still wound up checking my watch for when it would get over.  Jim Caviziel was more or less absent from his character for the first hour or so (although he warmed up later) and moped around like a zombie.  Jennifer did a pretty good job, although the two of them had absolutely no screen chemistry.  The plot was undeveloped and you wound up not really caring what happened to either of the main characters.  J-Lo needs a new agent to start helping her pick better scripts.  "},{"Title":"Awful, simply awful","Date":"14 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a terrible, awful weepie about a tough policeman and a mysterious guy with a big secret. Almost everything about this movie is outrageous. Jennifer Lopez can't act and there is absolutely no chemistry between her and Jim Jesus Caviezel. The screenplay is boring since you know very early what's about to happen and really everything in the movie is predictable for even the slowest thinker. The dialogue is stilted, the whole movie a sentimental mess without any meaning at all. But Jennifer Lopez is by far the worst thing about this flick she spoils almost every scene she's in. She simply is no actress. (She's not even a singer in my eyes. She's a celebrity by accident.) Please, please avoid this mess.  "},{"Title":"one of th worst! period!","Date":"31 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  this was just plain horrible. As i was watching this trash I was getting so bored because nothing was happening. I dont really think that this movie has much of a plot because the guy in the movie is kind of a front from what they portray his character to be in the commercials. Not to mention this has one of the worst endings in movie history! J-lo was already starting to fall off in my opinion at this point after the cell and the wedding planner but this put the icing on the cake! the funny thing is that i kind of think that this movie is better then enough but thats not saying much at all! "},{"Title":"Another terrible performance by Lopez","Date":"9 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Yet another terrible, wooden performance by Lopez.  I know she's pretty but why does she insist that she can act and sing.  She obviously can not.  I didn't believe a word she said in this movie.  She shows no emotion in her words, and acts almost robotic.  Terrible.  Obviously the only part she was good at was taking off her shirt in the park (but I guess she's used to doing that). "},{"Title":"Actually not good at all!","Date":"21 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The good thing about the IMDB is that you can read ALL the reviews, seethe votes, and pretty much figure out who is working for a studio andplanting good reviews, and who the real movie fans are. Real movie fans,listen up; don't waste your time with this movie. The plot I'll leave toother reviewers with much more time and patience on their hands, I'lljust say this; it doesn't make a lot of sense. But the good thing is,you don't care, because you're busy doing your laundry and making phonecalls while the movie drones on. There is no chemistry at ALL betweenLopez and Cazivel. Not one bit. There's no good camera work, and themusic is bad too. Don't bother with this one.  "},{"Title":"Only Jim","Date":"5 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Yea, only he had acting lessons in this movie. Jeremy was fine, but I didn't get to see him much. I saw JLo toooo much. It would've been fine without her. I got the sense that she wasn't connecting with her character the way she was supposed to. This is a deep emotional film that required range. I didn't sense it from her at all. I hear lapsing of an accent from the Bronx from a character who shouldn't have one. She simply needs more training. One day she might be able to do this. However, today ain't the day. Jim was startlingly in touch with the emotions and depth of feeling his character required. He seemed to be between the world of the living and the dead. The acting was good, but the movie sucked. The plot was a misfit for some reason. They were trying to make this movie something it wasn't. It belonged on tv like a Lifetime movie or something. I couldn't imagine sitting through this in a theater. They tried to convey a man's sense of loss, but in the end, YOU were lost. It was too grim and gray to make any point. But watch for Jim though. "},{"Title":"Jennifer Lopez is hot....oh, and the movie sucks","Date":"19 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Can you believe how gorgeous J-Lo is?  I mean, damn!  That girl got it going on in every way possible, the total package no doubt.  I mean, just check out the way her lower back curves into her butt and I guarantee you'll have to cross your legs.Oh, too bad the movie's TERRIBLE.  God, J-Lo needs to stop making movies and go into a business where she can keep her mouth shut and display her obvious assets.  But it's not Just her fault.  Caviezel, who I thought was incredible in Frequency, is simply awful here.  Yeah, we get it, he's disturbed, traumatized, but does he have to be so annoying while he's doing it?  I felt no compassion or sympathy for his character the whole movie.  Maybe he should stick to playing Jesus in every movie.  2/10, just because JLo's hot. "},{"Title":"No wonder...","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  this movie made no money at the theater. It is so boring. Nothing happens.  The pace is way too slow.  And it is so silly how they have Jennifer Lopez throwing around guys twice her size as she is arresting them.  No way do I believe she is a cop.  You keep expecting some cool plot twist at the end, but you get nothing unexpected.FINAL VERDICT  If you haven't already guessed, I say skip this film.  The only thing you will get out of it is a quick way of falling asleep. "}{"Title":"Jennifer Lopez keeps trying...but this is another cinematic failure","Date":"19 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Tough but attractive female cop in Chicago embarks on a tentative romance with a mysterious young man who saved her life. Somewhat convoluted picture wants to be too many different things cop drama, character study, love story. Despite some strong sequences, it just doesn't gel. Every now and again Jennifer Lopez surprises her critics by turning up in eclectic, non-commercial films, and this one probably looked strong on paper. But as a film, it doesn't come together, and one is left unsatisfied by the changes in tone and plot development. As for Lopez, she's only adequate here, but this may be due in part to the direction, which is weak. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Absolutely awful","Date":"19 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This one really has no redeeming features whatsoever.  None of it makes sense.  The ludicrous characters are played by some of the worst actors alive.  It's patronising, cheap, boring and insulting to the intelligence.  Jim Charisma By-Pass Caviezel plays this mysterious geezer in a long coat, who owns a massive apartment but doesn't seem to do anything that would enable him to afford it.  Turns out his wife and kid died in a car crash.  He survived and was rescued by Jennifer Lopez's plucky, spunky, no-nonsense cop.   It gets worse.  There's a hilarious sex scene by a lake.  There's a dreadful scene where loads of cops get shot in a diner, which is both exploitative and boring.  There are kids.  There are family issues.  There is a fantastically bad shot of Lopez where it looks as if the camera was stuck on the end of her gun while she waves it around.  There is even - please, no! - a scene in which poor Jim feels strangely drawn to playing the trumpet in a nightclub and everyone is overcome with emotion.  Turns out he used to play the trumpet!    Jim also goes around doing good turns for people at the start of the movie, but this is soon forgotten.  Perhaps the writers realised it was unbearably naff and quietly dropped it. Avoid this film.  It is bloody awful. "},{"Title":"Slushy Chick Flick","Date":"13 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Jennifer Lopez plays a cop . I`m sorry if I`ve forgotten her character`s name because if you`re watching a movie starring Jennifer Lopez you`re not watching a character actress playing a role you`re watching a singer and sometimes actress trying a career move . Did anyone else think she was a rather unconvincing policewoman ? Does anyone else believe there`s no such thing as a beautiful policewoman ? There`s also many other unconvincing scenes in ANGEL EYES . Take the scene where J-LO and her black colleague arrest a violent peckerwood ( Peckerwoods are members of violent racist skinhead gangs who differ from their neo Nazi brothers in that drug taking and excessive drinking are permitted in their subculture ) , strange that this peckerwood upon being arrested by a black man and latino woman spouts a lot of sexist insults but never EVER says one racist comment ! I guess the ridiculous above scene emphasises the fact that this is a chick flick and the producers didn`t want to upset or alienate its intended audience and no doubt the intended audience will be taken with Jim Caviezel`s smooth and handsome role . Talking of Caviezel watch the scene ( And it`s another ridiculous scene where no one gets the door slammed in their face like they do in real life ) where the woman is told she`s left her keys in the door and there`s a massive painting of Christ in the background . If you`re confused as to what Jesus Christ has to do with Jim Caviezel it`s obvious you don`t watch enough movies    "},{"Title":"Uninteresting and predictable","Date":"16 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This mediocre made-for-TV-style thriller (that got a theatrical release due to Lopez) is dull, boring and very predictable. It features extremely bad acting (Jennifer Lopez was nominated for a Razzi) and an incomprehensibly silly plot.I don't know how this got greenlit, to be honest. It's basically about a mysterious man (played by Jim Caviezel, a.k.a. Mel's Jesus) who claims to be a cop's (Lopez) guardian angel incarnate.Interesting premise on second thought but poorly executed.I wouldn't want to watch this again and the best I can give it is 2/5 stars. "},{"Title":"WEAK!","Date":"13 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film was totally weak to me.  I hated the ending.  I want to strangle all the execs in holiday for being unable to live up to the great films from the past.  This film is a pure example of how weak Hollywood's story telling abilities had become.  You want to see a good movie?  Go see and indie flick or a foreign one.   "},{"Title":"Waste of time waste of money, waste of talent","Date":"23 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was a waste of my time and my valuable money ($11). It was a waste of Jennifer Lopez's abilites. This movie is one of my all time lows. I would not recommend this movie to anyone. The plot line was nothing special, probably done before. "},{"Title":"I'd rather watch a Snoop Doggy Dog video","Date":"27 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Angel Eyes. *. If this movie isn't on `Lifetime' before Memorial Day next year, it will be a miracle. Ebert and Ropert must have been on estrogen pills, when they reviewed this one. J. Lo plays a cop. An angry cop. She has issues with her father, her mother, her sister -in-law, her brother, her fellow cops. She is an abusive cop. She beats the hell out of guys on her beat. A strange guy is following her around. What does she do? She invites him up to her room for sex. Then she's p***ed because he won't tell her anything but his first name or is it just a nickname? Attempted tear jerking scenes and resolution of most issues. Puke! My favorite thing in the whole movie besides the underwear ad by J. Lo; the movie starts with a multiple car accident with death and injuries. The movie ends with the happy lovers (I won't say who) drive away without their seat belts on. I'd rather watch a Snoop Doggy Dog video. "},{"Title":"Calling this movie garbage is an insult to garbage...","Date":"23 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  What is this world coming to? This movie leads you to believe it is a supernatural thriller. In the trailer you think that one of them is dead like in the Sixth Sense (a far superior film). All I can say is that by the end of the film you wish they were both dead. I just don't get how somebody can be a street tough cop and still look as good as Jennifer Lopez does in this movie. This makes the movie even harder to swallow. She comes home from a date and takes off her make up and gets ready for bed. Yet when she lays down, she looks like she has more makeup on then when she started to take it off. And she sleeps in her bulletproof vest? Why doesn't she go on dates with it? Too many questions to ask about such a lame ass movie. "},{"Title":"Contender for WORST movie of the YEAR !!","Date":"20 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  When I went to see this movie I was expecting a very good movie. I only read one sentence from one review and said to myself I don't want to know the outcome I want to try and figure it out. By the trailer it looks as if this movie resembled the sixth sense. Well dam ...WRONG!! This movie is crap !!! A true piece of crap!! 1 out of 10 "}]