[{"Title":"outrageously outlandish interactions","Date":"6 February 2002","Score":"17 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Jon Favreau's 'proper' follow-up to 96's 'Swingers' see's him as part of a double-act with Vince Vaughn. The whole film is based around this double-act, and the various banter that passes between them - mostly ricocheting from Vaughn's outrageously outlandish interactions with everyone he meets, and Favreau's handling of the ensuing situation.At times this makes for extremely funny entertainment, at other times however it makes for extermely cringe-inducing entertainment. Your not quite sure whether to love Vaughn's antics, or want him dead. Your also left wondering exactly WHAT Vaughn's character helped Favreau's out with in their younger days in order for Favreau to have such as deeply-routed tolerance and understanding for the man.... personally, I would have gotten rid of him years ago.The story itself takes a backseat because of Vaughn's antics, which is a shame, cause there's some really juicy material in there. I would have loved to see more development between Favreau and his girlfriend, played by Famke Jansen, and also Jansen's daughter. Peter Falk (yes, 'Columbo') is absolutely brilliant as Max, the ageing boss, fully believable and a fully-realised characterisation.Overall the film fit's together extremely well - the pace is fast, and you do get caught up in it... even during Vaughn's most cringe-worthy moments. Basically if you like 'Swingers' or general crime-capers, you'll love 'Made'. "},{"Title":"The New-Age Odd Couple","Date":"3 December 2001","Score":"17 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a much darker comedy than the breakthrough hit, Swingers, to compare the two would be useless.  The dialogue and chemistry between Favreau and Vaughn, though, is still at it's comedic best.  Since Favs was directing this flick, he let Vince go all out on his character Ricky.  The two longtime friends go to New York to do a mob job with little experience on how to do any kind of job.  They, needless to say, get themselves into quite a bit of trouble along the way. The entire movie itself is hilarious, there is quite a bit of profanity and a strip scene at the beginning, but if you can handle that, you should enjoy yourself thoroughly.  If it were up to me, Vaughn and Favreau would make a movie together once every other year.  The chemistry is so money, baby. "},{"Title":"Yes Yes Yes","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"15 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  All I have to say is I saw Made Saturday nite and it was hilarious.  I great follow up to Swingers, but please do not expect the same movie.  This is a different kind of flick, somewhat of a send up of the old crime/mobster movies.  Favreau and Vaughn (especially Vaughn) are in top form, the two have a great chemistry and are a wonderful on screen comedy pair.  As a New Yorker I especially liked the fact that this is a New York picture where as Swingers was a West Coast pict.  Locales all across the city are used to tell a great tale (indeed one of the funniest scenes in the movie took place right outside the movie theatre).  Also, big praise to Peter Falk (perhaps this is an Oscar worthy supporting actor role) who provides many humorous comments and gets the comedy rolling.  And P Diddy, Sean Combs... I was ready to hate him, but a funny thing happened, he is excellent in his role as a NYC crime big.  Funny movie, funny lines, funny moments. Definitely go seee it - a great follow up to Swingers. "},{"Title":"Vince Vaughn made this movie","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  MADE writer, director, and co-producer Jon Favreau did a good job with this film in that the movie was shot in twenty-six days. That is a very short amount of time in making a movie.  With a low budget, Jon Favreau and Vince Vaughn steal the show as two would-be boxers that are hired by a mob figure(Peter Falk) to settle business with another boss in New York City. Bobby(Favreau) and Ricky(Vaughn) dont know what is in store for them when they are confronted with the real mob. Vince Vaughn is hilarious in this movie in that he tries to act like a typical mafia figure with money, women, and a rich lifestyle.  He fails miserably in his attempts which backfire on him and Bobby completely.  I remember seeing Jon Favreau as Sean Astin's best friend at Notre Dame in the movie RUDY, and as Cameron Diaz' husband in VERY BAD THINGS.  I enjoy the work he does and RUDY is one of my personal favorites so that probably has something to do with why I like his work. I thought this movie was well worth watching although there is one thing i didnt like.  The fact that Sean P. Diddy Combs was given the role of a mob boss didnt take to me very well.  He should just stick to rapping and bag the acting.  Other than that, I enjoyed watching MADE, especially Vince Vaughn's constant humor.  "},{"Title":"Some laughs but a very average flick.","Date":"6 February 2002","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I tried not to have many pre-conceived notions about 'Made' before renting it. Then again, having Favreau/Vaughn together again will always conjure up thoughts of T & Mikey. Swingers may well haunt Favreau for the rest of his career. He alluded to that with his guest shot on 'The Sopranos'. It was a special movie, an instant classic which would be hard to top for any writer. 'Made' certainly tries to follow suit with the writing style but it falls flat. Vaughn (Ricky) plays a character who talks exactly like Trent but is more of a lunatic loser who's dream is to give up boxing to be a mob guy. Favreau (Bobby) is the level-headed friend who vouches for him while getting an assignment from his boss (Falk). All he wants is to get some $ so he can make better life for his stripper girlfriend & her child. Basically from there it splinters off into Ricky & Bobby trying to take care of 'the drop' in NYC for the boss (Falk). Ricky's Goodfellas-like mentality is causing headaches for Bobby who just wants to take care of business. I thought Sean Combs did a fine job playing himself essentially (a ganster living the high life). Yes, there are some funny lines but overall the movie is just too sloppy.  It feels like a low budget flick, the camera work is not very good and the film takes no risks. Characters were not developed & the ending tries to be all sweet but I don't think enough was done to set that up. There were just too many missing ingredients. If Vaughn & Favreau want to do future films together maybe bring Doug Liman into direct it. He did a marvelous job with Swingers and maybe they could recapture some magic. It sure was missing in 'Made'.Rating 6/10 "},{"Title":"Not worth the cost of a video rental !","Date":"14 February 2002","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I can't believe anyone could have seriously enjoyed this movie. This was no doubt one of the worst movies of the year. Vaughan's character couldn't have been any more annoying ! And Favreau was pretty much the same character he is in everything else I've seen him in. Sure, I loved Swingers too, but Vaughan and Favreau are one-role actors, always playing pretty much the same guys. I'm tired of them already. If you want to waste some more money go see Vaughan's new timewaster  The Prime Gig . He's a little less annoying, but the movie is equally boring. "},{"Title":"Made Poorly","Date":"6 November 2002","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Made PoorlySpoilers herein.`Swingers' was ambitiously clever. Flawed but showed some awareness of itself.Now along comes what is advertised as chapter 2. But this time one of the duo directs. Big mistake. Actors just have a different set of sensibilities and concerns than filmmakers. Filmmakers need to worry about the delivery of a narrative that inserts itself into your soul/ They're composers. Actors are single instruments.So what we have here is just a loosely connected collection of skits, engineered to allow Vaughn to embarrass. We are given the Falk character as surrogate to tut-tut about the dope. That's pretty thin justification for capturing us.Nothing clever or rewarding here, folks. That's even stranger when you consider they sought out Christopher Doyle, the man who put new life into cinematography with Kar-wai Wong. His eye is subdued here; I guess he just couldn't find an educated mind to attach his educated eye to.Famke is redhead here, sorta. I'm beginning to appreciate how redheads are used in film, usually without thinking. Here, she is a sexy loser, even to the point of giving away her child.Ted's evaluation 1 of 4 -- You can probably find something better to do with this part of your life. "},{"Title":"A very funny comedy...maybe","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"12 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Jon Favreau's Made is an unusual film.  It's ostensibly a comedy, and indeed a lot of it made me laugh hard.  Still, when I thought about it later, I realized that I had not really seen a comedy at all.  The situation isn't funny, the main character doesn't react to it in a funny way, and the resolution isn't played for laughs.  What you get is a straight-laced, sometimes even rather flat kitchen-sink crime drama which Vince Vaughn grabs by the throat and, through the sheer force of his heroically obnoxious portrayal, turns into a bizarre sort of almost-comedy.Jon Favreau is Bobby, a rather unskilled L.A. club fighter who makes his real living doing odd jobs for Max (a gravelly Peter Falk), the local small-time crime boss.  Bobby lives with a stripper (Famke Janssen) who he bodyguards for, but one night a bachelor party guest puts his hands where they shouldn't go, and Bobby lays into him rough.  Max is furious, but he likes Bobby, and gives him a chance to right his wrong.  He must go to New York, rendezvous with big-cheese crime kingpin Ruiz (Sean Puffy Combs), and make some sort of ill-defined drop.  It might all go smoothly...if Ricky wasn't along for the ride.Ricky is Vince Vaughn's character, and he's like a force of nature..if nature was obnoxious and pushy.  He is not the sharpest cheese in the fridge, and he begins acting like a Mafia big shot even before they leave L.A., tormenting their stewardess with stupid questions.  He bulldozes hotel valets, waitresses, club bouncers, and pick-ups with the sheer volcanic power of his boorishness, and most of it is actually really funny (not all of it; I actually started to feel bad for the stewardess).  Vaughn proved his ability to play charmingly rude in Swingers, still my pick for the best romantic comedy of the last decade.  Here, it's like that film's Trent has been given a sharper suit, a mob expense account, and a small but definitely serious chip on his shoulder.  Ricky is the reason Made is being called a comedy; he basically provides the picture's only laughs.The other performers operate on various levels of reality.  Favreau is more or less the film's lead character, but he's basically there just to play off Vaughn's disgraceful behavior and act indignant when Ricky gets them in another scrape.  Falk is like a caricature of a too-powerful- too-long neighborhood kingpin.  Janssen's character is played completely straight, and comes off as unlikable and rather depressing.  Oddly enough, the only other actors in the film who really seem to be contributing a humorous atmosphere are Combs and Faizon Love, who plays the boys' liaison to Ruiz. Combs has a surprisingly versatile array of put-upon expressions, and Love's massive bulk and hostile bark of a voice work to scary-amusing effect.Overall, though, Favreau seems a little shaky on what the tone of his film should be (Swingers, written by Favreau but directed by Doug Liman, had a confidence that this picture never even approaches).  There's lots of gritty hand-held camera from Hong Kong-based lensman Chris Doyle, and the sets' grungy low-rent atmosphere (even the hotels that are supposed to be nice look dark and a bit run-down) make it sometimes feel like we're watching a weird documentary rather than a fiction film, let alone a comedy. Favreau's dialogue is yet another realistic display that illustrates, if anyone had any doubts, that the f-word in and of itself is not a punchline.  The film has a bummer of an ending followed by an out-of-nowhere epilogue that, quite frankly, I didn't understand.I guess Made is what you'd call a human comedy, a picture where we're supposed to smile with recognition as we see characters not unlike ourselves who find themselves in unbelievable situations and try to deal with them just by being who they are.  I'm usually not a big fan of this type of film. If you're calling it a comedy, I'd better be laughing.  Still, Vaughn, Combs, and Love provide enough good moments that the picture is worth checking out at least once.  Just don't expect Swingers, and you should be all right. "},{"Title":"Made With Plenty of Charlie","Date":"25 June 2002","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Peter Falk?  How can his acting be anything other than a perfect 10?  Peter Falk is undeniably `money!'  But, he does not make the whole movie, however. Nay, Peter Falk is only one part of what I would call `Swingers with Balls.'  Swingers was a great movie, but Made was even better.  `Made' is more in your face!  Sure Vince Vaughn is more obnoxious in Made, and sure the characters are pretty close to the same as Swingers; nevertheless, I have this distinct feeling that if Made were released first, instead of Swingers, Made would have been the movie people were talking about, and not the other way around.  Maybe it is just my personality and my love for the shock value in movies, but I just feel that this one was more on the `money.'  Did I mention Peter Falk's great acting?  Oh yeah, there is some real talent and dark humor in Jon Favreau's writing and directing.  Jon cannot afford to make too many more movies like this one, and I hope he has some other creative colors in his pallet, but only time will tell, and I would love to see some more dark humor from this guy. "},{"Title":"Just a couple of expendable guys","Date":"22 March 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" If it weren't for Peter Falk playing a middle management Mafia guy this film wouldn't rate as high as it did. After a while stars Jon Favreau and Vince Vaughn are more annoying than entertaining.Favreau and Vaughn are a couple of Mafia wannabes they want to become Made guys. Of course the last guy who dreamed of that, dreamed no more and that would be Joe Pesci in Goodfellas, a much better film.Favreau plays a run of the mill boxer with a run of the mill record of 5-5 and one draw. He does some construction work on the side, but his real occupation is bailing out Vaughn from situations he creates with his own big mouth.Vaughn is a small time hustler who enjoys nothing more than getting over on people even when he doesn't have to. He avoids actual work like the plague and has fixed ideas from the movies about how gangsters should operate.Falk sends them on an errand to New York City and of course they think they're on the way up. After that the mission is screwed up in every way possible though Vaughn shows some chops in a bad situation. What is learned is that they're on the mission because they're two of the most expendable guys Falk knows.The audience gets some idea of Favreau's almost unlimited patience after putting up with Vaughn for more than 90 minutes. You'd better have a reservoir of patience to sit through this one. "}{"Title":"love it!","Date":"24 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  After hearing about this, I knew I had to check it out after Swingers, which was an interesting movie in itself, but not hugely funny. Made is definitely one of the funniest movies Ive seen in a few years. It's not obviously funny, or vulgar humour. Its the little exchanges and facial expressions of Jon Favreau and Vinvce Vaughn that really light this movie up.Lets face it, the cinematography isnt the best, or the editing, but the script and the combined subtle talents of the two leads will have you snorting with mirth in nearly every scene. Their chemistry is perfect, and cant remember seeing such chemistry since Lemmon/Matthau in their countless movies together. The gratingly annoying Vaughn bounces off Favreaus retiring dry humour incredibly well.I can see people not liking this. The audience has to do a little bit of work to stay with the humour, which can be a small look that is missed if you blink. The plot itself is a little tired, but the two leads made it work, at least for me9/10, fave film of the year so far. "},{"Title":"I'd like most of my 95 minutes back please","Date":"8 August 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Trying to catch lightning in a bottle once is hard enough, twice is darned near impossible. I liked Swingers, I thought the balance was pretty good and that made Vince Vaughan effective in his annoyance. Made is not as well balanced with Vaughan. It is true you wouldn't have much of a story without his character (a gold medal screw up) but then in order to get the story you have to suffer through a thoroughly overdone taste of Vaughn's idiotic character.I gave 3 stars because there are cast members that redeem parts of this movie and make it thoroughly enjoyable. Peter Falk does a fantastic turn as the lower level crime boss, and even give Vaughn the slightest taste of what I should expect most of the audience would like to give him...short of some violent and brutal death within the first third of the movie. Famke's 'stripper girlfriend' yes is a stereotype portrayed, but she does it awfully well. Special bonus points for getting Michael O'hara to show up in this.And I am sure if you actually like Vaughn's annoying frenzy combined with a humongous yet very fragile ego, then you'll absolutely enjoy this movie. "},{"Title":"Loses its way","Date":"20 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" A well-intentioned comedy that loses its way. Favreau, who wrote and directed, plays Bobby, who drives his girlfriend (Famke Jannsen) to jobs as a stripper and boxes not so well, mostly with his friend Ricky (Vince Vaughn). They take on a job for the friendly gangster Max (Peter Falk), who hates Ricky because he lost his dry-cleaning truck, but lets Bobby take him along out of friendship. The job is somewhere in New York, involving making a drop of some kind. The problem is Ricky, who has no sense, can't keep quiet, wants to party, and so forth. There's one foul-up after another, and the job goes down narrowly avoiding disaster. In the end Bobby loses his girlfriend but gets her daughter&#151;he's a way better parent. Favreau is good, but Vaughn, or his character, is just so obnoxious and selfish and stupid that he's unwatchable half the time. "},{"Title":"Mother of God","Date":"6 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Well, let me start by saying that as a fan of Swingers, I had high hopes for this film despite its bad reviews. After watching it however, I simply wonder why God, why? This might be the most annoying film that came out since lights, camera, action first came from a directors mouth. Vince, please Vince, tell me you owed Jon a favor. The character (sorry, I have permanently stricten the name from my memory) might make you feel happy that you were having your wisdom teeth pulled, and I am still dumbfounded how the Saprano's cast go suckered into the roles they played....In any case...save your money...save your sanity...save yourself....chose life. "},{"Title":"Those who compare it to Swingers are missing the point - but it's still just an above-average flick","Date":"9 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Made is nothing special. If it were graded as a separate film it would probably have gotten better reviews. However, because it draws immediate comparisons to the hit indie film Swingers from 1996, the general consensus drops even lower.However, those comparing the two are missing the point of Made. It's a separate film. It's not a sequel. Sure, there are a few self-referential moments (such as the scene in the hotel room when Vaughn brings back the girls and is going into the next room and leaves Favreau by himself, awkwardly, with Drea DeMatteo, which is an exact retreat of a scene from the other film) but overall it has an entirely different tone. It's darker, bleaker, less funny and a bit meaner. It's violent, and is about the Mafia, so whatever you think of Swingers - abandon your opinions at the door and take this in as a different film. Judge it as it is and not for what it could have been. Because although this isn't a great film it IS different than Swingers for the most part, and director Favreau goes for an entirely different approach, which is a good thing in my opinion.The performances are still good - Vaughn doing his crazy-guy routine and Favreau playing the put-upon good guy with a heart of gold.Overall, perhaps not worth a purchase, but maybe a rental. "},{"Title":"Some Intriguing Characters Bogged Down in a Dumb Plot","Date":"22 December 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Made has a lot that works well. Best is the buddy relationship between writer/director Jon Favreau, as a well-meaning boxer, and Vince Vaughan as his best friend and verbal and literal sparring partner who just can't let well enough alone. The characters are better than the plot, as they get bogged down in a picaresque trek through a very dark, fictional New York underworld. I lost track of some of the clues in what is in effect a scavenger hunt as they do an errand for Peter Falk's crime boss.Poor Famke Janssen is miscast in an unfortunate role as yet another stripper girlfriend who exists only in Hollywood.Pussy of The Sopranos helped to ground the crime part of the plot, and Sean Combs was adequate.The ending is pleasantly not clichéd.(originally written 7/27/2001) "},{"Title":"should never have been MADE","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I loved Swingers, I love these actors - but I kept checking my watch and was extremely disappointed.  Banter? What banter? Vince Vaughn's character just rambles the whole movie and is extremely annoying - has almost no redeeming qualities (except for the last 5 minutes of the movie - which itself seems totally out of character).  Jon's character? What character?  He just plays a sweetie - good heart - no idea why - no depth - he has no dialogue!! (Because Vince's character never gives him a chance). Puh-lease - the whole scene at the High School...how obvious - You can hear the screen writers - Hmmm...Jon never gets to speak so lets spell it out for the stupid audience with why he feels this loyalty to this annoying character.  C'mon - We didn't even get a good sound track out of it.  The trailer was better than the movie. If I hadn't loved Swingers, I would have walked out on this one. "},{"Title":"Slow comedy about a couple of meatballs ...","Date":"30 December 2003","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" ... who want to get in good with a local mobster.  Bobby and Ricky are a couple of losers working crummy jobs in Los Angeles.  One day, Max hires them to go to New York to make a drop for him, giving them their big chance to move up in the world.  Bobby's a hothead who's doing it to help his girlfriend quit her stripping job, Ricky's a major screwup who doesn't know when to shut his mouth.No point going into the plot deeply - there isn't much point to this story anyway.  The two blunder their way through the job and make out alright in the end.  The ending is supposed to make us feel good about the pair.Jon Favreau directs and stars as Bobby.  Comedy is all about timing, and the director just doesn't have a good sense of it.  The jokes tend to either slip by barely noticed or they hammer you over the head til it hurts.  Vince Vaughn is particularly annoying as Ricky.  His talkative imbecile schtick wears thin about a third of the way through the movie.Mildly entertaining at best. "},{"Title":"Not Swingers","Date":"13 January 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I wanted to see this movie so bad when I first heard about it.  I loved Swingers, and I thought it would be great to see Jan Favreau and Vince Vaughn in a mafia-type role.  I was, however, very disappointed.  In this movie Vince Vaughn's character was so incredibly annoying, I almost had to turn the movie off before it was over.  This movie could have been awesome if Vince Vaughn played the chill, laid-back character he played in Swingers. I can understand Jon Favreau wanting to do something different, but this was just plain bad.   "},{"Title":"Whats the action thats gonna come my way?","Date":"8 November 2004","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I thought this movie was hilarious. To clarify things I have seen Swingers, but Made was the first that I saw out of the two. I have read another persons review where he goes on to say that after Swingers he was disappointed in Vaughn's character (Ricky). I agree only its reversed for me, Vaughn's character in Made was way funnier then Swingers, but we shouldn't compare the two anyway. Why? So they star the same 2 guys, that shouldn't mean anything other then that. Don't get me wrong I enjoyed Swingers, I just like Made more. It's definitely a movie that you appreciate more the more you watch it, I happen to own the DVD and every time my friends and I watch it we find hilarious bits that might have been missed in prior viewings. Another interesting thing I ran into while reading other reviews is that some people said if you like The Big Lobowski you'll like Made. I think the 2 movies are really different but interestingly enough I love The big Lobowski as well. Maybe its a similar type of humor, it never occurred to me to draw a comparison. "}{"Title":"Like a 90 minute alarm clock in your ear","Date":"22 September 2003","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Aaaaaghhhhhh!  Never in my life have I watched a film with a character so teeth nashingly annoying as Vince Vaughn's in this. I'm not sure what Favreau had in mind when he penned the screenplay but surely the most brain penetrating moron in film history was not his plan. It's a shame really as Favreau's screenplay has some laughs and his performance is nicely understated. The film is also wonderfully shot by super DP Christopher Doyle. There are other problems besides the intolerable Ricky Slade however. The film doesn't seem to move forward in any way and ultimately becomes a series of vignettes starring two bickering adults. There doesn't seem to be a clear narrative. So, some potential here washed down the plughole by a stumbling pace and the most idiotic creation to ever appear on screen. This film must be doing wonders for pharmaceutical companies punting headache pills so at least somebody gained from it. It sure wasn't me.Niz  "},{"Title":"Created, Not Written","Date":"21 March 2003","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Students of cinema should add this film to their list of productions that fail primarily because of the lack of a script.  When characters are told by the director to take a concept and wing it, the result may be pure genius or -- in this case -- something that reflects life too closely to be art. Anyone who has been around real people as shallow and uninteresting as the two main characters here (Falk's is an exception; he would be a pro even if he read the telephone directory aloud) either identifies with them or finds them toxic.  So much for the evident polarities of reviews for this film thus far. "},{"Title":"The worst film of 2001","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" With all the hype on all of the talk shows, the critics built up Made as this extraordinary independent film that was selling out theaters nationwide, and was one of those rare gems, like Pulp Fiction, that had become mass produced in theaters due to its popularity. I was really intrigued in seeing it when it came out on video and was expecting a great mafia movie with excellent dark humor. Boy, was I in for a surprise...of the worst kind.This movie is awful. I cannot describe it any deeper...this movie is absolutely PAINFUL to watch. Writing a negative review usually entails picking the parts of the film that are not as good opposed to other moments that make the movie shine. This is one of those rare films, like the Mexican (see my review for that stink-fest) that everything in the film is HORRIBLE.Let's start off with the characters...when a movie features horrible characters that are annoying to watch, and they receive top billing for the film, you know something is wrong. First off, Vince Vaughn's character is soooo annoying, you want to yank out your TV from the wall and throw it out the window. Trust me, he doesn't shut up for a second the entire movie. I know he was written to be like that, but he is given no funny lines at all. Next, is the presence of P. Diddy, who I've never liked for many reasons, lack of talent being the primary, and coming a close second is his attitude...his facial expressions always act like he's trying so hard to be a tough guy, it makes me want to laugh just looking at him. P. Diddy has no acting talent, and does nothing but try to act tough, spouting out f-words like there's no tomorrow. First off, I don't mind profanity, I think it can be rather effective for realism or humor, and I don't mind it in excess if a film is using it for those reasons. But Made features more uses of the f-word than I have ever seen. Perhaps the shock value was supposed to cover up for the script, or lack there of. This film feautres Big Pussy from the Sopranos, Famke Janssen and Peter Falk, all of which have very little to do and don't add anything good to the script. And the ending was supposed to give a moral view on things, when we don't care about the characters at all in the first place (nor get the impression that anyone cares for anyone else...this is all implied). The movie is just horrible, it is one of those movies that you just get mad b\c you know Hollywood, the critics and their reviews have all deceived you in wasting 20 bucks to see. I used to like Jon Favreau, but I will never see anything in him again, unless of course he reemburses me for my time and money ;)I rarely say this on IMDb, but....STAY AWAY FROM THIS MOVIE AT ALL COSTS!!! 1/10. "},{"Title":"Unsuccessful attempt at a different kind of low-level mafia comedy","Date":"28 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Swingers take on a low-level mafia comedy didn't work out. It's a nice thing they tried. It's not nice they failed.There's some good stuff. Most of all, it's not boring. Vince Vaughn is annoying at times, but even he's not boring. The pace is good, story is OK (there are plot holes, but, hey, it's a low-level mafia comedy). Except Vince Vaughn, most actors are OK, too.The biggest problem is that it's not very funny, or fun. Well, not unless you're a big Vince Vaughn fan. Very few guys or situations are attempts at being funny apart from Vince Vaughn and he just tries to do too much with the pretty same approach, so it starts getting in the way.With less Vince Vaughn antics, less plot holes and more substantial story and message, this may have been more of a dramedy and worked better. We shall never know, but, as-is, it just isn't very good. "},{"Title":"My favorite under-seen movie","Date":"15 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Slick suits, hip urban nightspots, and an over the top performance by Vince Vaughn make this rambunctious farce an enjoyable and unpredictable movie with some obligatory fist fighting.The same offbeat sensibility that informed Swingers is also evident here, except that unlike the 1996 film, which dealt with real issues, Favreau's new crime-comedy is plot less Vaughn hits the bullseye as a strident, volatile jerk who can't keep his mouth shut. You never really like him, but you can't wait to see what he'll do next -- his missteps and offenses are so unbelievable you wince, but you can't look away.The film isn't as clever as Swingers but it boasts enough witty dialogue to make it entertaining. "},{"Title":"The (new) Odd Couple","Date":"8 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Five years after lightning struck for Jon Favreau and Vince Vaughn with the surprise hit SWINGERS, they attempted to re-capture that magic by playing more or less the same characters with the same antagonistic friendship in MADE. Except that instead of a simple, let's-go-to-Vegas buddy comedy, MADE takes the intriguing form of a mob comedy.Mob comedies often don't work, a fact that is amusingly referenced here (when on a plane to New York and told by the flight attendant that the in-flight movie is the awful MICKEY BLUE EYES, Vaughn sneers in disgust). But this one is actually pretty awesome.Favreau (who also directs, as he did with SWINGERS) plays Bobby, a bouncer who can't help punching out the clients that touch his stripper girlfriend (Famke Janssen). Vaughn is his best friend Ricky, and exactly the same kind of hilariously petulant asshole he was in SWINGERS, except even more obnoxious. In order to pay back the losses they've caused their Jewish mobster boss (a great Peter Falk), they are sent on a mysterious job in New York.Tonally, the film is a bit of a mess, but back in 2001 I really dug the way it whiplashes between light comedy, dark comedy, surprisingly poignant drama, and actual suspense, and I still do.The supporting cast is also great. In addition to the aforementioned Falk and Janssen, there is Sam Rockwell as a bellboy, Vincent Pastore and Drea De Matteo from THE SOPRANOS, Faizon Love, Jennifer Esposito, Bud Cort, and most interestingly, a convincingly intimidating Sean Puffy Combs as Falk's New York business partner, Ruiz. Oh yeah, and there's a cameo by Dustin (Screech from SAVED BY THE BELL) Diamond as himself that is pretty much the funniest part of the whole movie.Despite all the other elements, what it really comes down to is the comedic chops of Favreau and Vaughn. "},{"Title":"obnoxious Vince Vaughn funny for awhile","Date":"2 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Bobby Ricigliano (Jon Favreau)'s only ambition is to be a professional boxer despite his mediocre record. His lifelong friend Ricky Slade (Vince Vaughn) is a fast talking incompetent. Bobby guards his stripper girlfriend Jessica (Famke Janssen) during her gigs. They also do honest construction work for mob boss Max (Peter Falk). After Bobby hits a client for touching Jessica, Max reassigns him to a job in NYC. Bobby wants Jessica to quit but she can't depend on him to support her and her daughter. Bobby convinces Max for Ricky to join him. Max's partner in NY is Ruiz (P. Diddy).Vince Vaughn's obnoxious character is funny for awhile but eventually he starts to annoy me. The airline stewardess is probably the high point. It's a long ride down with diminishing returns. It's the same move every time. He keeps talking even though the other person is trying to stop. I'm not really annoyed by the antics as much as worn down by the repetition. "},{"Title":"Biting Satire and Strong Characters","Date":"4 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Divide in this Movie is those who find Vince Vaughn's Character Either Annoying and Intolerable and those that Think it is Funny. There is no Doubt that it is Irritating, but that is the Point. It is an Amusing, Over the Top Demented Take on the Low Level Mob Type and Obnoxious, but Lovable Buddy that Without Doubt Propels most of the Movie on its Quirky Road to Redemption.It is a Fun Film and a Playful Take on the Mob Comedy with Cameos from a lot of the Sopranos Cast and there is some Good Bits along the Way. There is Enough to Grab a Hold of and it Hardly Loses its Appeal because it is so Full of Interesting Characters and Offbeat Amusements. There are Word Plays and Slapstick, Irony and Irresistible Ill Fitting People Trying to Fit In and Force Situations that can be quite Edgy. Again, if by the Mid Point Vaughn's Ricky gets Under Your Skin, all is Lost. If not Buckle Up and Enjoy this Off Center Movie for what Charm it Exudes, and there is Plenty of it. "},{"Title":"Realistic and gritty stuff from Favreau. But not really an off-beat comedy.","Date":"29 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" It's strange, but when I had finished watching the full 90 minutes of this unusual but decent Movie that it felt like I was watching a gritty drama rather than an off-beat, dark comedy. Vince Vaughn was decent, but never seemed to keep his mouth shut. Constantly harassing people and winding them up with 600 questions per minute. (It felt that much) His acting wasn't bad, but got on my nerves at times. Jon Favreau wasn't bad himself. The film actually opens up like an old Rocky film in a boxing ring with the huge US flag shown dominating the room. It definitely felt more realistic than any Rocky film and the cuts & black eyes looked real. Great job with the face make-up. At times it was almost documentary like as me myself loving realistic movies as I do, it made the film look promising. But the acting wasn't spectacular and I did find that Ricky Slade irritated me with the countless interrogations. Bobby & Ricky are sent on a job by bobby's father, Max, whom doesn't like or trust Bobby's lifelong friend Ricky because of an incident involving a carpet cleaning van. They fly across the states to stay at a luxury hotel. During the plane journey, Ricky constantly harasses a waitress who threatens to get him in deep trouble. They arrive at the hotel and it isn't long till they fight and smash a lamp because Ricky refuses to give Bobby the phone. The film certainly becomes darker and grittier from them on. I did think it was worth the watch, and with it not being a long Movie, I give it a 6.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Very Well Made","Date":"26 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Jon Favreau wrote, directed, and starred in this very funny, very clever, well made film.I absolutely love this movie, and am sad that it never got the attention it truly deserves. It's an above average film that didn't get much exposure.All of the acting was great, and I enjoyed all of the different characters, but Favreau and Vince Vaughn were incredible. The scenes they were in together were hilarious and unforgettable. Neither of them disappointed me. A lot of people criticized Vince Vaughn because they thought his character was annoying. And he was! That was the point, he was extremely annoying, and extremely funny. He absolutely stole the show.The overall tone of this movie was gritty and real, which fit with a movie about criminals in New York City. There was never a dull moment, and it never got me bored.The only complaint I have about this film is the cussing. I'm not one to quiver after hearing an F bomb, but there are points in the movie, where it's used a couple times in a sentence repeatedly. It's not really that big a deal, but all I could think of. But if you don't enjoy cussing, that attribute of the film could turn you off.This movie is amazing, and I urge everyone to see it. "}{"Title":"Interesting film, but falls short of its potential","Date":"1 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I saw 'Made' shortly after it was released on video back in 2002, and just recently again on Netflix. The first time, I had to turn it off because the Vince Vaughn character was just awful. This time around I managed to watch all the way through, and while I'm glad I did, I have to say that I still found Vince Vaughn to drag the entire film down around him. Yes, I know that he was supposed to be obnoxious and annoying. I realize that. But it was completely overboard. To the point that it actually caused the entire premise of the film to make less sense. It's briefly alluded early in the picture that Ricky (Vaughn) looked out for Bobby (Favreau) on at least one occasion when they were in high school, and therefore Bobby feels like it's his responsibility to now look out for Ricky. But really, that only takes you so far. It's not like Ricky saved his life, or did something really profound and selfless. Nothing that would justify the kind of unconditional loyalty that Bobby clearly must hold for Ricky in order to tolerate even five minutes in his company, much less the constant barrage of sheer stupidity and abhorrent behavior that he endures throughout the film. And it's not like Ricky shows a softer side in private when it's just the two of them, to at least provide a degree of sympathy and a bit of realistic justification for their relationship... No, he's just as bad when nobody else is around. And Bobby is best friends with him why again? He took him on that trip for what reason? That question is never sufficiently explained, and the film suffers greatly for it, because it's really the foundation for the films' whole premise. Had they reigned in the Vaughn character just a little bit, the whole thing would have made much more sense. But aside from that, the rest of the movie is fairly competent and enjoyable. I grew up in NYC and was in my early 20's when this was filmed and frequented most of the locations used, so it brought back some fond memories for me. Famke Janssen was very good as the irredeemable stripper/prostitute girlfriend, and the ending was bittersweet and somewhat unexpected. It's overall not the greatest film ever made, but worth watching. "},{"Title":"Funny.","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Haven't seen Swingers, but will HAVE to see it after this one. Like Guy Ritchie, Jon Favreau knows how to make funny, and not stupid funny. Dark and mature funny. Great movie. You can't help but wonder through the entire thing how Vince Vaughn's character escapes death. A must see for Favreau fans.  "},{"Title":"This Movie is Off the Hook","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  When Max (Faulk) delivers that most egregious line about how Ricky lost his carpet cleaning van (after Ricky says, Why are you picking on me, Max?), I nearly lost control of my bowels. My friends and I must have laughed for half an hour over that one line. And when the fag comes in with the horse whip...I mean, what more do you want? Forget it. A lotta energy is lost when the plot slows Ricky's mouth down, but so what? Not since The Big Lebowski have I laughed so hard. I was joking with this girl at a party about how I like to throw out vibes (as Ricky says), and she busted me. Seems she had seen Made, too. We laughed and quoted lines for a good while. We had chemistry. Didn't get her number, however. Some people say, Didn't get her DIGITS. Man I hate that. Wait.  "},{"Title":"Not bad but not Swingers.","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Made made for a decent rental, but if you're looking for more of the Swingers magic, you'll be disappointed.  Although there is some of the same back-and-forth between Vaughn and Favreau that made Swingers so much fun, the formulaic plot grows tiresome and Vaughn's character became so grating that I found it difficult to watch portions of the movie.  As for Sean P. Diddy Puff Daddy Combs, he must have gone to the same acting school and Emeril and Sofia Coppola.  If you're looking for a comical movie about crooks, you'd be better off renting Snatch. "},{"Title":"The single most annoying character. . .ever","Date":"6 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I really wanted to like this movie, i mean, Swingers is in my top ten of all time.  But Vince Vaughn's character in this movie, Ricky, made me want to smash my head through a plate glass window.  It was the most excruciating movie I have seen in some time.  Don't get me wrong, there were a few laughs, but there just weren't enough to justify how much I wanted Ricky to die in that movie.  It seems like he was supposed to be really annoying, too, because Jon Favreau's character, Bobby, kept getting into fights with him throughout the whole thing, but it just wasn't enjoyable 75% of the time he was being an idiot.I will say that every once in a while Vaughn had a very funny line, Screech was a stroke of genius, and Faizon Love (Big Worm in Friday)was good as Puffy's second in command, so I'm not completely down on the movie.  But I was expecting more from the writer of Swingers than the most annoying character ever captured on screen. "},{"Title":"Annoying Vince Vaughn is still better than no Vince Vaughn at all.","Date":"19 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Swingers fans will definitely love it, the chemistry between Vince Vaughn and Jon Favreau is still fantastic. Vince does such a good job being an obnoxious ass. By the end of the movie, I was eternally thankful not to know his character in real life. "},{"Title":"Genius","Date":"19 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I am shocked by some of the comments regarding this film. Many Swingers fans have come out against this movie. That just seems crazy to me. Made is on a par with, if not better than, Swingers. The on-screen relationship between Favreau and Vaughn is amazing and, whilst some consider Vaughn to be irritating, I think this is his best performance.9/10Oh, and Dustin Diamond, Genius!!!! "},{"Title":"Incoherent, unfunny muck.","Date":"17 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I'm not sure what film everyone else saw, but this film flies far from Swingers. Vince and Jon should have stopped themselves before letting this mental masturbation go to celluloid. At many points, I felt compelled to chuckle since we paid for the rental. And then, the chuckle would die in my throat. Just not funny. It's like Jon wanted to have gangsters, boxers, naked chicks, and Chucky Cheese all in the same movie.  "},{"Title":"Not the 'Feel Good' movie of the year, but that's ok...","Date":"16 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A lot of reviewers are trashing this movie.  But I don't think they're being completely fair.  If you're expecting another 'Swingers', you'll be in for a shock.  But I like the fact that Jon Favreau has range.  I won't bore you with a long, drawn-out commentary.  I'll just say this is a dark movie with a lot of funny moments.  Check out some of the facial expressions on these guys (I love the motorcycle scene).  Vince and Jon are the 'Honeymooners' of the new millennium. "},{"Title":"More swearing than a George Carlin show...","Date":"9 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  But I kind of think that's a good thing.  As other commentators have noted, the f-word gets used quite frequently.  If that bothers you, look elsewhere.  Otherwise it's just a violent, obscenity laced follow up to Swingers. (8 out of 10) "}{"Title":"A thoroughly enjoyable film","Date":"8 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Take this film for how it was intended, and you will laugh and feel thoroughly entertained when it's over.  After the first time I saw it, I couldn't wait to see it again.  Jon Favreau directs and stars with his buddy Vince Vaughn.  As a director, Favreau cuts Vince Vaughn loose scene after scene and the results are pretty hysterical.  There is a lot of improv and freeflowing dialogue, but that's what I enjoyed.  Vince steals the show, and shows his comedic acting skills are top notch.  Favreau did a great job with his first film (I think) he accomplished what I believe he set out to do make a nice-little movie that warms the heart and tickles the tummy.  The ending may be cliche, but it's sweet and appropriate.  It was a very rare occasion when I expected to like a film, but liked it so much more than my expectations.  "},{"Title":"Do we need plot? Nah!","Date":"8 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film must be one of the most painful I have seen to date. As I finished watching this hour and a half of pointless reel, I sat dumbfounded. What the HECK was the point of this film? Mind you people, I'm a very optimistic person when it comes to movies - I'll sit through the worst of them and still find something good to say. This movie? Well, let's just say that I have little good to say.The entire film just seemed utterly pointless. What was the real plot? Even the worst film will accomplish a goal in mind (ie - kill the bad guy, save the child, discover a revelation, tell a tale with a point, etc.). This movie just seemed to mill about New York. Perhaps an enthralling tale about the enduring friendship between the two oh-so different protagonists? I didn't give a damn about the jerk nor the heartful nice guy. Every once in a while I did chuckle at the jerk, but that was about it. 90% of the time I was a shifting around in my chair and fighting the tedium which so dreadfully attempted to lure me into sleep.I give the movie a 4/10. May seem a little harsh, but the whole purpose of a movie is to at least keep you interested in the progression of the whole. And, when I say this I feel like a need a shower, but I still feel it's true Tomb Raider was more interesting than Made... "},{"Title":"Has there been a more annoying character ever?","Date":"7 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Apart from Jim Carrey's Cable Guy character, the role played by Vince Vaughn is perhaps the most annoying and irritating ever. We were so close to turning the DVD off and forgetting about it.The movie's OK, a good story, but VV's character is too over the top and ruins a good movie. "},{"Title":"A mature Jon","Date":"27 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I loved Swingers. The immature male joviality of it all. The second film from writer/director/actor Jon Favreau show how much Jon has matured since Swingers in both writing and acting. His characters are more fully rounded and have real jobs (I love Jon cementing), real lives and real troubles. He makes you honestly care about these guys -- even Vince Vaughn's character Ricky, who at first makes you cringe (hitting that damn airplane button how many times?) and then makes you see his side. And you gotta love the banter. No one writes realistic witty male repartee like Jon. The only one disappointing thing was the lack of Famke Janssen. I thought her character was very interesting.... although with little screen time the talents of Ms. Janssen are but a tease. I wanted to know more back-story about Jessica and Bobby! I suppose that's just a testament to Jon's ability to craft character. In fact, an equally interesting movie could have been about those two characters alone (an anti-thesis to Love and Sex, if you will). Sometimes I think Jon's feels insecure about writing female roles. He needn't be. All in all, good work across the board. I can't wait to hear the commentary on the DVD. I'm eagerly anticipating the next project. "},{"Title":"Very, very entertaining film","Date":"30 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This gritty drama/comedy is very entertaining.  I recently saw Swingers for the first time and liked it, but did not join the ranks of cult fanatics.  However, I liked it enough that when a friend mentioned that Favreau had a new film out, we made plans to see it today.  Made is outstanding...funny and gritty.  I actually liked it better than Swingers. Do yourself a favor...if this movie is still in a theater near you, go see it.  Forget that you've never heard of it, stop reading reviews with possible spoilers, logoff and go spend a couple of entertaining hours experiencing something other than the rancid pabulum that Hollywood is foisting upon us lately. "},{"Title":"Big let down after Swingers","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I was a huge fan of Swingers, so naturally I was very excited to go see Made.  I was let down in a big way.  Puff Daddy's performance is laughable at best, and Vince Vaughn's character is so annoying that he is almost unwatchable.  I tried my hardest to like this movie, but just couldn't do it.  If you can get past Vaughn's character, you may like this movie.  I myself, could not. "},{"Title":"The best movie this year that nobody ever heard of...","Date":"5 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I am a huge 'Swingers' fan, and it absolutely blows my mind that this movie was not promoted at all. It played on only about five screens in the entire Dallas/ Fort Worth area. I loved this movie, and wanted to see it again, but unfortunately it was only in the theaters for two weeks.If you like the bickering humor from 'Swingers', you'll love this movie as much as I did. Vince Vaughn rambles throughout the entire movie with profanity-laced humor that is truly funny, unlike the raunchy humor of many movies these days that is supposed to be considered comical.The script is very witty. You need to watch this movie more than once, because you are bound to miss some of the humor either because the jokes are subtle, or because you are laughing so hard from previous lines.Many people that are critical of the movie say that Vaugn's character (Ricky) was really annoying, and that Jon Favreau's character (Bobby) didn't have enough lines. That's the whole point of the movie. It's the interaction between common sense-driven Bobby and loose-cannon Ricky as they try to survive and complete an assignment for a low-level organized crime group that makes this movie so interesting.This is a dialogue-driven movie, as was 'Swingers'. It features great acting, combined with even better writing. It's little things, like a guest appearance by Screech from 'Saved by the Bell', that turn this funny movie into a hilarious movie. You must rent it if you have the chance. "},{"Title":"FUNNY! Must See...","Date":"28 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This was an excellent movie and Im not sure it is getting the attention or the credit that it rightfully deserves!I did not stop laughing the whole time. Vince Vaughn and Jon Favreau are brilliant! That's all Im saying, now go see it! "},{"Title":"Movie characters can be just as annoying as real people","Date":"22 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I truly had high hopes for this movie.  Maybe that was my first mistake.  I loved Swingers with all of my heart and I just thought Jon Favreau and Vince Vaughn could do no wrong.  The story itself was decent, a little lacking in the details, but still OK.  The problem was Vince Vaughn's character Ricky. He's annoying.  Like REALLY annoying.  Like Jar Jar from Star Wars annoying. The funny thing about writing an annoying character into a movie is that sometimes the goal gets accomplished too well.  Ricky was in almost every scene and it actually hurt to watch him.  I've known people like Ricky and I come to movies to escape these dumb-asses.  There were some pretty funny parts, but I cringed more than I laughed******SPOILER--BEWARE*********I think I might have forgiven Jon Favreau if he had killed Ricky off or finally ditched him or at least gave him a life's epiphany at the end.  But instead, Ricky stays as annoying as ever, never learns his lesson, and Jon Favreau's character never gets the backbone to stand up to him.  This movie didn't have to have the storybook ending, but Christ, if I wanted to be annoyed for 90 minutes, I'd visit my relatives.   "},{"Title":"one of the best of the year","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I really loved this movie.  The proof of a really great film is if you find yourself thinking about it the day after you've seen it.  The proof of a really great comedy is when you find yourself thinking about it and laughing out loud, regardless of the inappropriateness of your surroundings.  Made is that kind of movie.  I particularly enjoyed the look on Vince Vaughn's face when he is forced to ride behind a black motorcycle rider with no shirt on (the black guy is shirtless, not Vince).  Seeing him call over Chuckie Cheese to slip him some money and calling him Hey, Mousie... was another great moment.   "}{"Title":"Better than Swingers","Date":"14 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Vince and Jon are at it again!!!!  They play off one another perfectly! Vince is just hysterical as the bumbling wanna be, and Puffy (Sean Combs) is actually very good as their gangsta contact.  If you even remotley like Swingers, then you need to see this movie, this is better!!!!!  And I am not being biased just because I think Vince Vaughn is a god.... trust me.... the bickering between Jon and Vince through the entire movie is priceless. "},{"Title":"A fresh plot, well done.","Date":"11 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Vince Vaughn was terrific,playing a character you wanted to reach out and strangle, causing you to sometimes forget that he was supposed to be that irritating.  Jon Favreau needed few lines; his expressions told you everything you needed to know. In a world of sequels and tired old plots this was a refreshing and entertaining film. "},{"Title":"a great break for this summer's crap-o-thon","Date":"7 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I'm basically going to repeat what porkey said in his review of the film. I'm a huge Swingers fan and was afraid this movie would run on the now-popular status of Swingers. I was also knocked flat on my ass. Vince Vaughn is absolutely amazing. Peter Falk was perfect. Puff Daddy was also great as Ruiz (I really can't believe I just said that, but it's true). John Favreau did an excellent job as writer/director. I was really impressed with the character he wrote for himself and how he decided not to be preachy (the way that most movies do in order to blatantly point out that the characters are sooooo noble/brave/etc). There was also some great one-liners (you've turned this easter egg hunt into a butt-f**k-a-thon), and memorable scenes (in the airplane). There's also one incredibly memorable scene with Dustin Diamond, I think it might be the best used cameo of all time. An A+ movie through and through. "},{"Title":"this movie MADE for a disappointment","Date":"7 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  it's inevitable that this film will be compared to Swingers. unfortunately, it feels like a tired knock-off.  without a director to keep favreau and vaughn in check, the characters are over the top and yet lack any depth. bobby and ricky aren't interesting or even entertaining - they're merely annoying.  the start and end of the film, particularly with regard to the girlfriend's daughter, feel as though they were tacked on in an attempt to give the movie some emotional weight.  all i can say is this movie is so not money. "},{"Title":"DBDN 11","Date":"6 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Gotta love the inside Swingers joke of double down on 11 as the license plate of the limo! This was a great movie, and a nice change of pace from the rest of the summer's options. No, this wasn't Swingers and thank god for that. I loved Swingers, but a redux of it would have been cheap. Instead they went out and made a funny movie, without being money! "},{"Title":"Good film debut by Jon Favreau","Date":"5 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Before seeing Made I was expecting another Swingers but what I got was something really different. Both films have the same sense of humor but Made is more serious and a little darker. Vince Vaughn is great in this new role but not as likeable as Trent in Swingers. I really liked the Jon Favreau character, he's a serious guy but inside he's a good person and he just wants to take care of his girlfriend and her little daughter. Favreau does a good job of directing, he mainly focuses on the characters and the dialogue but there's some camera movement during scenes of action. I hope to see him direct more pictures in the future. So before seeing Made don't expect another Swingers but a more mature film and you'll really enjoy this one. "},{"Title":"Almost as good as Swingers","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie comes out of the same mold as Swingers.  Starring Vince Vaughn, John Favreau, and bunch of other stars including several cast members of the Sopranos.  It was hilarious.  Vince Vaughn provided constant laughs and it was a great storyline.  It's risky to say this movie was as good as Swingers, but it comes really close.  Definitely an underdog movie that could show up in a lot of movie award shows.  I gave it a 9. "},{"Title":"Nice, but no Swingers","Date":"3 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Jon Favreau fulfills every male film school student's dream of making a gangster flick with Made. And thanks to his charming writing style and the natural chemistry between Favreau and Swingers pal Vince Vaughn, Made manages to be a cut above the average mobster comedy. Comparisons between Swingers are inevitable. Vaughn is playing virtually the same character. Only in Made, instead of trying to smooth talk the beautiful babies, Vaughn's a wannabe mob man who's once again, 'so money'. There's also a hilarious bit reminiscent of the painful answering machine scene in Swingers. But unfortunately, Made isn't nearly as sharp as Swingers. While nobody does total um...jerk better than Vince Vaughn, his act here goes on almost too long. Swingers worked because Vaughn's ridiculous confidence was tempered by Favreau's sweetness. Made needs more of Favreau on screen. Still, the teamwork of Favreau and Vaughn makes the long feeling 95 minutes of Made a pleasure to watch.Favreau may have convinced himself that he was parodying the mobster comedy with Made, but he's actually at his best when he pokes fun at human nature. The end of Made shows what Favreau's capable of. It's truly wonderful. And much better than any silly mob story. Hopefully now that Jon's got the need to make a gangster movie out of his system, he'll go back to lighthearted social commentary. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable movie despite its flaws","Date":"3 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film has great dialogue, characterizations, atmosphere and pacing.  All of this comes together to make it a thoroughly enjoyable movie to watch, sort of a darker version of Swingers.  That said, I had trouble believing that Bobby would, to quote the film, vouch for his friend.  The character of Ricky, played by Vince Vaughn, is such a jerk that he's practically psychotic.  Nobody in their right mind would keep finding him jobs, much less take him along on a mob-related assignment requiring tremendous tact and discretion. As a piece of diverting entertainment this film scores big, but I think John Favreau was aiming higher with this film than he was with his earlier efforts, and it doesn't doesn't quite hit the mark.   "},{"Title":"Excellent crime dramedy is a modern classic.","Date":"31 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Jon Favreau's directorial debut is an amazing feat.  Anyone expecting a Swingers redux (and would have been damned-well happy with one), will be totally blown away by this dark, thrilling, hillarious film.  Made is probobly the first American independent film to deal with crime in a totally original manner since Reservoir Dogs.  And like Dogs,  Made has an uncanny grace in mixing serious drama with uproarious comedy.I hope Made does better than Dogs did during its theatrical run. Favreau's flashy, yet intimate craftmanship deserves to be seen on the big screen.  However it fares, rest assured that Made will be one of those films that everyone will be talking about, and telling their friends to see. It's that good.  And, if Vince Vaughn isn't nominated for an Oscar for his performance here, then something is truly wrong with the system. "}{"Title":"one of my favorites for 2001","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I attended the Chicago premiere of Made which was introduced by John Favreau and Vince Vaughn . The guys were great and so was the film,the same spark is there that was in Swingers..this film even moves a little faster than Swingers..with very few moments lagging  I give this movie a 9 rating out of 10! Highly recommend this! "},{"Title":"not stellar but funny at times","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Made who is the work of the same screenwriter as Swingers doesn't quite have the charm of the earlier film. The acting is excellent and the dialogue hits the marks and has extremely funny bits... The one problem I had is the fact that one of the main characters is extremely annoying. He is grating on purpose and the dialogue achieves that so well that he literally gets on your nerves after a while... If you can get past this, you'll find the movie quite fresh and interesting and you'll laugh at some very funny bits...  "},{"Title":"Made In The Shade","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Jon Favreau and Vince Vaughn are the smart money's Abbott & Costello.  The onscreen chemistry between them is noticeable from the get-go and their hilarious hijinks and witty dialogue carry this film.If you like Swingers, you should enjoy Made, but don't go in to it expecting another buddy flick.  Yeah, these guys are buddies and yeah, this is a flick, but it's not the same.  The spirit of Made is much meaner and lowdown.Vaughn has perfectly captured the essence of Ricky, the smart-ass/dumb-ass gangster wannabe.  In stumbling blocks like The Cell and Lost World Jurassic Park 2, Vaughn managed to prove he could rise above the material and deliver a solid performance even if the movie didn't.  With Made, Vaughn's acting is equalled by an exceptional script and steady directing.Jon Favreau leaps head first in to the Director's Guild with his freshman outing and hopefully he'll keep helming great films.  His triple threat on Made (writer/producer/director) is yet another crowning achievement in his career.The script is tight.  You can expect lots of the witty banter you loved in Swingers.  The directing is focused and energetic and the acting is first rate.  Even Sean P Diddy/Puff Daddy Combs does a fine job in a supporting role.This is the Summer movie that beats all the rest. "},{"Title":"Made In The Shade","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Jon Favreau and Vince Vaughn are the smart money's Abbott & Costello.  The onscreen chemistry between them is noticeable from the get-go and their hilarious hijinks and witty dialogue carry this film.If you like Swingers, you should enjoy Made, but don't go in to it expecting another buddy flick.  Yeah, these guys are buddies and yeah, this is a flick, but it's not the same.  The spirit of Made is much meaner and lowdown.Vaughn has perfectly captured the essence of Ricky, the smart-ass/dumb-ass gangster wannabe.  In stumbling blocks like The Cell and Lost World Jurassic Park 2, Vaughn managed to prove he could rise above the material and deliver a solid performance even if the movie didn't.  With Made, Vaughn's acting is equalled by an exceptional script and steady directing.Jon Favreau leaps head first in to the Director's Guild with his freshman outing and hopefully he'll keep helming great films.  His triple threat on Made (writer/producer/director) is yet another crowning achievement in his career.The script is tight.  You can expect lots of the witty banter you loved in Swingers.  The directing is focused and energetic and the acting is first rate.  Even Sean P Diddy/Puff Daddy Combs does a fine job in a supporting role.This is the Summer movie that beats all the rest. "},{"Title":"It's no swingers, but worth renting","Date":"28 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I LOVED Swingers...it's one of my ll time favorites. Swingers had more to say...there was more heart put into that movie and certainly more of a point.You felt more for those characters, they arced more between the beginning of the movie and theend, and you felt they had more at stake and understood where they were coming from. they were three dimensional charctaers, where as in Made, they're pretty unsophisticated. Some of Vince Vaughn's bantering goes overboard to the point where you're really not buying his character and he starts to make you shift in your chair because he goes too far in his antics to the point where he makes you uncomfortable just watching him....he's almost too inconsistent in his behavior, where they have his antics like a roller coaster strictly for laughs, but they forget that their needs to be some believability with the actions of a character. I NEVER felt like these guys were connected...I just didn't buy it. I actually think they were pretty generic with the entire mob set uo...like they got lazy and were more concerned with making the audience laugh than they were holding some credibility. I never felt like they had a clear cut mission, nor was their mission legit. I never felt that they would have been in the situation they were in, and I REALLY feel that they wrapped up the whole mob mission with hardly ANY complications. It basically just ended, where they were let off the hook. The CONCEPT was far more entertaining than the execution of it. To me, these guys learned very little from the beginning of the movie until the end....and the plot was truly lacking any complexity. They were almost better off not ha ving a plot, and deciding that they just wanted to take a weekend trip to NY, because the way they set it up was not only unrealistic, BUT, they pretty much never jumped into what they set up. Vince Vuahgn is funny as usual, but not AS funny. Again, a little bit more creidibility and consistency with his actions......a little more understanding of WHY he is the way he is, and we might have appreciated him more. Favreau is TOO stoic in this film. He lets Vaugh dominate the screen time, where as in Swingers, his character spoke out more...put up more of a fight to Vaughn. Here, he just keeps his mouth shut and lets himself get trampled.  Very surprising performance by Puff Daddy. Of course, he's playing a gang banger, something not unfamiliar to him, but NEVER did I think that he WAS NOT an actor. He seemed to be a natural...VERy comfortable delivering lines, face expressions, etc...I look for more from him in the future.  "},{"Title":"Made hugely disappointing","Date":"28 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Being a college student, one's cultural literacy is determined by the ability to quote from a range of movies, and few movies are as commonly referenced as the first Favreau/Vaughn jaunt, Swingers.Having been a big fan of Swingers, I expected great things from Made, having read from several reviewers that Made was a different, and better film.  I can't remember the last time I've been so hugely disappointed in a movie. From the beginning, the relationship between the stars is established. Favreau is Bobby, an aspiring boxer and construction worker who wants to earn enough money so that his girlfriend, (played by Famke Janssen) can stop stripping.  Janssen has an adoreable daughter that Bobby dotes on. Vaughn plays Ricky, an inexplicably obnoxious character that Bobby nonetheless shows loyalty for due to some act of bravery during their childhood.  Their boss, Max (grizzled vet Peter Falk) hires them to fly to New York for a little transaction that could be potentially lucrative. The rest of the film takes place in New York, and the businessman Bobby and Ricky work for is Ruiz, played by Sean Combs, aka Puff Daddy.  What happens next is entirely unclear, but if you're interested, see this movie. Made wasn't necessarily boring, but I found it nearly unwatchable.  Why? Vince Vaughn.  I'm a fan of his, from Swingers and Return to Paradise, but in this film his character is so incessantly obnoxious and irritating that it isn't even funny or interesting.  After the first ten minutes you just wish he'd shut up and act like a normal human being, like his counterpart, Favreau. The plot structure in this film wears quite thin so there is ample time for dialogue. Unfortunately, the dialogue almost universally consists of Vaughn making a fool out of himself and embarrassing Favreau, and the two coming to blows. As for Combs, his debut performance wasn't very good, not that my expectations were high.  His comic timing is fair but his voice grates on your ears. Favreau is an appealing actor, but he doesn't do much in this film other than tell Ricky to shut up.  Unlike Swingers, in which the relationship between the two friends was more nuanced and subtle, Vaughn and Favreau play one-dimensional stock characters, a waste of the talents of both men. I've seen enough good things from both actors not to give up on them, but stay away from Made and hope their next effort redeems themselves "},{"Title":"Good Macho Spoof; Very Stylish Courtesy of Chris Doyle; The Promise of So Many Things That Could've been but Aren't. Too bad","Date":"27 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Worth Seeing You'll be entertained for sure but don't look for a film that fulfills its tremendous potential, you won't find it. As a whole, Swingers is a much more successful and less cliched film, but in its overall style and in certain of its best scenes Made is a one of a kind hybrid.Like Swingers, Favreau's writing in Made always incorporates the many flaws, vulnerabilities and male insecurities (filtered through contemporary, 'hip,' ego-protective attitudes)which thoroughly humanize the two main characters, even though here they're more macho, semi-tough, mob-connected working class types.The hilarious spoof of boxing in general and Raging Bull in particular in the very first scene is classic, so is every scene Peter Falk is in (an amazing calibrated  performance perfectly mixing in aburdly comic elements without losing an ounce of realism, or going 'over the top'), and the one where Favreau's impossibly cute 6 or 7 year old little girl bears witness to a hilarious coded semi-profane interchange between Vaughn and Favreau while painting ceramics is one of the coolest and most original scenes I've seen in a long time.Hip-Hop Mogul Sean Puff Daddy/P.Diddy Combs is surprisingly very impressive, a natural in front of the camera, thoroughly unself-conscious.What bored me after a while was the endless avalanche of inarticulate profanity, especially during the Favreau/Vaughn exchanges the big white-boy curse word of 'F'n this and F'n that' making some 3 appearances a second and taking the charm out of dialogue which had worked when mildly sprinkled with curse words in strategic spots only before. From the film's middle to the end, the interaction between Vaughn and Favreau  doesn't grow beyond the limited, angry-impulsive-frustrated-cursing-guy zone of 'locker room,' tough-guy-wannabe 'man talk' prerogatives and settles into cliche. "},{"Title":"Very Funny","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I found this movie gut-busting funny--a very similar sense of humor to the also Favreau scripted Swingers.  Like Swingers, there was an underlying dramatic plot beneath the main humorous plot, but it didn't really work as well in Made.  But if you liked Swingers, this movie is definitely worth it for the laughs. "},{"Title":"This movie had me falling out of my seat from start to finish.","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Jon Favreau and Vince Vaughn could be the greatest comedicteam since, dare I say, Gene Wilder and Richard Pryor or MelBrooks and Carl Reiner.  This is an amazing follow-up toSwingers.  Note It is not Swingers 2, Favreau knows that sequelsare never as good as the original.  This movie, which exhibits thesame comic dynamic between Vaugn and Favreau, is on a levelwith Swingers.  It is a different film, different story and characters. It is a more grown-up film.  But if you are a fan of Swingers, or evena fan of mob movies, you will love this spoof.  I will not give anything way save to say that you will need to see this movie twicebecause I gaurantee you the first time you will miss some of thejokes because a) there are so many and they are so layered (likeSwingers) and b) because you'll be laughing so hard for so longyour bound to miss some dialogue.  My reco. GO see this movieas soon as you can.  Favreau was very good in his directing debut. And amidst all the plotless summer movies out there (read TombRaider, Jurassic Park 3, The Mummy Returns) this movie willcertainly stand out. "},{"Title":"The Odd Couple meets The Sopranos","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I saw this in New York and the movie was great. Vince Vaughn did an amazing job and stole the movie. Jon Favreau did a great job acting, producing, directing and writing the movie. Sean Combs kind of got lost in the mix but he did a good job. Peter Falk did a good job but once again Vince Vaughn did an amazing job. the entire time watching this all i could think about was The Odd Couple and it was just great. 9/10 "}{"Title":"Not a Swingers sequel, but an improvement","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I was fortunate enough to see Made on opening night in Minneapolis - the crowd was great, very receptive, and the movie went over really well. For good reason. Be forewarned, however if you liked Swingers just because of the catch phrases and the music, you may not get into Made. But if you liked Swingers because of the intelligent, witty writing and Vaughn and Favreau's chemistry onscreen, you'll agree that this unassuming delight is an improvement. Made is a rambling, easy to watch film; the plot (Favreau and Vaughn as inept aspiring mobsters on their first big job) is more or less unimportant. The real joy in watching Made is in seeing the two actors play yin and yang with each other. Favreau's character is possibly the most damned likeable guy you'll see in a movie this year, keeping everything on track while Vaughn natters along like a combination of Swingers' Doubledown and Psycho's Norman Bates, hilariously talking himself, and everyone around him, into all kinds of trouble. In short - great acting from the leads (with surprisingly good support from Puff Daddy and Peter Falk as bicoastal crime bosses), competent and occasionally risk-taking direction from first-time helmer Favreau, and charm to spare. Made won't make the cultural impact of Swingers, but it's a thoroughly enjoyable film, and a refreshing departure from the majority of idiotic studio comedies coming down the pike. "},{"Title":"Embarrassing 50's-era gay stereotype mars otherwise GREAT movie.","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Made is a truly funny movie, well paced, well-written, acted and directed.But about a third of the way through, there's this scene with an effeminate gay interior designer-- striped hair, pink coat-- who sexually harasses the workers until they threaten to beat the crap out of him.  He takes their names and has them fired.I was very upset by this scene. I wanted to like the movie.  There's so much to like here.  But it took me a long time to get back into it after that.There are other gay slams throughout, which is fine.  I'm a writer, so I know you have to be true to your characters and some characters are homophobic.  But this interior designer character was different.  It isn't real.  I've been out for twenty years and I've lived in New York, the Midwest, the south and Los Angeles, including West Hollywood.  I'VE never seen a gay guy like this.  Never.  And I'm betting with Jon Favreau's limited (we have to assume) contact with gays, HE hasn't either.  This character is an assembly of cliches and stereotypes he's seen in other movies and heard about from homophobic friends.But there's a bigger problem.  By putting the gay guy in the position of powerful harasser, Favreau seems to be asserting that the social problems of the working class are caused by effete fags, not by inherently exploitative economic policies.I am not saying, Don't see the movie.  It's a GOOD movie.  REALLY funny. But I wish I'd known this character was in it before I saw it so I could decide whether I wanted to spend money supporting it or not. "},{"Title":"Doing what they do best!","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  OK-Here come the Swingers comparisons from everyone.  It's Swingers meets Sopranos.  It's Swingers in New York...It's Swingers meets...  You get the picture.But here is the thing this film is NOT Swingers.  Same creative team but not the same movie.  The sooner you realize that this film is not Swingers, not a sequel, but one that stands all by itself, independent of that S movie, the sooner you will be able to sit back and let these guys do what they do best deliver snappy dialogue that will leave you laughing for days. Sure the plotline is a bit thin but you will not care because the film just coasts along at an enjoyable pace that lets you take in one encounter after another.One of the top 10 of the year.  "},{"Title":"A very fine directing debut","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I am not going to say much, just that this was a very pleasant surprise. Instead of trying to out do Swingers, he instead makes a movie that acknowledges the success of Swingers yet does not try to copy the same atmosphere and mood. Whether it is better or worse is up to you (I still prefer Swingers), but I love the fact that he can make a very good movie while under the shadow of expectations. I can't wait to see what will happen next.P.S. I am reminded of Kevin Smith, who had so much pressure with Mallrats to follow up Clerks, and while it was dogged by almost everyone I think that Mallrats is still a great movie that had the Clerks feel while caring a much different attitude. Lets hope that Favreau's third film is a Chasing Amy.  "},{"Title":"You've Got it MADE if you go see this movie!","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a great flick. I saw and advance screening of it a few months ago and it is a great film. Jon Favreau has written a follow up script to the 1996 hit Swingers. He reteams with Vince Vaughn and the wonderful chemistry and banter are in full force. The story is about two average guys who get the opportunity to become Made mofia men. Their boss is played brilliantly by Peter Falk, who steals every scene that he is in. Now the only problem with this situation is that Ricky (Vaughn) is an IDIOT! I mean he never stops. He talks to much, he moves to much, he breaths too much. It makes for hillarious comedy. The entire cast is fabulous and there is not one character that goes unnoticed. Famke Janse, Sean Combs, Vincent Pastore, Sam Rockwell, Bud Cort. This movie is IT! Go see it, spend the $10 bucks, hell take a DATE! IT's the best movie of the summer. "},{"Title":"Strong movie despite weak story line","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Audiences will not disappointed by the return of the combination of Vince Vaughn and Jon Favreau.  After each had success in roles apart from each other (Vaughn in 'The Lost World' and 'The Cell' and Favreau in 'The Replacements' and guest starring in the television show 'Friends') the on-screen chemistry is still powerful as it was in  their collaboration in 1996's 'Swingers'.  The story line is somewhat flat.  Favreau gets involved with a mob boss in Los Angeles who assigns him to make a simple exchange in New York.  He reluctantly vouches for his over zealous friend, Vaughn, and the two share some interesting experiences being recently made men.  It seems like half of the Sopranos cast is seen as well as other cameos, such as Screech and Sean 'P. Ditty' Combs, who has a supporting role as the duo's New York connection.  The likeability of the two main characters seems to dwindle as the story progresses.  The overall dialog between the Vaughn and Favreau seems to be infectious enough to make this an enjoyable movie.  "},{"Title":"Disappointing reunion of Favreau and Vaughn.","Date":"28 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie was a disappointment for me, as I really like both Jon Favreau and Vince Vaughn. I spent a good deal of time waiting for something to happen on screen,and almost nothing did.  I got the impression that Favreau had a lot of ideas about where to go with this film and never settled on one, so it seems like a scatter shot at all of them.  The interaction between these two guys looked like a contest to see how many times they could say F***ing on screen, and the same scene played over and over. Several of the supporting characters were great, and could have added a lot to the film if they had been given more to do, especially the little girl.  "},{"Title":"Saw a preview screening.  It was amazing.","Date":"6 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I am a huge Swingers fan.  I've seen it countless times.  I was worried that I would not like Made.  I wasn't crazy about the idea of them doing a crime movie, or certain members of the cast.  I was knocked on my ass.  This movie is totally different from Swingers, but the characters still have the great banter.  It is a much darker, more mature film than Swingers, and there's no great answering machine moment.  I hope I'm not setting expectations too high, and maybe I liked it so much cause I was expecting the worst, but I loved it. "},{"Title":"One longs to see these two perish in a hail of gunfire...","Date":"7 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" A Los Angeles working-stiff with a stripper girlfriend partners with his childhood pal--a screw-up he feels an undisclosed loyalty to--in a money laundering drop for the girlfriend's boss, a low-rent mobster. The two men are flown to New York City, arguing all the way, where they meet up with their connection, a mild-mannered gangster from Scotland nicknamed The Red Dragon. Fidgety, foul-mouthed, half-comic crime flick with a loose cannon performance by Vince Vaughn, who dances on the razor's edge for nearly the entire 95 minutes. Jon Favreau (who wrote the script, directed, and served as co-producer of the film with Vaughn) plays the more level-headed of the two, and he's certainly easier to take, but after 45 minutes the picture still hasn't gotten started. Favreau seems to think character quirks are enough to hold interest, yet his characters are misogynistic, homophobic, trash-talking would-be hipsters who pound away at each other like infantile siblings. It's just possible that some may see Vaughn's volatile acting as some sort of tour de force; he shoots up with this performance like a speed demon, ranting angrily like a man possessed. It takes some time getting adjusted to--and once the audience does, they've had enough. *1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Great Guy Flick","Date":"29 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Fantastic! I think this is where Vaughns off beat dry sense of comedic humor really took off, almost every scene has an edgy feel about it, very trendy and in my opinion ahead of its time...I think many mob films with a splash of comedy thrown over it have been made, unfortunately most of them failed somehow this one doesn't even P. Diddy is tolerable and the dialoge between the two as well as their love hate relationship makes it a good watchIn conlclusion One the few good guy films out there and the characters although somewhat zany are extremely likable as well as easy to relate to, if your a Vaughn fan or just prefer humor that isn't dull and obvious check out Made!! "}{"Title":"Not as cool as Swingers, but rent it for the reference","Date":"24 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This flick wasn't as cool as Swingers. Vince Vaughn is put in the weak / dumb guy role, and that isn't his strength. Why does he have a fake gun at one point? We want Vince to be the mile-a-minute chatter box who is joking with everyone, sassing friends, and sweeping girls off their feet (think Swingers or Wedding Crashers). But it's cool in it's off-beat way and has it's moments. It's great to see Jon Favreau and Vince Vaughn together again. What you really want is a Swingers 2, but that kind of uniqueness is hard to repeat. Made is definitely worth a rental. Speed DVD it maybe (2x speed with high pitched audio if your DVD supports it). "},{"Title":"Funny - if slight - homegrown mobster flick","Date":"19 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" A funny, satisfying film. This is a mob movie that successfully fills a comic crack between the grand and serious sweep of The Godfather and screwball, Tarantinoish violence. Favreau's winning formula is at once straightforward &#150; take a basic, almost generic subject and give it good characters chewing a good script &#150; but at the same time uncontrolled. The DVD extras talk about the flexibility of ideas and a disciplined improvisation at work.Key to this is the principal pairing. The only thing really carried over from Swingers is the volatile binding bonhomie of Favreau and Vaughn. Though Favreau roughly reprises the ever-so-slightly-too straight guy, Vaughn works his urban slickster into a truly awful jive-talking id incarnate. It is difficult to see, in retrospect, how this character and the relationship that it sparks off could have existed within the strictures of sine qua non scripting. It works well on screen though and along with the other characters passing through (a particularly good Peter Falk and surprisingly good Sean Coombs, both much more than cameos) fill out the simple plot with plenty to spare. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Favreau's got heart, Vaughn's got a mouth","Date":"14 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" If not the finest film ever made -- and that is arguable -- MADE is my favorite picture ever. Why?1. The finest performance by a child actor since The Piano 2. Retains the good vibe of Swingers without being anything close to a sequel 3. Peter Falk 4. Comparable to but utterly different from Christopher Guest's amazing oeuvre, Made has the funniest improvisational quality on film since Cassavete's Husbands 5. The lovable Faizon Love as the hapless henchman of Sean Combs 6. There's a lot going on ... but then, there always is. A lot going on. 7. Shot in the USA 8. The opening boxing scene -- Favreau and Vaughn beating the crap out of each other -- is followed by them driving through the Hills, sharing a ride home (and Vaughn unwittingly setting fire to Hollywood by throwing a lighted match out the window.) 9. Tom Morello of Rage Against The Machine makes a cameo. 10. Dean Martin made the soundtrack, again. "},{"Title":"Its not f&#@ing Swingers, people.","Date":"24 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  First off, I loved Swingers and thought this would be Swingers, done California-gangsta-pool-party-style. Some of the dialog is reminiscent of Swingers (in more of a working class kind of way) but this movie is definitely not a chip off the old block.It moves slower than Swingers and takes awhile to build. Ricky, Vince Vaughn's character, will really grate on some people's nerves at first. He is incredibly annoying in a way that becomes increasingly hilarious each time you see the movie (I've seen it about 4 times). Jon Favreau does a great job of portraying Bobby- a good guy who wants to do the right thing, but is held back by his loyalty to Ricky, a semi smooth talking, wise ass, f@ck-up. Some of the improvised dialog is amazing tight and funny, and so riddled with f-bombs that it would make Ozzy Osbourne blush.Made is a diamond in the rough. It has a great story, great acting (entire cast is dead on), a beautifully shot cinematography in great locations, good soundtrack (especially Jurassic 5), good dialogue that has peaks of genius, some issues in the pace of the movie (drags at times).If you liked Swingers AND the Big Lebowski you'll probably want to buy this movie and watch it a few times. You'll grow to appreciate it once you realize its not f&#@ing Swingers, people.  "},{"Title":"OK the first time... Better the second... hilarious the third","Date":"24 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  First of all, Made is not a sequel to Swingers, so stop talking about older characters or anything like that, it's a completely different movie.So, to all Swingers fans, don't go in and expect to find Trent and Mikey. Made is nonetheless and excellent comedy, better appreciated during replays.It is IMO a good thing that Jon Favreau didn't choose the easy road of doing a sequel, but rather decided to write a whole new story. My advice to any Swingers fan would be  if you rented Swingers, you'd better buy Made, because it's one of the rare films you'll appreciate more and more as you watch it again and again. To those who want to refute this try it and then write your opinion.  "},{"Title":"under-rated , entertaining, sleeper of a movie","Date":"5 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  enjoyed the movie,surprisingly good acting by p. diddy and unusual for peter falk. both main characters are very good together and don't forget to pick out the three soprano regulars.take the movie for what it is , sit back and enjoy. not for the kids, too much language but needed to be realistic. vince vaughn is a hoot.p.diddy should get more roles, played his part very well.two thumbs up! "},{"Title":"get over it already...","Date":"15 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  this movie is HILARIOUS. i don't think i can handle reading another moronic review by somebody on IMDB that doesn't realize vince vaughn's character is SUPPOSED to be annoying. that is the POINT. and it's funny.i feel bad for jon favreau since more people don't appreciate this film. everybody i've shown it to loves it though... and hello, do not expect to see swingers 2. i like this movie even more than swingers, but i don't think they're comparable except for the fact that they have two of the same actors in it.i was actually surprised by this film, i didn't think it looked that good in the trailer. i had no desire to watch it, but i was able to get a free promo copy at work and ended up loving it...  much better than comedies like american pie. keep an eye out for the touching scenes with chloe ) "},{"Title":"Best Move EVER!","Date":"13 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This masterpiece had it all.  It had a good plot for us to follow, many nice subplots to hold our attention, great character interaction, and it had a great deep plot in the subtext of the movie that made this wonderful (see directors commentary).The character of Bobby (John Favreau) is great, I think he's someone everyone can relate to in some context.  He was stuck in a bad situation, but had a heart of gold and never gave up.  Vince Vaughn's character, Ricky, although very entertaining, had a deeper role from my point of view.  I have several friends that have some of the traits Ricky has Lazy, tactless, wasteful, looking for a party/alcohol, rude, obnoxious, and so on.  But this movie took all those traits, and rolled them all into one man.  So looking at him through Bobby's eyes, as a viewer, I'm able to empathize with him every time Ricky screws something up or says something stupid.I can't say enough good things about it.  If you haven't seen it, rent it at your next trip to the video store. Awe hell, BUY IT!  DVDs are cheap these days and rental fees are high, you'll come out ahead by owning it.This film really struck me the same way the Big Labowski did.  I think the term is dark comedy, but don't call me on it, I'm not too up on the movie lingo.  Still, if you liked Labowski, you'll love this, guaranteed!I was going to give this a 9/10, but I've given far lesser movies 9s, so this is getting the full 10, brother! "},{"Title":"A great little film","Date":"9 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Obviously people will put this up against Swingers. Written by the same person and with the same two main actors - but this isnt Swingers. It isnt their characters a little older. It's a totally different film! Yes its not as good, I think thats due to Doug Liman not directing but it has some great scenes and very funny moments. Watch the outtakes on the DVD and you'll see how well the actors interact and keep the scenes fresh and real thanks to not keeping tight to the scripted dialogue. It definately gets better the more you watch it but the prudes are right - theres a little too much of the 'f' word. Bring on the next collaberation. Now Favreau and Vaughn have directed and produced, the third will be a stormer. Its a shame they peaked so soon on so little with Swingers but place Made away from their first and it really is a funny and enjoyable flick. "},{"Title":"sorry, sorry people","Date":"28 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Made is the funniest comedy of 2001 and one of my personal favorites.  I don't quite understand why everyone on this board is bashing it. It wasn't poorly made, about the equivalent of Swingers which everyone is trying to compare it to.  It was hilarious, I don't know what everyone was expecting of Jon Favreau and Vince Vaughn, they were as good as they have ever been. It wasn't boring, the same type of humor they've always produced.  I think their are just some sour people on this board who were expecting Swingers 2 Attack of the Dance. Just like vince said, everytime we sit down, it's got to be your seat, my seat  If you have a soul, you will like Made. "}{"Title":"All swings but no punches","Date":"9 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie seems to be mostly about this two friends on a mission in NYC.  Besides their weird relationship, the plot doesn't seem to go anywhere, with all the situations that is beyond incredible.The relationship between the annoying Vaughn and serious business Favreau doesn't seem to mesh.  How could someone who seem to have no sense of humor and is so very frequently annoyed by the PITA Vaughn be best friends?  I could only assume it is one of those knew him since he was a kid kind of thing. "},{"Title":"nothing happens","Date":"10 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Nothing really happens in this.  The plot is so boring, I didn't really care if anything happened any ways.  I can't really recall a scene I even liked.  Just some annoying characters plodding along in an unentertaining movie.  I thought it might get better when Puffy came along, but he didn't do much for this film either.FINAL VERDICT  A waste of time. "},{"Title":"Great but annoying","Date":"31 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  For the first time in my life, my main complaint of a film is that acharacter was too well acted.  Vince Vaughn's performance of theguy who does everything the wrong way by being loud and dumbis so convincing that you just wish he'd ge off the screen so youreardrums can stop bleeding.  But the movie itself is well craftedwith a smooth and funny plot.  I just wish I could selectively mute. "},{"Title":"No plot, giant hole in film makes for uninteresting viewing..","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I was first intrigued by this film when I saw a trailer for it.  It was portrayed as a very stylized gangster film.  But upon viewing it, I find it is a film that was made by the 2 main actors (Vince Vaughn and John Favreau), in a very low budget cinema documentary style with none of the flash.  Nothing wrong with that, if anything I would think that there would be something more special to it, but it just goes to show that even getting the actors to write and direct and use a hand-held camera can be just as bad as any of the formulaic Hollywood junk the studios try to pump out during a summer blitz.Made tells the story of 2 boxing friends.  One, Bobby (John Favreau) a quiet self assured smart guy with a wife who's a lap dancer at bachelor parties so they can pay bills.  And two, 'Ricky' (Vince Vaughn) a dumb ass who Bobby is always trying to vouch for.  We are introduced to them early on and we get an idea of who they are, there's a particular good scene where the 2 of them who work at a construction site have a rant with the gay architect who comes in to supervise the work.  But then the film switches gears and this is when the problem starts..There is a reason why I could not give this film a good rating.  It is very simple.  For some reason Bobby and Vince have criminal underworld connections, and for some reason they are going to New York, to do what I don't know, for whom? who knows? why? other than the idea that Bobby wants to make some xtra cash so his wife won't have to act like a whore but what other reason is NOT given or explained in the film at all.You don't even know if its drugs, are they suppose to be hitmen? do they have to kill someone, rob a bank?  WHAT??  In the end you are left COMPLETELY confused.Sure Ricky's antics are quite funny sometimes but the 2 characters go into a scenario that you don't even know, there isn't even a story in this film!  They meet other characters, but what is the connection??  I've never seen a film that was such a mess!This film needed some serious work done before it was ever to be released.Rating 3 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Made Medium-Well!","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I am proud to admit that I am part of that `Swingers' cult. No! Not the one that prays to their Great Grand Pupa- Austin Powers. I am referring to the one that are admiring fans of the 1995 `guys out on the prowl' film- Swingers. It is simply one of the best films of all time, and quite worth the `money'. The film stars Jon Favreau and Vince Vaughn as social butterflies whom experience comical events in the cocktail lounges and swing music clubs in Los Angeles. So when I heard that Favreau and Vaughn were teaming up to make another film, I would `double down' all my cards on the table and predict that it would be another classic. `Made' is their latest collaboration. Favreau, who also directed and produced, stars as a down-on-his luck boxer who also moonlights as a bodyguard for escort strippers. Vaughn, wonderful here also, is his loudmouth buddy. They are sent by a mafia-type boss to New York to make a very secretive drop-off. There they meet a thug played by Sean Combs who gives them instructions on the sting. Puff Daddy or P. Diddy (whatever) should really change his name again to P. `Don't know diddly much about acting.' Every time he would appear on screen, I wanted to puff and puff at the screen so he would blow away from the movie. What made `Made' a good film is the buddy chemistry between Favreau and Vaughn's characters. Their misfits and confrontations were downright money. I also enjoyed their `night out of the town' which reminded me of `Swingers.' However, what hit me as a disappointment was the boring soprano-type story line. I guess Favreau was trying too hard not to make another `Swingers.' I am glad though Jon and Vince did team up and `made' a movie together because just seeing them two on camera is enough for me to garner the movie with a unanimous decision. **** Good    "},{"Title":"Nothing Earth-Shattering But A Great Movie Nonetheless","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I found this movie to be a very well done comedy. There are parts in the movie that you ask yourself a question and then they answer it for you, in a comedic and well set out manner. The whole movie flows and is carried out flawlessly. With all the crap summer movies that are out right now, take some time to sit back and laugh!The only downfall in the movie is Puff Daddy AKA P. Diddy AKA Puffy AKA Sean Combs - he is unbelievable, but it adds a comedic aspect to the movie... its just hard to see him as hard. "},{"Title":"Spritely but annoying","Date":"19 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" 'Made' is a mildly amusing tale of a failed boxer who takes an assignment with a friendly Mafia boss to help himself out of hard times. The problem is, he feels obliged to bring an old acquaintance in on the deal; and this acquaintance is an egoistical idiot. The film is fairly spritely, but hardly brilliant the idiot is such a complete fool it's almost impossible to believe that anyone could put up with him for more than a couple of hours; the insight into the criminal world is unoriginal; and what the heroes actually are supposed to do for their money is never remotely clear. It's watchable, but there's not really much point to it a comedy crime caper that delivers nothing you would not expect. "},{"Title":"getitmade!","Date":"6 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I saw this opening weekend in 2001 with some free movie passes and I loved it! It was the best film of the year, and 2001 didn't have a whole lot to offer! So many other reviewers compare it to Swingers, which they shouldn't. Very different movie. Same urban backdrop. Same actors. Completely different characters and plot. The various locations in L.A. I could relate with since I been to almost all of them; Ricky Slade (Vince Vaughn) was the most comically obnoxious a%$hole on celluloid in the past few years. The chemistry between he and Favreau is awesome. My friends at work and I would recite dialogue like a couple of dorks from that movie, and I tried to even impress my wife (back then my girlfriend) watching it after a night of partying. Didn't work- it's truly a guy's movie, but she married me anyway! I hope Favreau and Vaughn do another flick together. They can do a documentary on painting walls and it would be hi-lar-ious! Made is a film either you love or you hate I chose the first since it takes too much energy to hate when you got a hangover & need a quick laugh... "},{"Title":"I Made It......","Date":"13 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  One day while I was home alone, I decided to look for a flick to watch. After I found Made in the movie case, I decided to crack it open and give it a try.Now although this may seem like a travesty, I've not seen Swingers, but I was psyched to see Jon Favreau and Vince Vaughn together on screen. I LOVE those two dudes.I'm sad to say that at times during Made, I was a bit underwhelmed. There were some points in the movie to me, where I thought that it could of moved a little quicker. I thought in some spots, it kind of dragged. Kind of like when Jon and Peter Falk are talking at the very beginning.But I'm not dissing the movie. I thoroughly enjoyed it. I just thought it had some problem spots is all I'm saying.The acting though, was Definitely not one of them. Jon Favreau played his part to a T. The man was awesome with how he carried the emotion throughout the movie. And my man Vince, God I love that boy, was BORN to play Ricky Slade. Hilarious. Loved him in it. Played the perfect a-hole.All in all, I guess I gotta give it up for Made. Pretty decent movie about dudes who want to be in the mob. I give it an enthusiastic thumbs up.Check it out, especially if you dig Favreau and Vaughn.  "},{"Title":"Not complete garbage but there are so many worthier movies out there you could devote 2 hours of your life to.","Date":"4 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Every piece of this movie's mosaic has been done to death already in American cinema colourful buddy pair joined at the hip - the goofball and the 'straight man', out-of-control stripper raising an adorable daughter, New York-accented growling voice coming out of a weathered boss, profanity laced repartee between shady individuals, zany Italian, Irish and black American mobsters in their NYC natural habitat, and so on, and so forth.I really have nothing against any of the above being used as a movie device, however, if it's going to be recycled to good effect after million previous directors exploited it already, one needs to have a lot more inspiration, desire, ambition and balls than the people who made Made.I fully understand they didn't shoot particularly high, merely aiming for something light, breezy and hopefully funny, but the end product is very abysmal even by those standards. I barely cracked a smile twice once wholeheartedly when Screech from TV's 'Saved by the Bell' nonchalantly strolled into a club alongside a hot babe, armed with a 'sucks to be you' look directed at others waiting in line and once more to a lesser extent during a scene with club chicks (Drea de Matteo from 'The Sopranos' and Jennifer Esposito). The rest of Made is not funny by a long shot, managing to get very tedious by the latter stages.Even the performances lacked spark. Contrary to the popular consensus I did not find Vince Vaughn captivating. His over the top portrayal would've been OK if this was 'SNL' or 'Mad TV' rather than a 90-minute feature. A little of him goes a long, looong way here. Puff Daddy/P. Diddy tries his hardest to make a convincing crime boss but he's no actor. Thankfully, with him, the filmmakers didn't repeat the same mistake like they did with Vaughn, so we don't have to endure Mr. Sean Combs for long stretches.You know things have taken a turn for the worse in the world of indie film-making when terms like 'bold', 'gutsy' and 'brave' are being used in connection with something from Made. "}{"Title":"Take away all the F-words and this could be a pretty good movie.","Date":"8 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The film starts in a boxing ring, two guys (Favreau and Vaughn)fighting before an audience which soon boos because of the lack of action. We quickly find out they are best friends, as they drive home in the same car, bumps and cuts on their faces. Favreau with a giant cauliflower ear. The film is an episode which tests this friendship. In debt to the LA mod boss (Peter Faulk) they go to NYC to participate in a money-laundering drop.Critic Ebert has a pretty accurate review. Jon Favreau wrote and directed this film starring himself and Vince Vaughn. I wish I had seen Swingers, I guess I need to now. For me the film was hard to stick with because Vaughn's character was such a jerk, always saying or doing what his partner and all the viewers know is the absolutely wrong thing to say or do. But that is what is needed to set up the final scenes where he comes through as a hero of sorts. Definitely a comedy but I really, really get tired of listening to a script where all the characters use the F-word to excess. The same as putting too much fresh ground black pepper on your Caesar salad. Could have been a lot better... "},{"Title":"Hands down best movie of 2001","Date":"6 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I rented this movie not expecting much. I had never seen Swingers and i didn't have much expecttations for it. But when I was finished watching it I was simply blown away. This movie has everything a movie lover could ask for. It has action, drama, suspense and even comedy. Vince Vaughn is wonderfully hilarious as Ricky, the bumbling best friend of wanna be boxer John Faverau. But it is truely Faverau who shines. He give the performance of his career here. His performance is so believeable that the audience will be feeling his every emotion by the end of the movie. But don't write this film off as the odd couple of ganster movies. The comdey is hilarious but in the direction of hilarious we see in movies such as snatch now american pie hilarious. The ending should bring a tear to the eye of all as we go through such rough subjects such as drug abuse, improper parenting and selling your body for money. As the film slowly drifts do a conclusion we are ending with a smile brough to us from Vaughn ever after the dramaticly intense climax. this film gets ***** ( out of 5) pure genious.   "},{"Title":"Favreau flops.","Date":"27 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Made tells of a pair of L.A. guys (Favreau & Vaughn), best friends in spite of constant bickering, who go New York on an errand for a small time crook. What happens as the story unfolds isn't much...bickering and more bickering with encounters with a variety of hoodlums. Made lacks the appeal of Favreau's Swingers as is heaps clutter on more clutter with the interest being in snappy patter as opposed to a real story. An okay watch if expectations are kept low. "},{"Title":"Balls out hilarious","Date":"17 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"     On my first date with my girlfriend, we went to see Made, which isdefinitely the funniest movie this summer.  This is yet another filmthat could've gained a lot more attention if the advertising had beenbetter and the release been more widespread.  It reminded me of theIn-Laws (another great Peter Falk movie) in terms of the side-splittingback and forths between Vince Vaughn and Jon Favreau.  They play two LAthugs sent to NY, with manila envelopes full of cash, two cellphones,and an assignment they haven't been told about.  The movie works bestwhen depositing Vaughn and Favreau into a strange, potentially dangeroussituation where the audience is on Favreau's side of doing nothing andstaying calm, but Vaughn always finds a way to royally screw things up.   The first meeting with the Welshman (or is it the Scotsman?) had meroaring, and my girlfriend and I came out loving this movie.  So, if youlooked a little beyond the #1 movies at the multiplex, there were somepretty good films this summer, both indies and pop Shrek, Swordfish,Made, The Others, American Pie 2, Lumumba, Rush Hour 2, and Rat Race. Not the best of seasons, but really not as awful as critics report.                                             "},{"Title":"So sad....","Date":"22 June 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  (Spoilers)It's so sad that Made is not seen by the masses because they are missing something really special.First of all MADE IS NOT A SEQUEL TO SWINGERS and it SHOULD NOT be considered so... These are different characters in completely different situations!Writer, directors and producer & star Jon Favreau plays nice guy boxer Bobby Ricigliano who works for honest businessman Max (played by the always great Peter Falk)Bobby gets into a spot of trouble escorting stripper girlfriend Jessica (Famke Janssen)Max re-assigns Bobby to a new job, a job that could be conceived so easily if he wasn't with best friend Ricky Slade, played by the brilliant Vince Vaughn.I'm not going to talk about the plot anymore as I urge you to watch it.I honestly consider this better than Swingers in MY opinion! The support cast are good including a very impressive Sean Combs... You don't expect much from rapper/actors the majority of the time but he held his own in a good debut (he did a good brief job in Monsters Ball to!)A laugh out loud film in every sense of the word... and even if Made isn't your thing it is certainly worth watching for the SCREECH cameo along!Jon Favreau and Vince Vaughn should work more often.... heres hoping!9/10 "},{"Title":"Vaughn is hilarious","Date":"30 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Made tells the story of a guy who's doing one job to pay for his kid's education (Jon Favreau) and his friend who is a wannabe gangster (Vincent Vaughn). They travel to New York to do business with the gangster Ruiz (P. Diddy) and from there it goes..The plot of the movie is completely unoriginal. That's not important here. What is is the script and the script is basically owned by Vaughn. I found him off-putting in Domestic Disturbance but here he is in his element playing an utterly obnoxious character who - if you met him in reality - you'd want to hit but on screen is constantly amusing as he makes a complete prat of himself. The enjoyment is in seeing his character push and push and *push* a situation to it's limit and knowing it will all end in tears. He's gem and he's what makes the movie. It also helps that he has great on-screen chemistry with Jon Favreau - the two play very well off one another.Made is well worth viewing and an enjoyable laugh. It's tightly written so, at just 94 minutes, you're never left bored or having to wade through extraneous material. The comedy is almost all character-based so you're not forced to wade through farcical set up gags. And it's restored some credibility to Vincent Vaughn for me. 7.5/10 "},{"Title":"Vince Vaughn and Jon Favreau have done it again!","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I don't think I could dare say that this was as good or better than Swingers, but it was very good in it's own right.  It's also a little hard to compare them because they are such different movies, but if I had to say one is better than the other, than I would have to choose Swingers.I can see how many people would find this movie very infuriating because you want to cringe just about every time Ricky Slade (Vince Vaughn) opens his mouth.  As I was watching the movie I kept thinking to myself How can someone be this stupid?!?!  But then I realized that I actually know some people like that.  I usually don't like movies that focus on such ignorant people as Ricky Slade (Vince Vaughn), but I thought this movie did it just right and for some reason I liked it.After watching the film, I figured that if you liked Swingers, you would like Made, but I read some of the other reviews on this site and it seems that my assumption may be incorrect.  But then again, I did say myself that they are two very different movies.This movie isn't your typical comedy, this one is full of situational-comedy, and all about the interaction between the two main characters.  So, if you like that sort of thing, I think you'll enjoy this film.  The only problem I had with the film is Sean Combs (a.k.a. Puff Daddy or P. Diddy or whatever he goes by these days).  I'm sorry, I don't know what it is, but I can't stand the guy!  Although, I will say he did a MUCH better job than I anticipated.  But I would have enjoyed the film more if he wasn't in it.Some things to notice in the film includeTake a look at the license plate on the limo, it reads DBLDN11.  This is a reference to Swingers, Always Double Down on 11.  Also, one of the guys at the bachelor party (the guy paying the body-guard/pimp) in the beginning of the movie is Tom Morello, bassist of Rage Against The Machine.The little girl in the film, Makenzie Vega, is the same little girl in The Family Man.  She is so cute, especially the way she talks.Anyhow, I hope you enjoy the film as much as I did and thanks for reading.-Chris "},{"Title":"Shut it off 30 minutes in","Date":"21 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Vince Vaughn's character is so annoying and aggravating to watch that I turned this movie off within 30 minutes because there's no structure or plot and he doesn't shut the f up. Don't waste your time. You literally want to take your TV and smash it. He is obnoxious, ignorant and embarrassing. And it doesn't end. Puff daddy could be the worst actor in history. I'm not sure why he gets cast in any movies, ever. Writing ten lines about this movie is almost impossible since there's only a few words that really describe it. Pointless, plot less, gut churningly annoying. If these other plot descriptions were correct and the end is meaningful and heartfelt I have to say I don't know how anyone could have gotten all the way to the end without wanting to pull their own teeth out. "},{"Title":"Who does Jon Favreau know?","Date":"29 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Long weekend, so I headed to the video store to finally rent Swingers and Made which I've seen referenced in lots of movie reviews, professional and otherwise. Sorry, but where's the beef? Made is a comedy??? If it is, it's the cutting-cheese/belching type of humor that witless guys sink to when they're on their way to being completely hammered even though those two displays of caveman behavior are mercifully not part of the script. But a lot of other Neanderthal male behavior is. What exactly is funny about the life of a bachelor party stripper who snorts coke in front of her young daughter while cheating on her earnest and loyal boyfriend? What is funny about a drug dealer - a base criminal - who flaunts his dirty money, low-life club connections, uneducated diction, and inability to control his vulgar vocabulary for even five minutes in a nice restaurant? There's nothing funny going on anywhere so I have to presume that the critics who thought this is a comedy also think crotch-scratching in public is something to point out and laugh about.If there is anything resembling a plot or message in this film, it is about friendship, but it was a strain in that regard also because the relationship between Favreau and Vince Vaughn is hard to digest. Like in Swingers, Favreau is the good guy and Vaughn is his boisterous front man, always pushing him to the limits of tolerance. Favreau is really good at showing how a guy can overlook the shortcomings of his cohorts for the sake of the friendship, but in Made I got so fed up with Ricky Slade (Vaughn) I felt like throwing something at the TV. In Swingers, Vaughn meant well, but in Made he's just an obnoxious egomaniac who has a block of oak between his ears. But they've been friends since childhood - or so we're led to believe - and that gives them an unbreakable bond the story is built upon. They are willing to trail around after each other from one bad situation to the next, deriving a life simply by hanging out together. I had to work to get this much out of the story.This is the UN-thinking guy's mob movie. It's not smart, not funny, not incisive. The repetitive profanity is a sign that the writer couldn't come up with enough emotional dialogue to fill air space without it. If it was ad-libbed, it was a mistake to allow it. There are many film makers who need to come to the realization that an audience *listening* to a swearing rant between characters is a much different experience than actually *being* one of the characters in that type of exchange. Even if people at this lowest level of society really talk that way, we don't need to hear so much of it to get it. The ending and epilogue make no sense at all, a cop out for something more inventive or, at the least, more realistic.Here's another movie that makes me wonder how those involved got the money to make this film. Who finances this type of drivel? For all its hype, Swingers wasn't so hot either. Favreau - who obviously has some potential - is doing film school projects on someone else's dime. So who does Favreau know? One star for his ability to get this 'made.' "},{"Title":"Come on people","Date":"26 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  We've got one guy talking endlessly about the profanity in the film, and a hundred other people posting comments about how it's not Swingers.  Of course it's not Swingers, it's Made.  I swear one guy even said the characters in the movies are the same, they've just graduated to a life of small crime. The characters are not the same people at all.  The actors, note that word Actors, are playing totally different characters here and it's wonderful.  Everyone loves Trent, how great is is that we can hate Ricky in this film?  That just makes me think that Favreau is one heck of a writer and Vaughn is one great actor.  Swingers is on my all time top 5 movies list and Made isn't far behind it.  It's a very funny movie.  And to the profanity guy, stick to classics (pre 1960), Disney cartoons, and children's movies. "}{"Title":"What would Swingers be like if it were a mob movie that sucked?","Date":"4 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  It would be called Made.  Jon Favreau and Vince Vaughn play the same characters they played in Swingers, but instead they're boxers.  The yappy Vince Vaughn character who was so entertaining in Swingers is UNBELIEVABLY annoying in Made.  The rest of the movie is second rate.  Rather than wasting your time with this, see Swingers.  If you've already seen it, watch it again rather than sitting through this. "},{"Title":"Vince is great, the movie isn't","Date":"9 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  (minor spoilers included)Yes, this movie is not Swingers, but Favreau wrote a script that plays on the expectations of Swingers.  If you've listened to the Made commentary, I'm paraphrasing his own words.  He was smart enough to know that most people who went to see this very small release would be the die hard Swingers fans.  We went, and we were thrilled to hear the Dean Martin opening song, and see the Double Down 11 license plate. So, playing on those Swingers expectations, I spent the movie thinking that Vince Vaughn's character would end up being the complete opposite of Swingers.  He was going to be a hapless loser throughout the whole movie and then save the day at the end.  One of the reasons I don't consider this a great movie is because that doesn't happen.  In fact, the ending of this movie was the most dissatisfying ending since The French Connection.  There is a scene towards the end of the movie where Bobby is in the back of the limo, and he's questioning where Ricky is.  I have a question for writer Jon Favreau.  WHERE THE HELL IS HE?  Faizon Love's character tells Bobby that Ricky is being taken care of.  So either he's dead, or he's gonna rescue Bobby, right?  Nope, he's just not there.  They set it up for a big ending, and then nothing happens.  Ricky just shows up on his own and screws things up even more. Again, I don't consider this a great movie because of the ending.  However, the thing to take away from this movie is the performance from Vince Vaughn.  The way he captures the subtle differences between Ricky and Trent is just phenomenal.  I've read other reviewers talking about how utterly annoying Ricky is in this movie.  I wonder if those same people loved Trent in Swingers.  I ask that because Ricky and Trent say a lot of the same things, and have the same mannerisms.  I would guess that if you read the two scripts on paper, Ricky and Trent come off very similar.  If you listen to the Swingers commentary, they talk about people reading the script and thinking who would like this character, referring to Trent.  Turns out everybody loved Trent, and everybody hates Ricky.So, the bottom line is, I don't think this was that good of a movie as a whole.  However, the performance from Vaughn, the homages to Swingers, and of course the Screech cameo make this movie worth a look...but probably just one look unless you're a huge fan of Swingers and/or Vince Vaughn.  "},{"Title":"Remarkably unremarkable.","Date":"19 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I really don't know what else to say other than the one line summary.  There were a couple of flat one liners, a couple of uninspired actors, and a couple of lame plot twists.  I've happily given this movie a rating of 5 since its been so average in every way.  That one character sure is annoying though (you'll know which one I'm talking about when you see it).  It's like a chick's kind of guy movie. "},{"Title":"Not for everyone, but still an OK movie","Date":"11 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  If your a big fan of Vince and John, then see this movie. But, I can see how not everyone likes this movie. It is a totally different movie than their previous effort together,(Swingers) and definitely darker and not quite so funny. Vaughn plays one of the most annoying characters in recent memory, and is a testament to Favreau's character who puts up with it the whole movie. Their interaction with each other can be funny though. Not a bad rental. "},{"Title":"The funniest movie to come out of Hollywood in a very long time.","Date":"19 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  If you have not seen this movie yet, RENT IT! It is the funniest movie I have seen in a very long time. Vince Vaughn and Jon Favreau are awesome together, Favreau is a great straight man and Vaughn is genius. If you didn't think Vince Vaughn could do comedy watch him in this. The rest of the cast is great as well and the storyline is fast and smart. I wouldn't compare this movie to Swingers as so many people do, it stands alone. If you rent it on DVD make sure to watch the outakes, they are  too funny. Highly recommended (9/10) "},{"Title":"funniest movie I've ever seen","Date":"11 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I think Made has got to be the funniest movie I have ever seen.  I love how Favreau and Vince Vaughn fight the entire movie.  I think it is absolutely hilarious.  Not only is it extremely funny, but I think the movie has a great plot as well.  Overall, a 10 "},{"Title":"What is wrong with you people?","Date":"15 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Made was great! I'm amazed by all the terrible reviews of this movie.Two things must be said here1. IT'S A MOVIE, PEOPLE. Lighten up!2. IT WAS NOT MEANT TO BE SWINGERS II. I loved Swingers but I did not expect this movie to be a duplication of it or even related storywise. Apparently I was in the minority.Made is a well made dark comedy about two idiots looking for the big score in life by way of criminal behavior. It was not about a bunch of idiots looking to score big by way of impressing women. Same stars, different movie.If you can understand these simple facts, you can probably see Made for what it is - a generally funny and entertaining movie.  "},{"Title":"There is a place for 'Made'...in the wasteland","Date":"23 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I started watching what I had heard was an incredibly hilarious movie and ended up wasting 90 minutes of my time.  Granted I probably have wasted many minutes on less worthy things but after this movie, I have begun to rethink my use of free time.  From the first few scenes, one may be under the impression that MADE is going to be worth it, but the jokes and one liners grow increasingly senseless and dry.  By the time these two(Favreau and Vaughn)end up in New York, I was questioning where exactly this movie was going.  Mind you, this bewilderment starts not too far into things. One positive thing, Vince Vaughn does pull off the role of a bantering idiot with a sub-conscience need to be a total endangerment to all human life but eventually, this too gets a little old. Good old P. Diddy tries to make a go of it but just like his other co-horts....he fails.As you struggle to sit through this movie there is still a slight glimmer of hope that maybe, just maybe the end might prove to be a little worth while....nope don't get your hopes up folks...complete disappointment YET AGAIN.I give this movie a rating of 2/10....like I said, the first few scenes were humorous.  "},{"Title":"what was Favreau thinking?","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Yes! i dont know what Favreau was thinking when he signed to take that crappy role in the Replacements (1999) a barking cop turned psychotic idiotic football player who keeps on attacking his own team mates(have to be seen to be believed, i was wondering is this really favreau? he looks mighty embarrassed having to signed as this below human role) i mean this guy have plenty of talent inside his gut, he writes good stuff, he directs and his acting is diversified, you dont believe me yet? just because he plays the sensitive nice guy in his vaughn collaboration doesnt mean he have to be a mangy footballer or a floating dead Astronaut to break the stereotype, check him in Dogtown(1997) or in Rudy(1993), this dude always shines in the indie league, and so here goes;Right here , right now at this moment i am also watching swingers(1996) on DVD, that is because i realize how neat of a pair Vaughn and Favreau make, but it's 67 minutes since the film started and i'm close to concluding that in no way Swingers is better than 'Made'...i guess i am biased because the use of profanity and the occasional Badabing for me really enhance the comedy elements, whilst jokes on being money and picking up chicks for me is getting too tiresome.Made revolves around two downbeat old buddies who are struggling to make ends meet, favreau plays Bobby the quiet one who vulnerably goes along with the idea of being made because he wants to prove something for his single mother stripper girlfriend Chloe, and Vaughn plays Ricky the one whos more eager, more cunning however not necessarily more brighter,the story basically goes on how they have to manage working together as sent men of small time Don, Max (played to the bone by light headed Peter Falk) to undergo a money laundering scheme, from here on we are presented with the journey of the pair as the hesitant bobby over cautiously proceed, whilst Ricky just want to do it with style.Most reviewers complained on how Vaughn's approach towards his character is down right irritating, however i thought this worked really well againts the whole plotting of amateurs face sitting the pros, his character is that irritating that you can't help it but to laugh over how the other characters responds to his attitude, although Bobby is probably down right being too enduring, the scenes involving the Hotel bellboy is purely wacky.Everybody acts satisfying here, Favreau giving his best usual quiet shy protective role , vaughn who clearly enjoys his role having the compliment of uttering The F word 3 times every minute,good ole Peter Falk, breaking free of his gum shoe Columbo act, we can however leave Sean P diddy out as he seems to suffer the monotonic facial expression here. If theres any complaint about the film ,it'll be the under used Fammke Jansen which probbaly appears only to do skittish favour for Jon Favreau which i assume was dating her at that time. Watch out for a wacky cameo by the snake skin chameleon Sam Rockwell.well thats about to cover it, my suggestion is, rent it or buy it if you have some extra cash, the dialogue is colorful though not candy flossed, which is the strength of this film , and the whole simple plot still comes out fresh, ignore the fact that when you are viewing it you get the same low budget feeling that you got when you saw swingers 5 years prior.3.2 outta 5+3.2 for smart dialogue that brings us the same Tarantino nostalgic trance,wonderful if not sufficient acting works all around.-1,8 for the rest of things that i won't bother mention, its not a movie without flaw. "},{"Title":"made me bored","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  this film was recommended to me by a friend so at that point i should have known i wasnt going to like it, it happens a lot!faverau and vaughan play there characters very well, its just i dont like or care about them! the only person i liked was peter faulk , was amazing to see him swear! he was funny , which was about the only person in this supposed comedy!to be honest the film failed to inspire me, i didnt find in gratingly bad enough to really go to town on it, hence why the short one.2 "}{"Title":"Good movie, again it is just a movie","Date":"25 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Hey again, I am very reactionary to the harsh reviews and feel this feel does not deserve them. It is a fun comedy and that is all, not Swingers 2 or on the level of Pulp Fiction.It is just a movie that the makers had fun creating so have fun watching it. "},{"Title":"Disappointing!","Date":"24 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Having been a massive fan of Swingers, I entered into watching this film with mixed feelings. On one hand, I knew what a great film Jon Favreau and Vince Vaughn had made together previously, and hoped to see something around about as good (surely Swingers couldn't be topped?). On the other hand, I knew that, in my mind, they had a lot to live up too, and that 'Made' could well not live up too expectations and would disappoint me. And unfortunately disappoint me it did.I should have guessed something was not quite right when I noticed that this film had snuck onto the video shop shelf un-heralded - I had been eagerly anticipating its release in the UK for months. But I decided that I would give it a chance, hope that it was just a case of being unsuccessful at the box office due to the ignorance of the general public. But alas.....There's just something not right with this film, something missing. I had watched around 30 minutes of it and remembered thinking to myself that it had not really got going... Regrettably, I never settled into watching it.For starters the constant bickering between Vaughn and Favreau becomes tiresome very quickly, but never relents. It seems that it's not 'banter' between two good friends, just Vaughn's character annoying the hell out of Favreau's continually - I personally found Vince Vaughn very irritating in this film, his character has nothing really likeable about him.Also the dialogue seems tired, like they had nothing original to write, just churning out the same old ideas. It was almost as if they were trying too hard to look and sound cool. And, unfortunately, Jon Favreau's character didn't have enough to say, where as Vince Vaughn's character had way too much. Which isn't good, because his dialogue was basically a continual barage of stupidity.It hurts me to say it, but the film just isn't really any good. Well, at least, in my opinion... Here's to hoping that the next collaboration will be more of a success! "},{"Title":"Could have been much better","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Vince Vaughn's character was so far beyond annoying, I had to stop myself from turning off the DVD. I know he was supposed to be annoying, but they beat you over the head with it. So much of this film failed to make any sense. They could have really made a much better movie out of this. "},{"Title":"Don't compare to Swingers","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Any comparisons to the originality of Swingers is a joke. Vince Vaughn's character was ridiculously idiotic to the point of complete unbelievability. Favreau at least knew enough to let Vaughn do all the talking, since anything he said other than Shut up would have made no sense at all.A few laughs, but nothing very memorable. 2 out of 4 stars at best. "},{"Title":"Christopher Soprano I hope you're watching","Date":"16 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" With both Vince Vaughn and Jon Favreau seemingly sliding towards straight-to-video careers, you can hardly blame them for creating meaty parts that might reignite some of the old Swingers buzz.  As writer/director/actor, Favreau does a decent job of creating a showcase for his own talents as the nice guy mook the audience can root for (if he was female he'd probably specialize in gold-hearted hookers).  From the off there's some nice touches - his character works driving his girlfriend to her job as a bachelor party lap dancer; how can you not want to see things work out for him by the end?  And despite a number of amusing cameos from Sopranos cast members, when the action shifts from LA to New York, you don't feel like you're watching another Goomba-cliche mafia flick.  But Vince Vaughn's performance, as intensely funny as it is, eventually drags the movie down.  Once Favreau's script has established that Vaughn's a jerk who's completely unself-aware and the cause of much inevitable calamity, it wouldn't have hurt to tone it back a little and let the story tell itself. Somewhere between scene-stealing and scenery-chewing, Vaughn's eyepopping indignity, leering lavaciousness and smart-mouth wisecracking might have worked as a cameo in another movie.  But after a while, you wonder if he's simply trying to work his way back onto the Hollywood A list by sheer willpower alone.  Taken individually, most of his scenes are pretty funny - the smack talking, tip-giving, wiseacreing all sizzles.  But at some popint Favreau should have taken him to one side and said, Vince, Vince, you're not Val Kilmer. And we've got a story to tell here.  A decent DVD rental, but way too annoying in places to pass without comment. "},{"Title":"NOT UNPLEASANT TALE OF WANNABEES","Date":"3 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  If you were looking for some action or intellectual stimulation this is not your film. Both Vaugn and Favreau are good actors with untapped potential but the story line here does nothing for them.They play two not too sharp, fringe mobsters who are given a chance to advance in that world by a local low level boss, Falk.Their task is to fly to New York from LA for what seems to be a simple money laundering exchange. Some complications arise which are not lessened by Vaughn's manic southern California caricature of a 'wise guy'.The real problem here is that neither the screenwriter nor the director know whether this is supposed to be a character study or a comedy so the genres are confused to the point that the audience feels just empty, not drained, at the conclusion. It is sort like a day in the life of two disjointed, would be crooks whose life and their perceptions of it are just passing by. "},{"Title":"Funny but Flawed","Date":"3 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I just saw Made last night on video.  But for the Vince Vaughn character this was a really good film.   The story traces a few weeks in the lives of a couple of Italian American Hollywood High School losers.  The guys earn their keep by working construction jobs and aspire to be boxers, although they are not very good at either.  John Favreau's character Bobby is a decent guy who is loyal to a fault to his buddy Ricky, played by Vince Vaughn.  Ricky is not only a stupid loser but he is also one of the more annoying people you would ever want to see.   To make a long story short Bobby gets the chance to make some real money as a thug in Max's (played well by Peter Falk)illegal operations organization.  Bobby insists that his pal be in on the job and Max reluctantly agrees after Bobby vouches for him.  For the get go Ricky's annoying behavior causes trouble for the guys.  Shawn P Diddy Combs is their man in New york and Ricky does his best to queer the deal.  Needless to say things work out in the end and there are a few decent twists and turns. The good thing about this movie is the fast pace of the stroy and the interesting way it is shot.  Scenes at a stag party, on a plane and at a New york night club are done well.  There is even a great scene involving a cameo by the actor Dustin Diamond, famous for playing Screech in Saved by the Bell.  The Bobby character is very sympathetic and sincere and well played by Favreau. The problem with the movie is not so much that Vaughn's Ricky is so annoying that you want to turn to movie off but rather the huge inconsistencies in his character.  One minute he is a total idiot, the next he seem smart but annoying, the next he is smart but not annoying and the next he says something that is in no way in line with his persona.  While he is not meant to be a an that bright but he says and does too many things that betray his stupidity. "},{"Title":"The most annoying character in the world","Date":"6 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The supporting actor in this movie was great.  His character annoyed me to the point of hating the movie.  He was the action in the movie, and I found myself just barely keeping the movie playing.  I have never seen a character so combative and dominating as this guy was.  I don't even remember his name--hopefully I never will. "},{"Title":"Excellent Gangster Parody","Date":"23 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The setting is totally different than in Swingers, but you'll recognize that the characters is the same; Jon Favreau plays Bobby and Vince Vaughn plays Ricky. Its almost the same roles that they have in Swingers, the sad little man and the vicious talker, except now their gangsters and not unemployed actors.Peter Falk makes a good smalltime mafia king Max (didn't recognize him till the credits!) who sends Bobby and Ricky to New York to make up for the debt of their (girl)friend Jess.The story and the situations that follows is both funny and entertaining, and the other characters is good. Sean Combs makes a excellent parody of himself as a underground pimp king.Well worth your dollars and cents for a entertaining night at home. If you love Swingers you're halfway there already, Made has the same good dialogue and characters. Vince Vaughn plays the wannabe gangster Ricky best, with his Big Mouth, i simply love it!I truly love Swingers, which was the reason why i rented this on movie in the first place. Made newer made the silver screen in Norway, and that's very sad considering all the other bad movies that does. "},{"Title":"Well they MADE it.","Date":"8 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  If you saw Swingers and liked it then you'll see Made, but it doesn't mean you'll like it, and VISA VERSA. I don't really like Swingers, it's pretty boring with a couple of laughs, it feels long and dull with no real payoff to the leads stress. On the other hand I think MADE is one of the greatest comedies of our time. It's endlessly clever and uses not PLOT devises to get use form stage one to stage two but the actions of it's charaters. We watch while Bobby (Jon Favreau) is constantly put into jeopardy by the endless mouth of Ricky (Vince Vaughn, in his BEST role to date). The movie jogs along at a great pace while we watch with out mouths open to all the things Ricky just can't do right. If you're wodering why Bobby keeps Ricky around well the movie (in it's ONLY flaw) makes SURE you know what a reliable and faithful guy Bobby is by how niave he seems to be to the people around him and how non of them can do any REAL wrong. This is also a hit or miss movie. If you watch it knowing it's a movie and that you're being entertained then you'll love it. But if you put yourself in Bobby's shoes you'll want to KILL RICKY and probably not care for the movie. I would LOVE to see MADE TWO, or MADE AGAIN, or MADE SOMEMORE, or MAKING MORE HOLD ON, I would love to see these two charcters in a million different places having to deal with more and more problems. But I know it will not be, as it probably shouldn't. If you like movies that don't take you on that all to familiar ride, but don't take you to space then you'll love Made. If you like those movies that don't try to be for a selected group of people, then you'll like Made, and if you like a movie with the dirtiest language since Clerks then you'll love MADE. I love MADE. I love most evey-single-thing about it. Unlike Swingers, when Made was done I felt that the story was done, I felt like these guys had been threw alot and wanted to go to bed and stop telling the story. I felt like maybe when they wake up they'll say more, tell me about the time Bobby and Ricky went to space to stop an astroid from hitting earth when Ricky realizes that maybe they should take all their spaceshuttle stuff to some old neighborhood and show all their old friends where their at now adays.MADE ***1/2 (out of ****) "}{"Title":"was tempted to walk out, several times","Date":"8 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Usually, I like Jon Favreau.  I love Famke Janssen.  Vince Vaughn has his moments.  All of them were just drowned in this mess of a movie.  I saw it in the theatre, and I don't think I can ever watch it again.  Exactly what was supposed to be so funny?  My friends all yell at me for being a movie-lover and still not having seen Swingers. Watching this film has only made me more skeptical, and I don't think I want to see it anymore.I laughed sometimes.  The opening boxing match was very funny.  The very end was also funny, in the kids' place.  But for what?  To watch the rest of it?  To watch Peter Falk look bored to death and bore me while he was at it?  To watch Famke Janssen do Favreau a favor by looking like krap and playing a disgusting role?  And worst of all, to watch Favreau and Vaughn work through the most pretentious dialogue I have ever heard?Much of it was not even dialogue.  Most of it was Favreau trying really hard to look annoyed (but, of course, still appreciative of his best friend, waaahhh) while Vaughn spouted the most unfunny, irritating, obnoxious lines possibly ever written.  At several points of the film, I had to turn to my friend and say I'm not sure if I can stand this much longer. But I believe I should give every film a chance till the end.  I mean I paid for it, didn't I?And really, the end was very sweet and funny.  If the rest of the film had this touch of sweetness to it, it may have worked.  But all the coincidences, and the scenes in the Vegas nightclub, and the morning after...So many needless plot developments just to keep us guessing at how much more clever they can get. I'm very disappointed in both Favreau and Vaughn.  Did they really think people would be that entertained by improv scenes based on being completely annoying?  Annoying does not mean clever.  But I guess I shouldn't expect much from a guy who thought Very Bad Things would be a good idea. (Annoying AND disgusting don't mean clever, either).Sorry, Favreau.  You're usually great, loved you in Love & Sex, but you messed up with this one.  Come back with something that doesn't make it so obvious how cool you're trying to be, sound, or act.  Maybe then I'll give Swingers a chance. "},{"Title":"EXCELLENT MOVIE!","Date":"7 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I couldn't wait to see this movie, with Vince and Jon teaming up together again since Swingers.  It's Great!  Funny! Off-beat humor!Sexy! Compassionate!  These two team up so well together, that sometimes you forget that they are acting.  Best movie of the year!  A must see! "},{"Title":"If not a 10, see it Again","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Anyone who watches movies and doesn't appreciate the excellance of this film is missing something.  This movie shows what it takes to write a screenplay that doesn't need special effects or $20 million per movie stars.  Vaughn and Favreau are gold on the screen together.  Whatever Sean Combs wants to be called today, in this film he is awesome.  The dialog in this movie is amazing.  You need to watch it over and over just to grasp it, let alone understand it.  I don't need to give a summary of the film, take the time to see it.  What Swingers did in '96, this kills in '02.  I gotta run, ...my sh**ts blowin' up!!! "},{"Title":"Not in the Same League as Swingers","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  In Made, Vince Vaughn and Jon Favreau reprise the endearingly inept and shallow characters from Swingers.  The two swingers are a few years older, and none the wiser, having graduated to lives of semi-pro boxing and semi-pro crime.  The big difference between Swingers and Made is not the change to the character's lifestyle (this was not much of a stretch), but the lowered quality of the new film. Made is not in the same league as Swingers. Don't ask me what went wrong. You name it, and it's noticeably inferior. Scripting, directing, acting...they all stink. For someone who really enjoyed Swingers, Made was painful to watch. "},{"Title":"Made a frickin' good movie!","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Peter Falk was killing me as the big boss  I swear he must have known one of my bosses, because he acted like him to a T.  Vince was hilarious as usual as was Jon, A great job all around.  Funny, Entertaining, a story that moved, and soft sentimental crap too. Vince and Jon get along so well together on screen I can't wait until their next projoct. "},{"Title":"Made...me laugh...a lot","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Made is money, baby.I put it like that because frankly when Jon Favreau and Vince Vaughn come back they're naturally compared with their first excellent production together, Swingers. Basically their combination worked out really well there and it does again in Made.Because of the obvious casting and characterizations similarities what worked well in Swingers works well again in Made. Both of these guys look like they've been duplicated from the former movie and brought to life again with new names and slightly different histories. Vaughn is a bit more of an ass and Favreau is a hell of a lot more built, but generally the trends that each character followed remained constant. Vaughn goes around making wise-ass comments constantly while Favreau attempts to retain some dignity by restraining Vaughn. Both are boxers in this film so their problems tended to break into humorous grapples on a pretty regular basis.I loved Swingers. It was quick, witty, and real. The same goes for Made. The jokes were sharp, the situations were comical, and Vaughn's constant complaining and problems never really went over-the-top as I had feared they might when I heard he was playing the same role again. Favreau plays his part perfectly and does a great job as the narrator-esque character for Vaughn's antics.Made falls a bit short in its depth of story.  There weren't any major flaws or lags and it was enjoyable but there's something about the whole getting away from the old flame thing that worked well in Swingers and was missing in Made. The ending of Made was touching, as Swingers was, but the character development that we witnessed in the first pass is missing this round.But these are really minor complaints. Made is a different movie and because of this must make its own path. I spent a lot of time laughing out loud, something I rarely do, especially when I'm wearing headphones, which I was, and my roommates trying to sleep. I know that this review is more of a comparison but that's because I watched these movies basically back to back. In any case this is a great movie and a landmark film in dialog and conversation delivery.  I toast to whomever is writing the great lines from this movie and Favreau and especially Vaughn for their excellent deliveries.  Let the banter roll on!   10/10!  "},{"Title":"A few good laughs in this unremarkable movie","Date":"3 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Made is an unremarkable crime comedy movie starring Jon Favreau and Vince Vaughn. I decided to see this movie because of Favreau's appearance in an episode of the Sopranos. Two Sopranos actors appear in this movie as well, maybe if a few more were added, the movie would have been better.I liked Favreau as the quiet Bobby, a reasonable boxer/mob guy trying to do a good job and help out his hard luck case buddy played by Vaughn. Vaughn's character Ricky was extremely annoying in various parts of the film, but I did enjoy the moments when Bobby and Ricky were fighting or arguing with each other. The two characters travel from LA to NY to take care of something for their local mob crime boss, along the way they meet a number of boring unscrupulous characters. Except for limo driver Jimmy played by Vincent Pastore, most of the characters were uninteresting.See this movie if you are a fan of Favreau or if you want to see Vaughn play an incredible idiot. Don't see this movie if you are expecting a mob movie on par with Goodfellas.I gave Made 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"unreconstructed drivel","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  If my comment can save even one person from viewing this absolutely, annoyingly boring piece of trash, my life will have some meaning.  It made me wonder, how did something like this get a green light?  Terrible dialogue (I have no objection to profanity, but it should enhance the dialogue, not replace it,) horrible camera work, no discernable plot.  Yuk, yuk, YUK!  And I have actually liked these people in other movies.... "},{"Title":"it was funny!","Date":"24 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  i saw this movie not expecting that much... it didn't look too great from the previews. but it was really good! i didn't think it was much of a mafia movie either. i have to say that vince vaughn character's was the most entertaining part and had me laughing throughout, he did a great job. i watched it a second time with my mom and she loved it too. i recommend it to everybody that can handle lots of swearing... "},{"Title":"made my day","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Funny.  Had an original feel to it.  Pretty good characters.  Story was mediocre but the script was funny and intelligent.  Liked some aspects of the story but it was not outstanding. I did laugh a lot in it so the movie MADE my day. 7. "}{"Title":"If you want it to be Swingers 2, you'll be disappointed","Date":"20 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A lot of folks who have commented on 'Made' have given it weak reviews. 'Swingers 2' it isn't.  I think those people wanted to see 'Swingers 2' and were disappointed when they didn't get it.  This film can still be considered a comedy, and Vince Vaughn is priceless as Ricky, as the guy whose role is to mess up Bobby's (Jon Favreau) plans, and talk when he's supposed to shut up.  But I think of it being more of a drama.  A few important scenes involving Bobby's stripper girlfriend (Famke Janssen) and his relationship with his girlfriend's daughter set a more serious tone that what 'Swingers' did.   I give this film an 8, and I look forward to see what Favreau can do next. "},{"Title":"Underrated and Misunderstood","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  After watching this movie, and loving it, I thought I'd see what other people thought. The majority of people that commented on this film on this site hated it. The number one reason was Vince Vaughn's character. Everyone said he was annoying. Well let me enlighten some of you He was supposed to be annoying. Vaughn himself says that the character is supposed to be a geek from LA who thinks he knows it all...similar to Swingers' Trent...yes, Trent is supposed to be seen as a geek who thinks he knows it all. Anyway, Vaughn's character is a barrel-full of laughs, as even the smallest words or facial expressions will leave you in stitches. I have reviewed this movie once, but had to express my sorrow for those of you who, quite frankly, didn't get the idea that is Made. Watch it again and see it for what it really is and not for what you want it to be, i.e. Swingers Part II.  "},{"Title":"Favreau and Vaughn light up the screen like no others!","Date":"8 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Put Vince Vaughn and Jon Favreau in a movie that Favreau writes and you will make a decent amount of money. Or at least you will have a good movie made. Made is a great follow up to Swingers for Favreau and his pen. The character he creates for Vaughn is hilarious. The supporting cast is just as good, too...even P Diddy! Sometimes you want to hit Vaughn's character upside the head because he's so naive and that's what is genius about his movie. Check it out if you are a fan of Vaughn/Favreau, the great, new comedy team of the times. "},{"Title":"the Hope & Crosby for the 21C!","Date":"7 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  if you like witty, adult, urban humor then this is the movie for you...I rented this not having seen Swingers and didn't know what to expect but I nearly split my sides laughing so hard...although this movie is a dark comedy the acting, cinematography, sets, lighting, music and cast are all top notch...see this movie!!...these two are the Hope & Crosby for the 21st Century! "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies I've ever seen","Date":"7 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  What was this movie about? Within the first 10 minutes I didn't care. Vince Vaughn never shut up and I wanted to choke him to get him to shut up. I loved Swingers and thought that this would be equally funny. Jon Favreau made a guest appearance on The Sopranos and must have taken that experience and thrown this movie together, even Pussy and Adriana make guest appearances. How original!! Complete waste of time, rent something else.  "},{"Title":"This was pretty funny.....","Date":"2 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Vince Vaughn is so good at being an obnoxious loud mouth. THESE GUYS CRACK ME UP.  But you are either gonna like them, or your not. I think they are great together.I didn't know what to expect, and there were times, that moments in this movie went over my head because their characters talk so much. Imagine that. Dialogue and everything.  I probably needed to watch it again to catch all of the jokes, but I had to return the movie.I still liked Swingers a tad bit more, because I could relate to it more. "},{"Title":"A film that definetely does not have it 'made'...","Date":"2 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"       &#145;Made' is quite possibly one of the most uninteresting crime films ever. Perhaps I am being a tad vulgar, but that is the sour and distasteful feeling one obtains after viewing  this trepid film in the crime genre. Directed by Jon Favreau from his script, &#145;Made' tracks Bobby (Jon Favreau) and the devastatingly annoying Ricky (Vince Vaugn) through the amateur ranks of the criminal underworld.       Expectations preceding the film were the usual, I always view films with a clean slate. I had enjoyed Favreau's previous written work in &#145;Swingers' and looked forward to a tight, character driven film. Yet with this film, my expectations were sunken.      Perhaps I had missed something in this film, but I found this film to be a wretched waste of time. Favreau plays Bobby, an amateur boxer who wants to advance in the social aspects of vertical mobility in the crime scene. Along with his good friend Ricky, they become employed by Max; the head of a crime organization tirelessly played by Peter Falk. Falk's performance and delivery is so bad in this film it seems as if he has a hairball stuck in his vocal chords. Peter Falk is not the only cast member hired to spruce up this dull film. Puff Daddy himself, Sean Combs has an insignificant role in the film as Ruiz, Bobby and Ricky's contact in New York.      At Max's disposal through a pager and 1500$ cash, our two pivotal characters set out for New York from L.A. on an undisclosed mission in order to do a &#145;take' and thus advance in the crime ranks. Between meeting women, spending a lot of money and endlessly bickering between one another, our movie advances at a deadpan pace while really not developing our characters and leading the viewers to understand and sympathize with them.      Besides being a disappointing film, the film does have another outstanding aspect that will not fade from memory quickly. Vince Vaughn plays the most neurotic, annoying and the most silly &#145;act before he thinks' character. This might be a good facet of a film if done properly, yet when a character personifies stupidity itself &#150; we know that we're on the wrong track.       And of course, this character is supposed to redeem himself with a seemingly heroic yet stupid rescue attempt towards the film's finale. Yet in my eyes and to many others, this simply compounds the character's stupidity. And in the meantime, while Favreau and Vaughn are practically in every frame of this film, Favreau's character simply takes a backseat to the ensued stupidity on screen. Thus making for a relentlessly flawed film that satiates on absolutely no level.      We still haven't studied the writing yet. Let us just say that there are pockets in this film that are incomprehensible. Just like our characters, the audience embarks on this top-secret mission as well not knowing what the mission is, or when it is going to happen, or how it is going to happen. And when it does happen &#150; we do not care.      This is how poorly developed and unoriginal it is. Does it bring anything new to the genre? No. Does it make a statement? Yes, its' statement is that this is a bad film and they are attempting at masking it as a different take on an old genre.       Unfortunately, my criticisms are justified in terms of entertainment value. This film offers no escapist entertainment and even while filming against a great backdrop like the city of New York, the spirit and the essence of this city are not captured. Now, perhaps that can be debatable due to the possibility that Director Favreau didn't want to capture the essence of the city. That is a possibility, but when shooting a gangster picture and setting it at times in Little Italy and not establishing the important backdrop  in a congruent and effective manner, we do not have a gangster picture, we have a &#145;wannabe' gangster picture that definitely does not have it &#145;made'.Giancarlo's Rating   * (out of four)    "},{"Title":"Close to the most annoying movie ever","Date":"17 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A disappointing flick from the creators of Swingers...I was the only one in the room who could stand to watch it until the end (and I'm glad that I have a fast forward on my remote).  Vaughn is comparable to Chris Rock in the way that he constantly yells throughout the film in a loud, relentless, annoying manner (Rock ruined Nurse Betty for me).  Faverau could be funny but he didn't write his own role as anyone of interest.  The reason I gave this movie a 1 is that there is only one remotely interesting scene (the bar in Brooklyn) and one interesting character (Jimmy the driver).  Otherwise Made just didn't make it anywhere. "},{"Title":"Comedy in its purist form!","Date":"17 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  First I'd like to note that Director/Producer/Actor Jon Favreau is a comic genius of the genre which most people just don't understand or appreciate these days.  The movies today often try to capitalize on the shock effect of certain body parts or inappropriate situations (a la the Farrelly brothers and Wayans brother's films).  The funniest parts of the movie come from the conversations/arguments between Bobby and Ricky, who fight like brothers, but are the best of friends.  This movie is SO real in that, #1, its the story of an everyday joe-thug just trying to make his way up the mob ladder to support his family, and #2, the arguing between Vaughn and Favreau is absolutely histerical!  True, Vaughn's character is such a jackass that you would like to reach into the screen and slap him, but doesn't that reaction make his performance THAT much better?  Kudos to Favreau for another comedy based on the actor's chemistry rather than special effects and more genital jokes!  Great movie....9 out of 10! "},{"Title":"Some good laughs, but doesn't work as a whole","Date":"6 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Now, I've never seen Swingers and I'm still curious about the movie, even though I wasn't extremely thrilled with Made.  Watching the commentary, I heard Vaughn and Favreau mention that there were subtle references to Swingers sprinkled here and there, but I'm sure I didn't NEED to get those references to enjoy the film.  Don't get me wrong, I liked it to a degree, I definitely didn't loathe it.  You can say this movie is smarter than most comedies in recent years.  However, it drowns in excess.  Of course, it can be most noteworthy for its two-hundred-or-so uses of the f word (in the commentary there's a funny moment where Favreau and Vaughn tally up all the f words used in a two- or three-minute scene which totaled about 43), but that wasn't one of the excesses that bothered me.  First of all, the movie runs for only ninety-five minutes, yet it felt dragging.  This is a not a three-hour epic drama we're talking about!  Well, most of the film is dialogue-driven.  Though I'm not totally against films that are dialogue-driven (Clerks is a good example of a dialogue-driven film that hits the mark), I felt the dialogue in this movie could've been trimmed.  Surprisingly enough, Favreau mentioned doing a lot of editing (originally, he had about two hours and thirty minutes of footage).  There were some funny moments that I just felt would've been funnier if they stopped the scene three minutes earlier and didn't wear it out.  Though I was never totally annoyed by Vaughn's obnoxious character, I did feel somewhat annoyed when he would continue to gab on and on.  I didn't feel the urge to yell Shut up in his ear, but I did feel like nicely telling him, OK...that's enough.  We get it.  The arguments between Vaughn and Favreau do get repetitive.  Early in the film, you want to laugh out loud when they start telling each other off.  But as the film goes on, the conflicts lose their touch, to the point where they seem like two guests on the Jerry Springer show purposely arguing for the sake of arguing.  Plus, I felt Favreau's character was so laid-back that at times it felt as if he was purposely like that so that Vaughn can shoot his mouth and he can get ticked off.  I know he was supposed to be the straight man, but at times he just seems too straight for his own good and you wonder, How the hell did these guys ever become best friends?  I know opposites attract, but this is ridiculous.  Sean Puffy (oh, I'm sorry--it's P. Ditty for anyone who cares) Combs is not the greatest actor.  Wow, I'm surprised!  However, he's only in the film for about twenty minutes and I can't say he ruined the whole movie.  There are some amusing cameos--for example  Sam Rockwell as the flamboyant bellboy.  Faizon Love (who's known for his many supporting roles in such films as Friday and The Player's Club) is very funny as the bulky bodyguard.  Peter Falk is great as Max.  I grew up watching him on Columbo, so it's great seeing him on screen after all these years.  He's still got it!  The hand-held camerawork gets tiring after a while.  I don't want to be cruel, but visually-wise this movie is poorly made.  So we basically have to depend on the energy of the two leads to keep this film pumping.  There are some obvious continuity errors, as well as one shot where you can see the reflection of the boom in the background.I don't want to give away the ending, but I liked how the two characters evolved in the final scene.  I found it amusingly ironic that they played the country song Ace in the Hole during the end credits.  I can say the film ends on a happy note, without feeling forced.  Made is a fairly amusing comedy that just doesn't come together as a whole.  Maybe if the dialogue was sharper and not as repetitive, it would've been a more tightly-knit film.  My score  6 (out of 10)         "}{"Title":"Worst movie ever.","Date":"5 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I've seen a lot of movies that I find to be bad, but this was hands down the WORST movie I have ever seen in my entire life.  There was no doubt in my mind when I left the theater (I actually managed to sit through it, hoping it would get better) that movies cannot be made that get worse than this.  Utterly ridiculous, without any kind of meaning.  Poorly acted, poorly directed, poorly filmed, poorly written.  The only good part about it was the opening credits (they were actually really funny).  Do yourself a favor and stop watching when they end. "},{"Title":"The Most Uncomfortable Movie I Have Ever Seen","Date":"3 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Made is with out a doubt the hardest movie I have ever had to watch.  Why, you ask?  For a couple of reasons.First of all, the camera throughout the entire movie is handheld and it nearly gave me a headache.  The coloring is dark and unattractive.  Every character makes sure to say the f-word every five seconds.  Puff Daddy is in it.  And finally, there's Ricky.Ricky, played with perfection by Vince Vaughn, is the kind of guy you just want to die a horrible, horrible death for his stupidity.  Ricky cannot shut up.  He is the most annoying person I have ever seen in my life and his absolute stupidity is insane.  And it is because of his character that the movie is so uncomfortable.  He is so stupid that it will make you scream at the top of your lungs, and odds are you will probably punch the closest person near you out of shear rage.Does any of this mean that Made sucks?  No.  Made is actually a hilarious, well written, and well designed movie, but it is a movie that I never want to see again for the rest of my life.  The movie was written, directed, produced, and stars Jon Favreau, the man who co-wrote and starred in Swingers along side Vaughn.  Favreau wanted to make this movie uncomfortable and he succeeded, but his great dialog is still there.  Favreau is also a terrific actor and he proves that here.So, which is better, Swingers or Made?  Personally, I'd say Swingers.  To me, Swingers is a sweet, charming, funny movie built around dialog.   In fact, it's,  in my opinion, one of the best dialog driven movies I have ever seen.  It also helps that I know a guy who IS Trent Walker.But Made and Swingers are two really different kinds of movies.  They both have similar music, dialog, actors, and plot structure but the whole atmosphere is different.  Made is gritty, painful to watch, but disturbingly funny.  Swingers is sweet, fun, and funny.So, do I recommend Made?  I'm not sure.  If you like the Sopranos, you might like this.  This is really Swingers mixed with Goodfellas and The Sopranos.  But, if you have an aversion to the f-word, don't see it.  They say the f-word so many times that it made me sick.  I'm not a goodie-goodie Jesus Freak or anything, but hearing the f-word repeated over and over again just isn't right.  From a writer's point of view, it's kind of childish and stupid.  What if I said the word mustard over and over again?  It would (mustard) get pretty annoying and (mustard) pointless, don't you think (mustard)?  It also shows (mustard) no imagination to repeat that same (mustard) word over and over again (mustard).  But, that (mustard) doesn't mean the writing is bad, mustard.  This is how people talk now a days, mustard, and Favreau is trying to capture reality, mustard.But I think in order for the movie to be really good and enjoyable he should have, mustard, cut down on the f-words and he should have brighten the movie up, mustard.  This is a comedy, and Favreau should have brightened it up a bit.In conclusion If you can handle tons of swearing, drugs, lots of darkness, and a very annoying human being, see this movie.  There is a very well written, enjoyable movie here... somewhere.  You might have to work at finding it.7/10  "},{"Title":"Awful","Date":"30 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I thought this movie was pointless.  I loved Swingers, and there were many similarities between that and Made, particularly in the dialogue but it wasn't enough to make it enjoyable.  There were many unnecessary scenes and unnecessary characters.  The whole movie seems like a setup to something that never happens.  I think the only reason that anyone will enjoy this film is to listen to Favreu's banter, which is occasionally clever.  The movie as a whole was dumb.Honestly I am sorry that I spent the time to watch this movie.  There are many people who will like Made, but not me. "},{"Title":"Well-done Comedy With...","Date":"29 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I can't say too much about what affected me the most about this movie, as it would spoil the ending. Throughout most of the film, this is a nice breezy comedy with Favreau and Vaughn swapping their roles from Swingers.Favreau is excellent here as the quiet, responsible guy trying to do a good job and rein in his buddy. Sean Combs is not very remarkable in his role, just adequate, but Peter Falk is entertaining. Vaughn gets most of the laughs, and shows he can just as easily play the annoying guy as the cool guy as the psycho killer.Again, though, near the end there's a scene that is incredible out of place, but nonetheless effective and vital to the overall story. "},{"Title":"A long way from Swingers","Date":"28 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  To compare Made with Swingers is not really possible or fair. Swingers was an excellent movie, that had both serious drama and comedy. It was well thought out and a labor of love for Favreau. Made, on the other hand, is just mindless fun. There was not much that went into the script or the story. If anything, I would guess that this film was written and shot pretty quickly. Now is that a knock on the film? Not really, it just points out that these two films should be judged on different scales. Where Swingers was brilliant, this film is not that stupid. The film involves two buddies trying to make ends meet in LA. Favreau is making an honest attempt at raising a family and improving himself. Vaughn plays an over the top waste of space. Although I laughed quite a bit at Vaughn in this film, someone needed to reel him in, he was just too much and rather hard to believe. Well, anyways, these two guys are given a job from the Mob boss (Peter Falk) with a rather predictable twist, do it right and you are in, do it wrong and you are out. Well, the story is not that important, because it is a comedy. However, the film starts to get serious in the last half. Rather uneven really. Don't have high expectations for this one and you will enjoy. If you expect brilliance, you will be upset. ** out of ****. "},{"Title":"Funny, snappy would-be mafia movie","Date":"1 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Jon Favreu shows his talents for writing, directing, producing and acting all combined in Made, a movie that was in the making since, well, last year I guess (Favreu had a guest appearance last year on The sopranos, so this was inevitable).  He and his buddy Vince Vaughn (are these the same characters from Swingers I wonder, cause I didn't see the first one) are hired by they're boss (Peter Faulk) to go to New York to act as tough guys in any deals that come by from him.  This sounds like a good idea, considering the cash value, except that the two buddies also get into as many fights as Beavis and Butt-Head. Many of the laughs come by the way of good timing, lines and looks, and also having Vincent Big Pussy Pastore is a good move.  Overall, Jon has made a good movie.  However, many people might be turned off to seeing this movie if they 1) don't like P.Diddy or Puffy or Diddly Puff or whatever his name is, and 2) if they dislike Vince Vaughn from his confrontation on the Daily Show some weeks ago (in real life, he seems like a bit of an a-hole).  But still, these are just feebles outside the region of the movie, and think for fans of the cast and of the type of humor this film delivers, it's reccomendable.  B+ "},{"Title":"Painfully Funny","Date":"28 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Just that Painful. Forcing myself to watch the entirety of this flick was like trying to pull out my own teeth with a pair of pliers. Vaughn's character's dialog was unbelievably obnoxious; I kept turning down the volume just to get through it with out actually turning off the player. While, every now and then, an actual action-or-comedy-spiced plot would momentarily surface, the remaining 90-percent was a never-ending husband-and-wife bickering between the two main male characters. Not a light banter as between Crystal and Hines, but a creepy, juvenile dialog-cum-slap-fest. Maybe I just don't understand what the write/director were after, but.. I found it boring! boring! boring! "},{"Title":"Memo to Mikey and Trent...don't quit your nonexistent day jobs","Date":"19 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  >>>The word f*** is used 274 times in the 90.5 minute film. That's 3.03 times per minute. Total profanities are 343 or 3.79 per minute.<<<The above sentence is lifted from the trivia section for MADE on the Imdb site.  It just about says all you need to know about this movie...You are overwhelmed with profanity.  I happen to like realistic dialogue in films, but even though this looks like it's improvised in some areas (especially a few of Vince V.'s rants), I don't think ANYBODY can swear this much this often!  And it will certainly wear down even the most thick-skinned viewer.That being said, MADE was an OK movie, certainly worth a rental if you are a fan of Jon Favreau.  However, I can certainly see how this was poorly received by many of the SWINGERS crowd.  Proceed with caution.  "},{"Title":"Lousy","Date":"19 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The tired old premise of the two good buddies who would die for each other but have the compulsion to constantly argue and fight with each other over every little thing, is done to death in this stinker. Add that to the fact that, for some reason known only to himself and the film's director, Peter Falk finds it necessary to use such a grating and unintelligible accent that it's very difficult to understand a word that he says. What a really poor movie this is. "},{"Title":"One of the Worst","Date":"30 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  No matter how many expletives the two protagonists used, it was not funny. No matter how many hookers or hoodlums filled the screen, I was not hoodwinked. This film flatlined before the weak first act ended.Don't bother to watch this unless you are interested in how not to create good film. It was an utter waste and I rarely say that.  "}{"Title":"Awful","Date":"3 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"   I thought I'd heard good things about Made, so I caught it at the Palm Theatre and had to keep myself from walkin' out. It stars Jon Favreau and Vince Vaughn, reunited, they're billed as, from Swingers. Jon also wrote this movie that doesn't know what it wants to be.     A comedy? Not if there's only one comic character and he's mean, obnoxious and stupid beyond credibility for the plot. I mean the movie purports to be a comedy and it's only got one comic character. The rest of the movie is about a boxer who is offered a chance to descend to thuggery and the sleazy characters who inhabit the world of gangsters and gangster wannabe's. So the comic character is completely out of place. Oh, is that the joke? Yeah, there are a few laughs, but far too few to warrant shelf space in the comedy section at the video store. So did Favreau owe Vaughn a movie or something, why else was he in this picture. It was awful. There are several better pictures to see at the Palm, catch Bread and Tulips AND AVOID MADE LIKE THE PLAGUE! "},{"Title":"Garbage. Not funny. Not smart. Profane, violent, insipid.","Date":"27 April 2005","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" You are supposed to care about the main characters... the heroes of a movie...to keep the viewer interested. Not here. I rented this based on professional reviews... that'll teach me. I found myself hoping in the beginning these two guys get murdered by the end of the movie...in a painful and slow death.If your idea of funny is two guys from Jersey saying the F word every other syllable with gratuitous fight scenes by small IQ characters, then this movie might be just the one for you.Violence, profanity, and very little humor. The obnoxious Ricky Slade character is over the top obnoxious. Not a Jim Carrey Dumb and Dumber obnoxious-cute-likable funny. More of an Andrew Dice Clay obnoxious without his wit, humor, social graces and charm. And I like Andrew Dice Clay's work.The box is designed and commented to get your rental money. Covered with favorable comments. Mafia characterizations are just that... although Peter Falk is excellent in his bit part, as usual for him. New York attitude and two a holes get together here... Jim Carrey would have made the part of Ricky Slade...not Vince Vaughn.I suggest Favreau live life a little more, grow up, and add some dimension of experience to his resume before attempting to write again. Halfway through the movie Favreau's script finds another character to give the F word charm to... Sean Combs' Ruiz. Also not funny.This story is about two losers messing up their jobs royally and fighting each other while attempting a fresh start in organized crime. This is not either funny or a realistic depiction of the mafia. John Gotti was smarter and a gentleman. None of this cast is either. I think Favreau owes an apology to New Jersey, the mafia, the film industry, and actors everywhere. "},{"Title":"Two hours of my life that I will never get back","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I would rather have bamboo shards stuck under my nails thanwatch this piece of unmentionable again. so painfully unfunny and irritating was the comedic banterbetween the two lead characters that I was reduced to shoving myfingers in my ears and closing my eyes.Please, do yourself a favour and paint your bedroom - becausewatching the paint dry on the walls will a much more enjoyableexperience than this utterly unfunny, dull, pointless, long,unoriginal waste of good film stock. "},{"Title":"this movie was awful","Date":"19 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  this is another case of mistaken rating of a terrible movie. I rented this based on many people giving it a 7 or an 8 on IMDB, and was completely disappointed. Aside from it having no plot it had no entertaining value what-soever.  Come on people this movie wasn't even artsy!!!!  "},{"Title":"I missed it on this one...","Date":"13 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Watched it on DVD. Quickly learned that any scenes where the two friends are in a two-shot screaming at each other or fighting, has nothing to do with any plot.  So, this must be a character study of two people I couldn't care less about.Box ScorePlot = 20% of the screen timeClose order screaming by the protagonists(?) 80%Some thought it was a comedy.  Why?Out of ten, ZERO! "}]