[{"Title":"A Boost For The 'Family Unit'","Date":"14 August 2006","Score":"25 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This was a silly kids' adventure story but still fun the younger ones and for adults, thanks to colorful scenes, great special effects, decent humor and a nice family tone to it. The kids are alright, except the girl is a little bossy, and the villains aren't too nasty. This also looks very good on DVD.Included in the color and characters are the thumb people who were especially fun to watch.The only problem I found with it is the last 30 minutes in which it got too silly and emphasized (typical Hollywood) how the kids can do the job better than the adults, which a ludicrous film cliché. However, overall family unity gets a big boost in this here, even in the end, and that good message is probably a big reason this movie was such a success. "},{"Title":"Secret Agents have never been so much fun - 3 cheers for Robert Rodriguez!","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"19 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Robert Rodriguez is not the first person you'd suggest to make a children's film. As entertaining as 'Desperado', 'The Faculty' and 'From Dusk Till dawn' are, you wouldn't line them up alongside 'Toy Story 2' and 'The Jungle Book' for good, old-fashioned family entertainment. Yet, as this energetic, light-hearted Bondesque spoof proves, Rodriguez has the talent to turn his hand to just about anything, and inject it with the suspense and adrenalin that are his trademark.From the gloriously OTT opening scene (which tells the story of how two agents sent to kill each other fall in love and settle down) to the last second, 'Spy Kids' doesn't miss a trick. The obligatory gizmos, mad villains and dastardly plot to take over the world are all there, along with a star cast all playing their roles with tongues firmly in cheek. The action/humour mix is extremely well-balanced too, with some hilarious visual gags sitting within a sharp script and Banderas, in particular, revels taking a sly swipe at his normal 'strong yet silent Latino' image. Yet, refreshingly for a children's film, it's never patronising, never obvious, and genuinely original in places (soldiers made of thumbs, secret agents transformed into tellytubby-type TV characters - imagine Goldeneye-meets-Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory-meets-Any Tim Burton film and you'll be close). In truth, some of the surreal moments and the more graphic effects may get a little too much for younger kids at times, but these moments are few and far between. Ok, it's a 'U' certificate and you may well have to sit through the trailer for 'See Spot Run', but don't let that put you off. This is one of the better films you'll see this year, and the best out over Easter by quite a way. Go and have some fun.8/10  "},{"Title":"Fun for kids and their parents, good for a family movie. *** (out of four)","Date":"10 April 2001","Score":"22 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  SPY KIDS / (2001) *** (out of four)By Blake French	If James Bond married another secret agent, had kids, privately continued his life as a spy, became captured, and left his rescuing to his offspring, we would have the formula for Robert Rodriguez's new action adventure, Spy Kids. Rodriguez normally directs harsher, more brutal movies, like Desperado and The Faculty, but accustoms a slick style of adventure and humor in this film that exceeds past the level of any of his recent work.  Spy Kids really does belong in some kind of James Bond picture.	As the film's writer, director, and co producer, Rodriguez does a lot more with the material here than we expect. The film has a stunning array of special effects, ranging from walking thumbs to a particularly imaginative experience in the villain's headquarters. Even the introduction has zest and intrigue we meet a seemingly normal family of four, consisting of Ingrid and Gregorio Cortez (Alexa Vega and Antonio Banderas), and their children, probably middle school aged, Juni and Carmen (Daryl Sabara and Alexa Vega). As the movie opens, Ingrid tells her children a nice bedtime story about two daring spies assigned to kill the other, but fall in love, get married, and retire. She prepares her offspring for bed and turns the lights off, walks to her husband, and explains she thinks it would be a good idea to tell Carmen and Juni their real identities as top-secret spies; the story Ingrid enlightened her kids with was true.	 Rodriguez quickly sketched his characters, but his method is surprisingly effective; the movie starts out with fast-paced action and captures our attention abruptly and does not really lose energy throughout its running time. We learn the two married spies have retired from the business nine years prior, but their fellow OSS agents are disappearing all over the world, and thinks it to be the work of a kids TV show host named Fegan Floop (Alan Cumming in a very whimsical, fitting performance) and his assistant, Minion (Tony Shalhoub). The agents have been converted into clay-like animated characters held captive at his mega tech laboratory.  Imaginative and interesting, if a bit cheesy. 	Ingrid and Gregorio call their Uncle Felix over to watch the kids while they go out on their latest mission. Unfortunately, this mission could be their last; they walk right into a trap and are snared from beneath their toes. Felix receives a distress call, sends the kids to a safe house, but is captured himself, leaving the responsibilities to the younger members of the family. 	The story isn't cheap or silly, although some of the material tests our tolerance for far-fetched science fiction. The underlying motives here are also legitimate. The movie puts confidence in strong family values, honesty, and trust, but does not preach, lecture, or on the other side of the barrel, become lost in an utter mess of silly dog poop and passing gas jokes like See Spot Run. The movie takes itself seriously, and is well written. We understand the character's motives.    	Spy Kids gets one thing painfully right, and that is therelationship of the brother and sister. Their relationship is all too familiar in American households, where name calling and mean-spirited behavior inhabit offspring of both sexes. The petty little conflicts they feel strained and forced, giving this movie, otherwise somewhat mature, an immature sensation. This familiar stereotype is profoundly irritating.	Spy Kids is often exciting, funny, and almost always entertaining. It is not the kind of movie that parents should just drop their kids off to, however, but should stay for themselves to witness some of the most effective family movie moments in quite a while. In a time when family movies are completely disposable, Spy Kids proves itself to stand out from all the others and provide us with a genuine spy movie experience. "},{"Title":"Take your kids to see it. It's very good and needs to be seen on the big screen.","Date":"14 April 2001","Score":"19 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I took my two boys (7 and 10) to see Spy kids today. They were transfixed and wanted to watch it again straightaway. Both are big James Bond fans but some of the content and dialogue of the Bond movies isn't suitable. Spy Kids fits the bill exactly for anyone under 13 who likes the Bond films. It came over to me as a blend of Charlie and the Chocolate Factory meets Home Alone meets Bond. It was at the kids level without patronizing them and was believable enough for adults to enjoy too. All of the acting was high quality and the special effects first class.I shall enjoy it again in the future on video but it deserves to be seen on the big screen first. Another bonus were the trailers for Lord of the Rings and Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone. I often come away from Cinema trips with the kids feeling that we haven't really had our moneys worth, but not today!  "},{"Title":"Daft and silly but it doesn't take itself seriously once and is surprisingly fun for adults and older children","Date":"9 January 2006","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Gregorio and Ingrid Cortez are ex-spies who were at the top of their game until they met, married and decided to retire for their own mutual safety. Years later they have normal lives and have children who know nothing of any of this. When Gregorio learns of former colleagues vanishing, he looks into it, only for him and Ingrid to be captured by the evil Floop, whose children's television puppets are really mutants developed as part of building a private army for Lisp. With their parents gone and the alarm raised, Carmen and Juni learn the truth and are suddenly faced with having to rescue their parents.You shouldn't come to this movie expecting it to be serious or logical because it really isn't. Instead it is silly, goofy and really very daft but still quite good fun for slightly older children and also for adults. The plot is pretty much summed up by the title insofar as you really need to know what is going on because it doesn't make much sense. The film is really about the kids becoming spies and playing with gadgets etc on their way to becoming heroes of a sort. It never takes itself too seriously and it draws humour from this approach well, making it easy to relax and watch because, yes it's silly, but at least it knows it is silly. The Floop creations are too silly to appeal to adults but will probably provide some laughs for kids but generally the film gets the tone right for both groups.Rodriguez directs with his usual approach and I quite enjoyed the effect it had here because it does suit the silly, hyper material (which he also wrote). The effects are mainly good and it should work for most kids in the way that older boys like their gadgets and fantasy video games. The cast did it for me as well, featuring as it did a lot of people who've worked with Rodriguez before. Banderas and Gugino are both sexy and cool in the parental roles but it is Vega and Sabara who lead the film. Neither of them are typically cute kids and it helped me enjoy the film for them to be quite natural and buy into the material. Support is surprisingly classy and most of them work. I didn't like Cumming at all but that was more to do with his character; Shalhoub was OK, Hatcher was fun, Cheech pops up briefly, Patrick has a small role, Trejo is ever reliable and George Clooney puts in a small but amusing appearance.Overall this is not a great film because it all nonsense but then, as a kids' film, it doesn't matter so much. The energy, pace and sense of fun covers up for the daft central plot and nobody seems to be taking it seriously. Surprisingly fun to watch, even for adults and worth a look. "},{"Title":"Finally a movie both me and my kids like!","Date":"6 April 2002","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This was a great movie. I particularly like the fact that a normal sibling relationship was shown, the rivalry and disdain but still the reality that blood is thicker than water and no matter if you think that your brother or sister is a twerp, you still do anything for them. The family sticks together and although it is a very far-fetched concept, it was a movie both my children and I liked. It was filled with action and adventure but the good guys come out on top in the end against overwhelming odds. I think we could all use a little more optimism now and this movie delivers it. Carmen and Junie were not the impossibly perfect kids seen in most movies now. Nor were they brats who only care about themselves in other movies.  They were too athletic to be real children, but I'd like to think that they are showing the kids seeing the movie that they can do anything that they put their mind to. Overall, a terrific family movie the kids will actually like-even though their parents do too.  "},{"Title":"Right up there with Willy Wonka!","Date":"30 March 2001","Score":"18 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Finally, a live-action family movie that entertained me and my wife immensely, while my six-year old daughter had a blast too!The most obvious (and fitting) comparison film is Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory. Amazing fantasy world, some true menace, and a great message about being true to yourself and your family.Spy Kids as a family movie for the post-Matrix age. It's witty, but never falls into that oh-so-hip faux-ironic self awareness that plagues so many movies today. It hands you a fantasy world, and encourages you to believe in it.It has a great deal of action and slapstick, but (thankfully) was completely missing the mean-spirited undertones of the slapstick in Home Alone.Like all great children's literature or entertainment, Spy Kids doesn't talk down to kids. It assumes they're intelligent and can pay attention. Having said that, there are sections of the film that are hyperkinetic, but they flow naturally.It has something of a similar vibe to the Pixar films (Toy Story 1&2, Bugs Life), without as many in-jokes. There are some wonderful adult-only laughs, mostly stemming from the trials and tribulations of being a parent.It's PG for a reason. It's not for the youngest moviegoer. A mature 5 or a six-year-old is about as young as I'd recommend. There are some scary moments, ala Willy Wonka, or The Wizard of Oz. But that's good scary in my book, as opposed to needlessly scaring folks to death.The message of family is delightful. The Cortez family is a *real* family. They have disagreements, but they love each other. Thankfully, Rodriguez avoids the sit-com smartmouth syndrome, and gives us kids we can believe.And I love the fact that Rodriguez never downplays the Latino heritage of the family. Hey, I'm so Anglo I'm practically translucent, but it was such a refreshing change to not have typical whitebread heroes out to save the world.Not since Bob (Porky's) Clark pulled A Christmas Story out of his hat has a director come up with such a pleasant surprise in a genre you'd never imagine. Summary? A cup of Bond, a splash of Willy Wonka, and a dash of The Matrix. Sit back and watch the fun!  "},{"Title":"Good film, especially for what it is","Date":"11 March 2006","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is a somewhat unusual film; it's a children's film, but it doesn't talk down to its audience. And as an added bonus, it can be watched even if you are over ten. As the far too little-known short Bedhead, Robert Rodriguez has here created a film for children, featuring children... which doesn't treat them with the lack of respect for the smarts and sense of logic that they do already possess. Adults often forget what children are like, and think of them as 'less' than the grownups. Rodriguez gives them(and us) a film that allows them a similar status to adults. The film has stuff that will appeal to kids(spy equipment hidden in children's things) but it isn't offensive to us who aren't. While it is more directed towards those of the preteen persuasion, it doesn't aim so low as to feel stupid for us who aren't of said persuasion. The plot is pretty good, though I guess it's not all that original... and as usual with children's films, the kids are the heroes, which puts too much pressure on them, as a Danish film critic so perfectly put it. The acting is a usual high(as most of the actors are quite talented), no performances really let you down, even the (intentionally)overplayed ones. The characters, many of them fairly clichéd and thin, are all credible. As with many(most) Rodriguez films, pretty much all of those that he's written, himself... there are subplots and such, many of which are either overly easily resolved or not properly addressed. The humor is pretty good, I laughed out loud several points, rather unusual for children's films, and I was never insulted by the humor. None of it tries too hard to garner laughs, either. The special effects are quite impressive, and though it's still evident that it's Rodriguez' mini studio, it will fool you for the very most part. The action is quite intense and exciting, and like the humor, it's got Rodriguez' unique touch. Any fan of Rodriguez(such as myself, which is by far the main reason I watched this very film in the first place) will enjoy this, if maybe not to the same extent as one of his typical films. I recommend this to any fan of Rodriguez or any of the actors, and definitely most kids. Very much worth watching, even if you've outgrown childhood. Indulge your inner kid. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Good movie but I think Robert could do better!!!!","Date":"2 August 2005","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Spy Kids was a big kids hit! I thought it was pretty cool that there are these two kids Carmen and Juni Cortez who have to save their parents from danger. But I think it could have been better. I didn't really like how they showed how Carmen and Juni's parents got married because seriously, lets get on with the movie!!! But I LOVED the cast. Alexa Vega, i thought was the best one in the cast! She is a great teenage actress and should go really far in the Hollywood movie making business. Daryl Sabara was so cute playing Juni and should go far as well. There was Also Antonio Banderas, and it was an okay movie, not the best, but i expected better. "},{"Title":"Self-Reference for Kids","Date":"5 May 2001","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Most art refers to itself in some way, but nowadays almost every film has some straightforward self-reference in the form of being about some kind of show. There must have been a very influential executive producer some time back pushing this idea for it to be so common.The notion of these kinds of films is to create another world, so combine that with the self-reference gimmick and you have a fantasy kiddie show about a fantasy kiddie show. More, essentially all research in self-reference for decades has been in artificial intelligence, which is the device around which this plot turns. The language of AI is LISP, the name of the archvillain. In the heyday of LISP machines, the leading system was Flavors LISP Object Oriented Programming or you guessed it -- Floop. I myself worked on a defense AI program that included the notion of a `third brain,' that is an observer living in a world different than (1) that of the world's creator, and (2) of the characters.The third is the brain of the observer. This is also a strong element in film criticism where the camera is the third eye, the eye of the artificial narrator. The most intelligent film about the third eye spying on the action is `Snake Eyes,' where we last saw Gugino. (You may want to check my comments on that film to see what I mean.)Even more this is the third time Cumming has played the evil thug Gates, the others being `Titus' and `Get Carter.' The blooper of course is that Gates wouldn't know AI if it bit him (despite buying up some of the big names from the past). So having him trapped in the virtual room is apt.The point is that there was some intelligence in this script, not all artificial. "}{"Title":"Young sleuths in action","Date":"2 April 2001","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Spy Kids is one heck of a movie. Never have I seen a kiddie flick come along which is so clean, and yet still so entertaining at the same time. This odd blend of one of the best (The Matrix) and worst (Baby Geniuses) movies of 1999 is surprisingly exciting for something so PG, and director and writer Robert Rodriguez (From Dusk Till Dawn) manages to create loads of fun while still keeping the violence level down.He manages to do all this by being incredibly inventive with his special effects. Spy Kid's is a visual fun house of ideas which are all so playfully intuned with kids and their level of interest. He comes up with things such as movable thumb people and floors that fall apart like puzzle pieces. Rodriguez also has a lot of fun with this topic, putting in loads of high tech equipment and transportation, which offer kids and adults an incredible ride which is most always played for humor and thrills.The basic set up for Spy Kids is this. Gregorio (Antonio Banderas) and Ingrid (Carla Gugino) were both spies working for different agencies, when a hit put out on each other brings them closer together. They decide to put away the spy work and live normal lives as husband and wife, and soon father and mother.But the perfect family they dream about is far from. Their kids are keeping secrets from them, a trait from their former job that they feel they have passed on to their children. Their daughter Carmen (Alexa Vega) is skipping school, while Juni (Daryl Sabara) is being bullied at school and instead of telling his parents, just makes up a couple of imaginary friends.They see how their past lives have affected their children, but before they can correct their wrong, their past catches up with them. They are thrown back into the spy game to investigate the capture of several other spies, but only end up being captured themselves.The culprit also just happens to be Juni's favorite televison star, Fegan Floop (Alan Cumming). Floop is after a brain prototype that Gregorio created years ago. If he can implant that into the heads of his robot and mutant henchmen, nothing can stop him from taking over the world and becoming the number one rated show on TV. But his other human henchmen Minion (played dastardly well by Tony Shalhoub) has other plans. Back home, the feuding siblings must learn to work together in order to save their parents and the world as they are tossed into the spy game as well.It seems as if the best kids movies always have a family-like theme to them, and Spy Kids is no exception. Much of this movie is exciting, but then there are those other parts, which are to cuteness what Charlie's Angels was to sexy clad women. Some may accuse Rodriguez of turning corny on us all of a sudden, but luckily he is also working with some very funny material here, as well as with newcomer Daryl Sabara.His partner Alexa Vega also comes off very strong in her role as his sister. Together they are a very good crime fighting team, and I look forward to seeing them in upcoming sequels. Alan Cumming is also very good, turning in an absent minded Willy Wonka style performance that also fits in very well with Rodriguez's style for this movie, which seems to be based largely around an amusement park surrounding a James Bond movie.His film may be corny for older kids, but this is for the young ones and chances are you will never find a movie as decent and fun for them as this one is for a long time. Out of four stars, Spy Kids definitely scores a three. "},{"Title":"The first and best Spy Kids film","Date":"26 April 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I loved this film as a kid and wanted to go back and watch it again to spot all the moments I enjoyed first time around.I think all these years later the film still holds up as a bitter than average family film. I don't think the director needed to stretch it out to be a trilogy (or add the very poor fourth entry many years later)but that's another matter.The two lead kids play the parts well and have a good dynamic between them and Antonio Banderas/Carla Gugino are good support as the parents.Watching it back now though I think it does have some slow parts and the technology looks a bit dated compared to what we're used to today, but Spy Kids 1 still remains a quality film for all the family. "},{"Title":"Interesting concept","Date":"16 May 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I watched the first one finally, and have to say that despite the cheesy story plot at times, it wasn't that bad. Some kids find out they are spies and end up having to save their parents from some evil dude. The technology and gadgets are very impressive and funny. I liked the age the kids were, not too old (teenager) but not too young to not be, I guess, easy to relate too.I did find the conclusion a bit cheesy and the characters were at times a little over done, but the special effects and everything was done quite well.I rate this 7/10. "},{"Title":"Imaginative and has a good performance by Alan Cumming... That's it!","Date":"1 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Childhood nostalgia, that is simply the 2 words why I saw this movie again. I watched the first three movies quite a bit as a kid and I can even tell you why. Around the time I was into James Bond so when I saw this movie I saw it as the same except with kids (I was 7!). So watching this movie again did bring back some childhood memories but that's about all it did.The movie is about the 2 world's best spies who are married. They retire once their children are born. 9 years later the 2 kids - Carmen and Juni are keeping secrets from their parents - Carmen skips school and all of Juni's friends are as real as the CGI in this movie. Their parents find a mission to track missing agents and through that we find out a kids show host named Floop (Alan Cumming) has the technology to change people's appearances into crazy-as-hell looking characters for his show as well as build robot kids - the robot kids being for some guy's army. After they get captured it is up to Carmen and Juni to save their parents.Well to this movie's credit it has a lot of imagination to it. Which is a pretty good thing for the most part. I say for the most part because the CGI of some of them looks really dated. Not to say I still didn't appreciate the thought and effort but... yeah some of it just looks a little bit creepy to show younger children at least.The only other thing I can really say about it is Alan Cumming's performance as Floop. He just nails whimsical, head-in-the-clouds, crazy inventor, Children's TV Show Host perfectly. If I were to talk about the acting some more Alexa Vega does an okay job but Daryl Sabara is AWFUL! I mean I know I shouldn't be too harsh on him, because he's just a kid but here, I don't think he's even trying.If there was one thing I hated, and I mean LOATHED it would have to be the humour. It was terrible, I mean it might make some kids laugh but most of it is the bottom of the barrel toilet humour that dominates awful kids films.Here's another thing, we have too many morals. Or at least the screenwriter has no idea how to balance them out. On one hand we have importance of family and that message is delivered okay, but when Floop tells Juni that all it was about was purity of heart and mind, it almost comes out of nowhere. There maybe other morals that they tried to get across but I really just couldn't see them.So does Spy Kids hold up in my eyes? No, and why should it? All it has to offer in terms of quality really is one supporting performance and the imagination behind it. With that said this could entertain your 7-10 year old for an hour and a half and it is relatively harmless. If you're babysitting a kid sometime - check it out, or if you want to see how childhood nostalgia holds up. "},{"Title":"Limitless ideas handled brilliantly","Date":"11 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Spy Kids is a special kind of family film that will please adults and children alike. What a rarity. I critique family films by judging if both the parent and the child will enjoy seeing the film. The parents buy the movie or the ticket for the kids, so they should both be provided with entertainment.Director Robert Rodriguez is all about special effects. So it comes as no surprise that Spy Kids relies heavily on technology. If Rodriguez had made this in the late eighties or early nineties, it would get more of a reputation as a cheesy, low budget picture, and wouldn't be remembered today in the hearts of many adolescents. If the first film would be made in 2011, we'd get the creepy hybrid of motion capture-like animation for most of this, most likely. So it's nice to see Spy Kids was made just in the nic of time when technology could produce such a fun, original picture.The story is about two youngsters, Carmen (Vega) and Juni (Sabara), whose parents (Banderas and Gugino) are undercover spies. They don't know their parents are spies, but after staying with their Uncle Felix (Marin), he tells them about their parents during an emergency, and sends both of them off to rescue their parents from an evil TV show host named Fegan Floop (Cumming).Spy Kids is only limited by the imagination from Robert Rodriguez head. My favorite scene is when Carmen and Juni are speeding on what resembles a water jet-ski pod (I'm just guessing, I really don't think Rodriguez knew what he was coming up with either), and evading the ninjas by just half a second. Something about that made me think back to when I was a kid, on my bed (or my spaceship) rolling around fighting imaginary bad guys.The CGI works, but it's flawed when it comes to the thumb creatures. The thumbs look blocky, and not very life-like. Not like anything is, but this picture was flowing perfectly up until the thumb thumbs came in. They are just assembled awkwardly, and lack animation. I was actually hoping two would go to war with each other if you know what I mean.The two leads are fairly decent actors, not perfect, but they have some time to practice, and I think these films are good places to start. The storyline was the least of my concerns, I just wanted good-humored, little to non-violent fun, and Spy Kids works. Its charm springs from the fact that it is just a kid's film, and it doesn't worry that it is being too unrealistic. It's meant to be that way.Starring Alex Vega, Daryl Sabara, Antonio Banderas, Carla Gugino, Cheech Marin, and Danny Trejo. Directed by Robert Rodriguez. "},{"Title":"Kiddish","Date":"5 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I kinda had it in the back of my mind that this is a 'kid' movie. (That all the previews they showed in the movie were either animation, clay-mation or imagination, didn't help either!) But I had to go see it, this being a Robert Rodriguez movie and all. And it did turn out to be - a 'kid' movie. Very kiddish story and very very bad special effects. (I guess that's what happens when you think like Spielberg and have a budget like Rodriguez.) But its assuring to know that Rodriguez's camera movements, editing techniques and fast-paced story-telling are still intact from El Mariachi. We just hope he'll come up with a more adult theme next time. "},{"Title":"The dumbest movie I ever seen","Date":"22 December 2015","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I can't imagine that people and adults like this movie..... what Guys this movie is brainwashing your brain is not even that cool like you guys think it was it's garbage.Too many garbage names used by Juni really besides Juni is a horrible name for a kid. This movie was terrible what happened robert rodriguez you made good movies but this was a disaster film. Please don't even watch it ignore rotten tommatoes case they are lieing it was terrible it's by fat the worst movie I seen in years ignore the positive reviews that movie was terrible I hated it. GARBAGE.At least spy kids 3d was the best one haha. "},{"Title":"Colossal turd.","Date":"7 September 2015","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Spy kids was one of the worst things ever made. This is pretty much the bottom of the barrel. It is absolute SH*T!! Let's discuss the many problems this movie has. HMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMM.1. It's really boring. If you've seen the movie you know it looks fun but it is more boring than sitting on a rock.2. AWFUL special effects. Between the hand minion things and the water. Most of the effects make me want to shove forks in my eyes.3. The whole movie doesn't matter. What the f*ck. If you watch this you are wasting humanity.4. The acting. Antonio Banderas is a good actor but he is wasting his time in this sh*t hole.If you like this movie...fine. But it is a piece of sh*t you could catch any number of diseases if you hold the case for one second to long. Save humanity take the disc, dip it in the toilet. Crack it make it suffer bury it until it makes it's way to hell.OK I'm over reacting. It is a piece of sh*t.THE END!!!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"There is no hope for humanity... Just no hope.","Date":"25 June 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Honestly, I don't know where to start. I first saw this movie when I was nine years old, and it insulted my intelligence then. Having just seen a few fragments recently while my younger siblings were watching it, I decided to do a comprehensive criticism of exactly WHY it was so terrible. And let me tell you, there are plenty of reasons. Here are my top three.Number One StoryOkay, so the concept of Parents were spies, kids find out, have to rescue parents before plot to take over the world is successful, isn't actually ALL terrible. It has some holes, and is admittedly pretty cheesy, but isn't so bad, if executed right. Unfortunately, this movie wasn't executed right, for several reasons. First off, where the Tartarus did the script writer get the gods-awful idea to make the villain a kids TV show star?!? Yes, a sadistic, Burton-esque, disturbing kids show which uses mutated spies as it's actors, (more on that later) but seriously? What the heck? I seriously want to know what Muse (or lack thereof) whispered in your ear to have produced this bizarre monstrosity. Why did you choose to make the generic, faceless henchmen into THUMB PEOPLE? Why is your army of indestructible automatons disguised to look like children? Why did you have to make his base a fun house that seemed to have been designed by MC Escher in the middle of the ocean? Why are your supercomputers designed to look like little deformed cyborg brains? (perhaps to resemble the minds of the producers of this movie?) WHY?!? *Ahem, sorry.* Second reason this movie brought the art of the cliché to an all-new level. Seriously, when my friend and I were watching this, we literally predicted EVERY plot twist. Keep in mind that we were nine-year-olds.Oh look, there's a bad guy who serves the Demon Tellytubbies show guy! I'll bet he's the REAL bad guy, and has some connection with their parent's past! or Oh, look, they introduced Uncle Machete, but he doesn't want to help. I wonder how long we'll last until he shows up to save the day? And so on and so forth. In all, they could have done WAY better with the storyline, which was pretty much just crap.Number Two Special FX Really guys, did you even try to make these effects look real? I'm all for CG animation, but honestly, you could have gotten better animation results from my 11th grade Graphic's Design class, and we were only using Photoshop! For example, during the scene when Mom and Dad Cortez drove their submarine car off a cliff, there was a glaringly visible change from real car to CG-ed car. All of the other fanciful technology (Escape Sub, Jetpacks, Thumb-Thumbs, Movie Room in Fruit-Loop Guy's castle, etc) was obviously green-screened. The lighting and shading was all off, the coloration was garish, gaudy, and generally crappy, and overall, the animation looked like a bunch of circus clowns came in and covered everything in overly polished balloon latex. It looked that fake. And don't get me started on the crummy rubber suits they did for the mutated spies. Really peoples? To quote the internet term, DERP. Number Three Psychological Damage I swear, as a nine-year old, this movie didn't die in my mind easily. Even now, many many years later, it still disturbs me. Maybe I'm overly sensitive, but I saw Lord of the Rings around the same time, and the grisly orcs didn't even make me bat an eye. Yet the Burton-esque feel to the main villain was just too much for me, and the floating eyeballs, mutated dudes with their overly happy squeaking and tittering, and tinkly music-box music didn't help. Seriously, overly cheerful and bizarre kids shows are the stuff of nightmare. It seems like they went all out to make this particular aspect as weird and disturbing as possible, and I really can't understand why. Don't get me wrong, it wasn't SCARY or intense or thrilling like a spy movie should be, it was just WEIRD. Sort of the creepy weirdness that's usually associated with clowns or carousel music. It just felt out of place and frankly, I'm surprised no-one else has sued this company for psychologically scarring their kids. I don't know how to describe it, I just was seriously weirded out by this factor.In all, this movie is scraping the barrel when it comes to entertainment, which is why I'm depressed that some relatively prominent actors like Antonio Banderas lowered their dignity and restating by participating in this blot on the name of film. Maybe they signed on before they realized what they were getting into, I don't know. The acting was the only commendable part of this film, which frankly wasn't much to work with. Kudos to you, the actors for a good effort, but not good enough to salvage this shipwreck. My only thought is that the gods must hate humanity to allow this monstrosity to exist. Which gods, you ask? ALL THE GODS! May mercy be had upon the souls of those who spawned forth this crime against art. "},{"Title":"I would've never expected what I saw.","Date":"8 June 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" When I saw this movie, I immediately was pulled in and obsessed. The trailers made the movie look bad, so I decided, no I shouldn't see it. Then on rotten tomatoes, I saw 93% which is a great amount. I decided to see it, and I loved it. For anyone who is uncertain about seeing this movie, go for it. It is an original, unexpected journey, that you can see repeatedly, and will not get bored. I think the best part of this movie is... the storyline, and the acting. Outstanding roles from Alexa Vega, Daryl Sabara (Carmen and Juny), and any other actor/actress in the movie. I recommend any parents to go take there kids to this movie.After all, Spy Kids is an original, first one out of the package piece of paper that sucks you in, making you stare at the drawing all day. "}{"Title":"Save your time, save your money","Date":"22 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I saw the ads and thought SPY KIDS looked awful.  Saw the stills, thought they looked awful (just posing the kids defensively in front of the parents, all in a fighting stance, implies incredible irresponsibility).  I kept reading these wonderful reviews about what a delightful confection this is, and eventually I got suckered in, thinking I didn't want to miss another BABE or something, and the film was probably being poorly marketed to get the kiddies.Well, kiddies might have a good time (though in the theater I attended, restless kids had to be told repeatedly to hush, and one child articulated in the aftermath, I was hoping for more action).  But this is one where the adults will definitely need to shut their brains off.  If you're on the fence about whether or not to check this out, I'd strongly suggest not going.  It's not awful like CURLY SUE or something -- I laughed aloud once and got a couple of chuckles elsewhere -- but it is... well, it's poor.  The adventure isn't manic enough, the inventions by and large not that incredible (a packet, when microwaved, becomes a McDonald's meal.  Yipee!). SPOILERS AHEAD Yeah, the thumb thumbs are kinda cool, but the villain is far too toothless.  Kids' movies CAN survive real villainry and, in a way, need it Wicked Witch of the West, anyone?  And then when the villain goes soft and is revealed as NOT the villain, Villain #2 is even less frightening.SPOILERS OVER.  I guess one of the main problems is that the sense of threat is never tangible. The film has obviously been designed not to frighten children, giving no sense of real evil or malice onscreen (almost all critical physical contact happens either off camera or with simple karate flips).  In cushioning every blow in this manner, SPY KIDS leaves no sense of tension, danger, or conflict.  That's probably why the kids got so shifty during the screening and parents got testy; the kids saw that this emperor had no clothes -- or, more to the point, a candy colored but rather dull one-piece.  5/10 "},{"Title":"stupid","Date":"21 June 2008","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" this movie was incredibly stupid with meaning what so ever. i fell bad for all the actors and actresses that ruined there career to be in this stupid movie. the entire movie was based on how unrealistic they could make it, to make little like it which made it even stupider. even some of the names were unrealistic. the film is fun to watch which is why it had 2 out of 10 stars. this is probably the 3rd stupidest movie ever made. i got really made after i realized that it had mostly adult actors in it yet in was a kid movie. the most upsetting one was Danny Trejo a horror movie actor who is always dirty. the other actors were pretty much clean as far as i'm concerned. "},{"Title":"Overrated garbage that should of been straight to DVD, it's a bit hard to watch with all the sexist remarks to boys...and the bad special effects don't help either","Date":"24 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is barely funny. I'm having trouble laughing at all the crude humour and sexist jokes in this film. I thought girls always got made fun of, not boys? Well, this film (and lots of other TV shows) proves me right that both boys and girls are made fun of, so that's why I rated this a 6/10, not a 5/10. But this film is definitely extremely sexist, and I'm surprised nobody has pointed that out. It's hard to beileve Rotten Tomatoes and Metacritic gave this film a good rating, because the special effects were terrible, the story was crap, the pacing was too fast, the crude humour wasn't too good either and the film was very sexist. I'm going to describe a little more about these flaws and about how this film is, and explain why you probably won't like it (unless you hate boys).SPECIAL EFFECTSYou feel like bashing up your television screen when you see these terrible special effects in a so-called good movie. The greenscreen is terrible, also. The thumb-thumb was a terrible special effect, the animating on it was absolutely terrible. It was hard to sit through the movie, knowing that this got great reviews, when there's something callled thumb-thumb on it. This can't even be called a movie, the special effects aren't even good-bad like films like Sharknado, Spider Man, Star Wars Episode 1 and Jaws...the special effects is just plain cringe worthy, it's hard to watch without puking all over the floor. And the crazy thing is, this cost 35 million dollars to make! I'd expect 3 million for this crap! And 3 million is way lower than 35 million! Okay, maybe you can cope with bad special effects, but can you cope with what I am going to discuss about next???STORYA simple story! Nice and simple, not too complicated! Although this flaw that I am going to talk about isn't actually too bad, it's still something to consider for you story lovers out their. Two kids, a 12 year old and a 9 year old, find out that their parents are secret agents, so they become secret agents. That's not too bad a plot...for one of those Disney channel TV movies, that is! But the plot get's worse, believe me...Techno-wizard Fegan Floop and his evil, egg- headed sidekick, Minion, capture the two kid's parents. So, a 12 year old and a 9 year old embark on a mission and become spy kids so they can save the parents in this terrible movie that will guarantee that you kill yourself! Okay, maybe you can cope with bad story, but can you cope with what I am going to discuss about next???PACINGThat's right! PACING! The one thing that bugs me in the movie Spy Kids is the pacing! It's way too fast, even for a family movie with bad special effects! As soon as you start to take a breath, another exciting part happens! The movie honestly feels like loads of exclamation marks heaping up onto your television screen, and you won't be able to see the actual movie because of all the exclamation marks! It's very hard to pay attention to the story when the pacing is god awful, especially when you can't find one part in the film where you can take a breath. I hate fast paced movies with a passion, and unless the movie has a great story behind it, I usually need something else to make me like the film. However, Spy Kids hasn't delivered me anything apart from...well, you know. But honestly, the pacing in this film is terrible, and it's hard to sit through this movie like a proper good movie. Okay, maybe you can cope with pacing (luckily), but can you cope with what I am going to discuss about next???CRUDE HUMOURFAAAAART! Hahaha, that's hilarious! THUMB-THUMB! A GUY MADE OUT OF THUMBS! Hahaha, that's hilarious! THE SISTER JUST MADE FUN OF HER BROTHER! Hahaha, that's hilarious! I hate crude humour with a passion, as it is very tasteless, and I think lots agree with me that crude humour is tasteless. Spy Kids, however, had loads of crude humour, too much to even call it a family comedy. It's basically more of a horror because of how scary that a film could be this bad. Honestly, I would list this as one of the worst movies ever, and if it weren't a box office success, and had good reviews, I would be cheering right now! I don't think there is much to talk about with crude humour though, so let's just go onto the next one. Maybe you can cope with crude humour, but can you cope with what I am going to discuss about next???SEXISMI am against this, a LOT! I hate sexism against both boys and girls, however, it really annoys me when movies like this always seem to throw insults at the boys. You could tell, because the brother always got treated like crap. He always seemed to fail in the film, and so did most other male characters in the film, I couldn't find one male character that didn't fail at least once (apart from the father of the two kids). I am surprised nobody complained about this in the bad reviews, because it is the main reason why I hate this movie with a passion. Now, come on, there's no way you can cope with sexism! Is their? Because if their is, then I guess this is the right movie for you! Unless you can cope with all the things I just told you about the film, I recommend you don't watch this film, and that's a final! Overall,I'd rate this 0.9/10! "},{"Title":"Silly, surreal fun","Date":"11 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Robert Rodriguez's Spy Kids has a very special significance for me it's the first movie I ever saw in theatres, and therefore left quite an impression on me. It has loads of Rodriguez's trademark imagination and vision, as well as a stacked cast and a whimsical sense of adventure that makes it a super charged Saturday morning cartoon style bucket of fun. Rodriguez makes two types of films shamelessly violent, over the top, bloody genre fun, and family orientated sci fi/fantasy for kids. He fares better in the former, as this is really the only good one in the secondary category. The sequels are trash, and I don't know what he was thinking with Sharkboy and Lava Girl, but with this one his filmmaking skill and passion for the craft work its charm and provide a wonderful experience. Newcomers Alexa Vega and Daryl Sabara play youngsters Carmen and Juni Cortez, who are surprised to learn that their unassuming parents (Antonio Banderas and Carla Gugino) are in fact lethal undercover spies, and need their help after being kidnapped by eccentric megalomaniac Floop (Alan Cumming hamming it up terrifically). Aided by their uncles Felix (Cheech Marin) and Machete (Danny Trejo) they embark on a dazzling adventure to find Floop's surreal, isolated palace, take down baddies Ms. Gredanko (Teri Hatcher) and Mr. Lisp (Robert Patrick) and save their parents. The four have amazing chemistry as a familial unit, especially when it comes time to kick major butt. The practical based effects have a wondrous vitality, from the Thumb Thumb henchman to the eye boggling, Terry Gilliam-esque realm that Floop resides in. There's also work from Tony Shaloub, Mike Judge, Richard Linklater and a sly cameo from George Clooney. No shortage of imagination, creativity and fun. "},{"Title":"Rodriguez Goes Youth.","Date":"25 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Spy Kids (2001) Dir Robert Rodriguez / Cast Antonio Banderas, Carla Gugino, Alan Cumming, Tony Shalhoub, Richard Cheech Marin Wonderfully inventive and exhilarating experience for families. It is about little people doing big things. The special effects are totally creative with a story that is straight forward but a lot of fun. Antonio Banderas and Carla Gugino are captured spies by an entertainer who mutates spies as props for his show. Gugino tells of the two spies who were suppose to eliminate each other but ultimately fell in love instead. Their children catch on quickly when villains that resemble thumbs search for a device called the Third Brain. Alan Cumming plays a villain who desires to take over the world using robotic children and the third brain is needed. Director Robert Rodriguez outdoes himself here with inventive visuals and creative gimmicks. This is a far stretch from the gory horror films he is known for such as From Dusk Till Dawn and The Faculty. Banderas and Gugino are a wonderful pairing with Alan Cumming on target as the entertainer. Tony Shalhoub plays the scheming villain. Richard Cheech Marin is an amusing edition as an uncle who is in on the big parental secret. The third act is mainly numerous action sequences that present cartoon style violence and predictable results. Otherwise this is a challenging family friendly visual delight. Score 9 / 10 "},{"Title":"Kids As Spies","Date":"31 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Spy Kids is a family film that tells the story of 12-year-old Carmen Cortez and her younger 9-year-old brother Juni Cortez.They are two greatest child secret agents in the world that are known for abilities such as masters of disguise,ability to invent various things and the ability to prevent wars.Alexa Vega and Daryl Sabara stars together with Antonio Banderas,Carla Gugino,Alan Cumming,Teri Hatcher,Cheech Marin and Danny Trejo.It was written and directed by Robert Rodriguez.It is the first installment in the Spy Kids series.This definitely provides a lot of joy and entertainment for the film's intended audience as we get to see young lead stars fulfill many of the children's dream of working as spies in lieu with the terrorism and terrorist attacks in the United States during its year of release.While the visual effects maybe considered far from standard as of today,it would still be proper to say that it definitely helped the young audience to enjoy it back then.Finally,this will definitely provides lots of fun as a family film and expecting something not silly will surely disappoint many who aren't expecting any. "},{"Title":"fun wacky kids' movie","Date":"16 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Gregorio (Antonio Banderas) and Ingrid Cortez (Carla Gugino) are the greatest spies who retire to be simple consultants once they started a family. Their children Carmen (Alexa Vega) and Juni (Daryl Sabara) think their parents are boring. Gregorio is annoyed by the children's TV show Floop's Fooglies and investigates its host Fegan Floop (Alan Cumming). He turns out to be a villain evil inventor. His latest evil invention with Alexander Minion (Tony Shalhoub) are kid robots. However the robots have no brains and Floop is after the Third Brain. He's been kidnapping OSS agents and captures the Cortezes. Felix Gumm (Cheech Marin) reveals himself not to be the kids' uncle. He tells them the truth and sends them to the safe house. OSS agent Ms. Gradenko (Teri Hatcher) arrives but she turns out to be a double agent. The robots take the Third Brain and the kids seek out Machete (Danny Trejo) for help who turns out to be their father's older brother.Director Robert Rodriguez has infused this kids' movie with wacky visuals and crazy gadgets. It's all outlandish fun. The adult actors are all top shelf with many Rodriguez alumni. The trick of this movie are the kids. They're likable enough. Their characters are combative siblings but Rodriguez makes sure that they show their love for each other every once in awhile. "},{"Title":"I enjoyed this a lot!","Date":"5 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I came into Robert Rodriguez's Spy Kids expecting stupidity and cliché, but I got something enjoyable and original. It's full of fun special effects and offers little crudeness like this year's previous Shrek in the way of family entertainment value. This is a likable adventure from start to finish and never tries to make itself larger than it appears to be. It's not pretending to be a cultural statement or a book of moral values. It advertises itself as slick entertainment and as a whole, it pulls it off and never really lets us down. A nice change of pace for Rodriguez, after directing a number of violent movies comes up with this most pleasing children's yarn. "},{"Title":"Little more than a good crack, perhaps a tad more if you're the right audience; Rodriguez's film is a colourful but ultimately underwhelming romp.","Date":"9 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Robert Rodriguez's Spy Kids is a perfectly rounded, perfectly harmless adventure film; a piece that will no doubt play to an audience consisting of parents of whatever age whom happen to have kids around about similar ages to that of what the kids characters therein are. Feeding off of two separate strands, children will no doubt be consumed in the undying pleasures one equilibrium offers when two infants, one male and one female but brother and sister all the same, bicker and argue with each other as they journey on the adventure of a lifetime; essentially undertaking a quest which will see them strive to save the day and do the grown-ups a favour for a change in bailing them out of the trouble they get themselves in. The scenes and sequences are harmless enough for youngsters to enjoy and brief and charming enough for the adults seeing it with their kids to enjoy; the second strand consisting of the grown ups ambling along with parental life and cracking tired Oh, aren't we both getting old! gags which will no doubt induce grins onto that of the faces of thirty-something mums-and-dads watching on with an arm around each other and one of their two tots on either side of them.The problem being, and if like me, you land somewhere in the middle of all of this demographic pandering as a non-child whom isn't a parent and doesn't have any kids, chances are Spy Kids will be a bit of a chore; a film whose success rate in this case relies on it being an interesting and engaging enough adventure piece, something it isn't necessarily and thus doesn't quite pull through; a piece bordering on that of a monumental drag as it shuffles along doing its best to encompass people from better films that you've probably seen &#x96; by the end, I was having more fun mentally ticking off those whom had before worked with the aforementioned Rodriguez and were present here than I did from the film itself. For the Folks if your kids answer you correctly after having turned to them post-credits in order to offer them a pop-quiz on what the only other film George Clooney and Robert Rodriguez had previously worked together on, chances are you're a pretty irresponsible parent.Joking aside, the film does offer up a meek if somewhat interesting study on how to utilise teamwork and one's skills for that of good, honest and upstanding means yadda,yadda, yadda; the film effectively a tale about two nippers seemingly at war with each other coming together to foil a common enemy through hard work, dedication and working together explored in a manner which is a bit better than dull but not really as good as 'slightly interesting' - although it is done so in a rapid, punchy manner tots will enjoy. Where the kids have what is for them, everybody else will observe the ridiculously photogenic parents of the two titular Spy Kids in Antonio Banderas' Gregorio and Carla Gugino's Ingrid Cortez, respectively; two people living a seemingly normal life (whatever 'normal' constitutes in this film) in an isolated cliff-top villa hiding out as retired spies now trying to function as office workers and keeping their previous incarnations private from their offspring.Those kids are Carmen (Vega) and the younger Juni (Sabara), two more often than not at each others' throats in that innocent enough way brothers and sisters this age usually are; Juni's existence somewhat lowlier than Carmen's in that he appears weak and is easily victimised, sports warts on his hands and is disenchanted with school life. His escape from this life is that of the transporting of himself into that of the world of television; specifically, a show headed up by Alan Cumming's suitably nasty and suitably sadistic, but wholly within the boundaries of the film, Fegan Floop; a man with a colourful and joyous TV show featuring all manner of wacky characters; sets and ideas.These circles of characters will come to integrate with one another much more later on; Floop's surface existence masking something more underneath running parallel, when he's later revealed as essentially that of an arms-dealer, with that of Carmen and Juni's parents whom additionally subscribe to a cloaked living that is similar only in nature. The catalyst which kick-starts the titular kids' adventure out into the unknown; a journey encompassing the learning to co-exist with one another; the realisation of what it means to take on certain responsibilities and Juni's own realisation of the true meaning of Floop's show, which he holds so dear to him, occurs when parents Gergorio and Ingrid are swiped by an unknown quantity. From here, surprises and revelations whisk the pair off on an espionage and action imbued adventure featuring bad guys; double crosses; sordid plots and a lot of humour revolving around fully grown adults falling down. Where it's easy to sneer, and boy is it easy to sneer at Spy Kids, it is on the other hand difficult to get as excited about as one would have liked; Rodriguez demonstrating a knack for completely shifting gears and coming up with a piece acceptable to all ages which isn't exceptional but is a long way from woeful.Who knows? Like somebody whose introduction to Brian de Palma was in the shape of 1996's Mission Impossible as however young I was; maybe, in years to come, youngsters whom saw this with their folks and have such happy memories of it will discover what else Rodriguez has to offer, before quietly exclaiming that they find it hard to believe such a film here was even made by the man &#x96; let alone was their introduction to his back-catalogue of which they've come to really admire. The world works in strange ways. "},{"Title":"Pretty Good!","Date":"6 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I thought Spy Kids was a pretty cool movie to watch. I did not expect much of it at first but I'm glad I saw it because I really enjoyed it. This was not the bad movie that I had anticipated. I even liked the sequel to this movie.This is about very young spies who are on a mission to save the United States, of course.The cast is pretty much an all-star cast. The spies played by Alexa Vega and Daryl Sabara are pretty good. The parents played by Antonio Banderas and Carlos Gugino are wonderful.Overall, this is a good piece of work. I also like to mention that some of these gadgets are cool. I rate this film 8/10. "}{"Title":"Classic Rodriguez","Date":"12 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Classic Rodriguez when you watch the Spy Kids! Although the intro feels like 1996 The Rock with Elfman's score being a little similar but then as soon as you hear Los Lobos guitar solo you know you're in for some classic Rodriguez action. The movie does have flaws such as the corny wedding story at the beginning, the forced ending with the family theme pushed into the audiences' throat but other than those two aspects the movie is pretty fun. The plot is as simple as they get, Minion the generic villain has to sell killer robot children to Mr. Lisp who wants to take over the world but he needs brains for the army and that's where Mr. Cortez comes in because he helped create the Third Brain, which is an artificial brain which Minion can replicate, therefore the Cortez's kids have to rescue their parents. Kudos for Rodriguez by including such awesome cameos such as George Clooney as Devlin, Danny Trejo as another knife name bad-ass this time Machete who got his own fake trailer in the Grindhouse and later turned into a movie, and the T-1000 as Mr. Lisp! Newcomers Alexa Vega and Daryl Sabara really take the movie with their hilarious brother and sister bickering with lines such as Stop calling me names -Or what?' &#x96;Or I'll call you names&#x85; classic! Or when Juni calls Carmen the diaper lady because she still wears diapers at night and you see Carmen's reaction, hilarious. Another character that is awesome was Alan Cumming as Mr. Floop who was portrayed as a mad genius who cared more about his kids' show than his diabolical plan to take over the world. Overall this movie is worth renting but only worth buying to complete your Rodriguez collection along with El Mariachi trilogy and Planet Terror since this is essentially Rodriguez. On a side note the Fooglies and the Thumb Thumbs were very creative especially the way that the film explains that the Fooglies were victims by reversing their singing to Floop is a madman, Help us! and when Cortez begins suspecting when he sees the show and the camera zooms in at the new Fooglie with his terrified eyes. "},{"Title":"You can keep your Nimbus 2000 I'd rather have a jet pack any day of the week.","Date":"25 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Forget about discovering that your parents were a pair of weirdo wizards (yawn!) in Spy Kids, Carmen Cortez (Alexa Vega) and her younger brother Juni (Daryl Sabara) find out that their mum and dad are ex-secret agents, which is a whole lot cooler in my book (I guess being raised on James Bond films might have affected my opinion somewhat). This means that when Mr and Mrs Cortez (suave Antonio Banderas and yummy Carla Gugino) are captured by criminals intent on taking over the world with an army of robot children, it's up to the kids to save the day, equipped with all sorts of ultra-cool, high-tech gadgetry supplied by their uncle Machete (Danny Trejo).Pure, unadulterated slam-bang craziness from the warped mind of Robert Rodriguez, Spy Kids is cool, action packed fun for the whole family &#x97;perfect entertainment for a rainy Sunday afternoon on the sofa with the children. There's constant kiddy-centric action loaded with inventive visuals, weird creatures and snazzy special effects galore, guaranteed to keep the sprogs glued to the screen from start to finish, whilst easy-on-the-eye couple Banderas and Gugino are there to give the adults something to get excited about too. "},{"Title":"(nods) Not bad.","Date":"25 May 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Spy Kids is a Robert Rodriguez-directed film about two kids who find out that their parents are international spies, and that they've been kidnapped, so now they have to save them by using their parents' technology and spy-gear. This isn't too bad, actually. It's certainly a departure for Robert Rodriguez, a man known for the El Mariachi trilogy, From Dusk Till Dawn and The Faculty. It's certainly not his greatest effort, but it's still good nonetheless, and it's certainly better than some family movies that I've seen. It actually had some stub - spome spaplala - substance. (Thank you for reading me this far, I was saying it just like that while I was writing.) So, all in all, I recommend it, it's a great movie to watch with the whole family. And, it's a good way to introduce your kids to Robert Rodriguez, whom they might really get to know with El Mariachi, From Dusk Till Dawn, and Sin City. "},{"Title":"Eh. That's all I can say","Date":"15 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" If I ever was trapped on a desert island, and this is somehow the only movie I could watch, I'd watch it three times, then chuck it into the ocean, and learn to play the coconut. Why? Because it's not worth my brain rotting to watch it over and over again. Now, don't get me wrong, pre-pubescent boys love it. However, for me, I can only stand to watch it, because I was forced to (and, might I add, I was). I thought the plot was bad for me, but OK for kids. I loved that Antonio Bandres was in it (can't see why..), and I thought the kids were cute together. And, oh yeah, the guy who was evil turned good? Could he look anymore like Ian Hart from the first Harry Potter (same outfit, almost)? "},{"Title":"A superbly made, larger-than-life Wizard of Oz with gadgets galore that celebrates family values","Date":"11 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The pint-sized protagonists in Sky Kids do the darnedest things to save their imperiled parents from a mad scientist and his indestructible army of android urchins. This far- fetched, fast-paced, family-friendly fare fuses over-the-top 007 action sequences with childhood classics like Chitty Chitty Bang Bang and Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory. Surprisingly, writer & director Robert Rodriguez's whimsically eccentric but warmly entertaining comedy thriller doesn't pander with the usual lowest common denominator humor and histrionics. Newcomers Alexa Vega and Daryl Sabara behave neither like obnoxious ragamuffins nor precocious brats. Rodriguez forgoes the farce of the Home Alone movies and the flatulence of See Spot Run. Instead, he treats us to a yarn as wholly innocent as it is implausibly outlandish. Not only does Spy Kids qualify as a must-see for twelve-year-olds, but also Rodriguez has revamped the kids' action movie genre with style to spare! Spy Kids unfolds in the near future. Espionage agents have replaced armies, and Gregorio (Antonio Banderas of Desperado) and Ingrid (Carla Gugino of Snake Eyes) are the best. As spies on opposite sides, they receive orders to kill each other. Ironically, they fall in love, resign, marry, and raise two elementary school age children Carmen (Alexa Vega) and Juni (Daryl Sabara). Now, our ex-spies serve strictly as consultants, until several secret agents vanish without a trace. Gregorio launches a search, and Ingrid accompanies him. No sooner have they entrusted their kids to Felix Gumm (Cheech Marin Up In Smoke) than chief villain Fegan Floop (Alan Cumming) traps our adult duo. Fegan Floop masquerades as a loopy Willy Wonka type villain with his own popular children's TV show called Floop's Fooglies. Imagine Pee-Wee Herman on the prowl. Floop operates from an offshore castle shaped like an old battered boot with a candelabrum of Disney-like towers sprouting from it. Floop kidnapped those secret agents and mutated them into bizarre circus freak characters. Behind the scenes, Floop and Dr. Alexander Minion (Tony Shalhoub of Monk) scheme to replace the children of celebrities and world leaders with robotic clones. Mr. Lisp (Robert Patrick of Terminator 2) wants to buy them, so he can dominate the world. Dastardly Floop sends agents after Carmen and Juni, but the siblings elude his Thumb henchmen. Literally, these guys are all thumbs thumbs for heads, hands, and legs. Carmen and Juni fill their parents' shoes and thwart evil.Director Robert Rodriguez, whose credits include Desperado, From Dusk Till Dawn, Four Rooms, Road Racers, and The Faculty, has come a long way since 1992's El Mariachi. Typically, he saturates his sagas with buckets of blood & gore, so watching the sanitary PG-rated Spy Kids comes as quite a revelation. Aside from an occasional outburst of violence, Spy Kids poses as little a threat as a Barney episode. Nevertheless, Rodriguez stages these melodramatics with such skillful cinematic virtuosity that you find yourself sucked in by the momentum of the action. Indeed, Spy Kids qualifies as a superbly made, larger-than-life Wizard of Oz with gadgets galore that celebrates family values. "},{"Title":"an engaging film for the right audience","Date":"16 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Gregorio and Ingrid Cortez are two secret agents who have seemingly abandoned a life of espionage in favor of marriage and kids. Despite their efforts to lead a peaceful domestic life, their family is slowly being torn apart by their lack of closure. They're called into action for a vital assignment to try and thwart a mad scientist/evil genius type, but when the mission goes terribly awry, the only ones who can save them are their two precocious children. Watchable, pleasant, but overly cheesy film really only works for younger audiences; although family-oriented and effective as eye candy, it would benefit from less camp and more smarts or substance. An overall air of silliness and a familiar, matter-of-fact message about the importance of family doesn't make this quite distinguished enough for all ages. **½ "},{"Title":"Rodriguez's revved up kids film","Date":"6 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Spy Kids is a film that falls into what I call the hidden treasure variety. Its a film that falls alongside others like Fargo, Meet the Fockers and James and the Giant Peach. These are films that all failed to strike a chord with me when I first saw them. But after I rediscovered them, they went up considerably in my estimation.My first viewing of Spy Kids was not a pleasant one. I thought it was juvenile, stupid and sloppily plotted. In short, an overrated film that didn't deserve success or a trilogy. Still, there must have been something to the film otherwise I never would have come back to it.My second viewing of Spy Kids was a complete about face. I really had a great time. It no longer seemed juvenile but witty, fresh and inventive. Amazing how a film can seem completely different after you give it a second chance.The spy genre has had a sudden boost in the last few years. Kickstarted by GoldenEye, it brought Bond into the 90s, and was then followed by Austin Powers, a parody. Then came Spy Kids. Which also proved to be influential. Not only are there the sequels, but blatant rip offs like Agent Cody Banks, and even the excellent Pixar film The Incredibles has a shade of Spy Kids.One thing that shocks you right away about Spy Kids is that it was directed by Robert Rodriguez. This is the man responsible for no-holds barred material like the exceptional Sin City, as well as sharp and biting satire like The Faculty. But to Rodriguez's credit, he hasn't dumbed down. He's brought his natural, exciting style of film-making to Spy Kids, and crafted a rip-roaring adventure kids and adults will love.I could go into detail about the plot. But I'm not going to. Its inconsequential anyway. The real fun to be had is the dazzling display of stunt-work, special effects, visual sight gags and witty puns Rodriguez keeps throwing up at us. He's not always successful with special effects. Sometimes he indulges them to such an extent they swamp everything else. The exception being Sin City, where he melded it all into a breathtaking hyper-real world. And with Spy Kids, although I did notice obvious matte lines at times, he does a commendable job, and incorporates them without sacrificing narrative structure.Rodriguez has also assembled an imaginative and quite superb cast. Antonio Banderas and Carla Gugino are good value as the retired spies forced back into action. I love the story of how they first met. If you've seen Mr & Mrs Smith you'll have a good idea of what they're like. And their heart-shaped parachutes are great.Alan Cumming is not bad as the one part children's presenter and other part criminal mastermind. Sort of like a cross between Pee-wee Herman and a Bond villain if such a thing is possible. And Tony Shalhoub is great as the power behind the throne. So is Fegan Floop's stronghold. A set so full of eye popping effects and surreal wackiness you're constantly blown away by what the filmmakers have gotten away with. Love the jigsaw puzzle floors too!But where Spy Kids really shines is Alexa Vega and Daryl Sabara as the dynamic duo. They make a completely believable brother and sister. Affectionately sniping at each other while propelled by jet pack, piloting submarines and using quick dry cement that looks like Silly String. The whole film rests on their capable shoulders. Vega is especially impressive. She has that rare ability among children where she can seem capable but gracious, and Rodriguez draws out a great deal of strength from her character.The gadgets and gimmicks the writers come up with are very innovative. They beat the pants off anything Q could come up with. I'm especially partial to the electrically charged gum balls. And the dozens of robot kids put films with much higher budgets like I Robot and Bicentennial Man to shame. I love the use they're put to in the end.There are so many delights to this film. The sight of Teri Hatcher getting her hair burned off by jet pack is worth the price of admission alone. And watch out for George Clooney's cameo at the end.I'm glad I rediscovered Spy Kids. If I hadn't, I would have been missing out on a superior piece of family entertainment. Spy Kids soars just as high as any of this film's jet packs. "},{"Title":"Spy kids is a great movie which kids and adults can enjoy","Date":"23 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I think Spy Kids is an excellent film which can be equally enjoyed by kids and adults. Spy kids is a great movie which can be enjoyed by the whole family. The exaggerations the movie has didn't bother me at all because it is a complement of the universe this movie has. Daryl Sabara and Alexa Vega bring perfect performances in their roles. Robert Rodriguez created a truly fascinating universe on Spy kids. The movie is so fun and creative that I truly had a blast watching it. I enthusiastically recommend this movie,because it genuinely is an exciting and hugely entertaining experience.Rating9 "},{"Title":"I love that music","Date":"13 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This movie is a good thing to watch because kids can learn from this experience that these kids have. This movie shows u about passion. It shows just because your have a sibling doesn't mean u have to be mean to them. Later on you will thank your parents on having your sibling. If you think your life is hard enough think about this movie all the troubles that the kids in this movies had to go through. They had to save their parents. Imagine you in this movie. And having to go through all the hardships passing your way. All you got to know is that this movie is the best. The best in the world. It is out of this world. now think about the kids. It shows that skipping school is bad. It shows even if you are little. You still have a big BRAIN. And thats not all you need in life. You need your looks. Your sympathy and no more then that is enough. "},{"Title":"Entertaining kiddie-flick","Date":"2 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" For a film aimed primarily at children under twelve, 'Spy Kids' is surprisingly amusing enough with plenty of action and comedy to keep both kids and adults happy. The film is the first in a long line to use the idea of child spies as the plot device with the story itself centring on twelve-year-old Carmen and her eight-year-old brother Juni as they strive to rescue their spy parents from the grasps of Floop, a campy TV presenter with dreams of world domination.There are, of course, an abundance of special effects in the film that are of a decent quality and a number of intriguing James Bond-like gadgets make their appearance. However, what makes this film engaging is the interesting story that walks a neat line between being moralistic without preaching (we have the typical sibling fights but they band together in tough times as well as topics such a trust and familial loyalty being touched on) and not taking itself seriously (the adult characters are there mainly as comic relief back-up to the child leads and they revel in this role). Also, the child actors, Alexa Vega as Carmen and Daryl Sabara, show they are talented enough to carry off the bulk of the film themselves with limited support from Antonio Benderas and Carla Gugino, who play their screen parents.Unlike the lukewarm sequels, 'Spy Kids' is the kind of children's flick that older family members won't mind watching since the funny and action-packed plot and appealing performances by all the actors involved provide fun for a wide age range. In fact, the only problem I have with this film is that we can predict many mediocre copy-cat films, using the child spy concept, to be produced for the next five or six years until another fresh idea comes along, ripe for the rip-off. "}{"Title":"Goofy, Lovable, Thrill-A-Minute Comedy Action Junior-League Spy Thriller","Date":"21 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Carmen and Juni Cortez' parents keep an amazing secret from them - before their kids were born they used to be top international spies. When they are kidnapped by the villainous Floop and Minion, who are building a robot army of copies of world leaders' children, the two kids must learn lots of spy stuff fast so they can rescue them. Along the way they enlist the help of their estranged Uncle Machete, escape from the double-agent Miss Gradenko and confront evil robot versions of themselves.This is a wonderful action-packed comedy spy movie which rattles along non-stop and is packed full of funny characters and Rodriguez' tremendous visual style. It somehow manages to romanticise spy movies and cheerfully send them up at the same time, and there are many terrific action/effects scenes (the kids' escape in a mini-submarine, the jetpack chase scene, a helicopter ride). The terrific cast give it their all - I particularly like Gugino, Trejo and Patrick, but everyone is great and Vega and Sabara hit just the right notes as the kids. They are kinda cute, but they argue good-naturedly; Vega has a great long-suffering quality and Sabara is just plain irresistible as the put-upon Juni, who not only has to save the world but get rid of his warts too. The movie is zippily shot by Guillermo Navarro (who has a walk-on as a minister), has some great music by Danny Elfman and features some cool special effects makeup by the Kurtzman/Nicotero/Berger group. Rodriguez made this movie as a labour of love for his children and it shows in every frame - it's just so much fun, and has a great underlying theme of families looking out for each other in the face of crises. He wrote, directed, edited and co-produced the picture, and also co-wrote the music and co-supervised the effects. This is a great director and a man who makes movies to entertain. "},{"Title":"*Grin* Wow...","Date":"2 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Wow, after avoiding the series for years I got to see the movie SpyKids 3-D. Far from being lame and not the type of movie I like, I enjoyed it enough to watch SpyKids a few days later. Boy, what a surprise! I got to sit back and enjoy life again as fantastic stories were woven before my eyes, entwined with a pinch of realistic human emotion and a hope for growing up into something that exists despite the seeming impossibility of it. Be careful, innovative, compassionate, and completely unafraid of pursuing that which you love beyond all else. The height of enjoyment and good feelings I picked up during this movie was only paralleled by the soaring of my imagination as I went to sleep that night. What a beautiful way to make a kid's movie.  "},{"Title":"Entertaining as heck.  Forget your an adult for a second and watch!","Date":"28 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"   okay.  so..  I'm almost 29 and here I am enjoying a kids movie.  Frankly I don't care.  Sometimes a fun movie such as this...  lets the critic in me out to dry for a bit.  After watching silly movies like Clockstoppers and so on..  This movie was totally fun to watch.  The only disappointment.  It's short.  But hey it's fun nonetheless.  Perhaps the spy kids can take a lesson from Harry Potter... and run one of their movies 150 minutes long. ;)8/10Quality 7/10 Entertainment 10/10 Replayable 9/10 "},{"Title":"A good start.","Date":"11 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Spy Kids - Daryl Sabara, Alexa Vega, Antonio Bandaras, Tony Shaloub, Mike Judge, Cheech Marin, Carla Gugino.The Plot - The Cortez family children find that they have to find there parents on a OSS mission so therefore they are spy kids with there parents. They try to rescue them from the evil Floop and his missing Foolglie.What I thought - Good movie, It had potential and it was not a see it and weep it like you wasted you're money.What was good - It had a nice family touch cause it was PG rated hey I liked it. People who didnt rent it buy it.It is a 10/10 "},{"Title":"Will Rodriguez ever run out?","Date":"10 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Spy Kids is the brain child of Robert Rodriguez, better known for more adult-oriented, violent productions such as Desperado, Dawn till Dusk and The Faculty. Mellowing in his (slightly) old age he has created a film that his children could watch and enjoy. He wrote, produced, directed and even edited this film, and deserves as many awards as possible. Spy Kids is a film that the whole family will think is cool. Hopefully Hollywood is realising that the best kids films, both commercially and artistically, are ones that the parents will enjoy as well. Spy Kids is full of unusual characters, amazing special effects, jokes by the bucket load and even celebrity cameos to boot. I took my little brother to see it, and he loved it. Briefly, so as not to give too much away, Antonio Banderas stars as a secret agent who, along with his secret agent wife, has retired from the spy game to raise a family. They are persuaded to go on one final mission to investigate the whereabouts of some other missing agents, where things start to wrong (with hilarious consequences), and the children are unwittingly called upon to save them.This is one film that all kids should see, along with the rest of their family. I promise you, it's not a film they'll forget! "},{"Title":"A kids movie that proves adults (or parents) could watch this film also.","Date":"4 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" My parents used to tell me that once I reached a certain age, no longer was I suppose to watch cartoon flicks or kid movies but films that a ten year old boy were suppose to watch action films filled with blood, carnage, neat monsters and so forth.When I first heard that Spy Kids was out back in 2001, I was already used to the technology of DVD's replacing VHS movies while at the same time hearing how this movie directed by Robert Rodriguez captivated both children and adults alike. Yes, I said it. Even my high school teacher Mr. MacAulay told me that he liked the film more than his daughter Fiona in which he was delighted with the special effects and cool story line.To my review of the film, Carmen (Alexa Vega) and Juni Cortez (Daryl Sabara) think they have it pretty bad with their lame parents (Antonio Banderas and Carla Gugino) who aren't hip like their peers parents. What they don't realize is that both mom and dad are international spies who forbidden themselves from making any more espionage attempts until getting a briefing that a couple of their field agents have been kidnapped where it's up to them to save them.However, once the parents are kidnapped, it's up to Carmen and Juni to take their parents positions and save them.Spy Kids is a whole lot of fun with a big set of innovated techniques from Robert Rodriguez where I didn't feel bored from the first minute of the film. "},{"Title":"James Bond was also a kid too.","Date":"29 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  A cool family film with awesome special effects. Two sibilings(Alexa Vega and Daryl Sabara) are suddenly pulled into danger, when they discover that there parents(Antonio Banderas and Carla Gugino) are secret agents, and they captured by a madman. It's up to these young ones to rescue them. A film you can enjoy again, again, and again. It's well acted by everyone. "},{"Title":"the greatest children's movie ever","Date":"24 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  At 1st i thought spykids was going to be grabage until i found that robert rodregez was behind the project, so i had to see. and i was so impressed i saw it twice. It was definely one of those movies that was fun for the whole family. it's very impressive when a director can make an action flick that u can take your kids to. robert rodregez does it again "},{"Title":"Hardly Oscar-worthy, but definitely FUN!","Date":"16 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  We first saw this movie in the theater as a WHOLE family (probably about 13 at the time) for my then 13-year-old sister's birthday.  We were ALL pleasantly surprised by what could easily have been a REALLY stupid movie, but what ended up being a truly entertaining, family-friendly film.  A fun story, extremely interesting and entertaining characters and an uplifting message all add up to a successful film in Spy Kids.The family is the fundamental unit of society and such is made particularly evident in this film.  When Carmen and Juni are forced into the spy world to save their parents, Gregorio and Ingrid Cortez (played by the almost comical Antonio Banderas and the stunning Carla Gugino), they strengthen their relationship not only with them but, more interestingly, with each other.  The appeal of Alexa Vega and Daryl Sabara's characters is that they're so realistic--they act (and fight) like real sister and brother.  In the end, though, it's their differences and their ability to see past them that leads them to victory.Cameos by George Clooney, Cheech Marin and Teri Hatcher, as well as Tony Shalhoub as Minion and Alan Cumming as Floop add an definite element of the bizarre and the eccentric, but undeniable fun to the film, not to mention selected music by Danny Elfman.  Sure, the kids aren't seasoned actors, and sure, the story isn't the MOST complicated plot in recent film history, but the message was enough to make it a keeper for us.  Robert Rodriguez has really done something amazing (writing, directing, composing, etc.), and has created a film that will stand as a sadly underappreciated gem.A great start to what is undeniably a memorable series of films.9/10. "},{"Title":"I promise you'll have a great time","Date":"3 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  SPY KIDS / Starring by Antonio Banderas, Daryl Sabara, Alexa Vega, Alan Cumming and Carla Gugini / Directed by Robert Rodriguez / Written by Robert Rodriguez / Rated PG / *** 1/2Kick me if I found the low-budget, small surprise known as Spy Kids much more entertaining than the big-budget, over-hyped Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone. It is clearly a better picture for young and old. This thoughtful adventure was created by Robert Rodriquez. Surprising, after seeing Desperado and Once Upon A Time In Mexico in his filmography. Being a veteran for intense action films, Rodriquez still breathes life in this movie, aimed at kids and yes, even adults. In fact, this movie could even be compared to Pixar's films Solid entertainment for kids and witty and sophisticated for adults. And live action? Finally!The plot finds Antonio Banderas (Desperado) and Carla Gugino (The One) star as Gregorio and Ingrid Cortez, retired secret agents, though unknown to their two kids, Juni (Daryl Sabara) and Carmen (Alexa Vega). However, when loony television show host Fegan Floop (Alan Cumming) searches for a mysterious power to give life to his army of child robots, he kidnap the two spy parents. But after learning their true identity, Carmen and Juni stock up on spy gadgets and gizmos and set off on a quest to rescue their parents and stop Floop from (surprise!) ruling the world. But could there possibly be someone else stirring in the plot?Sure, the story isn't overly complicated and everything has a goofy look to it, but I didn't watch a movie called Spy Kids to come and expect Citizen Kane. This is simply better-than-average and wholesome entertainment for kids and adults. The movie never ditches any sides of the story and cuts back to both the spy kids and spy parents. There's also some time with the relationship between the two villains Floop and his minion, properly named Minion (Tony Shalhoub). This film is not so much about gadgets and special effects than it is about characters. Rodriquez breathes life into these characters and the chemistry between them is where your investment will begin.The relationship between Carmen and Juni is second to none. They're both very fine actors. Their dialogue is never forced and their chemistry never fizzles even in the movie's stale moments. Like the film's visuals, they and their characters are colorful, fun and inventive. Alexa Vega, particularly, probably has the most potiental to be the better actor of the two, with Daryl Sabara having a few one-liners thrown down the drain. The adult actors, Antonio Banderas and Carla Gugino, are likable and charming as the spy parents but it is Alan Cumming, as the delightfully wicked Fegan Floop that steals the show. The movie never focuses on the children 100% which allows Cumming to ham it up everytime he appears.The film was made with about a $30 million budget, but the special effects look curiously more focused than the ones found in Harry Potter (which still makes me wonder where that $125 million budget went to). Don't walk in to expect the best of the best in special effects. When a person (or even a thumb) is flying around in a jet pack, it's easy to tell it's done by computer. Though the flying sequences are not the most exhilerating part of the film, it is the color and bouncy images found in the sets and locales. Floop's castle is lively and energetic but never tries to take itself too seriously.Well, what else can I say? This is fun and intelligent family entertainment. There is never a too serious moment and the kids are both charming and likable.  "}{"Title":"And I really wanted to like it to","Date":"2 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Final Score 6.5 (out of 10)&#145;Spy Kids' is as radical and daring a change of pace as it comes for a filmmaker. Robert Rodriguez is the writer and director of such bloody, ultra-violent action fair as `Desperado', `From Dusk &#145;Till Dawn' and &#145;The Faculty' (my favorite), so it comes as kind of a surprise to see him diving neck-deep into this PG-rated family film. Rodriguez is an imaginative filmmaker, and with Spy Kids more then ever before that imagination is let loose like a wild dog to ravage every aspect of the production. This gives us some gleaming moments like a fight scene inside a rapidly spinning merry-go &#145;round and  a surprise bit in the final scene involving a cameo from George Clooney that is pretty ingenious. In fact, the real stars of the film are not Antonio Bandaris and Carla Gugino and not even the spy kids (Alexa Vega and  Daryl Sabara), but the `thumb soldiers'.  Life-size beings whose limbs (`arms', `legs', and `head') are made of nothing but giant thumbs, the thumb soldiers are one of those rare special effect creations that show us something we've never seen before. It needs to be seen to be believed. Rodriguez has them fumbling and sliding around, trying to catch things and at one point breaking into a home in ski masks and full fatigues. It is hilarious. Rodriguez throws so much at as, with such vibrant visuals and at such a frenzied pace we don't quite grasp how cheesy and unsatisfying the movie is until it settles down a bit in the 3rd act when it gets past the parade of visual bits and attempts to pull together the strings and resolve it's story.  It's like being dropped out of a tornado and shaking your head wondering where you are &#150; and why you've been putting up with this kind of stuff. The movie doesn't fall apart scene by scene like many others. Instead, I just started getting the sinking impression that what I was seeing - and what I had been seeing - was a movie that was not going to grow beyond it's set-up and amount to much. It's not even necessarily that the screenplay did anything to snap me away from it (accept for, maybe, a scene where Vega's robot punches through a concrete pillar), but as it progressed I just more and more, felt the potential (and potential charm) being drained away and it pulling at my tolerance. Instead of building on itself, it seems to just be throwing whatever Rodriguez thinks might look cool at us. He gives us a fairly original set-up and then runs his kids through the type of lame action scenes we've grown so tired of in adult movies. The family friendly twists can only sustain the movie so long.  Rodriguez also aims to satirize nonsensical children's programming &#150; similar to The Teletubbies. But what might have sounded good on the page doesn't play out as edgy and topical as it wants to be. It just seems creepy. The always engaging Alan Cumming (fresh off `Josie and the Pussycats') as the villain of the piece gets strained through Rodriguez's mainstream kid's movie template and falls out the other side looking foolish and giving typical syrupy motivational speeches. The premise is one of child empowerment. I can't help but admire Rodriguez more as a director for going for this, but it's not like he is breaking any new ground here &#150; this is a pretty standard kid movie theme. His movie strains to be hip and twisted, but then will fall back on usual cornball antics and pounding in sappy messages about the importance of family. It's an incredibly awkward mix. While Bandaris and Gugino are the big stars and get the big credits, the centerpieces of the movie are the two young leads. Vega and Sabara carry the movie like pros, and without being shackled with any cute kid antics. Alexa Vega, in particular, could be a big star in the making.  "},{"Title":"No surprise children love it, good laugh","Date":"27 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  With the release of Spy Kids 3D, a friend of mine told me how desperate she was to see it. I confess to being a little keen, but upon mentioning not watching the first two, she instantly walked to her dvd collection and forced them into my hands. So here I am, it's Sunday night & I've just watched the first one. Know what? I think it's brilliant. I mean, don't get me wrong, it will never win any awards for it's outstanding plot, but for the occasional hilarious moment & for the general relaxed nature of the film, it is the perfect type of film to just sit and switch off to. I'm not surprised children love it, and it's even less surprising that the adults of the world who're reliving our childhoods, the film is a breath of childish fresh air. Time to watch number 2 perhaps. "},{"Title":"Don't judge.","Date":"20 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  People should not judge this movie. I know alot of you think that it's so lame and it's taking Hollywood down the drain. But there are ALOT more kids movies then this that are destroying Hollywood! There is so many kids movies out there that have stupid toilet humor and Poop jokes that do not expand kids minds at all, and make them vedge out so much that that's all they want to see in a movie. This movie has good action and is great for kids. Besides the adults get all the cool movies and kids get the bodily function movies. Not this time. The kids now have their own brand. Not to mention these movies might expand their minds.  "},{"Title":"Great MOVIE!!","Date":"11 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is a great movie for kids and family!  I would watch it over and over! The plot is unrealistic, but just the thought of kids being spys is interesting!  This is definatly a movie to buy for any collection.  Alexa Vega and her brother Juni (in the movie) work great together in solving any mystery. "},{"Title":"A short summarization","Date":"6 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Boring! Although the storyline is cool and some of the special effects are good, the movie is boring and dull. It's defenitely the best of the Spy Kids movies though, and does have some good moments.  "},{"Title":"Spy Kids...what a great movie!","Date":"25 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  What an incredible kid/adult movie!  Worthy of Disney in the years before Uncle Walt passed on...its message is nothing but positive, its racial inclusive, its message is positive and has great moral value and it is a wonderful message for kids...the cast and everyone involved in this film's making is delightful and their ratings go up a full point in my estimation by just being involved in its making.  I rated this movie a 9 and wonder why I didn't go the distance with a 10.  I'm refreshed and my faith in humanity is restored. "},{"Title":"The best family film of 2001","Date":"26 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  That is truly my opinion, I think. The characters have real depth and the story has a real sense of fun. If we could have more family movies like this, it would be great. Anyway, the movie sort of played like some mutation off Willy Wonka And The Chocolate Factory(that is a compliment) especially the world of Floop, and the Thumb-thumb guys. (I guess they're all thumbs! Ha, ha, ha!!) This is really a James Bond for kids sort of movie!Juni and Carmen are entertaining as well, as we see them change throughout the movie. The effects are great, especially those wacked-out monster agents. I'll always remember Floop's show. It was like some sort of Dr. Suess/Teletubbies idea/mutation that just ran wild. This is a kind of movie that makes you remember what it was like to be a kid. (i.e. getting the McDonald's burgers from little bags like popcorn) When a movie comes along offering this much varitey, we shouldn't take it for granted.I'll give this a 9/10. If you ever want to rent out a movie for your kids look for this and certainly not that Jimmy Neutron Boy Genius rubbage. Sequel OK, but not as good as this classic. See ya later! "},{"Title":"5000 fingers of dr t","Date":"23 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" if you thought that the sets and art direction for floop's island lair were wild and original, you have to see The 5,000 Fingers of Dr. T (1953), a crazy, surreal, and until the grinch, the only live action dr suess. spy kids is, as far as i can tell, a tribute to that film, not just in style, but in it's plot, which is about a little boy who has to rescue his mother from the diabolical dr t, who has kidnapped 500 children to play his giant piano. spy kids doesn't measure up in weirdness, but it is nice to look at and far more high energy. it's the kind of film that under tens and over twenties will love. i'm sure kids in the middle will hate it. despite its let's keep the family together theme, it's a fairly unsentimental movie. and i really appreciated seeing an american family action adventure film in which the main characters aren't wasps. it's kind of a sad commentary on hollywood that this film is so refreshing simply because the family is hispanic instead of nondescript whitebread middle american. rent this movie, but rent 5000 fingers first.   "},{"Title":"Fun & Stupid","Date":"10 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  That was the type of movie this was.  On a lazy Saturday afternoon, with you, the person you love and your pet on the couch watching this movie.This movie was a lot of fun and just plain nuts.  You know have this stuff is not real - but you go on the trip with them.I had a great time.  Look forward to seeing the other two. "},{"Title":"Imaginative and Entertaining","Date":"1 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I thoroughly enjoyed the movie.  My mom told me of Land of the Lost being her favorite kids show.Back then the animations were very fake and unrealistic.  Now, with digital technology, we are forged into an action-packed adventure story for kids. I think it's brilliant and so does my mom, who still enjoys moments of the little girl in her.We will watch this film and others like it, over and over.  There's no witchcraft or spell casting.  It's just good, clean fun!!  I was not impressed with Harry Potter at all.  Spy Kids are for the pure of heart, not the demonic and demented.  Adventures do not have to be purely satanic to be enjoyed by today's youth. Family and wholesome family values are not a thing of the past.  I spend most of my time watching old movies because they have value and morals.  Spy Kids uses morals and action in a great way. Each had to overcome their own fears and hang-ups.  It's great to have real heroes for kids to look up to.  Thumbs up for Spy Kids.  "}{"Title":"how could a movie be anymore stupid?","Date":"13 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  this is quite possibly the most retarded movie in the world (in my opinion and i hope yours, too). i went and saw this movie at the theater and left half way.if you have not seen this movie, don't.0/10p.s. spy kids 2 and 3?! WHAT THE F**K IS WRONG WITH YOU PEOPLE?!?!?! "},{"Title":"Kiddie appeal drags it seriously down (and it didn't have to)","Date":"28 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I tend to think of the challenge of genre movie-making as the challenge of getting over certain hurdles that are endemic to that genre. For example, if you read my comments on crime or gangster movies, I'll usually start off by telling the reader whether the filmmakers succeeded in making it past that particular hurdle Convincing me to to see criminals as human beings whose fate I should care about.Spy Kids is billed as a film for the whole family, which is code language for saying that your 2-year old should be able to stay put through the whole thing (assuming a diaper change just before the opening credits). The challenge of this kind of movie is that it should also succeed in having something to say to the oldsters. I'm not saying that it has to work on the level of genius for each and every member of your family, from Baby to Gramps. But it has to do *something*, and Spy Kids does nothing for Gramps (that is, for me).I expected Spy Kids to have a moral dimension. You have to understand that this didn't have to be sacrificed to an abiding interest in keeping the triangular-pants set at bay. No sacrifice was necessary; I think it's just sloppiness and laziness and a lack of high expectations on the part of the producers, writers, and filmmakers. I can think of one film that shows these expectations are entirely reasonable Babe. Babe was eminently watchable by children AND deeply moved me at the end, so lovely and touching and fully integrated was the profound moral. (*Don't* ask me about Babe II...).I suppose some may say, Didn't you see the moral of Spy Kids? That families are these happy, warm environments where kids can feel secure! And I suppose there was something of a clever play of ambiguity on the concept of security. But in the end, it wasn't enough for me. It may be in part because I'm sort of a stickler for the idea of sharing and full disclosure, against which the very idea of spying is a kind of moral rape. So I have trouble sidling it up against the security of hearth and home and characterizing that contrast as cute and family entertainment. Also, the appeal to hearth-and-home is a kind of obvious one-note-johnny; we all know that families are these secure places. Tell me something I *don't* know. Perhaps my definition of security needs upgrading. Maybe, as the movie happily and innocently hints, I need to relax in the knowledge that security sometimes means the state privileges that international lying and duplicity brings. I mean, what's *really* the point here? I'm too old to see spying as anything but profound ugliness on the spiritual level. So I guess this is family entertainment for the family without eyes to see that it's not really funny.Sorry about the rant. I'll back off a bit and just say; really, cool effects and action-for-action's sake without a properly integrated moral dimension doesn't cut it for me. It'll keep my 2-year-old from squirming, but it doesn't stop me from expecting more. I characterize this movie as ultimately cold and unfeeling, despite the pretty, ostensibly cosy and happy faces we see on the screen. "},{"Title":"Not bad movie for kids.","Date":"7 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  My 3 year old daughter liked this movie although I still think that it might be for an older group. She watches it quite often. For those Spy Kid type lovers, this one is for you. I gave this movie a better than average rate. "},{"Title":"Fun but childish","Date":"17 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Directed by Robert Rodriguez this is a departure for him. He replaces the big violent action sequences for more family friendly action sequences. He does a well enough job and while the kids are enjoying the movie, the dads are enjoying Carla Gugino and the moms are enjoying Antonio Banderas.3(***)out of 4(****)stars "},{"Title":"An excellent film","Date":"8 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I was not expecting much from this movie, the day I picked it up off the shelf at Blockbuster. I had heard very little about it, and, frankly, it didn't look like it would be all that great. But I was in the midst of a relive my younger days phase, and wanted a kids movie that wasn't Disney.Boy was I surprised - very happily surprised - when I started the film. From the very beginning, it was a surprisingly fun, and funny, show. The children are both cute, but cool, heroes. Alexa Vega is hilarious as Carmen, the cool-headed, suave 12-year-old who nonetheless exhibits classic older sibling behavior to her cute little brother, Juni (Daryl Sabara). Daryl himself is very good in this role, and his growing up and overcoming his fear is a central tenet of the plot. When the family overcomes their problems and comes together at the end of the movie, it's cheesy, but I didn't care. It worked.And that's a good summary of the entire film - it's cheesy, but it works. See it - I promise, if you leave your adult prejudices behind, you'll find a movie worth watching, and enjoying. "},{"Title":"Not nearly as great as everyone says.","Date":"28 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I have to admit, I am not a fan of Robert Rodriguez, I was less than impressed with Desperado and From Dusk Till Dawn, The Faculty was better than expected, but still nothing great.  I had very low expectations for Spy Kids and I have to say that the film was even less enjoyable than I thought it would be.  I guess for a kids film it's kind of funny, but FAR from hilarious.  The story is ok (for a kids movie), but is a little too childish for me.  And when I saw childish, I don't mean like 8, 9 or 10 year-old childish, I mean 4 or 5 year-old childish.The acting was ok in the film, but I wouldn't say it was anything great.  The only character that I really liked was Fegan Floop (Alan Cumming).  Alan is such a cool actor.  Although, I did also like seeing Tony Shalhoub and Robert Patrick in the film, very cool actors.  There are also two other reasons to sit through this film 1) Carla Gugino 2) Teri Hatcher!  Those are some beautiful women!  Also, there's a George Clooney cameo, for those Clooney fans out there.Oh, and an interesting little bit of movie trivia just occurred to me.  This movie a kind of spoof of the James Bond films, and both Alan Cumming and Teri Hatcher were in a different James Bond film.  Kind of interesting, yeah?I have to mention the special effects in this film.  There were some times in the film where they were just incredible and very well done, and there were other times where they just looked TERRIBLE!  I think this movie used WAY too much computer effects than it should have.I guess if you've got young kids, go ahead and watch this film, the kids may enjoy it.  Otherwise, I wouldn't recommend going out of your way to see this film.  Also, if you're a fan of Robert Rodriguez, then you may also want to check this film out, but be aware that this is a kids' movie, quite different than his other films.  Well, if you do see the film, I hope you enjoy it more than I did.  Thanks for reading,-Chris "},{"Title":"Fun in a way only Robert Rodriguez could provide","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  At first, I wondered what in the world Robert  Rodriguez got himself in to. But after watching  this film, I realized he is setting himself up for  the next big step. I'll explain later, but on with  the review. Sure, it's a kids film, but the wild  and fast paced nature of the film was interesting.  The odd sets, the fantasized story and characters  so unusual, one has to question what is going  in Rodriguez's mind. Nevertheless, the decent  cast and the surprise cameo at the end proved  to make this an engaging film about a family,  who just happen to be a bunch of spies. Overall, I give it a 7/10, but a  seven in a very  good way (considering this film wasn't exactly  made for a 24-year-old). As for Rodriguez, I  believe he is positioning himself to be a sort  of Spielbergian type of director. While his  ideas are a little more unusual, he is slowly  stepping down from the graphic, violent films  to movies you can take your kids to. Hopefully,  with this film, he has beaten M. Night Shyamalan  to the punch (but then again, they could both  be cast in the future mold, which probably  wouldn't be a bad thing). "},{"Title":"Only Rodriguez could make this great!","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Robert Rodriguez does it again. Not only is this a wonderful kids movie, it has solid acting, great and imaginative special effects, and great direction. The kids act like kids, and the adults act like adults. Neither is put down or belittled. If this had been given to a Hollywood director, it would have been pure schlock. Instead, Rodriguez creates a world and story that can be enjoyed by the whole family.The casting is excellent also. The children actually look like they could be the product of the parents.Also, notice also the LACK of overt sponserships. "},{"Title":"What a great movie!!","Date":"1 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I thought I wouldn't like Spy Kids, but it's a terrific & funny movie. It's special affects were beautiful, as were the buildings & spy gadgets. I recommend this movie to anyone. What a great family movie. You could not help to feel sorry for Juni Cortez & I enjoyed seeing him grow as a person. "},{"Title":"Cute Kids Movie","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is good for both kids and adults. I'm in to spy movies like James Bond. It's like that only smaller. If you're into spy movies you should like this one. It has a nice plot. It has good actors including Antonio Bandaras and Teri Hatcher. A good spy movie for everybody in the family. I liked it very much. "}{"Title":"Good, but felt artificial!","Date":"22 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Robert Rodriguez, director of 'Desperado' and 'The Faculty' lends his unique vision to a kid's film. 'Spy Kids' is about two children who discover that their parents are spies, and have to learn to become ones themselves in order to save them. Antonio Banderas and Carla Gugino star as the parents, but it is the kids who get more screen time (Alexa Vega and Daryl Sabara). Alan Cummings does a decent job, and other interesting stars are in this film including Robert Patrick, Cheech Marin, Teri Hatcherm, Tony Shaloub and a very cool cameo which I won't spoil.Unfortunately, 'Spy Kids', though entertaining, feels artificial and the kids themselves are underdeveloped. It is evident of a Spanish unusual flavour to this film which was different, and although the visual effects and characters were decent, I just wasn't fully buying into this world. I'm still going to see the sequel, but 'Spy Kids' certainly isn't the best kid's film of 2001 and is far from the Best Rodriguez film either.*** out of *****! "},{"Title":"Fun film...","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  especially for kids.  I thought this movie was fun and cute. I really liked how the kids got to be the heros.  All the neat James Bond type gadgets were cool.  The special effects were pretty good too.  And there were some laughs throughout.  Alan Cumming makes a great  funny villian.FINAL VERDICT  This is much better than a made for TV Disney movie. It's entertaining with a lot of neat gadgets.  I'd say it's worth watching. "},{"Title":"In his fifth feature, Robert Rodriguez really sticks to his cinematic guns.","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  In his fifth feature, Robert Rodriguez really sticks to his cinematic guns. While doing press for Desperado, Rodriguez claimed he was trying to create a hero for the Hispanic and Latino community, akin to Chow Yun Fat in John Woo's movies. He accomplishes this and much more in Spy Kids, and refreshingly without any of the Pc hang-ups that his predecessors and contemporaries often fall victims to. You'll find no lamentations on the racial condition here, just a family of crime fighters who just happen to be Hispanic, and a story that just happens to take place in Spain. Having long since proven himself a more than capable director, Rodriguez stretches his storytelling muscles in the unfamiliar arena of a children's film. Gregorio and Ingrid Cortez are retired spy parents to their precocious children Carmen (Alexa Vega) and Juni (Daryl Sabara). Although wowed by their mother's bedtime stories, which recount unbeknownst to the kids, the adventures of the Spy Parents, Carmen and Juni find their parents boring, and suffer from the usual problems that plague children. Carmen is the bossy older sister who `just wants out of this family' (indeed everyone has a bone to pick with another family member) and pokes fun at her brothers perpetual state of fright. Juni is the younger brother with his head in the clouds, shy with imaginary friends, and a hand full of warts. Juni's only real interest seems to be in the children's show Floog's Fooblies. Gregorio's secretive ways are blown when he and Ingrid are called back into duty to help locate several kidnapped spies. When the aforementioned Floog, who'd been mutating the spies into Fooblies, captures them the kids are awakened to their parents' past and forced to save them. In a nutshell this is the plot of Spy Kids, but what's the most enjoyable (and what should be in all adventure stories of this kind) is the trip getting there. Once introduced to their spy lineage by their ''fake' uncle (Cheech Marin), Carmen and Juni are meant to make sense of the various spy gadgets their parents own, as well as piecing together a plan to save their parents, not to mention who to trust while doing so. Their journey takes them to San Diablo, where they meet their estranged real uncle Machete (Danny Trejo), who is a master spy gadget maker, through the ocean in a submarine, and finally to Floog's island. What allows Spy Kids to truly call itself a `family film', is that as Carmen and Juni's journey progresses, so does their understanding and appreciation of family. What makes such a clichéd moral bearable, not to mention fresh, is Rodriguez's story telling and direction. Awesome-as-usual cinematography from Guillermo Navarro, and Rodriguez's action sequences make you forget you're watching a children's movie, let alone one with a message present in every bad children's movie you've ever seen. Imagine the slow- motion-trench-coat- shots for Hong Kong action films scaled down to four-foot level. It's good to see Rodriguez and his stable of actors back on target after the Faculty. It will be good to see what they have to offer next  "},{"Title":"Long, but great jump","Date":"24 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Robert Rodriguez has successfully gone from violent and vulgar movies (The Faculty, From Dusk Till Dawn) to this more generally appetising film...and he has done the transition well.  This movie is full of special effects, spectacular cast, and some really funny moments.  This one is especially for those who like the Bond films.  Because of the title and the plot, I was a little hesistant about renting it.  However, now I am really glad I saw it.  Again, 3 cheers for Robert!!!! "},{"Title":"Alas, it IS a kids' film.","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The reason it tastes so sour is that it consists almost entirely of what Robert Rodriguez thought children would like to see, leavened with what he thought they ought to hear.  It stinks of market research.  I admire the cleverness and I could easily have relished the story, but it's all so forced and joyless.  We know that Alex and Junie will run rings around their parents, not because their parents are the kind to have rings run around them (they're not), but because it's a kids' movie, and that's what kids like.  We know that Junie will prove to be as competent as Alex, not because we sense him to have any latent strength or intelligence (we don't), but because if he didn't then young boys would presumably have nobody to root for.  It doesn't matter if children really are as venal and unimaginative as Rodriguez assumes.  I wouldn't be surprised if it turned out that most children were.  That's no excuse.  Rodriguez's responsibility was not to babysit these children for an hour and a half, but to make a good film.  He's clearly talented enough to have done so.  He even had the right material to make a good film that, most likely, children would have loved (such things happen from time to time).  But instead he made a kids' film; a good kids' film, to be sure, but it's a mistake to assume that a good kids' film is, or can be, a good film. "},{"Title":"I ached for it to end","Date":"9 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I rarely really *like* current movies made for kids, but this one was a real dog. The sets were cheesy without even having a fun comic-book look about them -- they just looked like junk left over from some episode of The Bionic Woman. I hope the kids in this movie got paid more than the adults, because their acting was a helluva lot better. The story and the *feeling* was ragged throughout. Rent it for your kids -- there's nothing in it that'll freak out anyone over 8 years old -- but don't make yourself sit through it. "},{"Title":"Good entertainment","Date":"13 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Spy Kids seems like a strange choice for director Robert Rodriguez. After all he is best known for bloody movies like Desperado and From Dusk Till Dawn. However, upon closer examination, one realizes that despite his new family friendly approach, his basic style hasn't changed. Faithful viewers will remember that From Dusk Till Dawn was never meant to be taken seriously for a moment. No matter how gruesome it was, it was clearly made just for fun, in the tradition of Evil Dead.This is his most blatantly cartoonish film yet, one which gleefully throws all credibility to the winds. With Rodriguez, questions of credibility are a nonissue. The only real concern is, is this funny and entertaining? In this case it certainly is. It's much better than most of the so-called family movies out there today. It breezes through its short running time with few lags. Newcomer Alexa Vega is engaging as Carmen; even at this age she has a great deal of spunk and charisma. We should look forward to seeing her future work, I hope she succeeds as an actress. Likewise, Alan Cumming makes a fun antihero, suspiciously reminiscent of Willy Wonka.*** (out of ****)Released by Dimension Films "},{"Title":"Are they consultants? Or spies?","Date":"14 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The movie begins with Carmen Cortez (Alexa Vega) requesting her mom Ingrid (Carla Gugino) to tell her favorite bedtime story, The Two Spies That Fell In Love. Little does she know that is the story of her mom and dad met and married. Gregorio (Antonio Banderas) and Ingrid had retired from being spies, and become consultants. Or are they? But when members of a spy business starts disappearing, Gregorio accepts the mission and he and his wife leaves, and leaves thier so called Uncle Felix to watch Carmen and her younger brother Juni (Daryl Sabara). But when thier parents are kidnappped by a evil man (Tony Shalhoub) and a children's show host named Floop (Alan Cumming from Annie, and The Flintstones in Viva Rock Vegas). It is up to Carmen and Juni to save thier parents and the world from Floop and his inventions called Spy Kids and Thumb-Thumbs. But they got to learn to trust and respect each other.                    "},{"Title":"Kids rules","Date":"6 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  It's a bit absurd for an adult to critique a film like this. The Spy Kids DVD was entertaining, imaginative, and didn't take itself seriously. It seemed a bit of Pee Wee's Playhouse and Austin Powers rolled into one, but without any innuendo.  7/10 "},{"Title":"Flash but little else","Date":"17 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I can certainly understand why `Spy Kids' has been such an enormous hit with children.  What is childhood fantasy, after all, but an attempt by essentially powerless youngsters to bring a little order to their world, to show themselves and the adults around them that they too are good for something &#150; even if it's only saving the world from the forces of evil before it's time to come in to face chores, homework and bedtime.  Of course, children merely mimic the fantasies adults themselves indulge in &#150; utilizing the same set of conventions that serve as the template for virtually all action/adventure films that have featured heroes on the order of James Bond, Rambo, and Arnold Schwarzenegger in his various fictional guises.  In many ways, the films featuring those characters demonstrate that many of us have still not outgrown the simplistic view of the world that fuels our earliest fantasies.  By making the heroes of this film specifically children, `Spy Kids' fulfills that need children have to feel that they too can be an active part of a power-conferring fantasy rather than just the passive observers they usually end up being in a real world controlled by adult concepts and adult rules.Fair enough.  What I don't understand, though, is why adults seem to be so enamored of `Spy Kids,' which, for all its hullabaloo and hubbub, is really little more than a juvenile version of the same spy spoof nonsense that has been a staple of filmmaking since the 1960's (nicely resurrected by the `Austin Powers' films a few years back).  Antonio Banderas and Carla Gugino star as Gregorio and Ingrid Cortez, two dashing former spies who have traded in the exciting world of field espionage for less glamorous `desk jobs' in the spy organization so that they can raise their two children, Carmen and Juni, in a more normal, less hectic and less dangerous environment.  Carmen and Juni, unaware of their parents' past, look upon them as two hopelessly nerdy representatives of an `uncool' older generation.  When Gregorio and Ingrid decide, after nine years out of commission, to get back into the secret agent business, they discover that some of their espionage skills have become a little rusty and they are instantly caught and imprisoned by a mad children's show producer bent on creating a race of indestructible children robots.  When Carmen and Juni discover the truth of their parents' identities and predicament, the two youngsters set off on a mission to singlehandedly rescue them from a fate worse than death.One of the problems with `Spy Kids' is that it seems to mistake frenetic activity for humor and wit.  Through long stretches of the film, we are being hurtled through space in one imaginary vehicle after another as the children search desperately for their kidnapped parents.  There is, moreover, an awful lot of frantic running around by the various characters, but the result is, oddly, not excitement but rather tedium.  Because writer/director Robert Rodriguez has failed to provide any truly clever dialogue, he has been forced to rely far too heavily on the special effects to carry the day.  The result is that we are never particularly captivated by the antics either of the children or of the parents, who, I hasten to note, actually spend most of their time off screen.   When they are on screen, they often come across as arch, self conscious and cutesy, rather than smooth, suave and witty.   Alexa Vega and Daryl Sabara, as the two children, are unremarkable but relatively likable screen presences.  At least they are not as cloying as their parents.  The art director, set decorator and production designer deserve mention for their superb work in creating a never-never land world caught somewhere between reality and fantasy, perfectly suitable for a film built on childhood imaginings.   It's too bad that the screenplay fails to consistently match that level of creativity.  Stand by for the inevitable sequel!     "}{"Title":"Demented fun","Date":"28 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  It occurred to me that I should be settling down to write a big, long essay about how insane and bizarre this movie is.  Imagine a *much* less subversive Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory and you have an idea of the tone.  The thing that's throwing me off, is that for the first time ever, I mean all of this in a good way.I guess when I learned that Robert Rodriguez directed this movie, I anticipated another insanely wrong-headed children's movie like the depressing Jack and the frightening Small Soldiers.  I am well aware that Rodriguez has the dubious distinction of being responsible for some of the most violent movies ever made.  The only one of his movie's I've managed to see before this one was his the Body Snatchers Have a Really Bad Acid Trip opus, the Faculty (if you remember anything from that movie, it's the ill-behaved severed head of Salma Hayack I believe).Well, there are a few scary scenes in Spy Kids.  Heck, the Fooglies and the Thumb-Thumbs freaked me out on an Oompa-Loompa level.  This isn't for little kids.  Older kids will have an absolute blast.  And while us 80's kids will have a bad case of Wonka-vue, at least we've got a kid's movie that has the guts to use it's effects budget to do something different visually.One caveat how come the video doesn't have the added special edition footage from the recent re-release?  (Speaking of which, Atlantis surely couldn't have been doing *that* badly.) "},{"Title":"Kiss those thumbs goodbye!","Date":"22 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  *Possible spoilers*SPY KIDS (2001) Rating 6/10I was expecting a lot from Spy Kids. From the trailer it looked like cool and smart fun. Well, I got something completely different to what I expected. The film was cool with its gadgets and gizmos, neat one-liners and brilliant kid's action sequences (which are not developed enough or long enough), but in the long run, this film was a disappointment. The plot was stupid beyond belief, and Floop's television creations things that are actually missing spies totally ruin the whole show. I didn't laugh much and I couldn't bring myself to give Spy Kids any more than a mediocre rating. The film has high potential, is endlessly imaginative and brings up some cool creations but I found the story laughable and the whole brother story just tired. The film was predictable and as soon as we get to Floop's castle thing, the stupidity takes over. Those thumbs are just plain lame and although the flawless visuals are good to look at and the art direction is stunning, the walking-see-sensing thumb-people and colourful Floop TV companions are just stupid. The movie would've been much better if they had come up with something just as creative but not as laughable. The acting was pretty good and the surprise cameo at the end is fabulous. The direction was pretty impressive and the visuals excel the most. The film dreams up excellent ideas and is creative, but the story and script are really quite low-key. With the sequel, get rid of those dumb-ass thumbs and companions, come up with a better story, cut the corn and get to the good stuff. "},{"Title":"Mildly amusing and often watchable, but aimed more towards the young ones","Date":"20 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Robert Rodriguez has proved to be one of our many talented, young, up-and-coming directors.  Though I wasn't too impressed by his debut film, El Mariachi, I enjoyed his later efforts (i.e.  Desperado, The Faculty and one of my personal favorites--From Dusk Till Dawn).  He has a great knack for producing flashy, slam-bang action sequences.  Naturally, you won't see too much of that in this film--being that it's aimed towards an 8 and younger demographic.  The little violence we see is very mild.One thing I did appreciate was the use of Hispanic actors.  Very rarely do we see a mainstream motion picture with a predominantly Hispanic cast. Even the two young leads (Alexa Vega and Daryl Sabara) have a Spanish background. We also have an array of Rodriguez regulars, including Cheech Marin, Danny Trejo (who has a nice little role that supercedes his typecasting as a shallow tough guy), Antonio Mr. Handsome Banderas, Robert Patrick and...I'll keep the last actor as a surprise.  He appears in a brief cameo at the end, and yes he has appeared in one of Rodriguez's past films. Anyway, Hispanics are one minority we really don't see too often in cinema and it's nice that a movie like this comes by and lets them show off their talents.The plot is, well, corny.  But it's a kiddie flick, so I tried to let that slide.  Unfortunately, we go through some of the same Home Alone-esque situations involving the two kids crowded by a group of high-tech villains, and they somehow get away scott-free with the help of slapstick violence. OK, I get it.  Kids rule.  Adults suck.  Isn't that the message of all these flicks?  Though I would say this is moderately easy-to-take considering the majority of kid-oriented flicks like this, we do have to sit through some annoying bickering between the two kids.  We could've done without the gratuitous name-calling.  However, I have to give credit to the kids for their natural performances.  I appreciate any kid actor who can deliver witty dialogue without appearing as if he or she is reading off cue cards.As for the actors I didn't mention...Alan Cumming is amusingly evil as the villainous host of a top-rated children's show.  Tony Shalhoub is amusing as his partner in crime.  Teri Hatcher is beautiful as always.  Even when she had half her scalp burned off, I think she looked hot.  )Rodriguez added a nice Latin mix to his funky soundtrack.  There's humor here and there that winks at the grown-up viewers.  Some of it's pretty damn funny.  I liked when Banderas hugged his crying, long-unseen brother (Trejo) and says, He's real emotional...Latinos.  But more often than not, we journey into Saturday morning kid's show territory and of course, we have to end with a PC message about family values and all that stuff.  *Snore*If any of you grown-ups got kids, this is not a bad movie to rent.  It's a fun movie to watch with your young ones.  Those without kids...you might want to explore other options.My score  6 (out of 10) "},{"Title":"I think they've gotten smarter since the last time we met! (regarding Spy Kids robots)","Date":"19 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  SPOILERS - Being a big fan of Robert Rodriguez's initial effort with El Mariachi, I was curious to see what he could do with a PG rated family comedy, Spy Kids.  It is a fun movie, and refreshing that there are no bad words, no adult sexual references.  The closest they come is the utterance of Oh, shi-take mushrooms. The premise of the film is a good start - mom and dad are retired spies who are activated for a big job. When they are captured, the son and daughter have to quickly learn to become kid spies to rescue their parents. While overall entertaining, the film felt a bit uneven, unbalanced at times. Some of the underwater and flight effects seemed a bit cheesy, and some of the dialog a bit awkward. The whole film reminded me of Austin Powers, but the bad guys aren't quite as bad.The DVD has excellent colors, and the Dolby 5.1 sound track is very good. However, there are no extras related to Spy Kids, only several selectable advertisements for other products. Definitely a budget DVD. I rate the film 7 of 10, and a fun, escapist 85-minute film. "},{"Title":"Banderas Versatile","Date":"10 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This film is obviously in the Inspector Gadget genre.  If you liked Inspector Gadget or Jumanji or even Cats and Dogs you will probably like Spy Kids.  I would not attempt to over analyze this movie.  It was just good old fashioned spy adventure with kids as the main characters.  I really did not notice any references to ethnicity as a reviewer mentioned.  A few audience members who were thinking this was a spoof or satire were way off base in their yuppie sheltered worlds but most people liked this film for what it was.  It was meant that we laugh with the characters not at the characters.  This was just fun with good special effects.  I hope it does well.Also Antonio Banderas shows his versatility here far away from ranging from Thirteenth Warrior to now a father spy in Spy Kids.  I have not yet seen his other new film Original Sin or some but I am sure it is a far cry from Spy Kids.  Also it was refreshing to see the mother played as an exciting person rather than the usual henpecking boring yuppie character.  She is fresh.   "},{"Title":"Great!","Date":"11 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Spy Kids is a wonderful kids movie.  I give it an 8 rating.  The acting was so good; even though it was make-believe, it was still a good movie; it teaches young viewers how important family is.  It has its funny lines and it's good moments.  Antonio Banderas does so well in this film.  The kids deserve the most credit though.  Go buy this film and bring out the spy in you!  -) "},{"Title":"Like it","Date":"8 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is superb, beside the effects, action and the story is well written too.Some part is obvious and similar to other movie. Such scene such as small items being transform into a burger in a microwave. Other than that, totally entertaining family movie.  "},{"Title":"What do you do when your parents are kidnapped, become a spy and rescue them!","Date":"2 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is the story of the Cortez family. Mum and dad, are top spy professionals, only their children so not know this.Having been called out of retirement they go on a mission and are captured by Floop and Minion. Their children discover what their parents do for a living. They discover that they have to become spies to rescue them.Needless to say they do this with aplomb, with a little brother and sisterly bonding along the way.  Needless to say the kids perform their mission successfully.There are good performances from the child actors involved with Alexa Vega stealing the show. Banderas and Gugino acquit themselves well. I have to ask why we Brits always have to play villains! You could almost get a complex about it.There is much to enjoy for both the kids, my two both enjoyed themselves. However, there is much allegory about family life, redemption etc. that the adults can enjoy.There will no doubt be a sequel, if it is as well played as the original it will be well worth the watch. "},{"Title":"kiddie action packed!","Date":"28 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  it looked like a film for kids, but it's not! i love the idea of kids as spies. my favorite part of this film (besides antonio banderas!) are the cool gadgets they use.alexa vega and daryl sabara were absolutely superb! cute kids, and i'm sure they'll have a bright future in their acting. alan cumming and carla gugino are also fab. i had no expectations when i watch the film, so i loved every bit of it. it had action, comedy and a little bit of good moral lessons in between. perfect for the family!  "},{"Title":"This movie works very well if you want 1 1/2 hours of hyperkinetic escapism.","Date":"24 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie works very well if all you want is 1 1/2 hours of hyperkinetic escapism.  Lots of quick camera switches and fast action mark this as clearly a Rodriguez film.The movie itself focuses on one family and works well by exploiting the differences between the parents and the children.  The kids are the heroes of the movie but succeed thanks to lots of pluck and a good dose of serendipity.  The parents are the ex-spies who are very suave, flawless in their work (almost), yet are the ones who need rescuing and are the supporting cast.  The kids are the exact opposite.  The younger boy, Juni, is plump kid who has no friends at school, a bad case of warts and is a klutz.  His older sister, Carmen, is a truant from school and is a bedwetter who still wears diapers at night.  However, this duo are the ones who save the day and carry the film.Look for lots of great sight gags and double-entendres.  If you rent this, I suspect there will be lots of rewind moments to try to catch all the jokes and references.  A good movie for all ages.  8/10  "}{"Title":"An Introduction to Robert Rodriguez","Date":"20 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I would just like to say that I loooooved Spy Kids!  Probably my favorite movie since Can't Hardly Wait and Clueless (and let's include Being John Malkovich, too)  But anyway I would just like to say that Spy Kids is a fruition of many years of hard work for Robert Rodriguez, the director. After directing El Mariachi, Rodriguez never really had any movie that seized the power and original flavor of his El Mariachi (Dusk Till Dawn, Four Rooms, Desperado and The Faculty were bombs.  Dang you, Tarantinoooo! hehehe) But this movie, Spy Kids finally seized it again!  It seems Rodriguez's forte was kiddie movies after all!  (Remember Bedhead?) Rodriguez finally has a hundred million dollar movie and no one will ever be able to take this away from him!  And I bet you Spy Kids 2 will make even more!  Good for you, Roberto!  And I look forward to all your further action movies to come!By the way, if you want to get an inside look into the life and mind of Robert Rodriguez, read Rebel Without A Crew.  It's a book about how he made El Mariachi.  It's da best!!!   "},{"Title":"Cute movie","Date":"8 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is a very cute children's movie with no profanity except for a reference to shitaki mushrooms at the end. The movie was interesting enough to keep my 4 year old awake and laughing at the antics of the characters. "},{"Title":"A family film that *really* is for the whole family","Date":"4 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I went into see this movie with high expectations and was not disappointed. Visually, the film is drenched in vibrant colors; the villain's castle is like a wonderful maze; the song sequence was awe inspiring and just not long enough! The acting is first-rate; from the kids, who are delightfully unaffected and natural; to the adults.  I thoroughly enjoyed Antonio Banderas' portrayal as the father - you could see how well he interacted with the kids and it was a nice change of pace to see him in a comedic role. The Latino touches were a welcome change from the typical white - bread look of most movies. The story? Well, I don't want to give it away - it's still playing after an incredibly successful 4 weeks run! Go see this movie. You won't regret it. "},{"Title":"Kids fun","Date":"2 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Yesterday I went out to see Spy Kids being a big Robert Rodriguez fan and all that. And although all the violence for which he is well known is rather missing, it is one hell of a ride. It is fast, energetic and absolutely fun. From the beginning until the aftermath the film is full of ingenious takes and gags.Now, is it really for everyone?...I think not. While I was watching it, I was having one of the best times in this year, I was delighted by it. But then I saw my girlfriend yawning, and that's when it all came down. This film is mainly for kids, they will have the best time ever watching the film, having their parents buying them all the merchandise that is out on the stores and buying the Happy Meals to see what's in them. Suddenly I felt like a child accompanied by an adult, and later on while commenting on the movie with some friends, nobody liked it, and some even though it was an insult to intelligence.But after giving it some though, I realize there is nothing wrong with me, if I am a child inside and this is the kind of film that suits me, it is OK. So, if you are a child at heart this film is for you, if not, stay away from it before it's too late.Also, what I like about Robert Rodriguez is how he breaks the stereotypes and manage them. Would you ever imagined seeing Danny Trejo as a spy-devices crafter? See what I mean?. "},{"Title":"Spy Kids RULES!","Date":"29 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  It took me a while to get to this movie! But it was definitely worth the wait. I totally agree with a review I read, this movie is definitely (Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory meets James Bond)!  I love Teri Hatcher in any role she plays, but a villain? YIKES! That was new to me, =) She's the only reason I went to see this movie, I had never seen a preview all I knew was that the parents were spies and the kids had to save them. I had very little to go on, but yet I still wanted to go. I am 17 I love mystery and suspense, I was in a theater with a good number of little kids and there was no screaming, no kids throwing popcorn cause they were bored, the two little kids infront of me were probably 8 and 10 and at the end they both said the movie was great. My parents both liked the movie, so it's a great movie for the whole family. There hasn't been one of those for a while. I definitely recommend this movie to kids and adults it's the best! "},{"Title":"Fab!","Date":"29 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I am 14 years old and I saw Spy Kids with my 7 year old sister and my mom and we all loved it which proves that this movie really is for the whole family.At first, I didn't want to see it. In my head I was thinking Oh no, some other crappy kid movie. But after I saw it, my opinion really changed!!! Go see Spy Kids no matter how old you are! This movie has it all high-tech gadgets, smart and not-too-cute kids and Antonio Banderas to name a few things. "},{"Title":"great!","Date":"28 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Both my family and I thought that this movie was the best movie we'd ever seen.  We thought it was an excellent family movie with action, humor, and all the other things that good movies have all interspersed throughout the movie.  All in all an enchanting, well-made movie.  Must-see. "},{"Title":"Excellent movie.","Date":"27 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  First off, I enjoyed this one a lot.  Better than I thought it would be, and I thought it would be pretty good.  Robert Rodriguez has a great way of looking at life and the kids in this movie were just as good as the kids he had in Four Rooms.  Antonio is the man with that moustache.  I like him much better as an action hero than Bruce Willis or Paul Lynde.  "},{"Title":"Cool Cheese","Date":"27 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Keeping in mind we were going to see a kids' movie, Mrs. Monster and I found ourselves pleasantly surprised at being thoroughly entertained!  Robert Rodriguez has yet to disappoint us!Being big fans of 60's-70's spy films ourselves, we were happy to see that Rodriguez kept the cheese factor and actually turned it up a few notches! There seems to be a secret gadget in practically every scene and a smarmy villain-type around every corner.  This movie differs in that where there would normally be a larger-than-life hero ready to smack down the baddies, our heroes are a family of four who are only strong when united.  Action is the tie that binds this movie, but at no detriment to a cohesive and entertaining story.  For those who feel movies should have a message, there's a few obvious ones in there dealing with the family unit which, oddly enough, adds even more to the cheese factor!Bottom line It's fun for everybody! "},{"Title":"a decent mission","Date":"26 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"   I won't deny Spy Kids being fun and as I watched the film I looked at it both through my eyes and through the eyes of a little kid. The effects were cool and the sets were cool and even most of the actors in the movie who i normally dont like were ok. So what sucks about it? It drags on. Now I read about how great the kids were and how they stole the show. They don't. The farthest they go is cute. But that'snot their fault. Film history only has a limited number of great child performances. The story goes that two retired married spies are raising a family and get kidnapped by a fruity TV host. It's up to the little kids to save them. The plot sounds lame but in reality everything fits together. The bad guys were boring but all the robot kids and finger people rocked the horse's behind.**1/2  "}{"Title":"Excellent!","Date":"26 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" My brother and I went to see this over Easter, and it is BRILLIANT. It has an all-star cast who give great performances, especially Alan Cumming as Floop, the bad guy who turns good because he loves children. I was at first surprised that Antonio Banderas would appear in a film like this, but I was even more surprised to learn that Robert Rodriguez, the man responsible for DESPERADO, directed this picture. There are great cameos by T2's Robert Patrick and LOIS AND CLARK's Teri Hatcher as villains and the Thumb-Thumbs and Fooglies are brilliantly realised creatures. The action is brilliant as well, with our miniature heroes being chased in a submarine, on rocket packs etc. Antonio Banderas and Carla Gugino are very good as the spy parents and DESPERADO refugees Cheech Marin and Danny Trejo are also brilliant in their roles. I give this one a definite thumbs-up! "},{"Title":"Masterful Spy Kids Movie Makes BIG $$$$$$!!!","Date":"25 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Robert Rodriguez proved most Hollywood insiders wrong.  Several current Hollywood producers seem to think that the American public only approves of gore, sex and profanity.  That is what sells, they claim.  Ironically, Robert Rodriguez, who is known for his movie Desperado (a film filled with bloody scenes, mind you), has gone clean.  And the result?  Millions upon millions of dollars are now stashed comfortably in his pocket.  Way to go Robert.  Way to go.  See, maybe it doesn't hurt to make films that fit the mind set of the American majority - FUN, CLEAN, CREATIVE! Go see the movie if you haven't.  And for those who have seen it, see it again, because you will not only enjoy it, but you will prove a very important point ---- Most of us don't want the sludge!  "},{"Title":"It's cool! See this one if you get the chance.","Date":"25 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I think this movie was a little too childish for most adults and teens, but I think it was kinda cool. I liked the gadgets. Some parts of the movie was funny too, like, the part when they found out that the mutated spies were talking backwards. I'm impressed how this film did well at the boxoffice and the tickets are still selling strong. I regret I didn't take my younger brother with me. I rate this movie six out of ten and if I was my brother's age, I'd give it ten out of ten. "},{"Title":"Rodriguez is a great man.","Date":"19 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  People might think that because the film is called spy kids only kids will enjoy it but that's wrong I'm 19 and I went to see it with my mum and we both had a very relaxing time watching it.I mostly wanted to see it because I like Rodriguez movies and I think that this film is one of is best work for many reason.Even if the plot is quite simple,(spy  kidnaped only their kids can save them.)Rodriguez had put a very original and I'm sure personal touch into it (imagine  bond on a mission in wonderland and you have the picture.) and because of that he changed the story of a kid film into a great and fun film for all ages.I think that on a family film the most important is the casting.I just think that a family film with bad kids actors in it can be hell to watch but the kids actor are great in that film and they look so natural.A special thumbs up to Daryl Sabara as Juni(who deliver the best moments of the film)I sure hope to see him in many other films to come.The adults actors are also very good.Antonio Banderas is very funny and touching as the father who is dying to make is son proud of him.Alan Cumming was a great choice to play Fegan Floop because there is somme kind of Willy Wonka look to him.It was also nice to see George Clooney at the end of the film.Danny Elfman did a very nice soundtrack for the film that  is also completely different(in a pleasant way of course!!)from is previous work,the only time it's pure Danny Elfman style in the film is at the Fegan Floop song.It was a long time that their wasn't any good family film so thank you Robert Rodriguez I was waiting for a film like that in a long time. Their is rumors about a sequel if those rumors are true I sure hope that Rodriguez will do it,Is just great at doing that kinds of films. "},{"Title":"Bond for the small ones.","Date":"19 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  As the second of three films I`d taken my daughter(6) to see this easter, 'Spy Kids' was as equal in entertainment value as 'Rugrats In Paris', though Pokemon 2000 was a bit boring. Still 2 out of three can't be bad.Personally, I enjoyed this film as much as my daughter, though quite possibly for different reasons. I'm not really sure if children interpret films differently than what I may have done when I was a child, but trying to remember back to when I was a kid, I just just wanted to be entertained, the story itself was probably secondary, where as, as an adult it's probably the other way round.What this film does show, is the value of having a complete family together, a fact which probably is less likely today than when I was young. Unfortunately, none of my children live with both there parents, and films like this always strike that emotional cord within me.But story line aside, this film is also a visual treat, and with good acting throughout, it makes this film a highly recommended choice.  "},{"Title":"good time","Date":"17 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  It isn't my favorite of Rodriguez's films, but it is fun. I didn't think I could like a kids movie, but I did. Antonio and Danny Trejo were great doing things they've never done in a movie before. The production design is incredible.  "},{"Title":"Totally Shocked!!!","Date":"16 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"        I had to babysit my little brother and sister today. Instead of staying home I took them to the movies (noteit makes the job so much easier). They really wanted to see Spy Kids. With much discust, I agreed. I personally wished they could read so I could make them watch Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon. I love that movie.       From the trailers of the film I thought the film was going to be terrible. I hate films were children act older than they really are, (Baby Geniuses). Plus, I am a huge fan of Robert Rodriquez's past films. That really made me think why he would sink to this low.       I think the main reason I agreed to watch this was the great reviews it has recieved. I went in on mere curiosity.       Let's just say I was pleasantly suprised to find this was a highly enjoyable, fun, family film. It had a little something for everybody. It is always refreshing to see a family film that actually the entire family can enjoy. The film does have its flaws. One of course is the often corny dialogue (Remind me to raise their allouances). And some of the acting could be horrible at times( most from Allen Cummings, but that is common from him, can we say Spice World). But these flaws were acceptible.      Over all it is a fun family film that all can enjoy. A 7/10 is what it is getting from me. "},{"Title":"Generally enjoyable for the 5-10s","Date":"16 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Spy Kids is a kind of offbeat movie. It tries to parody the spy genre, and be a kids movie, and make a commentary and on the weird Barney/Teletubbies subgenre of kids TV shows. All filmed against a rather odd Mexican/Spanish locale, and using Rodriguez's stable of favorite actors like Banderas and Marin.There's enough here to keep the adults (barely) interested. And the loud bangs and recognizable kid-social situations will keep your children involved. Generally I'd recommend it, but it's not really what I'd call an overwhelming classic. "},{"Title":"Fun! Fun! Fun!","Date":"15 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  A lot of people Ive talked to are scared off by the title of this moviebut like the series Buffy the Vampire Slayer, if you get past the title,you are in for a big treat.  Lately kids movies are geared towards the average age of 7-10and thought kids will enjoy this, Adults will enjoy it equally. If i had to pigeon hole it, Id have to say its across between goodbond movies, the recent Charlies Angels movie and Willy Wonka. Its one of those films that you just sit back and have fun withoutyour intelligence being insulted like Phantom Menace. Good to see a movie that the whole family can see and have funand then give them something to talk about together. The movie isabout family and what better movie to bring a family close together. Check it out! "},{"Title":"Rodriquez Kid-Flick Genius?","Date":"15 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Robert Rodriquez, keep it up. Parents are so tired of wincing at the double entendres, scatology, lame and retreaded plots, and sassy child actors with smug Eddie Murphy-style comebacks in the current kiddie film wasteland. Not only are parents tired of it, but many had given up on attending films in the theater all together. Better to rent an old, safe Disney flick or tape something from PBS.A realization, though, is now hot on the lips of Hollywood execs - a realization spearheaded by Rodriquez - that if a quality family film is created for children that is not a vulgar embarrassment or a chance for a quick nap for bored parents with their offspring in tow, paying audiences will attend. Gee whiz. Imagine that...Rodriquez is a man of vision, a man of family values, and a man of hands-on follow-through. According to the LA Times, he not only wrote, directed, and co-produced Spy Kids, he was also the editor and camera operator, and shared credit as music composer, visual-effects supervisor, and rerecording mixer. He reportedly flew to Chile to personally shoot background film footage. He concocted several of the astonishing spy gizmos used in the film. Did I mention that he is a working maniac?Latinos not only dominate the main cast of this film, but most are the good guys. This is an understated but positive sign that negative stereotypes in film may be crumbling.Imaginative, spirited, fast-paced, family-oriented, and highly amusing (a lot of it is just delightfully weird), Spy Kids is a must-see for elementary school-aged audiences (OK, many older kids will love it, but they won't let on). The kids in the film act refreshingly like normal kids, the parents like loving parents - it's all tied together with a delectable espionage angle. Most films released to theaters for children are quick-to-video - this one won't be.Robert Rodriquez - keep it up, and the families will come. "}{"Title":"Very good film","Date":"15 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The title is pretty self-explanatory, the plot and sets are reminiscent of how i imagine Roald Dahl's mind to work. This was a very good film, certainly the best of the ones i've taken my young cousins to see and they all enjoyed it despite their variety in age (5, 7, 8, 13). Great film for kids of all ages, but it gets those extra few points for suceeding in keping adults entertained at the same time as their offspring! Good deal of eye candy (George Clooney - only in cameo though, and Antonio Banderas for the women, and Mother Cortez whose real name i can't remember for the life of me and Teri Hatcher who is lovely even when bald for the men!) "},{"Title":"Kids Will Love It","Date":"14 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Wow - all those primary colours!Anyway, kids will love it - and parents will find more to entertain them than the normal kiddie fare.Nice junior spoof on the spy genre with appropriate special effects. "},{"Title":"Action packed kid show","Date":"14 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Spy Kids passed both my own and my ten-year old daughter's test for a good movie.  The most notable feature is that it keeps a very fast pace throughout the entire film. - just about continuous action.   The special effects are good and very creative.  The movie follows the outlandish style of the James Bond series - with a plot line that is about right for a 10 year old.  I rated the movie an 8. "},{"Title":"It is what it is","Date":"14 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I feel that expectations have an effect on how you view a film.   The media has gone wild on Spy kids. It is not one of the year's best films.It is a very entertaining film for pre teens and teens that like a sweet treat.The SPFX are quite weak. I don't know if this matters.I am glad it is kicking butt at the BO. Hollywood can realize that a broad family film can make a lot of money. Note that Sound of Music and Mary Poppins sold more tickets than every movie made up until NOW except for Gone with the Wind and about 10 others.I didn't see any body parts. the dialogue was 'fword' free and the tension held throughout.They weren't pretending to make a film for the ages. They were giving us 90 minutes of fun. I don't see a problem with this.Applying standards to Spy Kids is silly. My daughter thought it was great and that is all that matters thank you very much.Honestly, I am duly impressed by those who diss films. Don't get me wrong a POS is a POS and should be labeled as same. This is a kids movie.Show us your knowledge with a why this movie will out gross 90% of the movies released this year.People getting killed, f----ed and sworn at is getting to be kind of ho hum. Thank God. "},{"Title":"Nice movie for kids!","Date":"14 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I took my 3-year-old daughter to see it and she sat still and enjoyed the movie from beginning to end.  No excessive violence, just plain fun and laughter for all ages. The 2 main child actors were quite talented and should have a great career ahead of them. A great film! "},{"Title":"A Very Good Family Version of The Matrix","Date":"13 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This a a great movie.  Everybody in the family will like it, from children to adults.  This movie is a cross between spy movies and The Matrix but for the whole family.  It had good action scenes and cool special effects.  It has a good blend of comedy and action. "},{"Title":"Lame Still Reigns, why are we kidding ourselves?","Date":"13 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I don't understand the positive reviews for this film. I especially cannot fathom Roger Ebert anymore, who ten years ago was so dead-on accurate in his ups and downs. Is it age? Is it Siskel's death?  Did Ebert ever raise kids?My five year old enjoyed this, but she enjoys going to the movies with Dad and the older kids, particularly on rainy days when the parks are all wet.  Two thriteens, one 12, and one ten year old quietly sufferred thru this mild nightmare and looked for the better spots.This is a dumb film with a dumb script. The special  effects suffer from the fact that they are blatantly obviously non-real visual effects.  They lose the thread of credibility needed to bring the audience in.  The ridiculous storyline and the bad guy becomes good guy (straight out of the WWF no-less!) plot makes this a hopeless film.  After the Toy Story's, Tarzan, Lion King, Emporer's Groove and Ants, I guess Hollywood figured that if the Japaneese can make money inflicting sufferring on parents (Pokemon), then why can't they too.Writer's strike coming up? Are they hiring scabs, by any chance? Quality would go up. "},{"Title":"Definitely not for adults","Date":"13 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie seemed to me Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory meets Batman, with just a hint of Remington Steele thrown in. They missed an opportunity to make a really good movie and instead gave us a daytime children's hour cartoon.  I wonder if the original screenplay was more realistic? "},{"Title":"Good kids movie","Date":"12 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Yep this is a good movie to take your kids (no matter how old they are ) this movie started off sort of slow but it then got in high gear, some of the vehicles used I thought they were neat (the kids escape pod) and the spy plane.. ) it was very entertaining.. and yes I do wonder if they will do a sequel  "},{"Title":"Great Movie, Whole Family Loved it, Hysterical w/Great Cast","Date":"11 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  My whole family(Younger Sister- 17, Grandmother- 81, Mother- 40+, Stepfather- 50+, and Me- 25), thought the movie was wonderful, with great scenes, hysterical lines, and a wonderful cast. Unlike many movies I've watched, this had the distinction that I could predict what was about to happen, and was still fluid and well written. This is a Must See Movie. "}{"Title":"You can dream my dream...","Date":"11 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Don't you just love that song? Alan Cumming is great! Alright, so anyway, my sister is like obsessed with this movie, so she convinced me, her 16 year old sister, to go see it with her. I went. I was astonished!!! The acting was super, the effects were awesome, and the humor had me belly laughing!! I see people commenting on this movie by saying that it is only for kids 10 and under, or that older kids won't enjoy it. If I am a 16 year old all-american girl and I like it, it must be cool. Go see it! "},{"Title":"Loads of fun for everyone","Date":"10 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  One of a few films that can appeal to children and adults - appropriate behaviour, but doesn't talk down to you and totally unsentimental.  Add to that an incredibly strong cast (Antonio Banderas, Alan Cumming, Tony Shaloub, Cheech Marin, Teri Hatcher).  Also, a comedy where the characters take themselves seriously - don't look for the Burt Reynolds wink and a nod school of comedy here.  The performances are so restrained in what is, after all, a satire of spy films, that you can forgive the occassional bit of overacting.The film has at is core a very adult theme, secrets and how they can keep us from getting close to each other.  This family is in trouble because they are all keeping secrets from each other - the big secret being that mom and dad are spies, a fact they hide from their kids who are incredulous when they learn the truth.  However, that's just the biggest of a web of tiny lies that unravel quickly as the plot unfolds. I can't wait to add this to my video collection.  I'm also hoping that there will be a sequel. "},{"Title":"Too much sugar, too hyperactive.","Date":"10 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I can understand the desperation of the parents who posted. They want stuff their kids can like that is clean and doesn't understand why Hollywood doesn't make films like that. (Of course, when studios did make clean films - which were also clean of entertainment value - the parents didn't go and the studios gave up.)The best I can say is that this film is clean and has sufficient entertainment value to keep kids and some adults entertained. But it isn't the triumph of the human spirit that some are claiming. First of all, it's too active; it substitutes Nickelodeon-style gadgets and set design, and lots of inexpensive CGI, for character and story. If you doubt this, ask yourself; what makes these kids special, besides their Hispanic heritage? The young boy has warts from nervousness. That's it. We don't get to know much about the kids before the afterburners kick in and we're pinned to the seat with all those effects.Second, the villains have the same minimal motivation as the baddies on the various Power Rangers series. In a time when Harry Potter's villains have real motivation - hatred of muggles being a kind of racial prejudice - there's no challenge and triumph in villains without it. These guys are cardboard targets, just waiting to be knocked over.Third, the most unique plot element - taking a Willy Wonka-style kid hero and making him a villain - is fumbled. His transformation from bad guy to innocent dupe isn't handled well. How innocent is a guy who creates the thumb warriors, fills his headquarters with traps and deliberately allows the use of a machine that mutates humans into Oompa-Loompas? Or who allows these things to be used without much obvious protest?My only other complaint is that Cheech Marin, perhaps the most entertaining performer in the film (and one who is known to kids from other kid shows) is in the film far too briefly. It's acceptable as a kid film, but I don't think Michael Eisner will lose much sleep over it.  "},{"Title":"Inventive, good natured and big hearted fun!","Date":"9 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Finally, kids and their parents can equally get a kick out of a film. That film is Spy Kids.   A nonstop fun filled carnival spy ride that never lets up and never gets stuck in its own syrupy mess like so many similar pictures have in the past.   Robert Rodriguez may have found his niche.  This is by far his best film to date.   My only two gripes are 1.  The unmined riches of the characters.  Character development is something on which Rodriguez seems to spend little time; a pity considering how adept he is with the action sequences.  I am sure with a little more effort he could have combined all the daring-do with a more intimate look at what was stirring inside those diminutive super agents and their parents. 2.   The often times horrendous effects including a high speed chase on water featuring speedboats that looked like they were being jerked back every half second and some all too obvious CGI vehicles.  A bit more quality control in the future would be advantageous.In all, especially considering what passes for family entertainment these days, this one's a 10. "},{"Title":"Wonderful","Date":"8 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is a wonderful, funny and an excellent film. It is a must see movie. I went to see to because I like Antonio Banderas. He looks wonderful in this movie. I recommend that kids and adults should go and see this movie. "},{"Title":"Kids trying to take over the world what will we do?","Date":"8 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I loved this movie. It is great for a kids movie.  In todays world where in a lot of new kids movies you hear world like hell I was happy to see this movie clean of them.  It had many great effects and it had jokes for kids and one for kids and adults unlike some kids movie were there are jokes only for adults.  If you liked this then you might like movies like Little Monsters and The Sandlot.  Because the director is the same person who did from dusk till dawn there are many people in Spy Kids from dusk till dawn. All in All I would say to go to this movie with the whole family because it is fun for the whole family. "},{"Title":"why we loved this film","Date":"7 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  We took our 2 daughters (9&5) to see this and we all really enjoyed it. There is a very strong pro-family message, lots of adventure with no lethal violence or profanity.  There was also the added benefit of some characters who started out bad and ended up reforming and joining the good side. Highly recommend it! "},{"Title":"Exciting fun for all ages, yet still pure Rodriguez!","Date":"5 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Like a roller-coaster ride through a fun-house--that's how I described this delightful film to friends the day after I saw it.Rare is the film the captures a child's wide-eyed perspective of the world, but writer-director Robert Rodriguez has hit the bulls-eye with this exciting family adventure that moves quickly and seems to engage viewers from 6 to 60.There's enough movement and striking visuals and a simple good vs bad plot to keep the pre-schoolers I saw in the theatre fascinated; my junior-high aged daughter enjoyed the film's hip feel and wild technological gadgets and two enjoyable adolescent stars; and I enjoyed the film's beautiful photography, aggressively Latino perspective, and  many clever allusions and small details. But all of us were swept away by  SPY KIDS' pure entertainment value. My children and I were on the edge of our chairs, laughing, gasping with amazement, and at the end of the film we were all drained yet satisfied.I predict that this film will become a family classic. Although it is totally different from films such as A CHRISTMAS STORY and MY DOG SKIP, like those it is a gem that will always stay fresh, will have an endless shelf life through DVD and cable TV, and will be entertaining my children's children.Mr. Rodriguez is to be commended for following his own individual vision yet not forgetting how to please an audience. I would gladly pay again for the four of us to see this movie a second time. "},{"Title":"A cool kids movie that everyone can enjoy!","Date":"5 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I have a seven year-old daughter and enjoy taking her to the movies.  It is increasingly difficult to find movies that I can take her to.   Spy Kids was a great surprise of a kids movie.   My daughter is still talking about all of the things she liked.   It has stayed fresh in her mind - most movies have a lasting power of only a couple of days.  I would recommend this to anyone with kids and to those who are young at heart. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable and fun movie, with an unfortunate morale","Date":"5 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I had a great time watching this movie and it was all I expected it to be. Most other comments will probably already indicate how this movie entertains both children and grown ups, so I will just add the only sad aspect I recognized, which is that sometimes the morale can be noticed, which clearly reduces its effect. As I am always putting great importance on the ending of a movie, this one was a particular let down. I enjoyed myself nonetheless. "}{"Title":"The best family movie of the in the last 10 years","Date":"4 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie was so great.  I was expecting a very typical kiddie movie and what I got was an edge of your seat clean adventure.  Where the bad guys did not have to stay bad but, good and love did defeat all.  I found myself telling every one at work that they needed to see this movie even if they had no children.  I was very pleased with the characters and the plot even had a couple of twists that were a bit unexpected.  I loved it !!!! "},{"Title":"Much Better than Madeline.","Date":"4 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  There are two things that family films need today They need to be creepier, and they need to be directed by Robert Rodriguez.  Rodriguez, whose frantic camera work and editing make his previous films like Desperado and From Dusk Till Dawn seem like kids' movies for grown-ups, must apparently recognize that something drastic has been missing from the family genre for many years.  That something, as I've noticed anyway, is a healthy dose of evil.  It's interesting to note that some of the most memorable childrens' fare of all time contained, for the most part, some really twisted stuff.  The mere mention of the phrase Willy Wonka conjures images of frightening Oompa-Loompas, and deeper recollection of the Gene Wilder (aaahh!) musical serves us visions of the rather gruesome elimination of misbehaving children and the beheading of a chicken.  In the 80's, Jim Henson gave us a baby-napping Goblin King in Labyrinth as well as a world of grotesque critters and monsters in The Dark Crystal.  The same, unfortunately, cannot be said for the 90's and beyond, which have failed to provide much more sinister fare than 1996's wonderfully disturbing Matilda and the late Gene Siskel's final Best Film of the Year, 1998's Babe Pig in the City.  Luckily, in Spy Kids, we are treated to a cornucopia of wickedry in the form of a dim-witted kid's show host and his horribly deformed sidekicks (the result of crude experiments performed on missing secret agents).  These elements, along with kinetic pacing, funky set design and an obligatory moral message for the tykes make Spy Kids one of the best family films since Full Metal Jacket.  (Robert Rodriguez, please keep this up.  No more films like The Faculty, please.) "},{"Title":"Fresh, fun, energetic","Date":"3 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  At no time does Spy kids take itself too seriously, leaving the action, cool gadgetry, and vivid scenery to take you on an exciting joyride through a world of genial espionage. The movie also quietly mocks other kids entertainment that pollutes our culture as well as itself. I'm not sure if kids will pick up this characteristic, but you certainly will.  This put a huge smile on my face. Spy kid is a kid's film that any adult can fully enjoy. The Website also shares these characteristics, featuring a fun interactive game that is reminiscent of the movie. It's a great place to relive the Spy kids experience. I highly recommend visiting the website and seeing the movie.Spy Kids had just the right mix of action without violence, beautiful scenes, and humor. Go see it, with or without your kids. "},{"Title":"GO ROBERT!","Date":"3 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Let me just say that, along with Loyd Kaufman, Robert Rodriguez is one of the people the help keep my dream of being a film maker alive.  His awesome book showed me that a real guy with a $7,000 budget can make an entertaining movie that goes on to be a huge success.  I've witnessed all of his movies, and while Desperado (fun but paper thin characters) and the Faculty (far too hip for it's own good) where kinda let downs, I still counted him as one of my fav. directors.. Now, when I heard that Spy Kids was coming out, I have to admit that I was saddened-  I thought my hero was officially selling out.. Come on, a kids flic???   But, alas, I was wrong.. Clearly a loving tribute to his three children and his spanish heritage, Spy Kids is an entertaining, wholesome and very likeable film.  I've noticed how cynical hollywood has been lately- it seems like most movies are made by these arrogant little guys that seem like they have something against their audience (dumbing down plots, throwing in dumb twist endings, etc.).  Spykids is a refreshing change and clearly the work of someone in love with film.  I especially liked how only the villains talked down to the children - very cool.. Yes, the product placement was a little bothersome, but the frenetic pace and touching (yet not cheesie) msg. all worked extremely well.. I do wish, however, that it had a different title- 'Spy Kids' is simply such a dull name for this wildly creative thrill ride.. *** 1/2 (**** if I was a kid) The best kids flic since babe (and possibly the best movie of this year.. Period..) - Sorry if this review isn't well written- It's 2 am but I felt compelled to write something ) "},{"Title":"Great gadgets and good times","Date":"2 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Though there is a certain cheese factor to the special effects and the Latino lean to the movie, Spy Kids is none the worse for it, and is in fact a well-rounded, ingenious family movie.Best of all, there isn't a hint of darkness to push kids backward in their seats. The villains are foiled with perfect pitch, thanks to the plucky-yet-adorable youthful heroes, and the growth of the bond between the lead characters as the story unfolds is one of the film's most endearing elements.Antonio Banderas and Carla Gugino are believable and utilitarian as the loving parents/beautiful spies, but make no mistake The kids and the incredible gadgetry are the stars, and the result is tremendous fun. "},{"Title":"The best family film of the year....","Date":"2 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Spy Kids is a rare gem, it's a kids movie that doesn't talk down to kids or go for cheap laughs. This film is quite original, the special effects and set designs are amazing, especially since the film only cost $35 million. The kids in the movie aren't the typical cutesy type found in most family movies, they stand up for themselves instead of just giving up and they're smart and funny at the same time.Antonio Banderas and Carla Gugino both do good jobs as the kids' parents and Alan Cumming is very funny as Fegan Floop, a man who wants to build an army of kid-robot look-alikes to take over the world, but he also wants to find that magical something that's keeping his children's show from being #1.The plot is not too bad either, but the special effects make up for any holes in the story. Somehow director Robert Rodriguez (From Dusk Till Dawn and The Faculty are among his directoral credits) has managed to make a kids movie that appeals to both adults and kids, but also to teens, especially those who enjoy lots of action and laughs.This is quite a fast paced film, and it only stumbles a bit towards  the end, which leaves the possibility of a sequel wide open. This is by far the best family film of the year, even beating out Recess School's Out. I give it ***1/2 out of 4 stars.  "},{"Title":"The best family film of the year....","Date":"2 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Spy Kids is a rare gem, it's a kids movie that doesn't talk down to kids or go for cheap laughs. This film is quite original, the special effects and set designs are amazing, especially since the film only cost $35 million. The kids in the movie aren't the typical cutesy type found in most family movies, they stand up for themselves instead of just giving up and they're smart and funny at the same time.Antonio Banderas and Carla Gugino both do good jobs as the kids' parents and Alan Cumming is very funny as Fegan Floop, a man who wants to build an army of kid-robot look-alikes to take over the world, but he also wants to find that magical something that's keeping his children's show from being #1.The plot is not too bad either, but the special effects make up for any holes in the story. Somehow director Robert Rodriguez (From Dusk Till Dawn and The Faculty are among his directoral credits) has managed to make a kids movie that appeals to both adults and kids, but also to teens, especially those who enjoy lots of action and laughs. This is quite a fast paced film, and it only stumbles a bit towards the end, which leaves the possibility of a sequel wide open. This is by far the best family film of the year, even beating out Recess School's Out. I give it ***1/2 out of 4 stars.  "},{"Title":"A very fun movie more all kids and some adults","Date":"2 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I had to take my brother and some of his 8-year-old friends to the movie for his birthday, I was expecting a two hour nap. When I saw the movie, not only was there a decent plot, the quality of the movie was surprisingly high, many non-kid films fail to come to this movies standards. This is one of the best children's film that I have ever seen, although it still isn't as good as ANTZ, which is still my favorite. "},{"Title":"One of the best for kids in recent years","Date":"2 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I took my grandson, 5 years old, to see this movie an I enjoyed it as much as he. It is one of the few movies (or tv shows) in recent years where kids see problems solved by outsmarting the bad guys, rather than resorting to violence, We need more movies like this for kids today. "},{"Title":"Great Afternoon out with Kids!","Date":"1 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Went to see Spy Kids with Grandparents,Husband and two kids ages 6 and 4. We all loved the movie.  This is one that we will have to buy when it comes out.  Don't hesitate to see this movie!  My kids were on the edge of their seats for most of this film. "}{"Title":"Mommy, there's no 'excellent' on this survey.","Date":"1 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  was my seven year old son's response upon receiving his post-viewing survey card. He loved it. Which is good news for the movie since it's aimed at kids. My opinions aren't quite as gushing.I was roped in by the trailers, its PG rating and the fact that it was NOT animated. The trailers let me down ... surprise. I didn't dislike it, I just didn't like it as much as I hoped I would.I loved the sets! Very cool. And it was a good story that a 2nd grader had no trouble following. Downside Antonio Banderas was in it ... that always blows a movie for me. I tried to give him the benefit of the doubt, but as usual, that failed. He just always looks like he's posing to me ... aaaaaak. I asked my son what he thought about the guy who played the dad and his review was, He was good but his fake mustache looked dumb. I think I muttered something about Zorro under my breath.The kids playing Carmen and Juni were great. My son was rooting 'em on through their travails. They were likeable and you got the feeling that if any kids could've pulled off this wild scheme, they could.Overall, it was harmless, my son loved it and I didn't fall asleep. That's about all you can hope for when sharing a movie with a seven year old son, I think. At least until another Babe, Princess Bride or Wizard of Oz comes out. "},{"Title":"The kids of Mr & Mrs James Bond have to save their hides.","Date":"1 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  My kids were bugging me to take them to see Hannibal but i convinced them otherwise. They were NOT disappointed, nor was I. It was engaging from the very start. NO one got up to get popcorn. And the sure sign of an excellent movie...the audience applauded at the end. see it! "},{"Title":"Great movie!","Date":"1 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Thank you Hollywood!  This is the most creative family film to come out of Hollywood in ages.  Even older kids will think this movie is COOL!  It has an interesting, exciting plot, combined with action, humor, and even good moral lessons.  It's nice to see that big-name stars will lend their talents to create great family entertainment. There's sure to be more SPY KIDS movies to come.  Let's just hope they keep the same positive formula for future movies.  BRAVO!!!! "},{"Title":"This movie is such a joy","Date":"1 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is a movie that gets it.  For the first time in a long time, I've seen a movie targeted at kids that does what a kids movie should do be as imaginative and as vibrant and alive as they are.  Everyone in this movie looks like they're having a great time, and it definitely rubs off.  It's an kinetic thrill ride from start to finish, overflowing with action and wit and special effects.Instead of totally rehashing the plot, I recommend that everyone (no matter how old you are) see this movie.  No matter how cynical you are, if you go in with an open mind you should be entertained.  This movie has so many surprises that the less you know going in, the more you'll take from it. (But at the same time, if you know the entire plot, you'll still enjoy it).With a horrible movie like See Spot Run passing for a family film these days, it's great to see a movie that doesn't have to resort to gross out jokes.  It doesn't insult your intelligence, it sparks your imagination. Spy Kids only looks all the greater in comparison,  because instead of trying to capitalize on the worst type of childlike humor (that move was much more immature than any ten year old I've ever met), it banks on the spirit of imagination.The film critic in me wants to mention that there are a few flaws to this movie, but nothing that can't and shouldn't be overlooked.  The movie has a few pacing problems, and some effects shots could be smoother.  But really, who cares besides nit-pickers who don't want to admit that they were entertained?One of the greatest assets is the dialogue.  It's obvious that the writer/director Robert Rodriguez came from a huge family (ten children) because he really has an ear for how siblings talk to each other, and how children react to certain situations. All the performances in the film, especially that of the two children, are just fun to watch.This film has a great message of family unity and standing up for yourself and believing that you are good enough...  and it's a message that kids could really use.After seeing this movie the audience will be divided into two groups those who had a good time, and those who felt embarrassed that they had a good time so they'll use words like cheesy to describe it.  Of course it's cheesy, I would expect nothing less from a movie that is supposed to capture the minds and hearts of children.  And since when is cheesy a bad thing?  Doesn't it literally mean innocent and child like?This film made me feel younger and vibrant.  I absolutely loved it.  I just wish I had children of my own take to it.  Maybe I'll call up my sister and take my nephews to the theatre, just so I can have an excuse to see this again.I think the greatest mystery is how this movie only cost $36 million to make...  Incredible.   "},{"Title":"It's a kids version of James Bond adventure - fantastically enjoyable for adults, too! BRAVO to writer-director Robert Rodriguez!","Date":"1 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Unlike his From Dusk till Dawn 1996, there's no swear words, blood & guts, or ballet of bullets in Rodriguez's SPY KIDS. It is of solid entertainment value and with high creative energy - equal to a Bond film. The premise is a fantasy adventure truly for kids, while the adults can enjoy along with the ride. Everything - storyline, plot progressions, characters, scenes, sets, costumes, makeup, and special effects with techno-gadgets galore - is fun and in lively colors and imageries, with little inventive surprises here and there. The pace is unarguably right on - full 90 minutes of a thoroughly delightful mix of spy-venture and sci-fi family movie.Antonio Banderas is Dad, Gregorio Cortez, and Carla Gugino is Mom, Ingrid Cortez, both were once super secret agents unbeknown to their two kids - the heroes of the story Alexa Vega is daughter Carmen, Daryl Sabara is son Juni. The two young heroes may seem ordinary and vulnerable, and no smarter than any other kids, but that's the down to earth aspiring quality we want to believe in - that anyone of us can jump into such an adventure and cope as they do! The movie is loaded with graphic delights, comic book style as they may be. For instance, just within the adult Cortez's room at a glance, one gets a chuckle over the interesting keyboard that Mom has vs. Dad's workstation. Playful inventiveness is reminiscent of Tim Burton's Edward Scissorhands 1990; the gadgetry-loaded interiors of the Safe House and at Uncle Machete's went beyond Disney's Inspector Gadget 1999.Alan Cumming is exquisite as Fegan Floop, the children's TV program genius - the hero in Juni's eyes. Tony Shalhoub, once again, after Galaxy Quest 1999, took on a light-hearted role and is willing to poke fun at himself, including adorning an interesting headdress! The Floop's theme song is by Danny Elfman - the tune reminds one of the Elfman touch distinctive to his film scores like Tim Burton's The Nightmare Before Christmas 1993, and Edward Scissorhands. Somehow with all this fast-pace ventures, Juni became the one (increasingly confident and unsuspectingly smart by simply being himself the kid) who helped Floop to get out of his psychological predicament and concentrated on solving the problem at hand to save the world. SPY KIDS is produced by Troublemaker Studio (truly fun as its namesake!) with Dimension Films, a division of Weinstein brothers' Miramax Films; I hope it gets the marketing promotion it deserves - such a rare diamond of a decent family fun movie these days. I dream of it reaching top ten status, and perhaps another family mission for the Cortez bunch yet to come.If the sci-fi quality and the makeup being a little too much for some kids, try the British production of The Borrowers 1997, another worthwhile family children movie, also quite an adventure in itself. John Goodman is the nasty landlord in the tale of a young boy helping to save the plight of literally the 'little people.'   "},{"Title":"The Most Inventive Movie I've Seen in Awhile","Date":"1 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Spy Kids ***1/2Spy Kids is fresh, funny, and, most importantly, original. Who would have thought that the director of some of the most goriest movies would make such a fun film for kids and adults. Spy Kids is about the Cortez's. The two parents are spies. They claim to be retired but when several secret agents go missing they go to try and solve the case. But they have been kidnapped and now it's up to their unknowing kids to help save them. This leads to numerous funny scenes while the children prepare.Robert Rodriquez directed Spy Kids and it's just wonderful. It's such a delight. Watching the movie, it was like a Tim Burton movie gone retarded. The visuals are stunning and at times funny. It's The Cell for youngsters. And the fact that Danny Elfman did the theme didn't hurt at all. He is one of the best movie composers of our time. The two children are such a treat. They act like adults and that is what makes it funny. They take the movie seriously which isn't true for most child actors (ahem, Jonathan Lipinski). And look for George Clooney, who has a cameo. I must say one thing, Alan Cumming is one the most underrated actors. He is brilliant as Floop. Scary and sort of charming and caring at the same time. Spy Kids is a wonderful, inventive, slightly brilliant movie that's great for the whole family. "},{"Title":"great movie!!!!!!","Date":"1 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  What an absolutely fun movie.  My family thoroughly enjoyed it.  I'm sure there will be a sequel. Hope that is as good as the first.  I enjoyed the chemistry between Antonio and Carla and the special effects were amazing. "},{"Title":"This movie is GREAT!!!","Date":"31 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"      I really enjoy family movies. I watch every one I have a chance to see.  When My friend (Jimbo), asked if I would like to watch this with him at the movies, I thought I bet it is cute, but it is most likely silly.  BOY WAS I WRONG!!!!  This is one of the best family movies I suggest you watch -> WITH YOUR CHILDREN!!!     Yes, there is violence, but NEVER in a hateful way!  The story is GREAT, the emotion is INTENSE!  The BEST thing about this movie is that it ends with a positive message!!       I watched this movie on opening day in America (3/30/01) and when it concluded, children were clapping with appreciation.  I heard one child say THAT MOVIE WAS AWESOME!.   "},{"Title":"Good Career Choice For Banderas and Rodriguez","Date":"31 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  When i read that Antonio Banderas and Robert Rodriguez were making this film, i thought they were crazy. What a bad career choice for both of them, That was my initial response to the film. I was wrong. This film is awesome and even though the movie is intended for kids i have the feeling adults will enjoy it even more. Most incredible of all, the movie preserves Rodriguez typical style  "},{"Title":"Delightful","Date":"31 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  With charming stars and a strong supporting cast , Spy Kidsdelivers the goods. It's very hard to find a film appropriate forpre-teens that parents can sit through, and this one achieves bothgoals. The story and main characters are interesting. Cummingand Shaloub are well cast as the bad guys and do a good job.Antonio can't resist mugging for the camera once in a while, buthey, he's Antonio.  There's enough action to keep adventure fansinterested, but as a PG movie it strives to allow everyone to escapeserious injury during crash and fight scenes. There are even a fewsly references to movies only the grown-ups have seen. Asplendid time is guaranteed for all. "}{"Title":"Great fun for more than just kids","Date":"31 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  What a treat -- a great kiddie caper flick that adults will love, too. In fact, adults who are fans of Robert Rodriguez's other work will especially appreciate the subtle reminders of films such as Desperado and From Dusk Till Dawn. From his stable of familiar actors (Banderas, Danny Trejo, Cheech Marin, etc.) to shots that seem to pay homage to his earlier works, this film is a real delight. The casting is solid -- young Alexa Vega is a real find -- and the tone is perfect. Highly recommended! And the best praise comes from my husband, who is no big fan of family movies, but a HUGE Rodriguez fan I can't wait to see it again! "},{"Title":"I salute the makers of this movie, for its family message","Date":"31 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  It's ironic that the director of some extremely violent movies would make such a good family movie.  Hopefully, Robert Rodriguez will see from the success of this movie that more and more people are wanting to see well made family movies.  Someone needs to take the lead.The movie was very entertaining and can you believe it not one single curse word in the entire movie.  The closest they came to cussing was when Carmen said Holy Shitaki mushrooms.  There were enough special effects action scenes that it didn't need any violence.  Now don't get me wrong, I like action packed movies, but we need more action packed movies that are less violent.  If you thought it couldn't be done, this movie is proof that it can be done.This movie really had a great couple of messages.  The first message was that no matter who you are, you a have some quality in you that someone, someday will appreciate.  You don't have to be an action star to be someone's hero.  This was portrayed through Juno the younger brother of Carmen.  I especially liked how Carmen told her brother this, closer to the end of the movie.The main message this movie told was that Family is important.  We've had so many movies that show how families are expendable and if you don't like your family make another one.  Well the final moments of the movie said it all. The most important mission of all is Family and you have to work hard to keep it together.Robert Rodriguez, I salute you and even though I don't know if this movie will ever win an academy award, I feel that it has won a even higher award. "},{"Title":"Great Family Movie","Date":"31 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Absolutely the best family film of 2001 to date. I took my 7 year old to see it and we BOTH loved it. The plot was enough to keep an average adult interested without being over the head of kids. The spy-parents were great, but to the delight of children everywhere, the spy-kids needed to bail their parents out. They were the TRUE super spies. A really fun movie for everyone. "},{"Title":"Great for Adults as well as Kids","Date":"31 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I am an adult and took my grand daughter to see this fabulous movie. I enjoyed the action, the creativity and the humour which all played very well together.  I was very pleased to see a very positive Hispanic influence which will do wonders for all Hispanic kids around the world, but especially in the USA.  I recommend this movie to everyone and take your kids to go see it.   "},{"Title":"Parents will laugh, kids will be awed.","Date":"31 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Parents will be laughing even as they think to themselves Saw that coming, saw that coming.  The Hispanic theme was interesting, and only a distraction when Antonio Banderas spoke.  Teri Hatcher was a hoot, and I could have swore that was Paul (pee-wee herman) Reubens as the kiddie show host.The gadgets were awesome and only one product plug was overly blatant. I have two children of those ages and trying to imagine them in those situations was hilarious. "},{"Title":"What a surprise - It's GOOD!","Date":"30 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I admit it, I only went to the employee screening because I could hang out w/some friends and get free food (lol). I wasn't all too excited about seeing this movie, I'd see the trailers, I'd see the poster, but it looked kind of stupid. Imagine my surprise when I actually liked it! It's one of those movies that, if nothing else, makes you 'ooh' and 'ahh' at what kinds of gadgets they came up with. It was a little predictable, but I could definitely see families going to it and everyone enjoying it. It has things for little kids (i.e. the flooglies and the flushing your poop bits), teenagers (action scenes, takes a jab at kids' tv shows..)and even adults (play a record backwards and you'll hear the words of Satan-type joke). It's almost a mixture of a James Bond flick with a little Home Alone. Go check it out if you're looking for a lighthearted movie to enjoy with your family! "},{"Title":"A lot of fun!","Date":"30 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I really enjoyed Robert Rodriguez's imaginativeness....any kid at heart will give this movie a thumbs up. Thought the kids were both great, especially Alexa Vega... she is really a natural.  The virtual room was really impressive. It was sooo nice to see a movie that was fun for the whole family! "},{"Title":"entertaining","Date":"25 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  i went to see this movie at a free preview with 2 other adult males and my friends 4 1/2 year old son, ben.  ben was too young to understand much of the film and he later told his mom that the film had lots of fighting.i found the film to be entertaining for adults.  not too much dialog and more than enough action.  the plot line is easy to follow and you pretty much know what will happen.  the special effects are interesting and the virtual reality room is neat.i though the spy girl was much better than the spy boy.  but he was obviously younger in age.take your kids and just go have fun! "},{"Title":"Imaginative, Funny, Entertaining, and at Times, Surreal","Date":"17 September 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is an excellent family film, with plenty of action, comedy, and solid pro-family messages for both kids and parents, messages which don't beat you over the head or drip with saccharine. A great mix of fantasy, adventure, James Bondian gadgets, and kid-accessible characters and themes. Director Robert Rodriguez, best known for his ultra-violent films such as El Mariachi, Desperado, and From Dusk Til Dawn, crafts an well-paced, well-told, and highly enjoyable story. I easily sat through this film in the theater, pleased with its impressive production values, acting, story, special effects, and its sheer imagination. I was engaged and interested from the very beginning, as were my kids (4 and 6). I remain impressed by the clearly adult themes (and visuals) of the opening boy spy-meets-girl spy bedtime story, as we slowly realize that the story being told was that of the now boring, predictable, and thoroughly domesticated mom and dad. We've watched this film dozens of times since, and it's still easy to sit through, great fun for both me and the kids. The morals of the story are clear enough to any adult viewer the importance of family and family support, the importance of believing in yourself, and the importance of being open and honest. My 4-year-old son picked up clearly on all three messages, without any pointers from me. By the end of the film, everyone has matured in one way or another, every character has gained insight, and the family is closer than it ever was before. There are great supporting appearances by Cheech Marin and Robert Patrick (Terminator 2), although we sadly don't see enough of either. Alan Cumming as the fanciful and ultimately influential Floop is very enjoyable. Tony Shalhoub is great fun, as he is in any role, as the diabolical master manipulator, initially in the background who eventually becomes the ultimate bad guy, Alexander Minion. His best line, as he takes over I can assure you, it's MISTER Minion now. He gets his in the end, naturally, but it is not unpleasant or gory. It's actually quite comical, and he appears even to accept the final result/punishment he has brought upon himself. There are a number of other celebrity cameos here, including Teri Hatcher, Beavis and Butthead creator Mike Judge as Donnagon, George Clooney right at the end as Devlin, and a very stealthy Dick Clark as one of Floop's financiers. The story of the kids discovering that their parents are spies, having to strike out on their own with neither knowledge nor support, and then using their smarts and talents to take action to regain control of the situation and find their parents is plausible throughout, even when they're flying over the ocean and desert in personal jetpacks and mini-jet planes. We trace the kids from their home into the bad guy's lair, and the journey is easily believable and logical. The gadgets are a treat, from mini-jet planes to personal flying Buddy Pacs to homing devices, electrostatic gum, pinpoint video cameras, submarine minivans, instant McDonald microwave meals, and a totally cool Super Guppy submarine. The best part is that the kids get almost all of the gadgets, and they put them to instant good use defeating the bad guys. There are plenty of good comic bits to liven up the film as well, both jokes and sight gags. The kids act and talk like kids throughout, which adds to their plausibility of the film. The humor is both juvenile and adult, and presented in such a way as to keep the two separate, as they should be. There is no swearing, no blood or gore, no violence (some minor fighting), no gunplay or weapons, no nudity, and no drugs. Spy Kids is original, creative family fare, great for a video/DVD purchase and repeated viewings at home. The messages in the movie are strong and highly positive, yet subtle enough not to overshadow enjoyment of the story, its characters, and their adventures. "},{"Title":"S.P.Y..SPY KIDS","Date":"4 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Rodriguez making a kids film always seemed slightly surreal. The result in many ways is a joy.The actors are competent, and the special effects are basic at best. However, what we have is innovation humour and a film that is a lot of fun. It doesn't patronise the kids, and adults will enjoy big time. "}{"Title":"Hooray, a GOOD family movie, loved it!","Date":"17 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I was beginning to think the worlds filmmakers had forgotten how to make a good family movie. But, fear not SPY KIDS leaps forward to fill the gap. I really enjoyed this movie, as did my wife and 9/11 year old boys and have little or no criticism of it. Good baddies, good Goodies (although my only reservation was about Antonio Banderas in his role) and a plot that keeps it all moving on with a laugh. A good job this arrived in the UK just in time for the Easter Holidays (although with little or no pre-hype) and filled up an afternoon nicely. Well done! "},{"Title":"no interesting story","Date":"13 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  All the actors in this film seem bored. They are not really interested in their roles and the dialogue is all delivered in monotone. It's a problem because I think the basic idea for the film is really very sound. I suppose it's just bad direction which leaves the actors drifting. "},{"Title":"Adventure kid 's classic","Date":"18 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This movie was an excellent adventure for kids that love action and trying to solve mysteries. This begins when the Kortez family who is involved with the United States Government fighting the bad people, have to find out what the problem is and how to solve it. Their children always seem to want to not want to get involved with their parents but now that the kids want to be a family they want to help try to become a Kortez Family. Everything seemed o.k at first but when things got hectic the children were to try to find their parents before it was too late and the bad people capture their own family. Stay tuned to find out can the children accomplish it before it too late. "},{"Title":"How do people think this movie is so good?","Date":"25 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Spy kids was very odd. I mean I like wierd and funny odd movies, but this was just to much.  It was so wierd it became stupid.  One reason was that is had WAY to many gadgets. Yes, I know it was in the future but they have to draw the line somewhere.  One other thing is that the bad guys were just so..... so .... I dont know I cant find the right word for how dumb they were.  I thought of it as little kids movies and what Ive heard about the 3rd one is that it is even more horrible than the first.  And I still dont see how people voted a 7 for it.  I recommend not even wasting your money on this.-famo14 "},{"Title":"Great family film","Date":"25 June 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Retired secret agents (Antonio Banderas, Carla Gugino) are reluctantly called back into service when an evil mastermind (Alan Cumming) threatens to take over the world. When they're captured it's up to their young kids (Alexa Vega, Daryl Sabara) to save them.Turn off your brain and enjoy! Director Robert Rodriguez (who has previously done just violent R-rated movies) turns out a picture that will appeal to adults and children equally. The story moves at a lightning pace, the special effects are just unbelievable and the story and action never gets bloody or too violent. I assume the PG is for one minor swear word.The acting varies. No one is really bad. Vega and Sabara are just OK but they act like real kids and, most importantly, like a real brother and sister. You believe these two are related. Banderas, Cumming and Gugino are exceptional. They play the movie in a perfect light-hearted way--never taking anything too seriously and enjoying themselves all the way. There are also amusing performances by Teri Hatcher (looking fantastic), Robert Patrick (looking good too) and George Clooney (!!!). Basically a fun, fast, enjoyable family film which also teaches kids about believing in themselves without getting too preachy. Well worth seeing. Can't wait to see the sequels! "},{"Title":"Just boring","Date":"28 February 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I couldn't help but look at the time every 5 to 10 minutes because I found this movie a total drag. Childish humor, cheap looking sets, cheap looking effects, a plot that makes Legally blonde look like The Usual Suspects and so many coincidences that I can now officially say that Robert Rodriguez had brain surgery somewhere after 1996. The only thing he left as his trade mark are some cool camera moves, but there's where it ends. OK, so the guy decided to do something new for a change, a children's spy movie. Well if I were 12, I'd feel insulted. The best thing in this movie is the absolutely amazing Carla Gugino that just stole every scene she was in. Sadly, there weren't many. 4/10 "},{"Title":"A Terrible piece of crap with no fundamental talent from the director","Date":"29 April 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Robert Rodriguez just plain out sucked in making this film. It's a complete moron kind of film with no point at all. Who would make a piece of trash movie with just no point in it? I blame Robert on making this, it was just a sucky movie. I think he needs to do action films instead. Also why do kids save the day. That girl is weird and her little brother is annoying and how could he save the day, he's stupid! They should've died and also what is with the thumbs? I had no idea what was going on in it. I got one more question and then I'm done. How can this get a 6.3 rating. It should be in the bottom 100. The only good thing I'd say about this movie is that they have alright inventions but that's it.2/10   "},{"Title":"From blood, sex, profanity and gore to a cheesy version of the &#145;Teletubbies meet Charlies Angels The Movie'","Date":"7 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is really an awful film. There is almost nothing good about it. The music is pretty good. The beginning is OK and the scene with George Clooney in the end is good too. FAST forward the rest, for it is pure crap and a complete waste of time. I mean it is nice to see actors as Trejo, Marin, Banderas and Clooney pay tribute to Rodriguez, who all starred in one of his films before becoming (more or less) of an item (again or not), but they all are mostly wasted here. I hope I'll see Banderas, Clooney, Trejo and Marin in Rodriguez' next though Once upon a time in Mexico. (I'm kind of hoping for Tarantino as well).2 out of 10Post scriptum I know this was a box office hit ($ 140 Million or so World-wide) and I heard they are making a sequel. Well I'd say DON'T. Your luck's gonna wear off someday and I bet they'll fall on their asses. There is NO WAY that Spy Kids 2 will make more than 100 Million Dollars World-wide!!!  "},{"Title":"Not a masterpiece, but definitely some creativity","Date":"5 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I remember seeing this as a kid and really enjoying it. I really wanted to be a spy like these kids. It was pretty funny for a movie directed at kids, too. Was it a favorite of mine? No. Classic Disney movies still had the leash on me. A little while ago I saw this movie again. It didn't give me the thrills it gave me when I was a kid, of course, but I still enjoyed some parts of it. No. It's not a GREAT film. But you can definitely see effort. There was definitely creativity and effort put in this film to get a laugh, to push the story forward, to give characters different quirks and personalities. Even some of the gadgets were pretty cool (like the world's smallest camera and the bubble gum.) Overall, it's a pretty harmless film. You can show it to your kids and they'll most likely enjoy it. The sequels slowly got worse, but if your kids are REALLY into this movie and are just pleading to see the sequels, just show them the second one. The third one was pretty bad, and the upcoming fourth one just seems...well, I'm not going to say anything since I've only seen the trailer, but I don't think I would want to spend money to see it. Sorry. Got off track there. Overall, this movie is worth a rent. It's a good movie to show to your kids on a weekend or something. "},{"Title":"Maybe not strictly for kids, but it still didn't do much for me","Date":"14 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I was in my early teens when this movie came out, and I can't remember exactly how I first heard about it, but I don't think that happened until a few years later. It has now been several years since I first heard of Spy Kids, but I was far from eager to watch it. I knew it was a kiddie spy flick, like Agent Cody Banks, and even though it's been several years since I last saw that 2003 release, I can still remember being put off by its cheesiness. I would probably still be ignoring this 2001 kiddie spy flick if it weren't for renowned cartoonist and filmmaker Mike Judge in the cast, as small as his role here is. This movie generally isn't considered atrocious, but I knew it would be at least somewhat cheesy, so I was not surprised by its overall mediocrity.Gregorio and Ingrid Cortez were once enemy spies from different countries, sent to kill each other, but when they met, they soon ended up falling in love, getting married, and semi-retiring from the spy business. Nine years later, they are now the parents of two children, Carmen and Juni, who are both unaware of their parents' past. The two Cortez parents return to their spy jobs after several other spies go missing, and it looks like a children's TV show called Floop's Fooglies could be responsible! They leave Uncle Felix Gumm with the kids and set out to investigate. The two secret agents are soon captured on their mission, and when this happens, an alarm goes off in the Cortez home and the place is invaded! Uncle Felix tells Carmen and Juni the truth, which is that their parents are spies and he is not really their uncle. The two young siblings manage to escape, and set out to work as spies themselves and save their parents! As well as being an action adventure film, this is also supposed to be a comedy, but absolutely nothing made me laugh, and I guess a couple parts made me smile, but hardly even did that! The Now flushing your poop part is an example of juvenile kiddie humour in the movie, and it's also certainly not amusing watching the conflict between the Cortez siblings, with the name calling and such. The story didn't really grab me for the most part, either. I found the first 25 minutes of the film or so to be consistently dull (including the part showing how two enemy spies just suddenly changed their minds when they met), and later, I did find SOME adrenaline in it, thanks to the action, but not enough to distract me from the flaws. I didn't really care much for any of the characters, and Alan Cumming's performance in the role of Fegan Floop is rather weak. I could tell that this character was supposed to be one of the more comical ones, but he just provides more failed attempts at humour for the already unfunny film. The special effects in Spy Kids are great, but special effects aren't everything.This 2001 kiddie spy flick apparently turned out to be a success, and was followed by Spy Kids 2 Island of Lost Dreams in 2002 and Spy Kids 3-D Game Over in 2003. After a long break, it appears the franchise is about to return with another sequel called Spy Kids 4 All the Time in the World coming up, one by Robert Rodriguez, just like the first three. However, I doubt I'll be watching any of these, as watching the original Spy Kids didn't capture my interest well enough. Now, maybe a 6/10 for this movie wouldn't be too much from me, due to the reasonably suspenseful parts (it may be a bit better than Agent Cody Banks), but in the end, it still left me with an underwhelming feeling. There's a good chance I would have liked this movie as a kid, but many adult viewers have also clearly enjoyed it. I won't say it's strictly for kids, but you should know what you're in for, and it's unsurprisingly a little cheesy. "}{"Title":"Feels like a well planned trilogy, quartet soon, v1.10","Date":"26 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Looking at the IMDb user comments for these features there is variety re which, if any, is considered as the best. At an early stage of getting to know them, I find the first, 2001, as the weakest with the last as the pinnacle. Except that they all contribute to a story that gradually gains strength, with the third as about escaping from a video game world run by the assorted faces of a god like creator, Sylvester Stallone.Background notes re the third, 2003, suggest that this was originally conceived as a separate story so it might be a trilogy by accident, but I find that it works.What is the centre of the series? For me it is the male director cum writer on one hand and Alexa Vega on the other. The flow from kid with a bedwetting problem through activist against an errant male to an age 15 who can sing way too loud on a stage, supported by fluent electric musicians. I find this viewpoint to link this series rather neatly with Sleepover (2004). Also with Alexa's earlier appearance in Nine Months.Accept something like that as a centre, then her screen brother's impressive approach to girls in the series seems a natural follow on, with that linked to how his other attributes are shown.It would be natural to consider these primarily as adventure SF stories but I prefer to consider such as just a fun sort of setting and packaging for this other side. Either could be true. Background notes re the third do show the director writer as a family man who likes to be involved with his kids, play having kids fantasy content? It is not unusual for SF to be a format for considering real world issues. I put this as low budget forays into the worlds of Harry Potter and Northern Lights.That sort of viewpoint comes from watching the trilogy and trying to think things through. Then I listened to the Spy Kids 2 commentary re the music and stuff and smiled. This is a different world.After watching the Mariachi features I find that this series helps explain the big difference between the Mexican start and the Americanisation that follows. All part of a set of political comments? "},{"Title":"What's with all these low ratings?","Date":"5 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Spy Kids is one of the gems of my childhood, along with Back to the Future, Peter Pan, and a crap load of others. But I didn't have the movie on DVD like I did with the sequels, so I rented it, and...... wow, just wow...... Even after all these years, it still holds my attention. The action was intense, the one-liners were actually kind of funny, and the storyline was cliché, but logical. Spy Kids may not look like very much fun, but trust me when I say it's one of the greatest family films in existence! I'd recommend it to anybody who's into intense action, sweet special effects, and funny one-liners, and can ignore its cliché storyline. "},{"Title":"Poignant film. A road map for families struggling with boredom, isolation, and misunderstood identities.","Date":"26 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Personally, I'm transformed. One character spells it out like this, roughly Being a spy is difficult. Keeping a family together is impossible. From now on, whatever we do, we do together. Since seeing the film, these lines haunt me nearly everyday of my life. Hearing these words is easy doing them is honor and joy. And tough.This film not only says these words bluntly, but also imaginatively illustrates how to keep a family together, though the fun may distract you from these themes. A second viewing may help them become more apparent.The production values are very high, although several set and story elements are boldly fantastic.An added benefit for a select few if you are a father with once young, impressionable children who in the ancient past watched Pee Wee's Playhouse, this film will be especially satisfying.The casting for Spy Kids is top drawer. The children, perhaps not the leading performers of the century, are completely well suited for this film &#150; I wouldn't change them for anyone. (You shouldn't either.) The parents are also wonderful. And watch for several other familiar performers &#150; my family are particular fans of Tony Shaloub (Minion). You may have seen Tony in Monk, or Galaxy Quest or elsewhere.Warning &#150; some people have said this movie is dumb. So, if you have no imagination, no appreciation for transcendence or appetite for family unity, if you'd rather throw mud and poke people with sticks, I recommend you stay away. But if you love all that is good, genuinely subtle and clever, too, watch carefully. "},{"Title":"The best movie I've seen.","Date":"26 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I watched this movie a few hours ago and I thought it was brilliant. This is one of the best movies i've ever seen and I am so glad that it won 2 awards but it definitely deserves much more. The action including the fighting was outstanding. Antonio Banderas,Carla Gugino,Alexa Vega and Darayl Sabara were great as playing the Cortez family and I also thought Alan Cumming was good (much better than he was in Son of the mask).2 secret agents (Antonio Banderas, Carla Gugino) have retired but have to go back in business when an evil man (Alan Cumming) threatens to take over the world. Their 2 young kids (Alexa Vega, Daryl Sabara)have to save them when they get captured to save them. "},{"Title":"Why do a lot of people like this trash","Date":"18 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is garbage I mean the first time I saw it I liked it, but the next few times I couldn't stand it. It was on HBO so I watched it. The story is two agents get captured. Then, there kids come go through predictible moments and finally save there parents at the end. I would recommend even Cody Banks over this because at least that one has action and a little comedy mixed in.  "},{"Title":"Near Perfect Fantasy Film","Date":"8 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  First off, this film is under the wrong category.  Although there are action elements, it is indeed a FANTASY.  I mean, it's set in a fantasy world, it includes fantasy characters, and has fantasy ideas.  Some of the other user comments for this movie are just stunning.  Plot twists not realistic?  Logic gaps?  Come on!  The movie is about 10 year old spies with rocket packs, includes characters made of thumbs, voice command toilets, and has freeze dried Big Mac value meals.  Is this the kind of movie where you fault it for lack of realistic elements? Sometimes I wonder if we as adults have just been spoon fed so much unoriginal, formulaic drivel that when we see something like Spy Kids with true creativity and imagination, it's just too much for the senses and we reject it--we think we're too mature for it.Accept the film on its own terms.  It's a great ride--and true cinematic art.  It's going to be appreciated for years to come. "},{"Title":"Look out Mom and Dad, here come the kids.","Date":"15 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This film kind of reminded me of a little known movie called The Rescue.  The plot is similar but just a lot less sinister and more fun.  I liked the comedy additions to this one.  However, the movie seemed to be lacking something.  It just did not seem to be exciting enough for a spy film.  I think the story itself could have use a little more work and this would likely have made the film better.  Over all, worth a look.  (6 out of 10). "},{"Title":"Strong enough for an adult, but made for kids.","Date":"19 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This was a good clean fun movie.I like Terri Hatcher.  I liked her in the Superman TV show.  Her performance in this felt like one of her Radio Shack commercials.  There were times that it was painful.Despite this, I'd still recommend this for anyone with kids.  The movie was definitely made for kids, but is strong enough to hold the interest of an adult. "},{"Title":"CU Film Critic takes on Spy Kids.","Date":"17 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Film director Robert Rodriguez named his three sons Rocket, Rebel, and Racer.   Even if you're not familiar with his brand of intensely violent action films (El Mariachi, Desperado, From Dusk Till Dawn), that should tell you all you need to know about how cool the guy is. The prospect is insane Robert Rodriguez, in my opinion one of the most talented directors of the past ten years, directing a childrens' film starring the phenomenal Antonio Banderas and Broadway's most sought after  star Alan Cumming.  After seeing the tralier, I figured that it was a freak accident due to obscure clauses in these gifted entertainers' contracts. Accident or no, `Spy Kids' is one of the best family films to come around in years.  I hate to sound like every other critic in town, but it's impossible to describe `Spy Kids' without mentioning `Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory.'  With this film, Rodriguez has looked past his previous genre in favor of a colorful, insane film that focuses on the virtues of family values and an active imagination.Banderas  and Carla Gugino star as Gregorio and Ingrid Cortez, two exemplary intelligence agents (though we never really find out who they're working for) who have given up their dangerous missions in order to raise their children, Juni (Darly Sabara) and Carmen (Alexa Vega).  Gregorio and Ingrid have been relatively successful in keeping their children in the dark regarding their true occupations until they accept a risky, yet simple mission To find several intelligence agents who have mysteriously disappeared.Before we know it, Gregorio and Ingrid have been kidnapped by Fegan Floop (Cumming), the eccentric kids' TV show host, who plans to aid the world's takeover with a child robot army. Come on. You know it sounds like fun.Surprisingly, `Spy Kids' is spun off from Rodriguez' segment of the Quentin Tarantino film `Four Rooms.'  Apparently, this film was Rodriguez' brainchild from the beginning;  not only did he direct the film, he produced it, wrote the screenplay, composed a good portion of the music, worked extensively on the visual effects, and did all the editing.  Are you impressed yet?How about the fact that he made a feature length, visual effects-heavy film with a prominent cast for only $36 million?  Keep in mind that the Hollywood average is $45 million, and that the cost for a film this heavy in computer graphics and visual effects is usually upwards of $100 million.  How this was done is beyond me.  The sets and costumes were the best I've seen in some time, reminiscent of `Willy Wonka' and, oddly enough, `The Flintstones.'The most entertaining aspect for me, however, was seeing Rodriguez' ardently distinctive directorial style (along with his trademark Spanish classical guitar music) employed in a film that is, above all else, for kids.  The use of slow motion, distance zooms, and strobing camera angles, not to mention the jerky, quick camera movements during pivotal action scenes seemed just as comfortable here as they did in `Desperado.'True to form, Rodriguez gives the film a healthy dose of his personal culture, and does a great job of presenting the film's Latino theme as a standard rather than a statement.  Aside from Banderas and the wonderfully over-the-top Cumming, the star-studded cast includes the likes of Robert Patrick and Teri Hatcher, and features cameos by George Clooney and Cheech Marin.  With all this starpower, however, it's easy to overlook the real stars of `Spy Kids'- the kids themselves.Corny?  Yeah.  Goofy and mindless?  Of course.  But it's a LOT of fun.  It presents the fantasy landscape, and expects us to believe it and get involved in the story.  I'm gonna give this one a `B+.' If you're below the age of 12 or a Rodriguez fan, it's a must-see.  "},{"Title":"Mini-James Bonds mixed with the best of Tim Burton & MIB FX!","Date":"6 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is just another silly kids spoof on spy flicks....WRONG!Wow, was I ever wrong Rodriguez' chic & slick style blazes-through in this fantastic and engaging adventure for the whole family. The humour is fun for kids and grown-ups, the FX are first rate, and all others in the Comic-Book-to-Movie genre will forever have to live up to this original screen-styling. Yes, Rodriguez wrote this highly entertaining script, but there are enjoyably obvious tributes to the classic superhero comics in the underlying story. This film is an homage that is more than flattering, too it is addictive! I will certainly be looking forward to the sequel. Thanks, Spy Kids, for a great hour and a half of pure escapist fun with great family messages!  "}{"Title":"A great movie with playful performences","Date":"6 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  There's something about Robert Rodriguiz directing style that makes his films so enjoyable,from Desperado to From Dusk Till Dawn  and now Spy Kids has joined the list,from it's playful performences to it's spectacular action sequences,the special effects would be good for an $80m movie,but Spy Kids was made $35m! and add to that the best production design i've seen in a while,this is the kiddies movie of 2001.   ****/5 "},{"Title":"Pretty fun.","Date":"2 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Childish antics are all over SPY KIDS. This movie almost never takes itself seriously, and that's a good thing! It allows SPY KIDS to be great family entertainment. Plenty of silly moments and those Thumb-Thumbs and Fooglies are ugly freaks. Floop himself is quite the oddball, reflecting a more Tim Burton-like creation. With the exception of a sly product placement, SPY KIDS is a fun, good intentioned movie for anyone under eight.The disappearence of four secret service agents prompts two retirees of the business to return and find out what went wrong. Events happen that drag their kids into the thick of it all.SPY KIDS is nowhere close to being practical or logical. The crazy coincidences that our heroes go through is all in good fun. There are some cheesy special effects, not to mention morality issues are shown four-fifths into the movie. SPY KIDS does get a little weird too. But the movie does have legs and would be something the family could enjoy together. "},{"Title":"An interesting and surprisingly decent film!","Date":"24 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Spy Kids (2001) Dimension Pictures 1 Hr. 24 Mins. Starring Antonio Banderas, Carla Gugino, Alexa Vega, Daryl Sabara, Alan Cumming.  Directed by Robert Rodriguez     While retaining all the characteristics of a conventional action flick &#145; Spy Kids' will appeal to both adults and children alike. From its' opening sequence displaying its' rough, taut adventurous look to the subtle transition to our child heroes, this film is incredibly well done and is quite surprising.      Now before we get ahead of ourselves and condone it as being a truly great film &#150; it is not. Yet, my biggest revelation is that Director Robert Rodriguez has been known for lower caliber affairs such as &#145;Desperado',  &#145;The Faculty' and &#145;From Dusk &#145;Til Dawn'. These films to say the least have been violent opuses that have exposed us to one graphic side of Rodriguez. Here it is no secret that he is making a film that his children can actually watch &#150; and furthermore enjoy.       Antonio Banderas and Carla Gugino who receive top billing in the film are cast aside as Daryl Sabara (Juni) and Alexa Vega (Carmen) set out to rescue their kidnapped parents. Apparently, their parents were also spies but since having children, they seemingly have lost their skills and thus setting the plot for a full-blown rescue attempt. Here the context allows these children to utilize rocket packs, beat up on living, walking thumb people  (do not ask) and use incredible gadgets that have all passed through a blue screen.       The delicious Alan Cumming (Titus, Josie and the Pussycats) who is fantastic even in the weakest of characterizations is great as a TV children's show host who is bent on eliminating all spies. The great Tony Shalhoub (The Siege, Big Night) also joins him as his Minion named Minion.     It is apparent that Rodriguez has seen his share of children's fare and that he has done his research when it comes to the children's department. This is a cute little family film that is packed with gadgetry and special effects. It seems that almost every scene passed through some sort of digital imagery processing, resulting in this film containing a lot of eye candy.      To say the least it is well made. And while the holes in this film are pervasive and many, it does not set out to be a masterpiece, but more so a family film that can bring families all together. Need proof? Witness the last line of the film uttered by Alexa Vega's Carmen character. While speaking to their superior, the self mocking George Clooney in a cameo resulting in a successful attempt at leaving a sequel open she states &#145;Spy Work- that's easy. Keeping a family together, that's the difficult part.  And that is the mission worth fighting for'.Giancarlo's Rating **   "},{"Title":"Nice idea, not so great implementation","Date":"22 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Spy Kids takes a neat idea and unfortunately turns it into a pretty mediocre film. The concept, of kids finding out their parents are spies, and then rescuing them with high tech gadgetry, is great. In this case, however, the execution leaves a lot to be desired. The problem isn't with the cast, which is pretty good all around, but with the direction and plotting. In the Bond films, or the Mission Impossible series, or even True Lies (of which this is something like a children's version), there is at least a surface attempt to keep things within some bounds of what-might-pass-for-reality. But here, you have what one previous reviewer appropriately described as Bond-meets-Willy Wonka-meets-Tim Burton. And that just doesn't work.The child actors (especially Alexa Vega) are quite good, Banderas turns in a solid performance, and Carla Gugino is great. But what could have been every kid's dream (finding out your parents are spies and playing with their cool toys) turns into an unfulfilling mishmash of computer-generated fantasy (which usually looks cheesy), ridiculous plotting, and some really disturbing stuff for kids.The moral is good, the Latino casting is good, the concept is good, and there are probably eight or ten GREAT little one-liners or sight gags scattered throughout, but all in all I really can't give this more than a five.Whether or not I'll come back for the sequel depends a lot on what I hear by word of mouth. If Roberto can do a kid-friendly version of True Lies, I'll definitely see it. But if he goes back to morphing Teletubbies and Burtonesque weirdness, I'll have to pass. "},{"Title":"Full of Special Effects and Heart","Date":"22 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This film was chalked full of special effects and the speed of the film was supersonic.  Cinematography and set designs were ingenious.  I can't wait to see the second and wish I had seen the first in the theater before I saw it on DVD.  The characters were believable and relateable to everyones family or childhood in one way or another.  Some good fight scenes even your children can watch!  Watch it with your family it brought a tear to my eye. "},{"Title":"Kids movie for everybody","Date":"12 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Really fun movie.  The first half was great and the second half pretty good, but it's for adults as well as kids.  It would be great to see more movies like this.  Most kids films are just for kids, and who has to take the kids to see these the movies?  Adults!  So, I have high hopes for the sequel. "},{"Title":"Average annoying kids' stuff but with a more wholehearted message.","Date":"6 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Before the review, a brief plot summary Gregorio and Ingrid Cortez seem to be an average couple, with a pair of children named Carmen and Juni, living in an average neighbourhood.  One of Carmen's favourite stories involves two spies sent from different countries to kill the other who met and fell in love.  What the kids don't know is that the story is true, and the characters are them.  We learn later on that Carmen wears diapers at night and Juni is easily frightened and sweats enough to make warts on his hands. One of his favourite shows is Fegan Floop, in which the children's television host lives in a castle with several strange creatures.  And recently, several of Gregorio's old colleagues have vanished, and every time they go missing, a new character pops up on the show.  In reality, Floop is a villain accompanied by mad scientist Alexander Minion, who has built several world leader's children-lookalike robots to help him take over the world.  Floop is secretly more interested in finding the missing ingredient for his show.  And when the Cortez couple get kidnapped, their children must save them and the world, with the help of gadgets made by their uncle, Machete, who hates his little brother, their father.In this film, Antonio Banderas (The Mask of Zorro), Danny Trejo (Con Air), and Cheech Marin (of the Cheech and Chong films) appear together in a film once again (they were all previously in Desperado and will later appear in Once Upon a Time In Mexico).  Trejo cameos as Machete, Gregorio's hateful older brother, and Cheech Marin CAMEOS (strong emphasis) as Felix Gumm, a spy posing as their uncle who has been protecting them for years.  He only appears in about three scenes, I believe.  Carla Gugino plays Ingrid, who is a refreshing change from the tyoical idiot mom.  She and Banderas do well together.Robert Rodriguez tries his hand at making a children's action-adventure flick (and does better then he did in From Dusk til Dawn, ironically every film in which Banderas, Tujo and Marin appear in is done by him), and as unchallenging as writing a script for that audience is, he doesn't do bad entertaining adults.  The opening sequence depicting Gregorio and Ingrid's meeting is well done and exciting.  The special effects are fairly poor, and unfortunatley exagurated on. The characters are generally rather flat, but Floop is interestingly expirimented with as a Willy-Wonka type villian with a soft spot for kids.The subplot about transforming spies into Teletubbie-like creatures is ridiculous, to be sure, but hey, IT'S FOR KIDS.  And the Virtual Room isn't too original, nor is the Third Brain.  Alan Cumming (Boris in Goldeneye)'s potrayl of Floops raised a smile, in obvious reference to today's entertainers.  Tony Shalhoub's character of Minion was a little too cliched.  And of course the brilliant children are played as superior to the adults.I did like the clever spoofs of the James Bond gadgetry.  And Trejo did do a good job at Machete, if his character was a bit inconsistent and underused. His lines were good (We're just brothers.  Cain and Abel were brothers, and look what happened to them.) and the subplot about his relationship with Gregorio will help kids realize why they should love their younger siblings. The acting from the kids was either wood (Carmen) or overracted (Juni) but I think I was wise not to take the film seriously.  The mimicing thing was over the top,  but hey, it's for kids.Unfortunately, I'm afraid it's time to be mean.  The thumb-ninjas made NO sense, are they robots or spies or what?  Some of the parodies are witty, but some of it was just plain annoying (ie the kids leaving the store in tuxedos and shades), the kids sitting behind me yelling Whoa, holy! when Carmen found the international cash, and Carmen saying Oh, shitake mushrooms!  That annoyed me a LOT.Your kids will love it.  Leave your brain at the door.  Don't take it seriously.  It isn't bad, just short and a nice, if somewhat irritating distraction. "},{"Title":"I'm glad I didnt miss it!","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Oh gosh! I wondered what would have happened if Kelly Preston (who was initially chosen to play the mom) would not have given up her role and opened the door for Carla Gugino. I probably would have missed out on one of the most entertaining movies I have ever seen! I am a huge Carla Gugino fan and got remotely interested in this kids movie because she was in the cast. Then I found out more details, and said to myself Gugino? Banderas? LATINOS in a Hollywood movie? All in one? What?! I just could not miss it, and I am sooo glad I didn't! I, a 21 year old, had to see this by myself because none of my friends could even fathom the idea of watching an openly childish movie. It was funny. You should have seen the ticket seller's face when I said One for Spy Kids please... She was basically like Loooser... Not only by yourself, but a kids movie? I realized it didn't matter though, because it made me rediscover the child in me, and thanks to Spy Kids I found a new appreciation for children - and their movies.Sure, it is not Oscar material and there are better children's movies around, but we cant deny that Spy Kids is fun and different. It's refreshing! I agree with a previous post, the Latino flavor was definitely a relief compared to the everyday white-bred movies out there. Being Hispanic, I like the fact that this is not necessarily a movie about Latinos. This is a movie about a family - who just happens to be Latino. It doesn't try to exploit the stereotype like other movies do (i.e. 'The Mexican' ugh!), and gives it that touch of flavor most movies don't have. By adding this Latin twist and bright imagination, we get a nice and unexpected treat. We must admit, now a days, such elements in a film are rare and should be appreciated - especially when presented so well. Bravo for Rodriguez!P.S. And yes, I can't wait for Spy Kids 2! "},{"Title":"Cute for Kids","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie was slightly funny, but not just for adults.  Take your kids to this one.  My husband and I went to see this one alone and felt very unsatisfied with the humor.  This movie was very goofy.  Although some of the tricks up their sleeve (so to speak) were very inventive.  Cute but not that funny. "},{"Title":"The best Rodriguez movie since El Mariach","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie was great. Actings, story, special effect were superb and I loved the speed of the movie.  This movie might have costed far less than Pearl Harbor to make but Rodriguez proves that a good movie is all about imagination and skill rather than money. The best Rodriguez movie since El Mariach. "}{"Title":"Another completely predictable film...","Date":"5 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Like most films these days, there is nothing to this one except special effects.  There is nothing to be learned or gained from watching this movie - just strap yourself in for the wild ride the critics often promise you, turn your brain off, and prepare to be bored by a bunch of dumb computer-rendered gadgetry and your typical disney-esque cookie-cutter plot.  What a boring way to spend an hour and a half. "},{"Title":"Kids only","Date":"24 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  A really good movie for kids, nice effects, story is completely made for children, easy to understand jokes etc.But most adults will feel bored here because there is not much for them in this movie. The story is too trivial and foreseeable for them, the story holes are too obvious, and the message is far too simple. So its very likely that parents will fall asleep watching this with their children.No matter, its a good movie for kids. "},{"Title":"Okay for the kids","Date":"2 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  My kids enjoyed the movie, but I was bored.  There were a few good lines and a handful of funny parts, but the plot was pretty lame and relied on the special effects and gadgets to pull it through.  Still, it hit the center of the bullseye that it was aiming for  it was good for the kids. "},{"Title":"Dont waste your time","Date":"1 October 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Of all the kids movies I have seen over the years this was probably the worst.  I took four kids aged from 7 to 11 and none of them liked it.The script seemed to be based on a Willy Wonka style story but it just didn't have anything to it.If you are considering seeing this movie dont waste your time, it is bad.They are making a sequel, so it may be worth watching to see if they can even make a worse movie, but I don't think it is possible. "},{"Title":"Shame on Rodriguez!","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Wow, this is a really bad movie! O.k., it's supposed to be a movie for kids, but is this a reason for a bad story development (this kind of story definitely had the potential to produce a good movie) and a huge mass of logical errors? I think not. And so did many kids that saw the movie, as I noticed afterwards. There are lots of good movies for children, but this one is definitely not one of them. We all know Rodriguez can do it better, at least in the grown-ups-section. Maybe he should just keep his hands off of movies for children. Anyway, keep your hands off of this movie. You will regret if you don't.Rating 1 of 10, realistically seen still too high. "},{"Title":"WHAT IS THIS???????????","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"17 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is best described with a capitol S, and it's not for,super, trust me. The concept was rather cute, little kids save their spy parents, but the execution was, well, weird. The bad guys live in a virtual world of Thumb Monsters and deformed mutants, which manage to look stupid and creepy all at the same time. Often, the special effects and screen concepts look simply rediculous, the plot turns are stupid, and the characters are 2 dimensional. What could be worse than Spy Kids? The SEQUEL! OH, NASTY!!!!!!!!!! I don't want to think about it, and I am DEFINITELY not going to see it! "},{"Title":"Funny, intelligent and creative-very underrated","Date":"18 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I really liked Spy Kids. I thought it was a very entertaining film, without taking itself too seriously. It was funny, intelligent and creative. What I mean by that, is that there is something for adults and older children as well as young kids. There was a fun script, that was intelligent and funny without being too artificial, and the direction from Robert Rodriguez was surprisingly effective. The plot is original, the thumb people were great fun, the action was fast-paced, the scenery was lovely and the special effects and stunts are splendid. And the soundtrack was awesome. The acting was very good, with Alexa Vega and Daryl Sabara spirited in the two leads and their constant bickering was a delight. Antonio Banderas and Carla Gugino have fun as the parents, while Alan Cumming and Tony Shalhoub come close to stealing the film as Floop and Minion. The film also has a nice message; my only complaints are the rather over-emphasised ending, and I did feel that Cheech Marin and Danny Trejo didn't have enough screen time to shine properly but I did enjoy their brief appearances. All in all, a very underrated and fun movie. 8/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"At a crossroads","Date":"2 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Robert Rodriguez writes, edits, co-produces, co-composes and directs this action fable about a couple of kids who unbeknownst to them have parents who are spies.  However, the parents are kidnapped and it is only up to the kids to save them.  The film has colorful visuals, fun action (not too violent) and is overall a good family film.  BUT, the film is at a cross with me because Rodriguez has made some of the classic action films of the 90's (El Mariachi, Desperado, From Dusk Till Dawn), and it seems strange to me that he feels he has to take this step (kids probably).  Not that I'm putting down his creative visual state for this movie, but when a name like Rodriguez comes up, and is as infamous with 90's indie like Tarantino and Smith, there's a bit of sadness.  So while I do reccomend this film to kids and maybe even parents, the director's hard-core audience (which includes me partially) will be a tad dissapointed.  Stars from previous Rodriguez films come in to play including Marin (who only has one role this time), Trejo (who actually talks, though this role tarnishes his knife man role in Depserado, Banderas who stars as the father, and George Clooney at the end (but no Salma Hayek!).  B "},{"Title":"This is for the kids, not the family","Date":"2 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  As kids movie it is great.  For the family it just sucks.  I was truly hoping for something like the Goonies which is a great film for all ages. This movie was just geared too much to the kids with the silly script and characters calling each other little names like booger breath. ???  Alan Cummings was however a delight.  And why do people compare Willy Wonka to this movie...just because there is a theme song closely resembling the Willy Wonka song doesnt make this film anything like Willy Wonka. "},{"Title":"A disappointment","Date":"17 May 2001","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  My children liked the movie, but I can't say that I liked it at all.  Kind of a stupid kid's James Bond movie.  I wish there were more spying going on and not so much flying.  The movie seemed rather short, also (about 90 minutes?).Too far out to enjoy.  It's a cute plot line - parents are spies but kids don't know it.  Too bad the execution of the idea was flawed. "}{"Title":"Stupid kid flick.  Max age 10","Date":"7 April 2001","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is a fantasy kid flick that is only suitable for those age 10 or less. I was hoping for some drama and suspense and was sorely disappointed to find out this movie is little more than a cartoon show. This movie may be suitable for 4-8 year olds, but this is definitely not a movie for teens or adults. "},{"Title":"Fast.","Date":"24 April 2001","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  'Spy Kids' uses hi-tech means and a busy action adventure to offer an old-fashioned, conservative, pro-family message.  it goes beyond the usual 'family is a sacred and inviolable unit' platitude, and suggests that families have to be worked at, that it's a daily, often violent, even traumatic struggle where nothing can be taken for granted, where enemies and chaos intrude at every corner.Rodriguez seems to parody this message with a sub-plot about a docile army of 'Village of the Damned' robot kids who do the bidding of their master, appropriately a children's TV host, whether for good or evil.  But the essential message doesn't seem to be parodied - the narrative concerns all those favourites in the pro-family genre the father who has to prove himself worthy of his kids; the kids who have to come out of their shells; the realisation that lies and assumed roles are probably not very healthy in a family context; children should follow in the footsteps of their parents, asserting tradition; children's TV is not a good substitute for family contact and communication.From the beginning, the spy antics are conceived as an allegory for family values - the parents' marriage is conceived and disrupted by their careers in espionage; the main narrative concerns the kids' attempts to rescue their parents and restore the home; the denouement is the scene for a family reunion.  There is even a juvenile Oedipal story, where the son manages to surpass a father he was always embarrassed by.There's nothing inherently wrong with this.  Rodriguez wrote, directed and produced the film, so we may assume it's a theme close to his heart.  For all its CGI modernity, the film's movement actually resembles those old live action Disney films about kids-in-peril (e.g. 'In search of castaways'), crossed with the old-fashioned, fetishised gadgetry and outre sets of Supermarionation; spliced, of course, with the more late-20th century likes of 'Star Wars', 'The Matrix', 'Mission Impossible 2' etc., and, hearteningly, the queasy colour schemes and various plot points from 'The City of Lost Children', which might be this film's dark double.As in 'The Matrix', there are some pop-metaphysical pretensions, such as the scene where our heroes fight their evil doppelgangers, but this is part of the conservative message the rupture of the family unit entails a breakdown in identity (see also the transformation of dad into a grotesque puppet thing).In any event, we are free to ignore the message, and enjoy the film's surface (certainly, Rodriguez could argue that his message is explicitely framed as a fantasy, a bedtime story, unrealisable in the real world; that would make the tone sarcastic and in bad faith).  This is underwhelming.Too often the bold flourishes betray their CGI joins, and become the digital equivalent of those back projections in Hitchcock movies. Rodriguez admirably wants to create a world of pure 60s bubblegum artifice, but the fact of 'real' actors force logistical compromises that aren't always pretty.This leaves the story.  The script and characters are too thin, and the action too abrupt, for us to engage in their trauma.  Like the usual Rodriguez film, the narrative is pretty much non-stop action, but because this is a kid's movie, the sanitised, cartoon action prohibits the usual Rodriguez tension between the ugliness of the violence and the beauty of its choreography.  The sets are strange, colourful, but somehow lack inventive vividness.  A Tim Burton would have accessed the story's dark centre; Rodriguez, however, provides an interesting subtext about the lingering racism suffered by the Hispanic children at their WASP school as the basis for their unhappiness. "},{"Title":"Spy Kids","Date":"6 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I had seen quite a few trailers of this film from director Robert Rodriguez (From Dusk Till Dawn, Sin City), and I suppose it was necessary to try it. Basically Gregorio (Antonio Banderas) and Ingrid (Carla Gugino) are two great secret agents masters of disguise, inventors of high-tech gadgetry, and able to stop a war. They are on opposite sides though, and when they finally come face to face, they fall in love, and embark on their most dangerous mission raising a family. Nine years later, after retirement, they have children, son Juni (Daryl Sabara) and daughter Carmen (Alexa Vega), but they are called back in to action, and one by one, their spy colleagues are disappearing. The unthinkable happens though, they disappear, and the only person who can rescue them are the kids! The villain seems to be Juni's TV favourite, Fegan Floop (Alan Cumming), but it is really his egg-headed Alexander Minion (Tony Shalhoub) who has created the race of thumb monster things, and brainless identical robots (including his own Juni and Carmen). Also starring Teri Hatcher as Ms. Gradenko, Richard 'Cheech' Marin as Felix Gumm, Danny Trejo as Isidoro 'Machete' Cortez, Robert Patrick as Mr. Lisp, Beavis and Butt-Head creator Mike Judge as Donnagon/Donnamight, Richard Linklater (director of School of Rock) as Cool Spy and a cameo by George Clooney as Devlin. The special effects were quite good, and the kids will obviously like this film, but I just found it corny most of the time, but a good film. It was number 90 on The 100 Greatest Family Films. Worth watching! "},{"Title":"Entertaining Enough Despite The Flaws","Date":"6 October 2003","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Director Robert Rodriguez once said in an interview  You never know what to expect in a Robert Rodriguez movie  . I beg to differ . DESPERADO and the rather over rated FROM DUSK TILL DAWN were almost live action comic strips as was THE FACULTY so guess what SPY KIDS resembles ? That`s right , it`s a live action comic strip . Mind you both DESPARADO and FROM DUSK TILL DAWN were both rightly awarded 18 certificates while THE FACULTY was a 15 cert and SPY KIDS is a U certificate so despite having a similar style his movies are targetted to widely different audiencesAs I said SPY KIDS is very much a live action comic strip with two kids , Carmen and Juni , trying to rescue their parents from a evil TV host played by Alan Cummings . The movie does have a problem and that`s that the plot is wafer thin and in many places the plot seems to have gone AWOL all together as the film descends into a series of set pieces almost always involving a chase sequence , but to give it credit SPY KIDS never takes itself seriously so therefore never comes across as patronizing which is a nice antidote to the hidously over hyped Harry Potter movie which came out a couple of months later   "}]