[{"Title":"Three of the best actors from their generation shine.","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"61 out of 80 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The Score seems to start off slow for some, but the film's speed is important for the movie. It shows how DeNiro's character lives his life and his life is essential to the plot. One more is what he has been saying for years, but this time he means it and will do whatever it takes to make sure nothing goes wrong. Edward Norton's character gives Bob the most grief because he isn't sure if Norton will fly straight. Norton's performance is doubly magnificent and anyone who hasn't seen this actor in action is missing out big time. Brando delivers about 5 scenes that are right on key and provides some comic relief that fits nicely. Overall a really good film that will leave audiences with their jaws on the floor.  "},{"Title":"Mastering suspense without violence","Date":"3 July 2004","Score":"68 out of 94 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I found The Score a very rare treat in the era of Kill Bill 2 and Die Hard 9. In The Score there is plenty of suspense but very little violence. If I explain this too much, I will spoil. Except for lots of swear words, this is clearly PG-13, and provides a strong lesson in how to craft an action movie without a lot of explosions and gunfights. Plus three generations of Method actors is a real treat, with Brando playful and seemingly content, DeNiro cool beyond cool, and Norton riffing away the whole movie. Regarding DeNiro what's cooler than a) managing a sleek jazz club, in b) sleek Montreal, with c) Angela Bassett as your sleek flight attendant girlfriend?! Rent it soon >> it's a sleeper.  "},{"Title":"Modern Crime Movie Where Acting Takes Precedence Over Action","Date":"21 July 2006","Score":"46 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Excellent acting is the attraction in this low-key heist movie, which only gets into high gear in the last 30 minutes of the two hours, and features some nice twists. Otherwise, it's a bit talky with a few lulls.However, I still found it interesting thanks to Edward Norton's superb acting. His character, Jack Teller was very intriguing. Robert De Niro, as Nick Wells also was good to watch. De Niro rarely is boring. The third major player here is the even-more famous Marlon Brando, who only is referred to as Max. This certainly isn't one of his more appealing roles but then, how many did he play since the '60s anyway? He - like Norton and De Niro - always grabs your attention regardless of the role, too.Set in Canada, there were great shots of Montreal in this film, and a sharp DVD picture to show off the city. For those looking for a lot of action, skip this, but for those who are more interested in great acting, check this movie out. "},{"Title":"Entertaining","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"51 out of 68 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A robber, Nick (Robert De Niro) wants to retire and marry his girlfriend (Angela Bassett).  But a friend of his Max (Marlon Brando) convinces him to do one last job with young brash Jackie (Edward Norton).  Naturally something goes wrong.  Nothing new or inventive here but very well-done and engrossing.  Also it's a pleasure to see three exceptional actors doing good work and enjoying themselves (especially Brando).  Only complaint--Bassett (another great actor) is completely wasted.  Worth catching.  Also, it needs to be seen on a wide screen--director Frank Oz uses the whole screen inventively more than once. "},{"Title":"Standard plotting made better by cast","Date":"1 September 2003","Score":"38 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Nick Wells is a patient, professional, old school thief who works alone.  A narrow escape convinces him that it is time to pack it up and settle down with his casual girlfriend Diane.  However his middleman Max comes to him with a big score worth millions each and begins to try and convince him to do it.  Acting as a downside to the job is Jack Teller, the guy with the insider information who Nick must work with as partners on the job.  Even as trust is built between the three men, little things begin to be revealed that could put the whole job at risk.Very few films are excellent in every regard, some have great plots but low production values where others have multimillion budgets but awful stories.  The Score is rightly sold on it's cast for it as little else to offer an audience other than that.  The plot is overly familiar and, while not bad, certainly doesn't hold any great surprises for anyone who's seen any `one last job' movies before.  The telling is a little slow but holds the attention pretty well, while the job itself is unspectacular but enjoyable.What makes it worth watching over many other similar twisty heist movies is the cast, who manage to make the material seem better by their inclusion.  None of them really have anything special to work with but they all do well and do professional jobs.  Norton is probably the standout of the film as he plays several types of character and is good in them all.  De Niro does a reasonable job without being flashy or looking like he's making too much of an effort.  Brando is OK but now always seems to have a half smile on his face to suggest he isn't taking anything seriously.  I don't understand why Bassett bothered to be involved as her part is very small and doesn't add very much to the film &#150; maybe it was a bigger part in the script?Overall this film is basically nothing new and can be seen in many different forms at video stores world-wide.  The thing that helps lift this a little above the rest is not the plot but the talented cast that have been assembled to run it.  I enjoyed it and think it is worth watching for that. "},{"Title":"Not bad, but...","Date":"22 December 2001","Score":"58 out of 90 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  First of all, I didn't hate this movie. The acting was good, the locations were colorful and interesting, and I wasn't bored. (Even though the plot of the movie moved slowly, each scene was interesting for one thing or another.) But we've all seen this basic plot many times. Sometimes seeing a formula once again can be fun, if it's filled with energy or a different perspective. But this movie just seemed content to present what we've seen before, and add nothing new to them. If you're bored this movie will do, but I don't think it's one to go out of your way for. (P.S. - Fans of Brando and Bassett will be disappointed; not only are their roles very small, but their parts could easily have been written out with no real consequence to the story.) "},{"Title":"conventional but stylish caper film","Date":"20 January 2002","Score":"26 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  `The Score' is a fun, stylish return to the `Rififi,' `Topkapi' school of crime drama.  The object of this particular heist is a 17th Century royal scepter from France that happens to be languishing in the basement of the Montreal customhouse just asking to be taken.  One of the would-be takers is Nick Wells (Robert De Niro), a seasoned heister dreaming of the quiet life of retirement but compelled to do this one last job as a favor to Max (Marlon Brando), an old buddy in hock to some pretty dangerous mob figures. Completing the triangle is Jack Teller (Edward Norton), a brilliant but brash young criminal mastermind whose high-risk temperament is placed in direct counterpoint to Nick's cool, levelheaded demeanor.Perhaps the most amazing triumph for director Frank Oz is his success at pulling together this impressive cast of stellar heavyweights who cut across three generations of movie acting.  Of course, one might wish to see them in roles more demanding of their thespian talents, but we moviegoers will take these three superstars any way we can get them.  And `The Score' is certainly very entertaining on its own terms.  The technical elements involved in the planning of the heist are beautifully detailed from start to finish.  And Oz generates genuinely nail-biting suspense in many sequences involving close quarters and close calls.  In addition, the Montreal setting is novel and fresh and it is enhanced by some very impressive wide screen photography.A film like `The Score' lives or dies based on the intricacy of its plotting and the expertise of its craft.  In both cases, `The Score' excels as an outstanding example of this noble and time-honored genre.  And watching these three acting giants doing their thing in a movie together is OUR well-earned reward.  "},{"Title":"The Score scores big!","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"31 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Yep, it's another clichéd script Career cat burglar Nick (Robert De Niro, Meet the Parents) is about to take on a nearly impossible heist that requires his joining forces with a talented but brash young accomplice, Jackie (Edward Norton, American History X), whom he doesn't particularly like. The dubious alliance, arranged by Nick's longtime friend and fence, Max (Marlon Brando, Don Juan deMarco), throws a wrench into Nick's plan to retire from crime and settle down with his lady love, Diane (Angela Bassett, Supernova).Uh-huh. The old, One more job, then I'll retire, routine. But that's where the routine ends. The trio of brilliant lead actors transcend the plot, and overcome the sometimes sluggish direction (courtesy of Frank Oz, who did Bowfinger and many other comedies -- and children's flicks, such as The Indian in the Cupboard). It's an absolute pleasure from start to finish, just to watch and study these men -- but then, they could probably be taking turns reading the phone book and make it seem  fascinating. (Angela Bassett is excellent too, but she is unfortunately relegated to the one-dimensional, obligatory girlfriend role here.)The score is a big one a 16th century royal scepter worth $30 million dollars. It's locked away in the basement of The Customs House in Montreal, Canada, and security is getting tighter by the day. Jackie infiltrates the House, posing as Brian, a janitor afflicted with cerebral palsy. Norton is flawless in his dual roles (remember his schizo debut in Primal Fear?), and better still, he plays Brian as funny and endearing without ever creeping into caricature-ville. Meanwhile, Nick is figuring out how to bypass the ironclad security system and crack the uncrackable safe. DeNiro doesn't have a lot to do with his character, but what he was given, he runs with. He not only makes you believe the clichés, you like them, dammit. Brando is clearly having fun with his role -- one tailor-made just for him. I wrote the part specifically for Brando, said co-writer Kario Salem. I imagined him as a cross between Truman Capote and Tennessee Williams -- someone of great flamboyance and humor and wit and someone of great size, both literally and figuratively. Brando nails it all the way. (Interesting aside the roles of Nick and Jackie were originally slated for Michael Douglas and Ben Affleck.)The twist ending is given away a bit too early (but then there's another twist), and there isn't anything here we haven't seen before. However, with three generations of the world's best actors on the screen, The Score scores big. "},{"Title":"A Bang of (surprisingly) fresh filmaking","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"29 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The Score is a movie that holds many elements together that makes is a highly watchable and ultimately suspensful crime movie.  These elements are the cast, which has 3 of the finest American actors to ever grace the screen- Robert DeNiro, Edward Norton, and Don Vito Corleone himself, Marlon Brando.  Also though another elements is from director Frank Oz, who is a household name (at least for me) by being a muppeteer since 1963 and has also directed some hits (Bowfinger, What About Bob) and misses (In and Out, Stepsitter).  Now he tackles his first crime drama, and he does it exceptionally well in holding the suspense in a way that will hold it all together, unlike some thrillers that always pop up suspense and by the time the end comes your tired out from it all.  While The Score holds a couple of things also that keep it from greatness (Angela Basset's character isn't really needed for DeNiro's motivations and also the trailer revealed too much of the movie so that the movie had to try extra hard to be thrilling), it also holds controlled and outstanding performances and crackerjack suspense throughout.  One of the few real must-see movies of the summer.  A "},{"Title":"Worth seeing for Brando's 15 minutes of screen time alone!","Date":"16 December 2001","Score":"19 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Although not in the same category as RONIN and impossibly distant from HEAT (what isn't???) this is a superb heist flick for those who really WANT to experience acting at top drawer level!The plot - doesn't matter...ageing safe-breaker De Niro is offered that one last job by Brando who creates in his miniscule screen time, one of the greatest supporting roles I have ever seen in a half century of movies. The scene where De Niro is about to back out of the heist leaving Max (Brando) stranded and with no way out of his financial dilemma is one of the most moving and magnificent verbal exchanges in all screen history! Similarly Ed Norton's turn as the autistic Brian....gives Hoffman's RAINMAN a run for its money! This guy is your once-in-a-lifetime actor.Yes, it is slow...painful at times! The end is predictable and not what you'd call overly memorable..and to be frank, I have NEVER seen so many people walk out of a film as I did during THE SCORE, but that's their loss..this is a terrific film for those with staying power and appreciation. The greatness outweighs the mediocrity! "}{"Title":"Average score","Date":"5 July 2003","Score":"27 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A by-the-numbers heist movie.You won't find anything innovative here.  A veteran thief looking for his last job so he can retire.  A young know-it-all thief.  The bankroller who brings it together.  The girlfriend who wants the veteran to retire.The roles are comfortable, the characters familiar.  At least they're acted well.  De Niro turns in one of the performances he *always* turns in of late.  He breezes through the scenes providing satisfactory drama but doing *nothing* memorable.  You will forget the character's name by the time the credits are done.Brando... I'm not sure why he was in this, other than to place him in a movie with De Niro.  He was fine as the money man but, given his legend, you just expect so much more.Norton did the best.  Maybe he's young enough to still give the extra effort and not just play the role adequately but try to breathe life into it as well.The job itself is also routine.  We have the valuable target.  The nearly impregnable holding spot.  The plans, the tunnels, the cameras.  *yawn*Oh well.  If you just need an evening movie to relax with, this will do. As I said, all elements (acting, story, direction) are fine and you won't feel like you've wasted your time.You also won't remember it tomorrow.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Good acting in a dull story","Date":"1 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Naturally, Robert DeNiro and Edward Norton can't DO a bad job, but the story here is kind of hackneyed and clichéd. DeNiro replays his role from HEAT as a veteran thief willing to retire for his beautiful girlfriend (a pitifully small role for Angela Bassett). Norton plays the young punk wanting to learn at the master's feet. This movie could have been a lot smarter and a lot more intriguing, but it just sticks to the lowest denominator. However, I do now want to visit Montréal, because this film makes it look absolutely beautiful! "},{"Title":"Norton hears a woo!","Date":"18 March 2007","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Now undoubtedly Edward Norton is a strong lead and character actor, but he and DeNiro with the support of Marlon Brando, score big-time in this tale of thievery. I was kind o shocked at Norton playing a handy-capped young man in this as well as he pulled it off. He just stole the show in the midst of the plot too! It was a treat to see Brando and DeNiro sitting talking it out at the bar in the middle of town. The story was an exciting setting-up of a heist that these men are all about. This is their line. On top of the style of the story overall I loved the fact that DeNiro's character owned a jazz lounge club and had a townhouse above it. That would be my favorite type of living arrangement. The deception that Norton's man brought was building for a long time at his job and he being the inside man was looking at being recognized the fastest and overall he was the one that worked in the company not the other men in his crew. So he was the one with his neck on the chopping block if authorities put two and two together. This is a great story that has style and a sharp twist together.I would say, you don't even have to love Edward Norton's work or DeNiro or Brando, for this to be a nice addition to any home collection. Recommended Highly (*****) "},{"Title":"Hit and miss, but some nice acting and late-blooming suspense.","Date":"1 October 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Score (2001)Wow, the last half hour is gripping, exciting stuff. The pace quickens, a bunch of conflicts put you on the edge of your seat, and you actually start caring who comes out ahead in the end.Until then, however, this is a very one-sided heist film. It's supposed to be intriguing because of the mechanics of it. You watch as Robert De Niro and Edward Norton (with the occasional prod from an aging Marlon Brando) plan to steal something worth a lot and heavily guarded. Their motivation is just money, and there is at first a trust issue to solve, but eventually it's all about them figuring out the problem.And so you don't really worry about it. I was vaguely curious, of course, because some fancy thinking and timing was involved. But unlike the granddaddy of these kinds of heist films, The Asphalt Jungle, this lacked both the impeccable timing and pace required, but also some convincing characters. Here we have only two. DeNiro is playing himself, basically, and he's good, though he has a girlfriend and a jazz club that makes for nice backdrop but feels patched on. Norton is another story, because he plays young schemer pretending to be mentally disabled. It's disarming and charming.If you can enjoy the first hour or so and watch the slow building up, and enjoy seeing Brando in a role that seems made for him and little extraneous, you'll eventually get to the heist itself, and it gets complicated and interesting. And intense. At last there is conflict. At last the good guys get in on the act, adding tension. And at last the incipient rivalry between the older and younger crook gets going.The director, Frank Oz, is known mostly for being Miss Piggie and doing other puppeteering stuff over the years. But he's been involved in scores of films and done a lot of directing and this feels well made and shows control if not imagination in the way the story is shown to us. It's more the story itself, a committee affair, that holds it back. And the ideas are mostly well-worn ones from other heist movies (cutting the cameras, getting someone on the inside, discovering infrared beams, getting clever about cracking the safe). But if you have some patience, give it a go. There is a treasure in it somewhere. "},{"Title":"Simply Excellent","Date":"11 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Excellent plot, excellent actors and excellent ending.  I love this movie from start to finish - Ed Norton was terrific (as always) and Robert De Niro was his usual outstanding self.  Don't quite follow the reviews that said this movie was boring.  Sorry, there's no non-stop explosions or car chases, just plain old excellence.   "},{"Title":"Perhaps not exceptionally original, but brought in a very decent way.","Date":"16 August 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Roughly spoken, there are three genres of movies that I love most war movies, gangster movies and thrillers (including heist and crime movies). Next to that I also try to see as many movies possible with Robert De Niro, Al Pacino or Edward Norton in it, so when I came along this movie, I just had to see it...'The Score' is about Nick Wells (De Niro), who decides it is about time to give up his career as professional criminal, since he nearly got caught on his last job. All he wants now is to live with his girlfriend and to manage his jazz club. But than his good friend Max (Marlon Brando) comes along with a deal so tempting that he can't possible refuse. He'll have to steal a priceless French scepter that has been discovered while being smuggled into the country in the leg of a piano. The only problem is that it is being kept in the Montreal Customs House, and that it soon will be returned to France. But Max has one of his men inside the Customs House, the young and talented, but also aggressive thief Jackie Teller (Edward Norton). If they succeed they will never have financial problems in their entire live, but they don't know each other and don't know if they can trust each other...Some call this movie a heist movie like there have been many more before. They say there is nothing exceptional about it. Well, I disagree with that. I admit that the story is far from original, but the good acting and the way it was brought make up a lot. I can understand that many people expected something else, but personally I can only say that I really enjoyed this movie. Perhaps it is because I'm a fan of this kind of movies and because I almost always like the actors that played a mayor role in this movie. It doesn't matter what made me like this movie, I just did and I even give it an 8.5/10. A rating which I don't give very often. "},{"Title":"The Score takes the age-old one-last-heist premise and makes it good again.","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Edward Norton is one of the best actors working today, and Robert DeNiro and Marlon Brando are among the best film actors in history, so it is to be expected that a good film would result from a combined effort from all three of them. DeNiro plays Nick, a veteran break-in artist who is forced to do one last score before his plan to fade into blissfully obscure retirement with his clichéd girlfriend, and who doesn't like the entire set-up from the beginning. Norton plays the characters of Jack (the man who investigated and set-up the heist from the beginning) and Brian (the man who works as a janitor at the building where the priceless scepter is kept, and who pretends to be mentally challenged to avoid drawing attention to himself). You can't help comparing these performances to his similar roles as Aaron and Roy in Primal Fear, which was Norton's second best performance ever, second only to his role as Derek Vineyard in American History X and followed closely by his Jack in Fight Club. Marlon Brando is back to remind the world of what a gigantic, gigantic man he has become. He plays the role of Max, the aging crime lord who has become wealthy and powerful enough so that he can preside over break-ins and take a cut of the final profit without doing any of the actual breaking and entering. The film follows the set-up and the execution of the heist, in which the three men plot to steal a French national treasure, and the plot becomes necessarily thicker as the movie goes on. It is a sign of skillful filmmaking when a two-hour film spends the vast majority of its screen time setting up a heist that we don't see until very late into the film, and it still manages to move along briskly and keep the audience's attention.(spoilers) The heist itself is particularly well done, with several new difficulties coming up even as the heist is in progress (they've already had to deal with the sudden addition of motion detectors and cameras in the basement, after it was finally discovered how valuable that thing is that they found in the leg of the termite-infested piano), including new revelations about the characters themselves. There is a scene where Jack leaves Nick hanging upside down from the ceiling in the basement, and there is really no apparent reason for him to have done this other than to let us know that Nick seems to have some questionable intentions. The heist itself is obviously the most exciting portion of the film, and the tension escalates more and more with every passing minute. First we are on the edge of our seat because Jack is downstairs, turning cameras on and off for Nick, while we know that his janitor friend Danny is waiting for him upstairs, growing increasingly suspicious. Then Danny comes looking for him, and Jack locks him in a basement room, leaving the rest of the night crew to grow suspicious about both of them. The point of no return was passed a long time ago, and it seems at several points that something is going to go horribly wrong and force them to abort the entire thing, but we know that it's too late for them to be able to do that. The film's finale is truly respectable in that it avoids the traditional high action and manipulative shootouts, and we get a great twist involving Jack and Nick.Nick assumingly goes off into the sunset with his girlfriend, who is played by the under-used Angela Bassett, and everyone lives happily ever after except for Jack, now the subject of a massive manhunt, and Max, who presumably gets nothing from the whole deal. We know that this is a focused action film, even if only from the fact that no one in the film has a last name, but it manages to have an interesting and involved plot with several colorful characters, and an ending that is not exactly original but is made to work very well. Good action, good performances, good direction, and an excellent script make this an action film to remember. "},{"Title":"The Score Boredom 10- Movie 0","Date":"10 February 2003","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Alright, I rented this because it had DeNiro, Ed. Norton, and the fat guy that was Jorel in Superman (Marlon Brando for those who don't sarcasm). I wish I hadn't.It starts out with Nick Wells (DeNiro) as master international thief, who is approached by his employer (Fat Guy) about a job in Montreal at the customs house. It seems that smugglers stole this French Sceptre, and customs has it in their basement. Despite the huge payoff, it violates 2 of Nicks rules always work alone, never steal in your home town. You see Fatty wants Nick to work with Jack, a guy who is on the inside pretending to be mentally challenged.They plan and scheme, and that takes up a majority of the movie, with a surprise ending that I had figured out long before the movie's end. I could have took a nap in the middle, and not missed a thing. Just not a good movie despite a strong cast.  "},{"Title":"Excellent history of robber barons resulting in a script perfectly interpreted. Very entertaining.","Date":"2 August 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Nick Wells (De Niro), a professional thief, plans a robbery so complex that it is forced to seek the help of a skilled accomplice (Norton), thus violating the golden rule of his work always act alone. In addition, this blow would ruin Nick plans to leave the world of crime to go live with his girlfriend.It's a very entertaining movie, the pace never flags thanks to an intelligent script, interesting and making action dosed never lose interest in what you're seeing. The twists of the end are great, very thoughtful and surprising, since they never see it coming at any time. As for the performances I think little can be said when you have collected three of the best players in the history of cinema, I think it goes without saying that all three again demonstrate all the talent they have inside (which is a lot) . Pay special attention to the role of Edward Norton. A great entertainment, will have a blast watching it.A film is a climate, a barrage of images and sounds in consistency, and if all this we add a great share of suspense and tension, we conclude that this film is a little gem of cinema. It only remains to point out the perfect performances of Edward Norton, Robert De Niro and (although in a brief role) Marlon Brando. In his words, his looks, walking ... is a party, a pleasure to see them perform, transforming each character in a sublime act of credibility. History also maintains its pace, with an ending perhaps easier for thriller lovers, but at least, expected by most viewers, who are driven by surround action, slow, steady and great skill and forcefulness.The score has a convoluted argument, entertaining and even a few surprises. It is also an incentive check the acting duel between two different generations excellent actors like Robert De Niro and, especially, Edward Norton (his paper simulated of poor is splendid, showing his versatility as he did in films like The two Primal Fear and American History X ). And if we add the brief but significant interventions Marlon Brando (last work, in life, the Duke as he called Truman Capote) and Angela Bassett fair appearances, we can say that this movie lacks nothing. "},{"Title":"Underrated Heist Gem","Date":"28 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Score is an above average heist movie focused on a master thief (Robert DeNiro) who accepts a job which forces him to take on a partner (Edward Norton) and break all of his own rules of doing business for the possibility of a big payoff. Both of the leads are very convincing in their roles, particularly Edward Norton, who really plays two completely different roles here. Bringing them together is Max, well played by Marlon Brando, in what can be considered a cameo role. Once the caper begins, the tension builds steadily and the plot twists begin, leading to a very satisfying climax. The jazz-inspired score fits the movie well and is reminiscent of those from the great 70's caper flicks. The film's only flaw is the slow-moving romantic-interest plot, which really isn't necessary anyway. It would have been more effective the filmmakers had focused more on the planning and execution of the heist in even more detail and found another way to frame the film (perhaps using the Brando character), but all in all this is a very good Heist movie with a rich payoff ending. It is a fabulous looking movie as well, with noir-ish, rich, dark tones. An old fashioned caper, carefully made, this is what going to the movies is all about, or should be. "}{"Title":"Basic crime thriller with an incredible cast","Date":"8 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Did you like The Score? Well, so did I actually. It's a pretty great film and a nice effort from Frank Oz - the comedy director behind What about Bob? and Bowfinger. But just for an amusement let's make a little test. Think about this movie and don't change a slightest detail about it. Only replace Robert De Niro, Marlon Brando and Edward Norton with three totally unknown actors. Would the film be even half as good? Not necessarily. Truth is this movie works only because of these three fine men. This is the first time two ingenious Hollywood veterans, 58-years old Robert De Niro and 77-years old Marlon Brando are finally sharing the same film. When both legends are in the same picture together screen seems to be almost overloaded with charisma. Edward Norton who had a splendid performances in The People vs. Larry Flynt, American History X and Fight club is once again incomparable. But the film itself has nevertheless very usual, even surprisingly standard crime story. The most interesting fact about the actual movie is that it has practically no violence whatsoever. Nowadays it's a rare quality in a thriller. "},{"Title":"Amazing Cast Makes The Score an Excellent Film","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The Score is a near perfect film. The out-of-this-world cast, the subtle direction, and the over-achieving screenplay are the major reasons why the movie works so well. Master thief Robert De Niro is about to retire to marry girlfriend Angela Bassett. However, long-time friend Marlon Brando and cocky youngster Edward Norton have their eyes on a priceless French sceptre that is just too good to pass up and they need De Niro's help in stealing it from a Montreal museum. So De Niro decides he will take one last score, but success is not guaranteed and there are risks abound that all the major players must overcome. How could The Score not work? Marlon Brando was the greatest actor of his generation, Robert De Niro is the greatest actor of his generation, and Edward Norton is destined to be the greatest actor of his generation. They could talk gibberish to each other for 100 minutes and the film would still be watchable. Instead they have a script that is not excellent, but is just good enough to work with great actors in the key roles. The same is true with director Frank Oz. He has had a rather ho-hum directing career, but the cast makes him look outstanding. Brando and Bassett are perfect in somewhat limited action (neither has more than 15 to 20 minutes of screentime). Robert De Niro continues to dominate the industry as he has since the mid-1970s and Edward Norton just continues to grow as an actor with each film credit. An excellent film that should be recognized come Oscar season. 5 stars out of 5.  "},{"Title":"De Niro, Brando, Norton and Bassett Bring It To Life","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  	No matter who you are, where you go or what you do, it seems that life is always waiting with a new lesson to teach you; sometimes it's a matter of experience versus youth, other times it's just a matter of having the sense to follow your own instincts.  Whichever it is, sometimes it can get really interesting-- to say the least-- especially when it involves a couple of interesting guys; one who just doesn't know enough, while the other violates a cardinal rule he's already learned but chooses to ignore.  And the fact that they've been brought together by a third party who has his own agenda makes it even better, which is what happens in `The Score,' directed by Frank Oz and starring Robert De Niro, Edward Norton, Marlon Brando and Angela Bassett.  	Nick Wells (De Niro) owns a jazz club in Montreal; he's a solid, tax-paying everyday citizen.  He's also never met a safe he couldn't crack.  At least in his own territory.  Part of his success is that he's smart-- his extracurricular activities always take him across the border, to either the U.S. or Europe.  At home, he's clean.  And that's his cardinal rule  You live in your own country, but take down scores elsewhere.  It's one of life's lessons that has served him well.	One day, however, his associate, Max Baron (Brando) approaches him with an offer he can't refuse.  It involves the Customs House right in his own backyard, Montreal.  Max, it seems, has an inside guy there, Jackie Teller (Norton), who knows the layout and also knows of a certain item kept in a certain safe that if appropriated could set the three of them up for life.  Or perhaps send them up for life.  And that's the rub.  When does the value of the score finally outweigh the risks?  It's a question Nick has to answer, and quickly, because he's the key to the whole operation and Max is in a hurry.  Jackie can get them in, but Nick's the only one who can open the safe.  So the ball is in his court.  But the risk is huge, and Nick's got a lot at stake-- like everything he's worked his whole life for, as well as the woman he loves, Diane (Angela Bassett), whom he's been keeping in the wings for too long already.  It's a tough decision, but this one more score would set him up for life, and it's practically a sure thing.  And who can pass up a sure thing, even if it is one of the basic lessons life teaches everyone somewhere along the line  There's no such thing as a sure thing, and If it looks too good to be true, it always is.	Working from a clever and exacting screenplay (by Kario Salem, Lem Dobbs and Scott Marshall Smith), director Oz (with some uncredited help from De Niro) sets the stage for the caper nicely, giving you time to get to know the characters and what makes them tick.  From the opening he sets a deliberate pace which works perfectly for this character and dialogue driven story, because it's the people and the decisions they make that gives what they do an impact, and ultimately heightens the tension that builds quickly as the crime is being played out.  Throw in the fact that there's a couple of unexpected twists along the way, and it makes for quite a show.  Of course, having one of the most exciting casts ever to be assembled for a movie didn't hurt Oz's efforts either.  Having three of the greatest actors of their respective generations together in a film, then supplementing them with the beautiful and talented Angela Bassett takes this project to a level for which a category hasn't even been created yet.	With another impeccable performance, De Niro continues to delight and amaze.  He can take a basically regular guy like Nick (okay, he's got some interesting habits, like cracking safes, but other than that he's just another guy) and make him unique and interesting, beginning with the attitude and working his way from the inside out to create a complete character, emotionally and physically.  It's that chameleon quality, that ability to disappear so completely inside the character that sets De Niro apart from just about every other actor you'll ever see.  And, ironically, one of them just happens to be his co-star here.  His name is Brando.	Since he began his career, Marlon Brando has been larger than life and an actor's actor.  He's always been a character actor in leading roles, but now, with age, his ability to create a genuine character, to bring someone to life on the screen, is better than ever.  There's a richness to his portrayal of Max that is totally affecting; he's become the Sydney Greenstreet of the new millennium, and hopefully we'll see a lot more of him in roles like this one.	And proving that he can more than hold his own with the giants of his profession, Edward Norton turns in a credible and totally convincing performance as Jackie.  Of all of the stars of this generation, Norton just may be the heir apparent to his co-stars here.  It's a rare treat to see three actors of this caliber together, and that alone qualifies this film for a footnote in cinematic history.	Angela Bassett makes the most of her limited screen time, meanwhile; her scenes with De Niro really click, and there's some undeniable chemistry between them.  Her part may be fairly small, but it's the relationship between Nick and Diane that enhances the drama of Nick's final decision, and that makes it a big part of `The Score,' and one of the reasons this is one film you do not want to miss.  I rate this one 10/10.      		     "},{"Title":"But the handbag designer is very good. . .","Date":"24 October 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Amnesia has a lot to answer for, if you could but remember the question. The question here is did anyone even remotely connected with 'The Score' remember a guy called Dassin and a movie called 'Rififi'? Or even the original version of 'The Thomas Crown Affair'? Answer no - otherwise this witless effort would never have made it to the screen.Of course, it's already famous in its unique way the first film ever to give a credit to a handbag designer. Lana (who she?) Marks, apparently. Handbag Designer To Angela Bassett. Well, there's something to talk about anyway. That and the fact that whoever green-lighted this dross for production must live in a round glass bowl and eat small dry pellets three times a day.There's no story. There is, however, an unending chain of clichés. An old hand at the game teamed up with a young up and comer. An old hand who is going to make it his Last Job. A lady who says I cannot love you unless you pack it all in. Oh, and a twist in the tail (actually, it's less twist time as desperation time, as if everyone has suddenly awoken to the fact that the film has had nothing to say, done nothing to entertain. . . and it's, er, over).What Robert De Niro is doing in something that might once have played as a Made for TV outing - though would hardly make the grade now - is bewildering. Ditto Edward Norton. Yet neither seem aware that they're in service to a script so devoid of meat it wouldn't even upset a vegetarian. And as for Marlon Brando, well. . . As for Marlon Brando. Long ago there was a great actor living within a fine and vital physique. Now there's a mumbling self parody, devoid of grace, wit and dignity. A large black cloud passing overhead might not cast as big a shadow over a movie as Brando does but the effect is the same. Witnessing Welles' peculiar decline was bad. Brando's is well-nigh unwatchable.The plot, such as it is, concerns the theft of 'a priceless sceptre' - well, it would be, wouldn't it? - which has somehow turned up in Montreal (never clearly explained) and which Edward Norton has learned all about (again, never explained). Someone else wants to buy it (er no, never explained, nor how you can put a price on the 'priceless') so cue an exhaustingly lengthy pre-robbery build-up in which nothing happens except you realise how much better Bogart had it in 'Casablanca' (oh, sorry, de Niro is running a jazz club. Well there you go. That's plausible then, for a fulltime safe cracker. Isn't he stiffing enough out of the drinks?)As the narrative sags lower than even Mr Brando's belly, there's a sudden rush to introduce a new dramatic element suspense!! Because it now turns out that Brando has to have De Niro get the sceptre otherwise Brando won't get any money and so won't be able to pay off his debts to a wicked mobster.That this script element was drafted in at the last minute -- though remained just that a draft - is apparent from the investment made in fleshing out the visual elements of Brando's motivational setup. Enter a big Mafia boss played by a major league star? Well, no. OK. How about Brando being tormented by a minor league star (but still a Big Mobster). Sorry, wrong again.Instead, here's $10 for the cost of a scene with two men sitting in a parked car outside Brando's house. And that, er, is that. No expense spent. The heavies don't even get a speaking part. Perhaps they were handbag designers.The saving grace of all this might have been the robbery itself, but it isn't. Norton breaks off from Dustin Hoffman Rain Man impressions to control a computer keyboard - well, there's a crucial scene witnessed in only 50,000 movies before this one - whilst De Niro hangs around like a bat doing Tom Cruise impressions above a safe that's uncrackable but obviously isn't.In fact, it has to be easy to crack because everything else so obviously is in this movie to get the Top Secret unlock codes to the huge and vastly complicated security system protecting the safe, De Niro and Norton have to go as far as. . . meeting a man in a park and buying the information off of him.Excitement? Phew. The sweat will pour off you.(And how did they get to meet the man in the park anyway? Well, guess what. De Niro is in telephone contact with a computer geek who sits in a room surrounded by PCs and does nothing but hack into other people's systems all day long. Original? Gosh. That's only been in 30,000 movies before this one).'The Score', then, is trite and tired from beginning to end, an embarrassing waste of time for all concerned and especially any viewer daft enough to have paid to see it. Linear of construct, it proceeds from A to B and then runs the full emotional gamut to, well, C, stopping off en route to prise free as many clichés as possible from as many movie safes it can find in the picture's 26 hour running time (or so it feels like).The music's pretty awful as well composer Howard Shaw evidently fell asleep after the first bridge, so that the score is as bad as every other score chronicled in this film -- monotonous, repetitive, unoriginal. And Frank Oz's direction matches it all the way.Strangely, some of the critics liked it. But then, they're probably all very young and wouldn't know a Rififi from a ruffle.And they're all goldfish.Score not worth rating.  "},{"Title":"An Awesome Movie.","Date":"26 March 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"    The Score was an awesome movie that everyone should enjoy! The movie is a non-stop crime/thriller that keeps you on the edge of your seat. The brilliant Robert De Niro did a wonderful job here, as always, and Edward Norton, Angela Bassett, and Marlon Brando are all brilliant. This is a great movie. I give The Score a 10 out of 10!!!  ) "},{"Title":"Inferior in every concievable way","Date":"13 August 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Absoultely horrible movie.  DeNiro  has been coasting along for about 6 or 7 years on the fact that he's DeNiro and doesnt even try to act . Brando has a  I'm Brando .. see me act !  attitude while Norton is good but this is definitely not his finest hour .  If you wanna see a good movie of this genre watch HEAT and forget his film ever exsisted .  "},{"Title":"Not a big deal despite cast","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  What's the point of having a 'dream' cast when they are mostly sleep-walking through their roles?  DeNiro has a CALM screaming scene with Norton?  Back in his day, he would've turned the room upside down.  Brando, at first, looked like he was doing a Truman Capote imitation, ascot and all, but then seems to have changed his mind.  Edward Norton delves into Arnie Grape territory with his janitor alter ego, but Leo still did it better.  Angela Bassett is along as The Girl, as she has no identity outside DeNiro.  She also doesn't seem to be having the time of her life. In all honesty, the movies best moments were provided by Jamie Harrold as a computer geek/nutcase who helps DeNiro out.  He lives in cyberspace and, unfortunately, his mother's basement too.  His character was by far the most interesting in the movie and the crowd I saw the movie with appreciated him too.  At least he was alive.  Congrats to Jamie, who I'd seen in 'To Wong Foo' as a stutterer, and in 'Erin Brockovich.'  To make an impression in a movie with three generations of screen giants, he does the near-impossible by making a huge impression..on this viewer, at least.The movie had one good twist but was nothing new.  6/10. "},{"Title":"Score Two to One","Date":"23 December 2001","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Spoilers herein.The director is a nothing; the story at the Hardy Boys level. The only reason for this to exist is to get some leading method actors of three generations together.Brando reinvented film acting, but was already burned out by &#145;62. The Godfather deal was a walk, not an adventure for him. And since then, an empty husk. It is sad to watch him here.De Niro is a disciple only, not an innovator. He has successfully filled a narrative space a few times, but in the relatively simple case of playing a tough or disturbed guy. He's long over the hill too. Not a matter of burnout in his case, but laziness. De Niro still breaths fire, has good rhythm, but with no magic.Norton is not only of a new generation agewise, but a practitioner of a new method, one which fills the narrative space with irony, not the direct perspective of the other two. More sustainable because he can reflect us into the space. De Niro depends on putting himself in that space, and he is just not an interesting enough man to fill the dozens and dozens of roles he passes through.`Fight Club' understood this new method, literally building it into the narrative. The writer and director of this mess have no clue. Brando discovered this on showing up and refused to participate. Both he and De Niro know what is going on and gracefully give Norton leeway.One sign of a good actor is what he does when the director or writer is so weak. A good one will fill the spaces that the director cannot see with presence that we can. (The best recent example of this in my experience was Gwyneth Paltrow (!) in `Duets,' directed by her Dad.) "},{"Title":"De Niro, Norton, and Brando had mortgage payments.","Date":"10 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Slick but formulaic heist movie with obligatory twist thrown in at end. This is De Niro, Norton, and Brando simply cashing paychecks. Nothing really wrong here, but nothing compelling either--basically a throwaway film that doesn't hurt badly to watch. I needed a film to satisfy a wide spectrum of tastes, and this innocuous production was perfect, although I might never have watched it if I were alone. If you have nothing better to do, this is pretty much like a really well-made made-for-TV movie--it won't bother you, but it's a long, long way from great art. "},{"Title":"Just watch the second half","Date":"29 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Score is about a hardened thief (DeNiro) who gets cajoled into doing 'one last job' by an up-and-coming criminal (Norton). That's about that. The plot isn't anything to sing about, but we watch it anyway because of the impressive casting (not to mention Marlon Brando as a mob boss).I found much of the first half pretty dull. It's all 'scene setting' and I was getting pretty bored. However, it all picks up the pace when they finally get round to pulling off the heist. The second half of the film is much better than the first. I know many people will say that the film needed the first half in order to build up character and get to know them, but, personally, I found that you could probably start watching the film about an hour in and still get everything out of it.The second half of the film makes it all worth watching. There's plenty of hiccups along the way of the heist and it definitely isn't all plain-sailing.If you enjoy the whole film - fair enough, but if (like me) you were tempted to turn it off, my advice is don't - it definitely gets better! "}{"Title":"Score Definitely Scores","Date":"16 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Nick Wells (Robert De Niro) is an experienced professional thief and has his eyes on retiring from the game and settling down. However, when Max (Marlon Brando), a long time acquaintance, comes to Nick with details of a score that is worth millions, Nick decides to do this one last job. The reward...a priceless French scepter which is being kept under lock & key at the Montreal Customs House. Jack Teller (Ed Norton) is Max's inside man for the job and has been working at the Customs House as a mentally challenged man who goes by the name of Brian. Working together, they have to put aside any differences they have to enable them to pull off the biggest heist they have ever done.I first saw The Score when it was released 13 years ago and it may not be the most original movie out there - a heist movie with various plot twists & turns and trust issues between the main characters - but that doesn't stop it from being a great movie.The pace is good and even though there are a fewer, shall we say, slower moments to break up the main story, they are necessary and they don't ruin the overall pace of the film. The story develops nicely as the film goes on, building up suspense and tension for the main heist scenes.De Niro and Norton are excellent together here, especially when Norton plays his two characters going from Jack to Brian and back again. De Niro plays these parts superbly also (well, he plays any part superbly really) and plays them in such a way that even when his character isn't saying anything, you can see that he's calculating things out instead of just sitting there with a blank look on his face.Overall, this movie is a must watch and if you love heist movies and movies like Ronin, Heat, and Usual Suspects then you will love The Score. "},{"Title":"3 great actors in less than stellar heist movie","Date":"20 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Nick Wells (Robert De Niro) is a safe cracker living in Montreal. He's almost caught in the last caper and now his fence Max (Marlon Brando) tells him that the buyer is dead. Instead Max has a possible $40M job at the Montreal Customs House. Nick never does a job in country and he wonders if he should retire. Nick's girlfriend Diane (Angela Bassett) is a flight attendant. Jack Teller (Edward Norton) is the inside man. He's been pretending to be a mentally challenged janitor for 3 weeks. He surprises Nick on the street and Nick's not amused.The movie has 3 great actors and they should be able to chew up the scenes. However this is not very intense. That's deadly for a thriller. I can't pinpoint the exact problem other than a lack of tension. It could be the editing, or the lackluster music. I have to blame most of it on director Frank Oz. This is not his genre. He doesn't do action thrillers unless there are puppets involved. This movie could have worked 20 years ago but this genre should have more excitement. "},{"Title":"Flimsy script pumped up with premium cast not much to thrill you","Date":"6 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Frankly this is the kind of movie you can watch while doing something else. I am not into that kind of bored entertainment, but some like it to support them while executing some chores.Right from the dispensable prologue The Score drags its feet. Exposition takes forever this prologue (about 6 minutes, but it is actually stretched over the credits and beyond the 12min mark) only establishes De Niro's character. That is simply unbelievable. Maybe some brilliant filmmaker can come up with ideas to make this kind of exposition interesting, but here it is so pedestrian. We only stop short of following De Niro to the loo. But to me the worst is the overblown character played by Marlon Brando who is introduced right after we know exactly who De Niro is. Brando is hamming it big time, totally on the loose, and De Niro just waits for it to end, knowing he has much more screen-time anyway.By the time you get to meet Edward Norton you already wonder if someone around ever learnt about ellipses. Fortunately Norton does a great job of fleshing up a character that is just landed here to help with the story. In a way we are fortunate they did not start to unwind a couple of back-stories... well, there is the one with Angela Bassett. Seriously, I don't know why this flimsy script was picked up by this bunch of otherwise talented people, but without them it would have gone direct to video.Heist movies are pretty formulaic. The heist itself can take up only 10 to 30 minutes, so creativity lies as much with how you build up things around as with the idea for a somewhat original robbery. Throwing in the mix a seasoned safe-cracker, his agent, his girlfriend and some random wannabe is not enough, it makes it to much look like a version of everyday life. With The Score flying so low we hardly believe the stakes and the risks, and so there are no thrills. "},{"Title":"Considering the cast, it's all a bit underwhelming...","Date":"30 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" There really is nothing wrong with The Score, though, for that matter, there really isn't a lot right about it either. Considering that the film is Marlon Brando's last and it also stars Robert De Niro and Edward Norton, I would have expected some magic. Instead, it's a mildly entertaining heist film. It also has a performance by Norton that is bound to offend many.Nick Wells (De Niro) is an aging thief who wants one final score before he gets out of the business. His bizarre buddy, Max (Brando) contacts him about a great heist--a jewel-encrusted golden scepter. However, Nick will have to have a cocky (and annoying)young partner, Jack (Norton)--and Nick is obviously not happy working with the guy.As for Jack, he's a guy who thinks long term. He took his present job some time back in order to infiltrate the place. And, since being hired, he has behaved as if he has cerebral palsy in order to convince everyone he's harmless. Little do his co-workers know that it's all a brilliant (and politically incorrect) disguise.To me, the film never piqued my interest and never made my pulse change a single tick. Some of this might have been due to Brando's weak performance, a bit of irritation about Norton behaving as if he's mentally challenged and a very ordinary plot. All I know is that I didn't hate it nor did I like it. "},{"Title":"We know the score","Date":"23 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Score isn't something I'd put on my hit parade of films. May'be cause most of it has been done all before. All four players are great, especially Bassett who's performance rises above the other three, who are bloody great actors don't forget. What we've got here is professional thief, De Niro, and you'll love the way he works, being suckered in to do one last job, surrendering to temptation, a big score that will set him up for life, where his thieving days are truly behind him, and lets face it, he's not getting any younger. An impulsive young punk, (Norton) full of initiative, who doesn't liked to be warned off. De Niro, reluctant, to work with him, eventually does, and the big score is set, Norton, amusingly funny, feigning retardation while working at the building they're gonna rob. The big twist comes up near the end where like De Niro, underestimated Norton, it's becomes vice versa, where everything works out sweet for Deniro, his relationship with girlfriend Bassett, kind of mirrors the one he shared with another black woman in 15 Minutes, before he was so suddenly and shockingly disposed of. Nonetheless The Score is still very entertaining, but it's a nothing new story, hiding behind style, and that, to make it look better than it is. We know the story and where it's going, save for that twist at the end, that gives it a bit more merit. This was Brando's last pic, where to be honest, from the physical state of this weathered and wrinkled man, it was almost a silent goodbye signature to a legend. And Norton too helps in the humor department with his little dog and pony show was fun. Watch for Timothy Hutton in one scene, exchanging information with Deniro, where too Robert has a computer whiz kid, who feeds him stuff which makes for another thankful and funny scene. Change of Pace for Director Frank Oz, who I must say impressed me with this one, trying new directorial waters. "},{"Title":"Effective heist movie and a nice representation of Montreal","Date":"19 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" While not a spectacular movie, The Score does a nice job of providing a good heist story and unexpected plot twists. On the downside, the actors don't seem that interested in the movie they are playing in.As a Montrealer, my main interest in the movie was seeing how the city that I love and live in was filmed by director Frank Oz. I was impressed. The movie depicts a very accurate portrait of the city and its culture. We are treated to beautiful shots of the Old Port and the downtown skyline. The maps of the city (read at some point by the main characters) make sense. Overall, the film doesn't make any noticeable mistake concerning the look and feel of the city. However, the viewer should note that even though it is the main part of the city that we see throughout The Score, the Old Port is only a small neighbourhood in Montreal. Those brick roads and old buildings don't stretch on dozens of miles! Nonetheless, it makes a lot of sense that a rich American businessman lives there and not in some other parts of the city. Overall, we are far from some other movies that merge shots of Montreal and Quebec City and pretend it's the same place when these cities are about 200 miles apart.On the culture side, characters switch from English to French back an forth, which is very common in some parts of Montreal. De Niro, Norton and Brando speak a very good French, even if they don't do it often. It is nice to hear many side characters speak French. I do have a few gripes. Albert and Jean-Claude are not common names at all among Quebecois men, except those that are ages 50+, so it is kind of weird to see two young waiters in the same bar bear those names. And I don't really understand why two francophone security guards would have a conversation exclusively in English. My guess is that it is to accommodate the majority of the film's audience.I would recommend this movie if you are in the mood for a simple, pure heist movie. There is not much drama nor much character development but one the action kicks off about halfway through the movie, it is pretty entertaining. "},{"Title":"Somewhere inside, a better movie was waiting to get out","Date":"12 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" While watchable, The Score was ultimately disappointing. I felt a much better movie could have come out of the plot premises, which were genuinely engaging.The real question for me, which the film left unexplored, is why does a man who has such a lot (tasteful flat, successful restaurant and jazz club, girlfriend he obviously loves, lifestyle in Montreal he evidently enjoys) risk everything to carry out one last job, in the process breaking all the rules he has set himself about not operating in his own backyard, taking unnecessary risks, etc.? If the producers had saved some money on Brando's salary - he is wasted here - and spent it on a writer who explored the characters more thoroughly, a better movie might have emerged.Incidentally, I am not sure the plot ending hangs together. Could Nick really get away so cleanly? Assuming the authorities ultimately catch Jack, won't they cut him a deal where he splits on Nick to reduce his time? How is Nick going to explain where he got the funds to pay off his loans on the flat and club (the only motivation offered in the film for his participation in the heist)? This loose end could have been avoided by letting Nick escape the scene of the crime without leaving evidence of a second thief, thus setting up Jack as the sole suspect.At a deeper character level, will his girlfriend really believe he's given up criminal activity for good this time, seeing as he's just clearly put it above his relationship with her? You can say these are misguided questions about a heist action movie, but my point is that The Score could have been a cut above this. "},{"Title":"Quality Ingredients, but not such a tasty movie....","Date":"8 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Like the majority drawn to this, it was the trio of mega-stars that made one wonder why haven't I heard of this - what's wrong with it? Well. there's nothing vastly wrong with it, except that it could be - and should be, better.Brando IS underused, but he was doing very little acting then and probably demanded huge fees for the part he does do but he certainly lends heavyweight credence to both the cast list and line up of characters.Robert De Niro, in my opinion, is rather ordinary, for him. He has no real persona, he's too Mr Average. Sure, he can't be menacing psychopath in everything but one's gaze on him isn't glued, like it should be. Edward Norton, though is and in a way it's his film.The scenario, set in Montreal, concerns Nick (De Niro) an OK off jazz nightclub owner who has a chequered past and his lady, Angela Bassett, wants him to mend his crooked ways and retire from his dodgy dealings. Nick's business partner, Max (a suitably named Brando) wants Nick to pull one last big one, snatching a rare French antique sceptre holed up in the City's Custom House. On the inside is Max's young prodigy, Jackie (Norton) who fools everyone there that he is retarded and thus gets their acceptance that he is of no threat.Now, there are seemably loads of heist movies and this is just another one of them, unless you're really into such. Unless so, it's just nerdy guys hacking into computers and things going wrong. Then, they meet up and decide to have another go and this time it works, but gets complicated. One of them runs off with the loot, but which one? The end. 'The Score' is much like that except it has a more thoughtful edge and of course the acting keeps it buoyant.Frank Oz, the director, is more usually associated with comedy, including What About Bob, In & Out and Housesitter. The Score is quite a departure for him but is soundly directed and would probably rate as one of his better movies.My score is 6 instead of 7/10, mainly because it's a fairly average film, that's bolstered by heavyweight names that nudge rather than trail-blaze the story through. Those thinking that they've stumbled upon a hidden masterpiece will be disappointed, though probably not to the extent where they'd want their money back. It's good, but not good enough to brandish those star names with. "},{"Title":"Excellent Heist Film","Date":"16 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" One of the more underrated heist films. Both Norton and DiNiro are wonderful in their parts and even Brando adds the eccentricity needed for his part. As usual DiNiro is menacing without doing anything more than being pro at what he does, Norton is in fine form in what may be his best performance outside of Primal Fear.Frank Oz surprises with his ability to milk the most out the suspense, until the very end we aren't sure exactly what is going to happen. Very nice ending that is the cherry on what turn out to be one of the finest heist movies ever made.Enjoy this for what it is, a smart, well-crafted tale the keeps you guessing until the very end. "},{"Title":"Fun heist flick","Date":"30 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Score is one of those movie's that's probably most remembered for its cast. It pairs Marlon Brando and Robert De Niro, who famously play old and young Don Corleone in the Godfather I and II respectively, both roles iconic ones. It's actually the only time the two would ever appear on screen together, and it is Brando's last role. It also features Ed Norton, at the time one of the rising leading men, in sort of a tri-generational meeting of major stars.I'm sure people who don't even like caper films will watch The Score purely because of its cast. And why not? All deliver good performances, even Brando, whose interest in serious acting was often questionable in basically any of his roles after Godfather. It's not Oscar caliber stuff, and not the best any of these guys have done, but when you think about the barely two-dimensional roles the script gives them, they do about as good of a job as you could expect playing them. It's hard to imagine anyone else doing a better job, in other words.de Niro plays Nick, who runs a jazz club and subsidizes his cushy upper crust life by occasionally doing high-end heists for Brando's character Max, a rather cliché fence borrowing from Sidney Greenstreet's famous work in _The Maltese Falcon_. This movie falls victim to the biggest cliché of heist movies Nick wants to retire but Max talks him into breaking a few of his rules to return for One More Job. To pull this one off they'll need the help of inside man Jack (Ed Norton) who is posing as a mentally handicapped assistant janitor at the facility where the thingie-to-be-stolen is being guarded.Okay, there is nothing innovative at all about the overall plot. At best it's a hodgepodge of ideas that worked well when we saw them in earlier movies, in some cases 60 years before The Score came out. It is a sleek big-budget production, though, with competent direction, fine acting, eye-pleasing visuals and a nice (lower-case) score, and it can't help but have some redeeming values.The result is a movie that shouldn't fail to entertain fans of heist movies. If you like movies that are all about guys staging elaborate thefts of valuable thingies, this movie is some solid entertainment and belongs in your DVD collection. If the basic idea of a heist movie doesn't do much for you, and you don't want to see the movie just because of the three famous actors, this movie probably isn't even worth renting. "}{"Title":"A delightful look at some wonderful actors","Date":"6 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The charm and delight of this movie is in being able to watch some wonderful actors displaying their talents with the roles and script that they are given.Yes, we have all seen this type of plot scenario in numerous movies on any number of occasions. The fun is in watching and appreciating the two masters, DiNiro and Brando, applying their craftsmanship to this film. They make it look so easy to be in front of a camera and become the characters once the director says, action.The young Ed Norton holds his own with these two legends of film and one can sense a star in the making as the movie unfolds.Miss Bassett is a fine actress but we only capture some brief tastes of her abilities in his particular film.The setting and location of Montreal was also a nice touch, giving the film a slightly different feel and flavor that I liked. I sometimes grow weary of movies like this being filmed in big American cities with the  tough urban atmosphere  that we have seen many times before. Filming in Montreal gave the movie a classy and quaint foreign feel to the overall proceedings.Save some of your dollars this summer by not spending it on some mindless and forgettable schlock at your local cinema and rather check out The Score on one of the cable channels or DVD. Appreciate it like an inexpensive wine that you purchased and happens to deliver more pleasure and enjoyment than you originally expected. "},{"Title":"Could've been better","Date":"23 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Three generations of great actors, the old Marlon Brando, the established Robert DeNiro, and the new Edward Norton. Three of my top actors in a movie together? I couldn't resist renting the movie at all, didn't even read what the movie was about. But I hate to say this, I ended up being disappointed. The Score is definitely by no means a bad movie, the acting is decent and the story is something different from every clichéd heist movies that we've seen with a lot of violence or car chases. This was more of a character study vs. your typical action movie. The main problem though is that it's a bit slow paced, as incredible as these actors are, even they didn't look to interested in this film. They looked tired, which what I was after I saw this movie.Nick Wells is a top of his game heist man, he performs his last heist and barely escapes. When Nick presents his stolen jewelry to Max Baron, his employer and fence, he learns that the money man who was supposed to pay him for it is now deceased. To make matters worse, Max does not have a replacement buyer. What he does have is an inside contact at the customs house where a rare, centuries old scepter is stored that would fetch enough to pay Nick $6 million for stealing it. Nick is ready to retire from the business in part because his flight attendant girlfriend Diane will not move in with him unless he quits his criminal escapades. She makes it clear that she will not be worrying about having to talk to him through a glass partition. Brian is Max's inside contact, who works as a janitor in the customs building. He has the building blueprints, including the underground sewer system, and knows where the scepter is being held. Brian has people overlook him because he assumes the role of a mentally handicapped worker. Because of this the guards and co-workers tend to dismiss his odd behavior, which includes being in certain places where he does not belong. Brian and Nick don't get along and when Nick sends his bodyguard to teach him a lesson, we find that Brian is not the lightweight bozo that he appears.Now I wanted to love this film, I really did, like I said, you see this cast you automatically assume that it's going to equal gold. Sometimes I guess that's not always true, you really do need the script that's well written and the actors really have to embrace the movie as well. I would say that if you want to see The Score, be prepared for more of a drama vs. a typical action heist movie. I think it should have just been trimmed down a bit and Frank Oz, who is a great director when given the right script, I'm not sure if this was a movie that was meant for him to make. The tone felt a little uneven at times; but with the sets, the actors, the over all story, The Score is a mild recommendation for me.6/10 "},{"Title":"Very Well Done with a Superb Cast","Date":"1 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Like every other film in the caper genre, The Score has its share of improbable plot elements, verging on the impossible. But, if you enjoy these movies, as I do, you have to avoid examining every moment under a magnifying glass. You must appreciate the film for what it purports to be -- in this case, a daring crime committed by an accomplished thief in difficult and challenging. circumstances. As in all caper movies, the plot is intricate, suspenseful and studded with unexpected twists and turns. In short, it combines every hallmark of the genre. What makes The Score a very absorbing and successful variation on the usual formula is, first of all, the quality of the cast (Robert de Niro, Ed Norton, Angela Bassett and Marlon Brando) and the air of conviction imparted by the director, Frank Oz. Without giving away any plot essentials, De Niro is the experienced burglar, accustomed to working alone and to taking few risks; Brando is the old fence who offers a proposition that will make them both rich (stealing a precious object from the Montreal Customhouse); Ed Norton is the young and daring inside man, casing the joint by working nights in the Customs House as a none-too-bright janitor with Asperberger's Disease or something similar; Bassett is the stunning girlfriend of De Niro's character who will marry him only if he retires from the burglary business. De Niro is De Niro, minus the shtick of his more recent roles; what more needs to be said? Brando, on the hook to a gangland figure for $4 million, displays panache at the start and cowers in fear toward the end. Norton does an amazing job shifting between his two personae -- the stupid, spastic janitor and the clever, athletic thief. As for Bassett, think Beyonce, gorgeous and smart. Frank Oz's direction puts The Score in the company of the best caper films. Enjoy it. Just don't think too hard. "},{"Title":"Well worth a view","Date":"25 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" As a fan of De Niro I had to see this and, for the first half an hour, I was wondering if I had made the right decision. It does liven up and, if not the most original, it is an on the edge of your seat type film with a reasonable (if unconvincing) twist at the end. The character (and performance) of Edward Norton was, I thought, particularly good and De Niro gave a solid enough performance but, as the other commentator says, Brando's part could have been played by anyone (or discarded) and Bassett's part would have been better left on the cutting room floor (It's not always necessary to have a sexy love angle). All in all, a good enough watch but when it's on TV again I probably won't bother. "},{"Title":"You'll Score with The Score.","Date":"19 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Crime pays only for the best of the bad guys in director Frank Oz's The Score, an entertaining, straightforward, procedural heist melodrama in the tradition of Michael Cimino's Thunderbolt & Lightfoot (1974) and John McTiernan's The Thomas Crown Affair remake. Not surprisingly, a gifted, powerhouse casting of Robert De Niro, Edward Norton, Marlon Brando, and Angela Bassett make The Score both interesting and easy to watch. Oz depicts the crime of safe-cracking in fairly realistic, down-to-earth terms, in his version of the oft-told tale about the professional criminal that wants to quit the rackets and settle down. Nothing in The Score struck me as implausible. Anybody over age thirty who suffers from attention deficit disorder might find it difficult to endure both the quieter, contemplative moments and the deliberate, suspenseful pacing. Not surprisingly, too, Edward Norton excels as a lawbreaker modeled on Kevin Spacey's Keyser Soze character in Bryan Singer's first-rate epic The Usual Suspects. All performances in The Score are above reproach, even Brando's flaky Sidney Greenstreet stock character with his Truman Capote wardrobe. Scenarists Kario Salem of The Fast and the Furious, Lem Dobbs of The Limey, and Scott Marshall Smith of Men of Honor have crafted a derivative but solid nail-biter based on a story by Daniel E. Taylor. Never do they let these thieves off the hook, and they confound their every move in an intricately woven yarn of disasters and double-crosses. The Score reminded me of those classy, high-stakes European crime thrillers from the 1950s, such as Jules Dassin's Rififi (1954), and Topkapi (1964), Giuliano Montaldo's Grand Slam (1968), Henri Verneuil's Any Number Can Play (1963), and The Burglars (1972), Antonio Isasi-Isasmendi's They Came To Rob Las Vegas (1968), Peter Colllinson's The Italian Job (1968), and Michele Lupo's The Master Touch (1974).Sure, Hollywood has pulled off its share of these sagas, such as John Huston's The Asphalt Jungle (1950), Phil Karlson's Five against the House (1955), and Lewis Milestone's Ocean's Eleven (1959), but they don't compare with these classics. Ironically, The Score qualifies as the flip side of Oz's earlier comedy Bowfinger, but the latter boasts a more upbeat ending. Where Steve Martin struggles to produce a movie around Eddie Murphy's nutty actor in Bowfinger, Robert De Niro must outsmart Edward Norton's devious miscreant during a complex heist. The conflict in The Score boils down to an account about the survival of the fittest. The worse criticism is the writers have visited the well once too often for inspiration.Robert De Niro of Ronin plays Nick Wells, a world-weary professional safecracker who owns a jazz club in Montreal when he isn't pulling jobs out of the country for Max (Marlon Brando of The Island of Dr. Moreau), his longtime friend and fence. Nick has survived over the years because he rarely takes chances. Nick recites a speech that sounds like the speech he gave in Michael Mann's superlative Heat about knowing when to walk away from a job. The opening scene brilliantly demonstrates Nick's imperturbable under pressure in tight spots aplomb. As he is breaking into a safe at a mansion during a late-night party, two young lovers interrupt him. When they cuddle, Nick conceals himself behind a couch. When the girl prefers to smoke a joint before having sex, her boyfriend leaves the darkened room in disgust. Nick grabs the hapless girl from behind when she spots his safecracking tools. He threatens her if she doesn't keep quiet, and then coolly finishes the heist. Once again, Hollywood warns us smoking pot can get you into deep trouble you never imagined. Anyway, Nick gets away without being discovered because he believes in discipline. As he later tells an accomplice, Talent means nothing. Lasting takes discipline. Max delivers the bad news the day afterward, the person they had planned to sell the jewelry to has died. Nick is upset because he had to finance the jewel heist with $20-thousand of his own money. Max calms him down and tells him about a new job.Nick wants to settle down with his flight attendant girlfriend, Diane (the lovely Angela Bassett of Music from the Heart), but she refuses to marry him if he continues his life of crime. Nick and Diane are seriously contemplating marriage when Max offers Nick a job that will pay $4-million. During their opening dialogue sequence, Nick and Diane discuss what sounds like a crime that Diane participated in with a partner who didn't make it back from Istanbul. This plot point is left dangling; making it sound like Diane resembles the Pam Grier stewardess in Quentin Tarantino's Jackie Brown who smuggled in money. As much as he loves Diane, Nick has second thoughts. He wants to wed Diane, but the prospect of a $4-million paycheck and the potential for paying off the mortgage on his club appeals strongly to him. When Nick reveals his illicit plan to Diane, she walks out in a huff. Meanwhile, things grow complicated because Max tells Nick that the job is in Montreal.Despite the obvious loopholes in the script, director Frank Oz gets away with this crime caper for the most part. He generates considerable tension during the logistical planning scenes when Nick searches for a safe entrance into the Customs House from the Montreal sewer system. Oz knows how to induce anxiety, especially when Nick and Jack have to bribe the computer hackers. Dressed from head to toe in commando garb, De Niro's Nick Wells looks like the saboteur plumber from Terry Gilliam's Brazil when he breaks into the Customs House. Moviegoers who like to hear the explosions of uncooked popcorn kernels hitting the floor of a cinema during the taut crime sequence will relish this atmospheric white-knuckler. If you thrive on gratuitous nudity, sex, and violence set to the tune deafening rap music on a soundtrack, The Score is not for you. Jazz lovers will appreciate the cameos Mose Allison and Cassandra Wilson make in Nick's nightclub. "},{"Title":"This movie scored high","Date":"27 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Who needs Eleven to pull off a perfect robbery? The Score was masterfully done. DeNiro... Well, he's DeNiro. What can I say that hasn't already been said. Norton, does well playing a prick. He plays a prick so well that he has to be like that in real life. Doesn't he? I mean, it comes so naturally.The plot was great, and even though I knew there would be some form of double cross at the end, I wasn't sure how it would go down. Probably better than Nick Wells (Robert DeNiro) making off with the scepter in the end was his final conversation with Jack Teller (Edward Norton). In so many words it was reminder to Teller that Wells has been around much longer and is much better and wiser. And it was also a final F you. A great movie moment. "},{"Title":"The best safe breaking since James Caan's Thief","Date":"15 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" ***Spoilers ahead***What's The Score?The best perfect robbery film since Thief with James Caan, and with that film almost the only one taking seriously the technical details. I just hope that we don't need to wait nearly twenty years more to see another film heist realistically planned and executed.What The Score is not...Forget MI with that stylish but almost surrealistic vault assault, or Entrapment where the lasers were the excuse to show Z Jones' body. Forget of course Ocean's 11 and Ocean's 12 (although I like them, as you can imagine) with their impossible EMPs and holographic Fabergé's eggs (and more lasers and more Z Jones, which is not bad at all). And forget zillions of action thrillers (where the actors, stunt men and FX team enjoyed the filming much more than we enjoy the viewing) with violent and badly resolved endless endings.What's in The Score?Professional actors portraying professional thieves, a director able to bring fresh air into fantasy (Dark crystal), comedy (In and out) or thriller (The Score). Frank Oz, wise and unpretentious like Yoda himself, is the wizard his name seems to point at. A realistic representation of the activities of an intelligent safe breaker (again unique since Thief) and ***Spoiler follows*** a beautiful lesson in physics Nick (DeNiro) uses Pascal's Principle to open the safe, making water transmit the pressure of the explosion to the door (air would not do this, and that's why the scepter isn't crushed it is separated from the part of the safe filled with water, as you can see when Nick opens its compartments).***End of spoiler***Film heists are not an apology of crime (its usual audience is too clever for that consider Agatha Christie's novels and their success). The perfect robberies of cinema are metaphors of intelligence, and as such they must be realistic, complex and with surprises that, once analyzed, seem unavoidable. The Score is all this with the finest actors, and jazz music that sets just the right atmosphere.9 out of 10 for Frank Oz and everyone in the cast and crew. "},{"Title":"Norton shows his depth of abilities","Date":"27 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Not too fantastic of a movie, but Norton shows his amazing acting abilities, illustrated by his convincing skill at playing a mentally challenged character (as a confidence maneuver). It is said that the two hardest roles to play as an actor are characters of altered mental states, be it drunk, high, or, in this case, a severely retarded individual. The difficulty lies in the ability to not over-act the part. It is too easy to exaggerate the demeanor and physical actions of an intoxicated or mentally handicapped individual (ie, Juliet Lewis' abysmal performance in The Other Sister). Too often, actors rely solely on slow, slurred speech, and fail to master the intricacies of their physical performance. Norton, and a few others (Leonardo DiCaprio as Artie in Whats eating Gilbert Grape, Sean Penn in I am Sam, and a few others) have mastered this complex form.Though the film was rather predictable, and overall not the best, despite the powerhouse abilities of its lead characters, it has its moments. "},{"Title":"Scepter Capers in Canada","Date":"17 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Score even with the presence of Marlon Brando and Robert DeNiro is really an ordinary caper yarn elevated to a lot more than it is by the presence of these thespian icons. Still it's a pleasure to watch the two of them in scenes together.In his farewell film Brando is now doing the part of criminal mastermind in the tradition of Sam Jaffe from The Asphalt Jungle. A young hotshot played by Edward Norton brings him the news of a jewel encrusted ancient medieval scepter from France that is now in the Montreal customs house. Norton is working there as a janitor as part of his undercover act and I have to say his imitation of a retarded man is really something.Brando wants old pro DeNiro running the show, but he has to talk DeNiro into it. DeNiro and Norton grate on each other's nerves, it's a generational thing.After that the film gets into nothing more than what we've seen in a lot of good films from The Asphalt Jungle to Topkapi to The Hot Rock. Of course it's in the hands of some of the best players around.Marlon Brando didn't go out with something as good as the Shootist, but it was far from Cuban Rebel Girl. The Score is also the final of what I call his Christian Brando defense films. That horrific series of events that resulted in the imprisonment of a son and the death of a daughter drained him dry of resources. The films Brando did in the last decade were just to pay the lawyers. He traded in and successfully on the power of his name and talent. What father wouldn't have. And who wouldn't have wanted to direct or act with him if given a chance. "},{"Title":"The Best Score","Date":"27 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I have about 100 movies in my collection. That movies I can watch anytime with pleasure, and some of them I know by heart. The Score is the one. The very realistic movie of the very close to reality heist. Bob is the owner of some Jazz café, which adds some jazzy flavor to that movie. Old Marlon Brando, is like a criminal Santa, you can see that warmth into his eyes. Very soon after the Score he died, that was one of his last works. Mr. Norton looks like a lamb in that wolves company, since that I put my eye on him. No computer effects, a lot of actions, excellent play, long lasting time, just The entertaining masterpiece. "}{"Title":"A wonderful suspense movie but not only.","Date":"19 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I think this movie deserves more stars. It is not just a suspense movie as could be consider at a first view. As suspense movie is wonderful, is very clean and very well conducted. It seems that these times you can not make a suspense movie without many crimes, dirty life and many, many explosions but Fratz Oz, found it a better alternative. An attractive story played by great actors. As simplest as is the story as much as is made consistent by the screenplay and by directing. Each detail makes you linked by the screen (one of my friend which doesn't use to watch action/suspense movies said I can't even drink a glass of water during this movie, it captivated me). Apart of this is a nice story about the desire for a quiet life comparing with the hurry for fame. We can consider a very subtle manner of retelling, in an original modern way, the story of the maestro and disciple. And when in the movie are involved one of the greatest actor from Hollywood, Robert De Niro, and one of the most talented young actors, Edwart Norton, the theme of the maestro and disciple is very welcoming as matching the two actors generations. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable heist-movie","Date":"19 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Although I'm not exactly the biggest fan of this genre, I could not resist this movie, because of the amazing cast. Edward Norton (American History X), Robert De Niro (Raging Bull) and Marlon Brando (The Godfather) in one movie, be honest, it's quite amazing. Three of the biggest actors of their generation! Anyway, The Score wasn't disappointing. It sure did enjoy it. The story was good, although the ending could have been a bit more. The acting was great.Although there was a higher number of great actors in Ocean's Eleven's cast, I liked The Score more. Probably because of the story (despite the ending). Anyway, The Score is a fine heist-movie directed by Frank Oz, who also made Bowfinger and In & Out. Furthermore this was unfortunately Brando's last movie.Worth a watch! 7,5/10 "},{"Title":"Great acting, great score!!!","Date":"28 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Yes, ladies and gentlemen, Deniro, Brando and Norton together in a movie! Great filming, because of the locations and the music (mostly all being Jazz as Deniro plays the role of a jazz club owner) a superb atmosphere and an excellent script will guarantee top entertainment. Norton reminded me in this movie of his role as Aaron Stampler in 'Primal Fear', also a great film with superb acting by both Norton and Richard Gere. Edward Norton is prove that the next generation has talent indeed, and not just shallow tough talk like Collin Farrel. Marlon and Robert do their jobs as they do it best; natural, no special effects needed, just plain old fashioned acting. 124 minutes of pure thrill, joy and surprise, it felt like 20 minutes and I hope Robert could pull jobs like this more often in the future. Please stop letting him star in (romantic) comedies!! He's made for gangster movies ever since his first role as John 'Johnny Boy' Civello next to Harvey Keitel in 'Mean Streets'.....! "},{"Title":"Finally, intelligent Heist film. Flawed but worth watching.","Date":"18 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" When I first watched this movie and returned it to the DVD shop the shop owner asked me what I thought of this movie. My feeling was it is OK, but with problems. Now I am thinking, it is flawed but well worth watching if you like Heist movies or even if you don't.Hesit films normally involve a group of people stealing something. Why they are doing this is very simplified, they want revenge, justice, the big score or the adventure.The Score is the first heist movie that I have seen that bothers to actually examine why intelligent people would engage in such crimes. This can also be extended to an understanding of why we as humans prefer to fight each other with dire consequences (eg Iraq, or China wanting Taiwan) or rip each other off (all those corporate scum bags know who you are).We have the normal range of suspects...the financier (Played by Marlin Brando) who needs this job done because of his own desperate situation. Here Brando is at his best. The pivotal scene was shot at an incomplete swimming pool within a mansion at Brando's suggestion. De Niro is the super professional criminal who would never take the risk of doing a job in his home town of Montreal. But he takes this job to help out his friend. His dream is to retire with his Jazz Club. Then there is Jack, the young criminal genius who sets up the job, who desires the big score to prove that he is the best.Here we have characters who are different coming together to do this brilliant crime. The journey to the crime is brilliant, but slow and perhaps too tedious. What we are really seeing is the mind of the criminal and it may not really be a mind we like, even if we also see it in ourselves and other people.Perhaps this study of human character is too simple and so ultimately the story falls flat. For me, there was the overwhelming desire to see the task as something that binds people together rather than make us enemies.A movie that will make you think, but enough. Entertain you, but too slow. The definitive heist movie is yet to be made and it will probably be inspired by The score "},{"Title":"De Niro, Norton, and a great caper movie... what could be bad?","Date":"5 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Score was one of the most enjoyable movies I've seen in a long time.Set in Montreal, it stars Robert de Niro and Edward Norton, two of my favourite actors, in a classic caper story that's just a lot of fun to watch. For starters, it was nice to see my city actually playing itself for once, as opposed to Chicago or Atlantic City or something. For another, it includes some great plot twists and turns, and enough excitement to keep most of the audience on the edge of their seats. Add some great lines into the mix, and you almost have a winner.The best part of The Score is, of course, the acting. Robert de Niro is always good, Edward Norton has become one of my all-time favourite actors and I keep becoming a bigger fan of him every time I see him. He pulls off the fake mentally handicapped role extremely convincingly, and switches back and forth between characters seamlessly. And Marlon Brando is classic.The down sides? The movie started slow. Angela Bassett is completely wasted on a two-dimensional peripheral role as a love interest that really has no business being included in the movie. I guess some Hollywood executive decided the cast needed a female presence, but I didn't see the point.That being said, go see The Score. It's one of the most fun movies I've seen in a long time. "},{"Title":"2 1/2 stars (out of 4)","Date":"1 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The film stars Edward Norton and Robert De Niro as two thieves paired up with each other on a jewel thief, Angela Bassett as De Niro's girlfriend, and Marlon Brando as De Niro's agent (?). I don't know if agent is a good word for it, but he finds work for De Niro in the same way an agent finds work for actors or athletes.The first reaction I had before anything was, wow, look at this cast. We have arguably the best actor ever, Marlon Brando, who I thought really wasn't into making movies anymore, in a supporting role!? I have no idea why Marlon Brando would come back after all these years just to play second fiddle to Norton and De Niro. Brando's fine in his part, but it's a small part, and most of the time I was just like, Marlon Brando?! What's he doing there. We have Angela Bassett as a woman who has as much appeal among African-Americans as Denzel Washington for her defining roles in films such as Waiting to Exhale. She's paired up with Robert De Niro here, which produces a big question mark in me as well, especially since the two really have zero chemistry on screen.At the center of the story, Nick (De Niro), are Jack (Norton), are two people who don't really like each other that much but it's a two-person job and they're both good at what they do, so they'll split it three ways (Marlon Brando gets a share, cause he's Marlon Brando). Nick lives in Montreal and this is a kind of an oxymoron, is a nightclub owner in his day job. He's very careful about what he does, he only steals things if there's little risk and he doesn't rob in Montreal cause he lives there, and either he just feels civic pride or he thinks it's too risky, I'm not sure which. As Nick tells Jack once, he's survived so long because he's just careful.On the other hand, Jack is just a lot more enthusiastic in general, about stealing this jewel, maybe cause he doesn't have a day job to look foward to, and wants to take risks all over the place. In order to tap into the security network, he works at the site under the cover of a retarded cleaning assistant, Danny. Personally, I think Danny's coworkers talked down to him too much, even taking into account his mental state, so I enjoyed watching Jack screw his janitor superior over in one scene.De Niro and Norton really play their characters to type here. Jack is like Norton who has played the edgey bad guy in a few movies, and is pretty overconfident in himself. Nick is a guy like De Niro who has  been in a million critically acclaimed movies as a tough guy, so he doesn't make a big deal out of this anymore. Of course, De Niro is a better actor then Norton, at least in my opinion, and as a parrallel in the movie, he can put half the effort and do his job as well as Nick.From Nick's point of view, there's just not a lot of drama in this job, for him, it's pretty routine and easy, and Jack, as I said before makes a big deal out of this job. I think the movie intended for me to be as excited about the movie and engaged in the plot as Jack was about the jewel heist, but I think I felt a little more like Nick. The movie's plot didn't get me that worked up, I was never really that glued to my seat by what would happen next, even if it had a few cool plot turns. Instead, I thought it was a mildly pleasant outing with some cool special effects.  "},{"Title":"A STELLAR-CAST WASTED. NEVERTHELESS, A GOOD ENTERTAINER.","Date":"12 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The movie is entertaining, but due to reasons, other than the performances of its stellar cast Angela Bassett has just a few and dull moments on the screen. Marlon Brando is helpless with the trite role assigned to him. Though De Niro plays the lead role in this flick, even his performance is limited by the action-oriented role, he plays. The starry-cast fails; but the suspense, the gizmos, and of course, Edward Norton save the day.Edward Norton is full of life, zest, and enthusiasm. The dual role played be him, as a retarded housekeeper and as an adept thief, is pretty convincing and smartly enacted. The gadgets seem like con-jobs, but are however, pretty well-done and detailed. The computer-hacking part and the part about stealing the codes regarding the security system are overdone, and seem factitious and fatuous. The hacker-geek with a baneful mother is a lot more baneful than his squalling mother herself. Amidst of the many imperfections in the movie, it builds up steadily and interestingly to a well-written and well-directed climax. More than anything else, it is the climax of the movie, which makes it complete as an entertaining thriller.With the kind of the star-cast it has, the movie is deceptive It doesn't have substance, it doesn't have style, and it lacks maturity. If watched with keeping the brain aside to rest, it is thrilling and entertaining, and can be savored at best. Along with its healthful entertaining value, the score itself, of THE SCORE, by Howard Shore is good music for the ears.7/10               "},{"Title":"A stellar cast is entertaining and enjoyable.","Date":"4 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A fantastic film with a positive and intriging representation of a Canadian city, which is refreshing in modern Hollywood where the American hero who shoots the bad guy and saves the world is so common. I thought the plot was interesting, somewhat predicatble and Edward Norton's betrayal could be easily foreseen. A good heist film. "},{"Title":"Norton steals the show","Date":"9 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I really struggle with DeNiro movies these days.  He's one of the greatest ever, but his performances in the last few years seem less crafty, less inspired than years gone by.  Regardless of the role, he looks tired to me, and it comes through in his acting.  Edward Norton, on the other hand, captures and holds my attention anytime he is on the screen.  He's DeNiro twenty years ago.  There is a coiled, controlled energy in his performances that he seems to be able to wield with great timing and intensity.  I think he's more talented physically than most actors, which allows him to do characters like Danny in this film, Aaron/Roy in Primal Fear, and of course, the Narrator in Fight Club.Pedestrian movie, pedestrian script, exciting at times.  Montreal setting is a nice change of pace from NY or LA.In the end, Norton makes this movie. "},{"Title":"An interesting take on the crime genre","Date":"29 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Robert De Niro plays Nick, an aging thief who chooses to do one last job for his boss Max (Marlon Brandon), in order to save him from the Mafia. What ends up happening is an interesting and surprising tale of trust, loyalty, and just about crime in general. As Nick, De Niro adds in more substance then style and he is more concerned with getting deep into the character instead of making him look cool. His performance is a noteworthy one for it combines emotion with brains well. Edward Norton plays Nick's new partner, Max with extreme diversity. He blends in a sort of mystery yet sympathy as Nick seems to order him around quite a bit. In support to these two exceptional leads is Marlon Brando as Max, who does a solid job even though his role is quite minor and Angela B. as Nick's girlfriend, who wants him to quite before pulling of this last job. Nothing is what it seems as bit by bit details come together to unravel certain details about the character. The direction is a bit of a cliche type approach, not really showing colorful images of the city like 2002's The Good Thief did. The script builds things up well, but it ends up going the easy route out and skips over some things. A surprising twist occurs near the end of the movie, but everything ends up feeling a bit too hollow. Sometimes, the story feels a bit cliche of the aging great thief hired to do one last job and a multitude of different twists happen along the way. However, the performances combined with the solid direction end up in an enjoyable movie, it's a bit slow at times and occasionally boring but it builds off well enough to be recommended. 8/10 "}{"Title":"Nicely done","Date":"11 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie totally caught me off guard.  The plot felt familiar from about 4 or 5 other movies so I thought this one would not be very interesting.  I was wrong, although the plot is predictable, I believe the actors carried this movie to the very end.  Edward Norton is one of my favorites ever since Amer. Hist. X and Fight Club, seeing De NIro and Brando in this even made it so much better.  I can kind of compare this movie to Heat (de Niro, Pacino, Kilmer), where the actors also did a very good job with an overused plot.  I didn't even know De Niro co-directed this one.  Thumbs up to all the actors in this one. "},{"Title":"Great entertainment, spoiled by Brando","Date":"7 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Great plot with some interesting characters. The roles of De Niro and Ed Norton are very well acted and completely believable. The thing which spoiled it moderately for me was the acting of Marlon Brando - he seemed like he was mostly improvising, poorly. His character is a kind of Mr Big in a high-rolling world of art and jewelry theft, but he comes across as some sort of chardonnay-drinking socialite, without any ruthlessness to speak of.After having a read through some the DVD extras (see the Bios section) it seems to suggest that Marlon created a few disturbances on-set, to say the least!7/10 "},{"Title":"Under-appreciated movie","Date":"3 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Detractors of this movie,which there appear to be many, fail to appreciate the aged, quiet, intensity of DeNiro (and Brando for that matter). This is an all around enjoyable movie, with a great setting. The more modern day film audiences bash DeNiro on his choices of roles, the more I bask in the knowledge that he is my favorite actor of all time. "},{"Title":"Great heist flick. Better than Heist with Gene Hackman and Danny DeVito","Date":"10 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I thoroughly enjoyed The Score with Robert DeNiro, Ed Norton, Marlon Brando, and Angela Bassett. I thought it was a great heist flick and much better than Heist with Gene Hackman and Danny DeVito. Although the latter film had more action, The Score was just more entertaining. I didn't think any of the actors were wasted in this film even though Angela Bassett could've been left out. Robert DeNiro and Marlon Brando were good, but I think the best performance goes to Ed Norton. He is such an amazing actor. He never disappoints and you always get the feel of his characters. And he is one of those actors who has the capability to play two characters. He was the loveable mental janitor Brian and then he was the bad theif Jack. He is just great in everything he does. I will admit that this movie had it's slow and boring moments but it was good. I loved the ending. That was my favorite part of the movie. It was classic. Ed thought that he had the sceptor and he was going to be rich but Robert had it instead and Ed got caught by the police. Of course this wasn't the greatest movie that three great actors have done but it was watchable and I think it is definitely one I would want to own. But anyways. Thanks for reading my review and if you liked seeing Ed Norton play two people then you should see him in his very first movie Primal Fear. An amazing peformance by him.   "},{"Title":"Less than the sum of its parts.","Date":"10 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I don't remember a lot of hype for this film, but I have enough faith in Norton and De Niro (as long as he's not doing comedy) that I decided to pick this up.And it's pretty good.  The story is kind of lightweight, and could have been much, much better in many ways - but the directing, and the talent on screen manage to carry this 'one last heist' type film.Brando is okay, but we never really get a sense of the pressure he's supposed to be under.  De Niro is set up as a very intelligent safe-cracker / club owner - although with scant explanation or development in either role.  Angela Bassett plays his girlfriend, and is totally under-used.  And Norton is a similarly sketchy character (even though he is magnetic on screen), with no real explanation for his behaviour either.  The heist is, by today's Hollywood standards, incredibly unremarkable, with almost no real tension or build-up..In fact, with all these things under-performing, you may wonder why I liked this film at all.  Sitting here writing this, I'm beginning to wonder myself..  But it's really in the performances.  Even when under-written, De Niro is incredible.  Norton is simply excellent, particularly in his 'undercover' guise.  And the small supporting cast are low-key and just right (with the sad exception of the two horribly over-cliched 'computer nerds').Although an unexceptional film in many ways, it just feels like it was written by an intelligent adult, for intelligent adults (in fact, it feels a little like it was a book, and they may have had to excise large portions and characters to bring it to the screen).  And the 'ah-HA!' moment at the end is neat, which is always a huge plus.I'd say it's worth an hour and a half of your time, just about.  "},{"Title":"Scorching, magnetic race-against-time caper!","Date":"2 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Nick Wells (Robert De Niro) is the owner of a Canadian jazz club.  He is also a former thief who is going straight for the sake of his relationship with stewardess Diane (Angela Bassett).  Max (Marlon Brando), Nick's old associate, wants him to pull one more job steal a priceless, 17th century scepter from an old warehouse with the help of Jack Teller (Edward Norton) a novice young brigand.  Teller also masquerades as Brian, an autistic janitor who works in the warehouse for self-serving reasons.  Nick and Jack have trouble getting along from the beginning, which sets their partnership in motion throughout the movie.  The film's main assets are the interplay between the four main characters, a believable and tracable plot (thanks to writers Daniel E. Taylor and Kario Salem) and the twist ending.  The Score bares very strong similarities with Heist (also 2001), but the energy of The Score is much more tense and gripping.  A taut and stylish actioner from director Frank Oz (The Muppet Movie, What About Bob? and Bowfinger).  ***1/2 of **** "},{"Title":"The best heist movie I have seen in a long time ...","Date":"26 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The Score is a movie which really kept me on the edge of my seat when I first saw it. That means something as I'm not easily kept in suspense. And it is a movie I always enjoy watching again especially because it has so many nice details. It is a perfectly well done movie with an exceptional cast and a very entertaining dialogue developing  an interesting story which leads towards a quite stirring climax and surprises with an unexpected ending. Robert DeNiro is as brilliant as always. In his role as Nick he again develops a character he hasn't been before. He's just always creating a new character whichever role he takes. He is the only actor I haven't seen playing the same person in an other role. There may be some similarities to characters he has played before, but in the end he's never the same person. I also very much enjoyed Edward Norton in his role as Jackie/Brian. Remembering his great performance in &#145;Primal Fear', I must say in &#145;The Score' he delivers an even more impressive performance. My score for &#145;The Score' is 10/10. "},{"Title":"Entertaining enough, I guess.","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Robert DeNiro and Edward Norton gave great performances in this movie although it was a bit slow-dragging at times.  The plot wasn't hard to figure out but at the same time it was too simple.  Marlon Brando was good as well for the amount of time he was in it.  And can someone please explain to me why in hell was someone with Angela Bassett's acting skills in this movie?  Her screen time was so miniscule that it was pathetic.  The scenes she were in were forgettable.  This was a role for some lesser known actress.  I guess Angela just wanted to get that $3.5M paycheck. "},{"Title":"Well Done","Date":"10 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I found this to be very entertaining and didn't think it was slow at all...some time must be taken to set up the characters and plot...can't be all ACTION ACTION ACTION....I thought Brando, DeNiro, and Norton were all outstanding (particularily Norton - the guy is just an incredible actor!!).  I was shocked to say the least when I read in a previous comment this movie was rated R...for what??  It's as close to G as a movie can be...sheesh....anyway, good flick. "},{"Title":"Awesome","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie rocks!!! Even though I never thought I would live long enough to see someone out act Robert DeNiro I got to tell you Marlon Brando does. This movie continually surprised me and has a really big surprise twist. I liked it alot. If you like the genre or are a DeNiro or Brando fan (how could you not be?) then rent or buy this movie you won't regret it. "}{"Title":"like often... great actors, great movie!","Date":"1 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  For the first time, we see Marlon Brando, Robert Deniro and Edward Norton together on one great plot! They are acting very good and bringing the story from director Frank Oz on an excellent way.  The end is fantastic!  If you liked Primal Fear, also with Norton, you surely will like this movie. "},{"Title":"Amazing cast, Poor dialogue and good ending!","Date":"1 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  For sheer calibre of stars alone, The score is a tempting prospect. Pairing screen legends Robert De Niro and Marlon Brando with the supremely talented Edward Norton, the film oozes quality, and as a showcase for some of the finest American acting talent around, it certainly delivers on its promise.Plot-wise, however, The score lacks the imagination it's cast deserved. It paces De Niro in the role of Nick, a professional thief who is fast approaching the uncomfortable end of middle age, and hopes to retire with girlfriend Diane (played appallingly by Angela Bassett).But before he can say going straight Nick is approached by buddy Max (Brando) to do 'one last job' with a seven million dollar paycheque to tempt him. Enter Norton, as the young and precocious Jack, a 'wild card' who is essential to the job. Jack has infiltrated the Montreal customs house, posing as a mentally disabled janitor. The authorities are holding a priceless french sceptre there and between them the two hatch a plan to snatch it - a plan which becomes progessively more complex, as the once simple job begins to look increasingly dangerous. The heist itself is satisfyingly clever, and certainly the film makes for gripping viewing. The problem is simply that it has been done before and better. Nevertheless, the quality of acting on display - particularly between De Niro and Norton - more than makes up for the often bland dialogue and predictable story. "},{"Title":"Paramount's marketing campaign for The Score had been pretty average on the whole, but with a cast of this stature - Brando, De Niro, Norton - guided by director Frank Oz, voice of Yoda, a dramatic excess of","Date":"21 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Even these guys have trouble meeting the expectations the press and public have set up for them, so why make their jobs anymore difficult? What amounts from an effort involving these three impossibly large acting virtuosos and helmed by a timelessly humorous Hollywood sage is a surprisingly modest picture. The trailers do their best to supe things up and make the movie look cool, but The Score plays out like a rebirth of the classic &#145;caper' flick, featuring characters of limited capacity facing heightened stakes with sad and often humorously fallible dispositions.De Niro portrays a professional thief considering retiring from the business and managing a Montreal jazz club that he formerly used as a front for his activities. When he's tempted into one last score by longtime associate and fence, Max (Brando) he faces a world of diminishing odds and increasing suspicions as the circumstances surrounding the heist continue to change, making its successful completion progressively more difficult.Norton's character cons the security and janitorial staff of Montreal's customs house into believing that he's retarded, scoring a job as a janitor that allows him to case the place. This isn't the first time that the actor has played duel roles in a film, but the retarded bit is unique, giving him a solid and sustainable comedic platform. He plays it through with total authenticity, making his plan seem as plausible as it is humorous. And like virtually all of the understated comedy in The Score, Norton's breed of funny is character derivative, relying more on personality traits and dispositions than punch lines.Initially, The Score moves slowly and predictably enough, but as its subtly humorous tone prevails, underscoring the setup, the character exposition, and the narrative ins and outs, the movie becomes alluring in an unexpected way, hitting you with a refreshing sort of earnest integrity. De Niro gives a solid and subtle performance, adding shades of a world-weary, and trade-veteran's humanity to his character. Brando colors his role with a similar flare, providing a light-hearted comedic spark that warms his scenes and makes you happy to see the man so lively in the August of his career.As the stakes grow, the pace of the film quickens, ending in a climax that has punch due more to the progressive editing than the actual, final revelation. But it is punch that works nonetheless, leaving you with the feeling that you've been had by the guy you were rooting for, and making the movie a subtle, well-crafted and worthwhile experience. Granted, Brando, De Niro and Norton have all seen better roles, but they muster performances that earn The Score big points. "},{"Title":"Slightly predictable","Date":"21 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  SPOILERSYou just can't trust that Edward Norton... ;-) Have you seen him as Aaron/Roy in Primal Fear ? Than you probably know what I'm talking about eh?! This movie is pretty suspenseful, yet very predictable. One can almost smell that Jack Teller (Ed Norton) is about to deceive his partners in crime (what he eventually does). I strongly hoped for a better ending, still the movie as such is definitely worth watching. However, the story comes to a sudden end and - to my mind - not to a very satisfying one. Watch it if you like either Robert De Niro, Ed Norton ord Marlon Brando... or all of them as I do. It's worth the bucks then for sure.07/10 "},{"Title":"Probably one of the most entertaining movie I have ever seen!!","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Well I just have to say that Edward Norton and Robert Deniro have done it again.This film is virtually a mind blowing movie that fills you up with suspense throughout the entire film.The Score delivers EXTREMELY GREAT acting,nonstop entertainment,and a first rate plot that will make you watch it over and over.Edward Norton gives probably the best performance I have ever seen,Robert Deniro fits into his character very well,and Marlon Brando was a great co-star.The movie isnt really what you would call action packed.Edward Norton plays as technically two people in the film,the first character you see him as,is the mentally retarded person who works at a place where the sceptor is being held,and the second person you see him as,is a very intelligent person.I seriously recommend The Score to anyone who is a fan of the genre.I love this movie.10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Perfect Movie","Date":"30 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie proves that you don't need a lot of four letter words and violence to make a great movie. I don't know why this movie was rated R. This is the result when you put great writing, acting and directing together. "},{"Title":"a clcihed heist flick that has a good enough cast to keep you interested.","Date":"22 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The Score could be regarded as a 'sleeper' hit. Filmed in 'nouveau Hollywood' Montreal The Score slipped under the radar of moviegoers world wide with its unpretentious setting and release, giving it reasonable impact as an almost straight to video (well it was here in Australia) crime thriller. Featuring Robert De Niro, Marlon Brando and Edward Norton The Score wracks up enough points to make it a winner. Outstanding lead cast, okay script, tension and excellent twists. De Niro stars as a gentleman burglar who is trying to engineer an exit from his night time activities so that he can concentrate on running his Montreal jazz club. `One last job' is his catch cry as his fence, Brando, and young cat burglar Norton suck him into pulling off an 'easy' job to crown his criminal career. De Niro gives a solid performance, but probably the stand out is Norton's dual role as burglar/gimp janitor. Reminiscent of Kevin Spacey's Oscar winning role in The Usual Suspects, Norton shows his versatility with effortless character transfers.Brando wallows a little, having some very limited scenes but it was just a treat to see him and De Niro at work together. Although highlighting the many cliches of the crime thriller genre, The Score has a great feel to it. No overdone action scenes, enough tense moments to keep you wondering what will happen next and a fairly impressive twist towards the end. Oh yeah the love interest barely intruded on the movie, Angela Bassett was hardly worth paying for the few scenes she appeared in. It's not a blockbuster but definitely worth your while to watch.  "},{"Title":"Fine thriller with three great actors","Date":"12 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The Score has a great cast;De Niro,Norton and Brando.Its story has some twists and director Frank Oz has made some fine work here.When i`ve finished watched this movie I thought it was good,but not great. It lacks something.You don`t care so much about the characters and the movie is quickly forgotten.There aren`t enough memorable scenes to keep it in your mind.It`s not a movie that you can see several times,you can say.It has some surprises in its story,but the ending was pretty ordinary;you`ve seen those kind of endings many times before. One thing;it has simply no violence.No killings,no blood.That`s great-this is what a thriller should be like.So,it`s not great-but good,indeed.Watch it!Rated 7/10 "},{"Title":"Excellent - I don't know why so many people were disappointed with the film.","Date":"3 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film is classy, enjoyable and engrossing.  I watched this first in New York, once on the plane back to London and then on video tape last week. De Niro and Norton are a brilliant pairing, Brando does a brilliant turn as a, at times camp, daddy.  Sadly, Angela Bassett is under used. "},{"Title":"Heist & The Score--Separated at Birth?","Date":"1 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  *****WARNING This review contains spoilers.  It reveals theendings of both The Score (2001) and Heist (2001)!*****Is it my imagination, or is The Score pretty much the same movieas Heist but with different details?  Maybe the similarity isattributable to the very confining plot formula of heist movies ingeneral, but check out the parallels* In both movies, the physically unusual boss-man (DeVito inHeist; Brando in The Score) lures the aging, genius thief(Hackman in Heist; DeNiro in The Score) away from retirementwith one last big job.* In both movies, the old thief is annoyed by the mandatoryparticipation of a younger, less skilled thief (Rockwell in Heist;Norton in The Score), who wants to learn from the old thief, butultimately attempts to double-cross him.* In both movies, the old thief is all about caution, discipline,always having a backup plan, etc.  * In both movies, the old thief's backup plan spoils the youngthief's attempt to double-cross him.* In both movies, the old, haggard-looking, pudgy thief manages toscore a young, sexy woman.  Oh, wait, that describes almost everyHollywood movie starring an old, haggard-looking, pudgy leadingactor.For some reason, I thought that Heist was a little better, eventhough The Score features such an amazing cast (although GeneHackman, Delroy Lindo, and Danny DeVito are pretty good actorsthemselves).  It comes down to the writing, in my opinion.  DavidMamet's screenplay for Heist is just better.  In Heist, thecharacters are all better developed, as are the relationships andtensions between characters.  Moreover, the romantic subplot inThe Score is old and tired, and doesn't end up mattering (BassettOh no--if you do one more job you must not really love me, so I'mleaving.  How original.), while the romantic subplot in Heistbecomes a twist that is essential to the narrative.Overall, neither movie is bad, but neither makes any particularlyinnovative contributions to a genre that generally tends to pleasebut rarely gives us any truly remarkable movies.   "}{"Title":"Two Don Vito Corleones in one film","Date":"1 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I have always strongly believed that the right successor to Marlon Brando is Robert de Niro and Al Pacino. No films have highlighted this fact any other than the first two Godfather films. In the first, Pacino plays son to Brando's Don Corleone, while in the second, de Niro plays the younger Corleone. While Pacino never appeared with Brando again, de Niro gets to be paired with the old master of Method in The Score, a slightly lethargic but exciting heist caper. Imagine, movie buffs, the young and the old Vito Corleone in the same scene! I was excited, of course.In addition to these casts, we have Edward Norton, a hotshot young actor, and since this is a genre film, everybody is more or less just enjoying himself or herself. Of course, I have got to mention this; Brando had problem with the director Frank Oz, and wanted de Niro to direct all his scenes. This news is debatable, and personally I don't care. Scenes with and without Brando worked very well. Heist movies have mostly worked, and I believe The Score should be listed as one of the classics, simply for the last forty minutes when the actual heist takes place. There, remains the problem. It takes time to develop its story, introduce the character and build the suspense. The latter is not realised until the final part and fans of action may be disappointed with it. I sat through the whole thing mainly for its actor. The most amazing thing about this movie is the fact that the plot depends entirely on old worn-out cliché of heist flicks &#150; the hero retiring, wants out and pulling off the final score. The story is built around it and gave ways to twist and turn. You might have seen some of them, but Frank Oz and the cast manage to keep us from cringing. I cannot take my eyes of Brando and de Niro. Those two guys defined and redefined acting for Hollywood, and probably anywhere else. Both have gone to the extend very few have gone and many have imitated. Here, both are relaxed, and mostly, enjoying themselves. Only of recent, both of them have involved themselves in commercial genre films, considering that in the past, most of what they did were award material. Here, there is no need for Method, just follow the script and everything will fall in place. One must congratulate director Frank Oz for the good build-up towards the climax.As usual, lighten up and enjoy it. You might find plenty of problems during the first half. There is still suspense here and there, but a trifle on the cliché side. If you are patient, you are in for a big treat. There is plenty of hardware involved, and even if they look a bit fancy, they are, like the characters, very believable. Sooner or later you will understand what is going on. It is simple and doesn't need the audience to crack theirs or other's head. The final scene had me literally on the edge of my seat. It has been a long time since that happened.Again, fans of action need to back off. No explosions, no car chase and no fights. Just plenty of suspense and edge-of-your-seat thrill. Oh yeah, there is a statement about listening to the older and the wiser. "},{"Title":"Hits the mark","Date":"23 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  It could be easy to get tired of heist films, considering the number that have come out in recent years - Swordfish, The Thomas Crown Affair, Ocean's Eleven, to name but a few. But The Score does stand out from the bunch in storytelling, casting and direction.The dialogue is relaxed and realistic, free of the cliches and one-liners that could so easily accompany it. This is helped no end by DeNiro and Norton's relaxed styles of delivery. None of the supporting characters seem stupid, foolish or annoying.The Score is smooth and sophisticated, and while it does present the occasional cliche (such as DeNiro's character looking to get out of the business) it is throroughly enjoyable. An excellent mix of the action and suspense of the heist itself, and the character interaction between Nick and Jack. Howard Shore's score is flexible enough to cover all the moods of the film. Frank Oz's direction is so slick as to be invisible, the seemingly slow pace at the start of the film matched by a racing climax. A good film. "},{"Title":"Not great, but not a bad film either","Date":"22 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The Score has been rather unfairly slated by some reviews found here. Whilst it is certainly no 'Heat', it is a fairly enjoyable movie that is worth a look, if only to watch De Niro and Norton act on screen together. De Niro is very good here, if understated, the type of role he can play quite easily without stretching too much. Norton is once again on form, he is clearly going to have an outstanding career. I would disagree with those who say this is his finest performance though, the well worn script does not push any of the actors, and Edward is going to have a hard time beating his cracking turn as Jack Adams in the excellent 'Fight Club'. Yes this story has been done a million times, yes it is quite slow at the beginning, and yes, there could have been a bit more development on the main characters. But that said, The Score is entertaining and you could do far worse at the video store. Maybe some feel let down as The Score is not the classic these actors could have provided, but a worthwhile movie nonetheless, that does give some decent acting and tense set pieces. "},{"Title":"great suspensful crime movie","Date":"7 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  great actors are a sure bet, but i was still amazed by frank oz's ability to create this movie. not to be offensive, but to tell you the truth his previous movies have been pretty lame. so thumbs up for frank, this one made my evening an entertaining one.the movie has been made the way most 'twister-crime movies' are. 'the score' starts up slowly, building up the characters, but the last 30 minutes or so i had trouble staying in my chair.very good when you need some excitment, that's if you stay awake the first hour or so, it's worth it. "},{"Title":"So so movie","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  An OK movie for De Niro and Norton fans.****SPOILER ALERT****De Niro never looses. Getting into the vault area was suspenseful but the technique used to breach the impregnable safe was a bit of let down.  "},{"Title":"Pretty good.","Date":"16 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The Score is a smart crime drama.  I enjoyed this one for the most part.  It was very detailed and believable.  DeNiro was excellent as Nick but at times he seemed a little arrogant.  However, that holds with his character.  Edward Norton's character, Jack was very well played.  However, he was a idiot.  It seemed he felt he already knew everything he needed to know but at least he got his in the end. Marlon Brando's character was also a good addition.  However, they should have casted someone else in that role.  I felt they could done better with a different actor. The planning for the big score was well done.  However, they could have made it flow a little better.  I also felt the planning stages seemed to drag a little just before the final heist began.Over all, pretty good (7 out of 10). "},{"Title":"Sit back and enjoy!","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Good storyline, great twists, superb acting, notably Ed Norton, but Angela Bassett's character contributes absolutely nothing to the film, except to fulfill the usual obligatory Hollywood female interest in every movie philosophy.  I am not sexist in any way but this movie did not need a woman in it, watch it and you'll know what I mean.  All she did was unnecessarily protract and upset the rhythm of the storyline.  Edward Norton should have won a best supporting actor award for his schizophrenic role as Jack Teller the thief and his wonderful portrayal of Brian, a simple Janitor which was played to perfection.  Bob De Niro is as usual, brilliant, and Marlon Brando shows he's still up to the task.  Rent the movie and enjoy, but you'll feel as I did in the end, just why the hell was Angela Bassett in this flick? "},{"Title":"Full of surprises (DVD)","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Just when you thought you were stuck with the 'oldest new release' at the video store late Saturday night, you come away a winner!This movie had great acting and actors, some pretty neat Montreal street scenes, and a lot of hard work by cast and crew. And a surprise ending that really satisfies!There are plenty of reviews of it already. If you haven't taken it off the shelf at your local video store already, don't be afraid. I'll give you your money back if you're unhappy! (err, yaaa) -)) 7/10 "},{"Title":"after this, no more job, it's the last one I'm doin'.","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  In a way, just an other it's my last job and after I retire, honey movie. Done with a great cast though, and in a nice set. Nothing there new, you got that aging pro-thief (DeNiro) who got the opportunity to make loads of money with a single job. You got his lady on one side wanting him to quit now, his old business partner (Brando) on the other side trying to convince him to do it anyway. Like in all the last-job movie the veteran has to come over some of his own rules, in this case working with an unknown partner and performing in his own city - Montreal, which is also mine. I suggest you to visit this town at least once, you got the whole planet there in a few square miles. The Score is still a good movie when compared to other 21st century films but that is all.  "},{"Title":"Great for a Crime Film","Date":"7 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  After Cape Fear I'll at least watch anything with Robert De Niro.  The Score enjoys what has made this a great decade for film  artful casting. Everyone from De Niro to Edward Norton to Marlon Brando to the actors playing French Canadian security guards fit this film perfectly.  These more minor actors and the film's cinematography also give a real sense of place, in this case a sense of Montreal.  Since I wasn't looking for The Meaning of Life from The Score, I think it was worth my two hours and I rate it an 8/10. "}{"Title":"cant believe the crap people said about this great movie","Date":"7 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  this was a great movie all around plain and simple. personally i cant think of any reasons why these people gave it such a bad rap, maybe they didnt understand it, beats me. the film does start out kind of slow but it soon makes up for it when ed norton comes into play beacuse he gives the viewer other things to think about for example, wheither or not he can be trusted by deniro's character or if if he knows enough about the job to get it done right. i thought norton played an excellent autistic person as well as the normal one. Deniro also gave a great performance (like always) and brando was good when he popped up now and again. i thought the hacker stephen was a funny addition to the cast even though he was only in about four scenes. overall its about nick (deniro) who wants out of the life of crime and jack (norton) who is just beginning his. i dont want to ruin the rest of it seeing that there are many plot twists so ill end the review here and encourage the other negative reviewers to give it a second shot and take a closer look so they know what they are reviewing.  8/10 stars see it today!! "},{"Title":"Ed Norton plays with the big boys","Date":"1 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Entertaining crime drama. Ed Norton is apparently the next Big Star as he teams up with De Niro and Brando to steal a neat gold stick worth millions. De Niro can't seem to trust Norton and is reluctant to participate in this caper. Good performances from all, and it good to see Brando in action again. The excitement builds throughout the movie, including a surprise ending that will put a smile on you face. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable, but story is conventional","Date":"31 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I was surprised by how much I enjoyed watching The Score. The plot is derivative, there's not much original material here, but somehow, I overlooked this and was immersed in the film. There's little point discussing the plot points because I feel one will enjoy it more by not divulging anything.The film features an extraordinary acting performance by Ed Norton, in my opinion, this guy will just get bigger and bigger. He outshines De Niro, in my opinion, Norton is the star of the picture. De Niro doesn't have to do much, his screen presence is enough to enjoy. Marlon Brando gets third billing, it's nice to have him in the film, but his performance is not good as De Niro and Norton.Angela Bassett is a disappointing character, I wanted a bit more from her.Frank Oz does an excellent job with the material, he certainly knows how compose shots for the wide-screen format. Placing characters at either ends of the frame are a feast for the eyes. The screenplay lacks originality, but not a bad job. The film is very character based and shot in a down-to-earth location, very ordinary feel to the picture - a sense of realism.Overall, an enjoyable heist picture, just don't expect too much original material. Ed Norton acts his pants off in this one. "},{"Title":"Intriguing, but not thrilling","Date":"31 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is not to say that I was unimpressed by the performances (especially the triumphant Edward Norton once again showing off his dual-role skills), nor to say that the film lacked anything at all.  No, The Score had all it needed to have  An all-star cast; a solid plot line; some suspenseful man-versus-his-own-decision conflict scenes; shiny things; a lot of cursing (which this reviewer sheepishly admits she is a sucker for); and a few punchy one-liners thrown into the mix for good measure.  It was beefcake solid, but at the expense of being completely transparent.  It was predictable, but comfortable.Perhaps I got in a bit late on the trend, having just seen it this afternoon, sitting on my couch with some salsa con queso and a bag of tortilla chips.  Perhaps I should have seen it when the hype was still high and the screens were still big.  But I think that if it were nearly as exciting! and riveting! as it was purported to be, that would have carried over even into the smallest of screens. "},{"Title":"Now that IS a great movie...","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  What do you expect ?! A movie with DeNiro can't be bad at all... Actually it is a very good one. Good screenplay, good actors. Also, I had a good time watching it. I hope the incomes of the movie will increase, because this movie deserves what is the best.  "},{"Title":"Two legends together again, but this is Norton's show.","Date":"26 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie. I'm a huge DeNiro fan, and when i heard that the two Vito Corleone's starred in this movie i went out to see it as soon as it was released. However, the movie's real standout is Edward Norton. He is a phenomenal actor. The way he play's the cripple is amazing!. A good movie overall, great performances, a good and simple script, and the movie contains no violence at all. *** stars out of 4. Go and see it!! "},{"Title":"pleasantly surprised","Date":"12 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This was a pretty good movie. I think that Edward Norton and DeNiro did a pretty good job with what they were given. It seemed a bit slow at times and DeNiro didn't really seem that convincing as an aging thief, but again, his mere presence made me overlook that fact. I enjoyed Edwards performance. I would have liked to have seen more of Angela Bassett and her relationship with DeNiro. The story line was a bit on the done before side, but I still liked it none the less. What really did it for me was Norton's performance. Pretty good, but not fantastic. A good watch for a nothing else to do evening. "},{"Title":"a great film!","Date":"24 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  this is really really a good film.the actors.the story.the director... everything in this film was great!i enjoyed this a lot.Edward Norton is one of my favorite actors.a talented actor with a handsome face!no comment for Robert De Niro and Marlon Brando.so watch and enjoy the film.everything is perfect!!! "},{"Title":"Last 30 only good part.","Date":"2 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  You'd think with Robert Deniro this would have been a great movie, well it wasn't. The movie drags for about 1 1/2 hours. The last 30 minutes was the best part of the whole thing. The only thing I liked about it was how he blew up the safe. Very McGyver like..... "},{"Title":"Refreshingly excellent, if not perfect, film","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"       No, this movie is not perfect.  It could have been; it certainly had the acting talent.  The film doesn't have quite enough gripping scenes and isn't consistently great throughout.        However, that all being said, this is one of the top movies of the year thus far (only A.I. is arguably a better picture, but I think The Score is more enjoyable).  Building off of a sufficient but relatively weak opening which establishes De Neiro's character, the film introduces Brando and Bassett who both turn in excellent supporting roles.  Bassett for some reason is getting crucified for her role in this movie, but she plays out her role well.  Film-goers must remember that she is not playing lead here (which she has proven she CAN do), but she is playing a role, and she plays it very nicely.  Brando is entertaining as the big rich guy for lack of a better term; he doesn't steal the show, but helps contribute to it.      That brings us to Norton and De Neiro, who prove in this movie that they are each at the top of their respective generations of actors.  Norton is nothing short of breathtaking to watch as he plays both a mentally challenged janitor and an arrogant young thief.  On par with Norton is De Neiro, turning in a great performance in a role he knows very well - the tough, crafty, fearful veteran who runs the whole affair.  Seeing these two stars interact with each other - whether it be live, over a phone, or over a two-way radio - alone makes this movie worth seeing. "}{"Title":"Great Heist Movie","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The Score personifies almost everything we go to the movies for suspense, comedy, and a great cast of actors.  As a frequent moviegoer, I think that this movie is great, though the storyline is common, and the screenplay isn't exceptional. What IS exceptional, though, is the great cast.  Robert DeNiro is wonderful, as always, and Edward Norton, one of my all-time favorite actors, displays his talent in yet another great movie.  Angela Basset's character, however, is not necessary in this movie.  I thought her character was just stuck in, and her acting wasn't that great either.  That is the only downturn in this movie, in my opinion. I think everyone should watch this movie, but don't expect a love story, 'cuz your not going to find one.  ****1/2 "},{"Title":"I blame the director","Date":"26 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The Score is a film by a director that seems to be in over his head. He gets the best talent he can and then has no idea what to do with them, they just flounder around in unconvincing roles. The script is strictly off-the-rack with no attempt made to elevate it into something watchable. We are led to believe that this will be a stylish film-noir type caper movie but there is very little style. Camera moves are clunky and self-concious, composition and lighting are amateurish and there is smoke in nearly every indoor scene (didn't directors stop doing that 20 years ago?).You would be better served to check out a movie like Ronin than get stuck with this piece of hackwork. "},{"Title":" A Score Bore","Date":"9 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The question that springs to mind after seeing The score is why? Why was this film ever made? Here are are my reasons as to why. Producers they want the film made because De Niro and Brando are big box office. DirectorTo have these actors on his CV would do him no harm. De Niro He get a big pay packet plus he gets to kiss and canoodle with a beautiful black actress and we all know that what our Bob likes to do. Brando Money Nortonto work with to potentially great actors although one is living on past reputations. What does this add up to? I will tell you, it adds up to a film that stinks and is made for all the wrong reasons. This is a complete mess and a total bore. The story has been done a thousand times before and better than it's been done in this. The ending is stagnant and the acting from brando is nothing short of appalling! This man is a joke and should go home , stop reading scripts and eat himself into a stuper. As for De Niro ( my favourite actor) why are you picking rubbish films like this to do? What has happened to your career in the 10 years? it's going down the pan unless you get a little more selective in what film you do. As for The Score, It stunk the house down. 4 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Norton sells out.","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Marlon Brando and Robert DeNiro I guess took it upon themselves to teach Edward Norton how to do schlocky movies for millions of dollars. Terrific. Now we have another sell out actor doing drek like THE SCORE. Bad script, starsky and hutch music, and overall a lame two hours. Don't waste your time.  "},{"Title":"Tedious , very Tedious","Date":"13 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Now i know this movie was going to be boring when i saw the trailer but i still wasnt prepared for the mind numbing piece of waste this movie is . The 3 best actors of their generation cant save this turkey .DeNiro - NOT the best actor of this generation when u realize that the 70s had actors like Nicholson and Pacino . They also havent become commercial prostitutes like deNiro. Brando - he now resembles a fat overweight clown doing an impersonation of Marlon Brando Norton - Good but the best of this generation ?? Take a bow Mr. Sean Penn .  "},{"Title":"Pretty entertaining heist flick for Friday or Saturday evening at home with no children.","Date":"30 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  SPOILERS - On one hand, I hate heist flicks where the bad guy gets away with it, because we are all supposed to root for truth and justice. However, this one was close to the so-called victimless crime, because the object was a priceless 17th century coronation staff from France, and being held in the Ontario Customs building. Thus we can watch for two hours and enjoy the planning and execution of the heist, including coping with last-minute changes in the security system.The cast is heavy, probably in payroll too. DeNiro, Brando, Norton, and Angela Bassett as DeNiro's girlfriend. Bassett's was the most disposable part, requiring no special acting skills, it could have been done by any actress between the ages of 30 and 50. Brando's is simply the fence, the excuse to pull off the heist, a man who is in debt and needs this one to survive. DeNiro want's to retire, is very hesitant to pull this one off in his own neighborhood, but the lure of $6Million (Canadian, or American??), the ability to pay off his club, to retire and to marry his girl, are too much for him to refuse.Norton plays the inside guy, a security guard pretending to be differently-abled, who is able to get all necessary details for planning the heist. Norton is the best actor here. He has a style about him, both in physical expressions and delivery of lines, that makes watching him very enjoyable. I especially enjoyed the scene where DeNiro's large thug shows up at Norton's, tries to push him around, but Norton turns the tables on him. The character he plays is wise and competent, if a bit cocky. So much that he tries to double-cross DeNiro at the end, and ends up with nothing. DeNiro was better prepared!As often is the case, critic Ebert has the most accurate professional review. Not a great film, but interesting and exciting, especially where thay are planning the caper. I rate it 7 of 10. The DVD has a nice Dolby 5.1 sound track. The extras are limited, of moderate fun were the 3 improvised takes of one scene wit Brando and DeNiro. "},{"Title":"what a waste!","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Marlon Brando,Robert De Niro, Ed Norton... each of these names made history in movies industrial. and in my opinion all of these three are in top ten actors list, the movie is not a bad movie actually its a good one. but is it possible to make a movie worse with this cast? Is money that important to guys like Brando, DeNiro and Ed Norton to act in movies like this?? If you are a big fan of DeNiro and Ed Norton then dont watch this movie. "},{"Title":"Cheap rip-off of Michael Mann's Heat","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I shelled out nine dollars to sit through this monstrosity on the Jay Carr's reference, reviewer for the Boston Globe.  My only conclusion for Mr. Carr granting this fiasco 3.5 Stars is that must owe someone a favor.  Or maybe it was the morbid curiosity it instilled; the only entertaining moments in this picture took place when I kept on telling myself it surely couldn't get any worse.  And of course, it always did.This film is awful.  There is absolutely no stimulating dialogue, hardly any action, zero suspense, and surprisingly poor performances from otherwise talented actors.  This film is a pale shadow of Michael Mann's epic Heat. For those of you haven't seen Heat, get it on DVD, and forget The Score ever entered production. "},{"Title":"Even Robert Deniro and Ed Norton couldn't save this movie","Date":"14 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Spoiler Alert One would think a movie featuring Robert Deniro and Edward Norton would be good. I rented this film with high expectations, and I was completely disappointed. The film slowly led into some elaborate heist of some sword which was worth a lot of money. I endured the boring pre-heist moments, expecting a good final scene. It never came. The only entertainment I found was Norton's portrayal of a mental handicap. I laughed a bit. But besides that, the movie was terrible. The most exciting scene of the movie dragged out for what seemed to be hours. The ending was disappointing. Deniro wins because Norton screwed up and told the old man he stole the sword, yet he did not kill him, thus leaving a witness!!! What?!? Come on, that was ridiculous. I can't believe Norton and Deniro wasted their time making this film, and I can't believe I wasted my time watching it. I give it 3 out of 10 (and that only because Deniro and Norton are two of my personal favorites) "},{"Title":"Stupidest Heist movie i have ever seen","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The title says it all . This movie sucks like nothing i've ever seen . Bobby D. confirms my worst suspicions in this movie that he's just an AVERAGE actor who because of Scorcese and some method gimmicks has gotten the title of acting legend. Brando ? forget it and Norton is fast in danger of becoming typecast as the split personality guy .  AVOID LIKE THE PLAGUE "}{"Title":"One of the worst movies ever made.","Date":"11 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Clearly one of the worst movies ever made.  DeNiro doesn't even try to act and Marlon Brando, hailed as the greatest American actor ever, gets $15,000,000 for five minutes on the screen.  First of all, the storyline is horrible and DeNiro need to retire from acting.  I mean, when you look at both of them early on in their, career, they're fantastic and intelligent.  Definetly not worth seeing. "},{"Title":"The Snore","Date":"4 April 2004","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  *SPOILER ALERT* *SPOILER ALERT*De Niro. Norton. Brando. Three powerhouse, A-list actors together at last. Three extremely gifted performers making a heist flick. Three generations of the finest acting talent on the planet.  Man, this is going to be good. I was excited about seeing this one. So I watched it. All together now One, two, three zzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz...The Score is a snoozing snore of a movie. De Niro is the retired thief, (of course), and Brando wants to rope him in for one...last...score. Uhhh...eyelids getting heavy. Norton is the cocky young thief who can get De Niro inside the vault. All the thieves vie to come out on top. Who will make the Score? Will anyone care? Did anyone making this movie care?Someone convinced three great actors to get together to make The Score. Then they started making the movie and realized too late that The Score just wasn't that interesting. The Score is a standard heist flick that has been done at least a dozen times before. The only thing that makes this movie unique is the strong cast involved but they looked like they didn't care at all. I didn't care either.The Score is a bust. What a shame. It would make a good napping movie though. "},{"Title":"Great Cast, Decent Plot","Date":"28 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" An aging thief (Robert DeNiro) hopes to retire and live off his ill-gotten wealth when a young kid (Edward Norton) convinces him into doing one last heist.The strength of this film is having three generations of great actors in it Marlon Brando, Robert DeNiro and Edward Norton. I am not sure how Norton can be called a young kid, but I did not write the plot summary. Regardless of the film, this is a great line-up (Angela Bassett is a nice touch, too).The plot is good, with a very different sort of heist. I do feel it could have been whittled down, though. At over two hours, the pace is not quite slow, but certainly not as speedy as we might expect from a crime picture. A few scenes could have been cut or trimmed to get this down to a shorter running time. But, still a good film regardless. "},{"Title":"The one about the safecracker doing one last job","Date":"22 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Robert De Niro, Edward Norton, Angela Bassett, and Marlon Brando star in The Score from 2001.De Niro is Nick Wells, a successful Montreal club owner who actually is a master crook. However, he's ready to retire and settle down with his girlfriend, flight attendant Diane (Angela Bassett). An associate, Max (Marlon Brando) prevails upon him to do one last deal - steal a valuable scepter from the Montreal Customs House. He refuses, but finally agrees for larger than his usual take.The inside man is Jack (Norton), an assistant janitor who on the job pretends to be mentally challenged. He manages to get Nick everything he needs to do the theft -- codes, kind of safe, everything. They carefully plan it.But you know how things are.Though the script is derivative in parts, Frank Oz directs with a briskness that keeps it moving. And he has a first-rate cast. The last part of the film is white-knuckle suspenseful. De Niro is very good, but he really has the least flashy role. That belongs to Norton, who does an excellent job as Danny. Marlon Brando looks like Rod Steiger in this and has trouble breathing with the slightest exertion - I really don't think that was the character, it was Brando. He created an interesting character, but it's sad to see him in a small role and in such bad condition. I interviewed Rod Steiger and asked him about the big scene in Waterfront when Brando didn't show up and Steiger had to do his scene without him. Steiger told me that it didn't matter anymore, that Brando had suffered so much, he could only feel sorry for him. Well, you can see this film and feel sorry for him too. "},{"Title":"Very well acted, very predictable, quite forgettable.","Date":"6 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Somehow I have found this just now. And I thought, wow, De Niro, Norton and Brando! It must be special. Well, so so. They were special. The film wasn't. It was a bit weak, quite predictable, and did not felt special. I must admit that having watched The Italian Job (also with Norton) and Oceans Twelve and Thirteen before, may have contributed to feel this movie as already seen, although this movie was made before. A merit which must be recognized. Still, this does not changes that the movie was not as incredible as I expected from this collection of actors. But it is not a bad movie and as long as you do not come in with huge expectations, you will not be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Well made and gorgeous to look at, but requires patience to enjoy","Date":"23 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I really enjoyed The Score, but compared to a lot of other heist/caper movies, this one seems to have the volume dialed down to about 3, and it has a sort of cumulative problem with the pacing.It's not that any given scene drags; in fact almost every scene in the movie is well done, well acted, filled with atmosphere, and absorbing. But by the time the actual break-in begins, you're more than ready for some action and movement. Typical example of this is the sound track, which features a quiet, throbbing horn motif that leaves the listener hanging and unresolved over and over again in scene after scene. That isn't to say that I didn't like it (it is, in fact, instantly memorable and hypnotic)...but after 90 minutes or so, I wanted something else.I think I understand what Oz was going for here, and I think he mostly achieved it. In fact, I bought a (discounted) copy for my collection, because I'm sure that I will want to see it again.I just wish someone had punched off the mute button a little sooner,or little more often. "},{"Title":"The Ultimate Movie Review! - http//tss5078.blogspot.com - @tss5078","Date":"8 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" In what was widely considered to be a passing of the torch, three generations of Hollywood superstars, joined forces for a thriller known as The Score. I found this to be a very strange film, as it features both moments of high intensity and moments that are painfully slow. Robert De Niro stars as Nick Wells, the best safe cracker you could find, but as he's getting older and seeking more stability in his life. Considering retirement, Wells is asked to be part of one last big score, that will have him, and his fence, set for life. Wells reluctantly agrees, before finding out there is a catch, he'll be working with his possible replacement, an arrogant and cocky young man, who could wind up getting them all caught. As far as acting goes, you may never see a better trio of leading men, De Niro, Marlon Brando, and especially Edward Norton were absolutely terrific in their roles. The film however doesn't really take off until the crime actually begins. For over an hour they are in the planning stage, painstakingly going over every detail, and it really is as bad as it sounds, in fact, I almost turned it off, until the wheels were set in motion. From that point, the film really is terrific, with an ending that will leave your jaw on the floor! I was very happy with the last forty minutes of the film, and all three actors were fantastic, but so much of this film moves at a snails pact that I really couldn't give it a higher rating. This is a two hour film, that could have easily been shortened to an hour and a half, without losing any of it's integrity. All the detailed plans and unnecessary back and fourth make the first hour of this film painful, but if you can stick with it, the second hour is certainly worth it. "},{"Title":"The Score is Low.","Date":"29 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Score (2001) Dir Frank Oz / Cast Robert De Niro, Edward Norton, Angela Bassett, Marlon Brando, Gary Farmer Here is so much potential that manages to score very little in the appeal rate. Here is an action film about possession or level of crime committed by two men who measure each other's capabilities. Opening bares nothing to what follows. It stars Robert De Niro as an intelligent safe cracker given a final assignment from his boss that he doesn't wish to undertake because he doesn't desire to commit a crime in his home town. Edward Norton is faking downs syndrome at a customs house where a scepter is uncovered. He mapped out the inside and needs De Niro to crack the safe. One can be sure that it will not conclude lawfully. Directed by Frank Oz with a standard plot gives way to formula but this is a different project for someone who has made Bowfinger and The Indian in the Cupboard. So much potential is wasted here by talent who are so far above it. De Niro, Norton and Marlon Brando are typecast with Angela Bassett unnecessary as De Niro's girlfriend. Normally having their names on any advertizing poster would be deemed positive, so how unfortunate that they are reduced to such shabby writing. We have seen films like this many times before and we will likely see dozens more with even lesser talent. It has an empty screenplay that never scores. Score 2 / 10 "},{"Title":"Top marks","Date":"24 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I love this smartly made caper movie. In fact, I think it is one of the best of its kind, and it has a clever ending.Caper films are sometimes pitched too lightly, more comedy than caper, or have too heavy a back-story, but The Score gets the balance just right. Although we have seen many of the elements before, they are put together here in a way that seems quite fresh.Veteran safecracker, Nick Wells (Robert DeNiro), agrees to do one last job for his long-time associate and fence, Max (Marlon Brando). The job involves a complex robbery as well as the need to partner up with Jack Teller (Ed Norton), a young hotshot who Nick doesn't totally trust. However, the job is worth millions and it's a chance to retire and head off with Diane (Angela Bassett), his air hostess girlfriend. The movie winds up with a great robbery sequence and a few unexpected developments.Ed Norton holds his own against the two ex-Don Coleones, but Marlon Brando steals the picture. Although he is in only a few scenes, his fat, stressed out old fence is unlike any other character he ever played.Frank Oz has made some impressive movies including a couple of brilliant comedies &#x96; who can never forget Michael Caine's run-up with the cane to test the feeling in Steve Martin's legs in Dirty Rotten Scoundrels.The Score has a sharp script and some amusing dialogue, especially in the character of Steven (Jamie Harrold), Nick's geeky computer expert. Steven has an interesting relationship with his mother. When she asks from the kitchen if he wants some lunch, he screams back affectionately, I'm on the phone bitch! The score of The Score is by Howard Shore. You have to be impressed by this guy's range, which goes from dark scores for Seven and The Game, intimate and atmospheric ones for A Dangerous Mind and Hugo to soaring orchestral opuses for The Lord of the Rings. Twenty years before, somebody like Lalo Schifrin would probably have done the score for this film, and Shore has given it a certain Schiffrin-esque quality with propulsive, jazz influenced themes.The Montreal setting also gives the film a point of difference, but by and large, it's the straightforward telling of the tale plus a crisp script and editing that amps up the pace and tension. "},{"Title":"Three generations of terrific method actors in a tried and true heist film","Date":"21 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" It's so rare to see heavily hyped or fabled dream teams of actors or actresses in films be successful, let alone play out, but the pairing of three generations of incredible method actors Robert De Niro, Edward Norton, and Marlon Brando in Frank Oz's The Score is something truly noteworthy. For one, you got two different faces of Don Vito Corleone coming together for the first and only time on screen in the same motion picture to deliver roles in which they nestle themselves so comfortably. Then there's Edward Norton, easily the underdog or the unassuming soul up against two indisputable acting greats who still manages to hold his own ground and, in some ways, echo the sentiments of these two veterans in their early days.The Score's relative obscurity in the modern day is baffling because this is a film that is precisely the kind of film that isn't made anymore, and if it is, it's made to further along an actor's career or ubiquity, meaning the exterior quality of the picture generally suffers or the budget is so pathetically low that any hope to witness a shred of realism is a lost cause. This is a tried and true heist film, taking a liberal two hours to really formulate its story, the motivations of its characters, their personalities, and their plans before plunging them into a mission that is essentially a field of landmines waiting to be tripped by the wrong move. Have fun and good luck.Nick Wells (Robert De Niro) is our main character, an aging crook who has made a comfortable living for him and his lover Diane (Angela Bassett) by working for his boss Max (Marlon Brando). Of course, just as Nick's about to hang up his hat and enjoy retirement with Diane, Max contacts him for one last job because no shyster, hit-man, or CIA agent can rest easy without one more job that's impossible to carry out. Max informs Nick of a job that would result in a $4 million payoff for him if he were able to steal a sceptre, a priceless national treasure belonging to France. The sceptre is hidden inside the leg of an antique piano, which was smuggled through Canada into the United States. Eventually, it was discovered and now lies in the heavily secured basement of the Montréal Customs House.Nick must work with Jack Teller (Edward Norton), a young, ambitious slickster who has managed to infiltrate the Customs House by pretending to be a mentally disabled janitor named Brian. Nick is furious to learn he is not only working with someone on the job, but someone he has never met prior to this job and someone he's unsure if he can trust. However, Max's increasing debt and forces Nick to continue to take on the job and work with Jack to obtain the beloved sceptre.The Score's relatively basic plot is enough to hook virtually any fan of crime dramas in from the beginning, but the real treat is the narrative craft the trio of writers (Scott Marshall Smith, Daniel E. Taylor, and Kario Salem) have cooked up. Rather than relying on a series of banal subplots, worthless characters, or, worst of all, a convoluted plot that disconnects the viewer just as quickly as it could've grabbed them, the writers work to keep The Score rooted in being precisely what it should be - a heist film with shady characters with self-centered ideologies with the element of deception being so present it disappears quite frequently amidst what appears to be complete honesty amongst the characters.Yet, despite this narrative simplicity, The Score wouldn't be a fraction of what it is without the immense amount of talent here. De Niro, during the time he was starting to exit the crime dramas and the loftier dramatic roles for roles that required a bit less effort and complexity, proves once again why he's hailed as an American great. The mannered sensibilities he conveys for Nick are nothing shy of believable, and just the way in which he speaks reflects a seasoned veteran of the crime field. Brando, in the limited scenes he's in, always finds ways to captive thanks to his soft-spoken aura and his character's ability to persuade. Seeing De Niro and Brando work off of one another, especially in one later scene that takes place in a pool, is a rousing good time.Then there's Norton who, as stated, will inevitably get the short end of the praise-stick with the two veterans commanding the screen. However, Norton gets at least three times as much screen time as Brando here and achieves the greatest goal of all when bearing that kind of pressure; never did I once wish that Brando's character was De Niro's character's sidekick whilst watching the film. Norton stands his ground here, being a smug, dictating soul one minute and a charismatic charmer the next. This duality proves that, even at a young age, Norton knew the kind of character he could play, and the fact that he played alongside two great men without slipping up is something I'm sure even more seasoned actors would have a difficult time doing.Finally, Rob Hahn's gloomy, industrial cinematography works wonders for the film as well, providing the picture with a refined sleekness that breeds corporate ugliness rather quickly. Any film that can work off that in addition to balancing the rich talents of three generations of performers and keep a straight-forward story deserves immense credit in my mind and The Score creates something from very little throughout the course of its runtime. "}{"Title":"OK-ish - really only worth watching for its historical significance","Date":"24 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" OK. Fairly tedious though. Overly complex and contrived plot. Only watched this because it has the rare combination of two of the greatest actors of all time, Marlon Brando and Robert De Niro. (The only time they have starred together in a movie? There is an interesting trivia question. Plus the interesting fact that they have both played Vito Corleone). Also worth watching in that it was the great Marlon Brando's last movie.Brando doesn't have much screen time, but he doesn't disappoint. De Niro is his typical solid self. Edward Norton puts in his usual clinical performance.Only worth watching for its historical significance. "},{"Title":"A technically well-made film that depends fairly significantly on its star power","Date":"17 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I can't help but feel that this movie would be far less interesting if not for the intriguing trio of Robert De Niro, Edward Norton and Marlon Brando. It doesn't even have a lot to do with their acting, which is solid from each. De Niro is a more cautious version of his cool, professional persona, Brando is enjoying himself as an easygoing late-career mobster, and Norton handles a character whose quirk involves acting as a mentally challenged individual skillfully, managing to be completely inoffensive and uncannily convincing when the plot calls for it.The conclusion of the film unfolds swiftly, especially when compared to the film's two hour length (I felt that, with respect to the small number of characters and the focused nature of the plot, this could have been reduced to 100, maybe even 90 minutes). Norton's character, impressive due to his skills despite being inexperienced, is perhaps slighted by the screenplay at the end, but I'll leave that up to you.The main characters are fairly well written. This, combined with the faces that we see speaking these lines, make the film interesting, despite being a little long and lacklustre in the suspense department. "},{"Title":"Three Generations Of Acting Greats Provides An Excellent Crime Thriller","Date":"10 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Score is a crime thriller that stars Academy Award winners and nominees Robert De Niro, Edward Norton, Angela Bassett and Marlon Brando.It was the final film performance for Marlon Brando.Also,it was the only time Brando and De Niro appeared in a film together.The film was directed by Frank Oz. The story involves master safe-cracker Nick Wells,(De Niro)decides to retire from a life of crime and focus on running his jazz club. His girlfriend, Diane(Bassett),encourages this decision, promising to fully commit to their relationship if he does indeed go leave the life of crime.However,he is lured into taking one final score by his fence,Max (Brando). The job is to steal a valuable French scepter from the Montréal Customs House.Max promises a $6 million playoff to Nick and introduces him to Jack Teller (Norton),an ambitious, albeit foolhardy, thief who has infiltrated the Custom's House and gained access to security systems by pretending to be a high-functioning disabled janitor named Brian. It focuses on the relationship of the four main characters and the events leading up to the theft of the scepter.Although the film has been a familiar storyline for many movies,the performances of De Niro,Norton,Brando and Bassett is what make this film fresh and original.The cinematography should also be given credit as shots from the classic city of Montreal and its exterior locations added beauty to the film.The cast of characters,major and minor,adds color and drama to the story as well.The direction of Oz was also masterful and brilliant as he used patience in unfolding to us the story which added suspense to the crime thriller.Overall,it is one major motion picture that one can truly appreciate.It was Marlon Brando's last film and he will surely be missed by movie fans world-wide. "},{"Title":"A Perfect 10","Date":"8 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I remember upon release the lukewarm reviews and the rumours of on set difficulties between the director and the lead actors. Who am i to know about what happened on set. The director does not allude to this on the DVD commentary, indeed he praises Brando and De Niro for their improvisation technique. So why is this more than just another heist movie? Many reasons - the Montreal setting, three quality lead actors from across the generations, the dialogue, the script, the lighting, the direction, Howard Shore's wonderful score etc. This is almost a flawless movie. Having Norton reprise his dual persona trick reminded me constantly of Primal Fear and the bit part computer hacker who was portrayed as a clichéd geek were for me the only minor negatives. The twist at the end is simple yet effective and a perfect denouement to a fantastic movie. "},{"Title":"Well acted but very clichéd and flat in the end","Date":"28 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Let's be honest, the movie is completely clichéd, nothing new here last job before retirement in the name of love, brash young vs cool oldest guy, mentor (Brando) and a oh-so predictable twist which thus is not one.What saves the movie are the actors, who are top notch, even if (sorry deNiro and Brando, I know you are legends) Norton outshines the whole cast.As I said, the end was to me extremely disappointing, I saw it coming by miles and it was too neat for me, which really ruined an otherwise highly watchable movie. "},{"Title":"Worth A Watch","Date":"22 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" It's a decent but formulaic movie that brings three excellent performers together. There's very little that's new. We have the no-compromises expert who will have everything done exactly so or he just walks away, and walks away. There's the brash rookie who thinks he knows better than the pro, and means to prove it by a secret agenda. And there's the chubby old godfather-figure who sets it all in motion. And - last but not least - there's a bit of totty for the rather inevitable love interest/conflict of desires hokum.And there's a heist that's nicely done in the 'Topkapi', 'Heat', 'Ronin' style as the terse one-word title would suggest. The idea's been dusted-off more times than Auntie Maude's favourite heirloom.But it's all good stuff. It's just hard to be surprised or impressed. If this were the first of its genre I'd probably give it 9 stars. But it feels more like the 50th.Worth a watch, but no celebration. "},{"Title":"Twisty-turny but peculiarly acted thriller","Date":"26 November 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" It could have been a landmark movie with three generations of The Method's finest convening on one set. The end product is a more tame affair though, too light and generic a project to really let the cast build up a head of steam.Essentially a heist thriller with a substantial side role that involved Edward Norton acting as a mentally challenged security guard, The Score bears the weight of it's decorated cast in the ponderous feel of the action. Norton is very good as Jack/Brian but distractingly so - his role as Brian is within the film and not it's main draw. De Niro clearly bears more than the weight of his character's misgivings - he's also carrying the slurring Brando through a rather anonymous appearance.Ultimately, Frank Oz does a commendably professional job in putting together something more than coherent but thoroughly serviceable. For those who know anything about those involved would have hoped for something rather more special though. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Possibly the most talented actors in Hollywood history.","Date":"11 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" There are those who say this movie was slow and boring. That is simply not the case. It's called plot development and there are tense moments in the middle. It is about a heist and planning for one, it's all compelling.Brando, actually, has less screen time in this movie as I'd hoped, but regardless Norton and De Niro are absolutely amazing and make this movie work out beautifully and seamlessly.The reason I gave 8 out of 10 on this is because of Brando's role, or lack of, was not developed enough. Also, after you see the movie for the first time it takes a lot of the thrill out of seeing it again.Brando, De Niro and Norton could make even the worst written and ill conceived movie work. This movie actually looks beautiful and there are a lot of still camera shots. Deservingly so, see it. "},{"Title":"Fresh crime movie","Date":"12 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Score is a movie that I really liked. It is one of those movies that entertain you and you cannot make a long comment on them. The story is about a heist. Fresh heist story. We have thief NO 1 played by De Niro, we have something like his teacher - Marlon Brando and we have a young enthusiastic rookie who wants to be a part of that heist - Edward Norton. De Niro and Norton deliver a great performance, the direction is nothing special, but I respect Oz for Bowfinger. It's also one of those movie where the characters are positive for some and negative for other. After all the characters are really interesting and colorful. I really can't say much about The Score, but I think it's a must see crime motion picture. The plot is really fresh compared to some disappointments. If you liked this one, I recommend Heist - similar plot with even more big names. "},{"Title":"The Score  smart , savvy  heist drama.","Date":"20 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" From the opening scene I was hooked on the sophisticated smart pacing of this look into the world of a high class, savvy thief.This is a great vehicle for an actor of Deniro's talent, and he is completely believable, as a life long heist man, and jazz nightclub owner in Montreal. Edward Norton does a fine turn as as Deniro's partner in crime, and his ruse as a retarded janitor is more proof of his abilities as one of the best of the Hollywood crowd. Marlon Brando,s role as the initiator is great casting and I was pleased to see him doing such a good turn at careers end.All of the setup scenes leading to the heist were paced in such a way that was exciting and kept me on the edge of my seat. The ending is one of those that delivers a great payoff. This is one heist movie that had it all for me. It was almost believable. Most of the heist movies I've seen are full of implausibilities but this one really delivers. "}{"Title":"Three Good Actors, One Bad Movie","Date":"2 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Everything in this movie screams cliche.  Nothing new, nothing innovative.  DeNiro's character has a one more job to do and he does it because he's 'the best'.  The very expected twist in the plot will leave your jaw on the ground for its complete lack of creativity. Holes galore I don't even think the writers felt compelled to fill in.  DeNiro's subplot leaves little to desire and is out competed by even the worst of romance chick films.  The characters all fit the sterotypes a nerdy angry hacker kid, an almost retired crook who owns a bar and likes jazz (DeNiro), a new guy on the block who is obviously too agressive in his work (Norton).  Acting was good, but the writing left a lot to be desired.  "},{"Title":"Double pleasure","Date":"6 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I watched this film with my son whom I am trying to introduce to more adult/serious/better acted films. We enjoyed it enormously. I am not sure to what extent I was influenced by the fact that I watched it with my sibling, but it worked for us.First, the plot may not be the most extraordinary to hit the screen in years, but it is satisfactory, without going into excessive sex, violence or gadgets to satisfy the audience. Second, the acting was as good as you may expect from two of the biggest giants in modern cinema. The biggest surprise was the film-stealing performance of Ed Norton. It must have been like playing tennis doubles with your grandmother against Borg and McEnroe yet beating them in straight sets. The film is worth watching for Norton's performance, if nothing else. "},{"Title":"Ultimately, a waste","Date":"30 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Marlon Brando, in his first scene, channels Truman Capote and is wonderful. Ed Norton in his guise of a handicapped guy is superb. The rest is predictable nonsense. DeNiro is a fine actor but he chooses poorly. He should be playing Willie Loman or James Tyrone. He's throwing his talent away in stuff like this. Despite a wonderful cast, no better than a 6. "},{"Title":"Above average thriller only for the good casting","Date":"13 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Let's face it, the Yoda is not an action director. Still, The Score delivers on the goods. It is a solid thriller, but mainly, because the cast is top quality. Brando is handy on the side, De Niro does the part with his usual grumpy feel, but the real jewel is Norton. Edward Norton the Great, i mean. The plot gives nothing new to  the first-we-plan-then-we-hit-scenario, but it's enjoyable enough. The meeting in the park is a classic (we all have friends here) and the twist in the end is predictable, but again totally saved by Norton. Over all, the script leaves the film hollow, but here's still plenty to go around.**** / ***** "},{"Title":"What a cast,awful Film.","Date":"13 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"   Could have been great, but with a conventional,orthodox script and inept,mechanical direction from that muppet Frank Oz feels more like a t.v advert with great actors( Brando planted whoopee cusions around set , strolled around naked and reffered to Oz as Little Miss Piggy)  Making Of Footage please "},{"Title":"borin","Date":"3 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  i selected this movie `cause of its brilliant staff, but i was very disappointed. de niro is acting good but not as good as he can do. edward norton acts very good as brian and also the story has potential. but this movie bored me from the first to the last take. there is no tension. the worst de niro movie i`v ever seen (but i havent seen showtime)  "},{"Title":"A Great Film","Date":"1 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I have watched this film and i have to say that i found it very enjoyable to watch.I am a big De Niro fan and i think he is very good in this film but Ed Norton is brilliant in this show playing the mentally handicapped man called Danny.A good twist at the end too.i rate this film 9/10 "},{"Title":"Three talented generations","Date":"29 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I don't think I have to say how I admire Mr. Marlon Brando and all the movies starred by him I have seen. The man is a living legend of cinema. His talent, shown mainly in a scene where he's with De Niro by a pool, is great. Although his part is not so big in The Score, Mr. Brando shows us he has much more to give to cinema. Robert De Niro, one of my favourite actors, plays Nick, a thief who wants to quit his job. When Max (Brando)offers him a last job, he just can't deny the chance of getting U$4 million for robbing a sceptre. That's when he starts working with Jack (Edward Norton), a expert in destroying security systems.De Niro and Norton, two very good actors are, together with Brando, the biggest treasure of this movies, once the plot is not that innovative.  My rate 7/10 "},{"Title":"A well crafted and acted motion picture","Date":"24 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie and thought each of the players did exceptionally well.  Was pleased to see Brando, regardless of how little screen time he had. Perhaps the ending could have been better but that's the writer's/director's decision. Enjoyable. "},{"Title":"The better heist movie of 2001","Date":"9 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The Score beats the Heist, you know this halfway through watching. The ending is victory dance on the lifeless body of Gene Hackman and Danny DeVito.  Each character shines, especially Edward Norton, who's acting almost peaks to the American History X level when he pretends to be mentally handicapped.  Bouncing off of the flimsy 15 Minutes is Robert DeNiro, and Marlon Brando wisely makes an appearance in this after turning down Scary Movie 2, also released the week this movie came out. The movie is realistic and the twist at the end is astounding. The whole thing is just real intense.  B+, 8/10, *** out of **** "}{"Title":"So predictable . . .","Date":"4 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this over the weekend and couldn't help but compare it to the much better Heist (with Gene Hackman as the about-to-retire-thief-who's-coaxed-into-doing-one-last-job). Heist had enough twists and varied characters to keep you interested . . . The Score is shallow and predictable from the get-go. All you're doing while watching this is counting the minutes until young hotshot Ed Norton betrays cynical veteran DeNiro. And of course Bobby is going to pull the ol' switcheroo (which, admittedly, Hackman does as well, but in a much more stylish and original way). I'm sure Norton was flabbergasted to be working with DeNiro and Brando, but what a hollow story to try to hang a performance on. Angela Bassett adds some much needed class to the proceedings, but also has nothing to work with short of the legit chick who wants the veteran to go straight. Stay away from this and rent Heist instead . . .  "},{"Title":"AVERAGE THRILLER","Date":"3 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  It was better than I expected. The script is thin but well studied in every detail. To create an entertaining thriller director Frank Oz inserted some twists and at least a surprising end but it remains always predictable. Edward Norton was very funny. The picture was clear and the plot very original with its high tech instruments for the thief. The best and exciting part was the showdown at the end. If you liked this one I recommend you to watch THE THOMAS CROWN AFFAIR and ENTRAPMENT. Anyway, rent the DVD before you buy it perhaps. 6/10.  "},{"Title":"Solid, familiar","Date":"21 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is a high tech crime drama.  Wells (De Niro) is the veteran professional cat burglar looking for one more big score to go straight.  Along comes Teller (Norton) as the cat burglar wanna be, who seems to have the perfect opportunity, and enough talent to partner with Wells to pull off the big caper.  The move has lots of suspense, and gadgets, as the pair go about planning and preparing for the big event.  The material seems familiar with the veteran working with the rookie who has promise.  Also, we have the impenaterable security hiding the goods behind alarms, sensors, cameras, but conveniently, no people that can get there very quickly.  It all adds up to a satisfying, although not terribly original movie.   "},{"Title":"Great caper movie in the classic style","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is a top caper yarn in the classic style of films like THE STING and THE ITALIAN JOB.There are great use of twists and turns in the plot; Frank Oz shows he can spin a yarn with pacing and humor, as he has demonstrated numerous times before; and the leads are a collection of pros any writer or director would probably die for.  Edward Norton again demonstrates is probably one of the most genuinely talented actors around today.  He and DeNiro play off each other superbly.  It is great to watch.All in all, this is a great story most people should enjoy. "},{"Title":"Like a twinkie with hardly any cream inside","Date":"22 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  You know, I cannot believe that this movie has an average rating of 7 from IMDB users. Have you actually seen this movie? I'll give you a detailed breakdown About-to-retire master thief is hired for, you guessed it, one last job by his usual contact. Aforementioned thief meets with his partner for the job, a young hotshot who seems to like imitating mentally handicapped folks. The object to be stolen some kind of magic wand in a customs house. Lots of security. The heist is planned. And planned. And planned. And planned.  And planned. The heist is executed. It's a little more complicated than that last bit but that's it. The movie is one big plan. When the movie was over, I got really angry. DeNiro, Norton, Brando and Bassett together and this is what I get? Get a finger ready, I wanna barf. Don't waste your time. Anything else but this. Rating *1/2 out of *****.  "},{"Title":"Great acting, shitty script","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I was looking forward to seeing the Score, so much in fact that when it wasn't available at the rental shop in English (Living in Germany has its limitations!), I went out and bought it.  That was a mistake.  I never buy films unless I've seen them before, as I purchase them to see again and again.  Here is another reason for me to keep to that rule, as I doubt that I will watch The Score often.  The acting is fantastic, even from Marlon Brando, which I'm nowhere as much in awe of like so many seem to be.   And the building up of the rubbery is good, characters are well established, and some mystery is even generated.  But then it just dies out.  I was completely at loss, thinking that the film was building up for exciting end, or major plot twist, but no.  It just faded out, with several loose ends and leaves the audience surely disappointed.  However, it is worth seeing if not only for the performance of Edward Norton.  7/10  "},{"Title":"Great acting round out a great story","Date":"13 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Chalk up another one for DeNiro and company.  Great cast here, folks, and we get a great story which they have immersed themselves into.  DeNiro is a Jazz club owner/safecracker who is ready to get out of the latter profession.  He is being pressured by his beau, Bassett, and is all set hang up his tools when Brando makes him an offer that he might refuse. It turns out there is a gold staff that was used back in the days of King Arthur that is being stored at a customs warehouse.  DeNiro has problems with this because the job is in his own city, which is taboo in his book.  Also, Brando brings in Norton, who is the inside man at the customs storage.  DeNiro has several problems with Norton but comes around and agrees to the job.  I love heist movies and this has everything you want.  You're in on the plan, you get some roadblocks thrown in, and of course their is underlying distrust among the players.  It might sound like Im describing a cookie-cutter story here. But it doesn't cheat the viewer with any cheap plot twists and if you're paying attention early on, you might get a hint of what happens later.  I must tip my hat to Norton, who once again is proving himself to be one of the best actors around.  For his job at the warehouse, he fools everyone into thinking he is mentally challenged and they buy it hook line and sinker.  This movie has everything you could want. A suspense-filled story, great acting, and it is set in Montreal, which gives it a cool European flavour not seen in many movies.   I could rave on about this for a while but won't.  Get off your can and go see it. "},{"Title":"Great actors, great film","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  At the beginning I thought it was just another film about a robbery, but it isn' t so! The acting is amazing. De Niro, Norton and Brando are just great actors. Anything they touch turns to gold!The plot is fantastic.. Even if it seems quite boring, too slow and it sounds obvious at first, you will soon realize that the time flies to the end. There aren' t gaping holes and ending twists and turns are sensational.You can' t imagine the result.I recommend you this film. It' s just fantastic! "},{"Title":"Doesn't quite hit the spot","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  De Niro, Brando, Norton ... the mouth waters.They were all very good as you'd expect, although Brando certainly looks his age.  This just didn't get to what it could have been, the script and the direction just lacked a certain something to excite the viewer.Aging thief De Niro is convinced by Norton to do one final job, and there's some reasonable drama throughout -- although you could see the ending coming a mile off.Worth seeing, but I can't help believing that it could have been a lot better. "},{"Title":"Old Story,Lame Partnership!","Date":"26 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  After I've watched this movie,I felt it's just another movie Once A Thief(Directed by John Woo 1990)in my country. If you're interested in John Woo's movies,you should know.I've watched 20 or even more like this kind of movie,just a few movies have their own style,and the filmmakers need creativity.About this movie,I think it's boring. It is just like once you see the opening you would now the ending.I don't wanna talk more about this movie.except the big shots in the movie,I think it's no more attraction about the Score. "}{"Title":"Not a home run, but a bases loaded single","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  With the names DeNiro, Norton, Brando, and Bassett you know you are going to get one thing from this movie...great acting.  Norton is especially strong as thief posing as a mentally retarded janitor.  The obvious selling point is the DeNiro/Brando factor.  No problem there since the two are excellent when they are sharing the screen.  It just doesn't happen enough.  And poor Angela Bassett.  She serves zero purpose.  What a waste of talent!  However, director Frank Oz (the brainchild behind the Muppets for chrissakes!) crafts a smooth heist flick.  The dialogue is great and so is the payoff at the end.  I liked the fact that unlike say Ocean's Eleven (where you knew those guys were going to succeed-you just didn't know how), their is so much disloyalty and ulterior motives that the real suspense comes from finding out just who is setting who up?  Not exactly a Barry Bonds home run, but like Ichiro it will get you safely on base. 7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Not bad,but a familiar story, w/ the actors to back it.","Date":"12 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Norton Has done a lot better, or maybe his character was to have a shaby mentally challenged act. Either way, De Niro is the pro as always and Malin Brando, the big boss. Brando shows of his impecable artistic, well aged talent. If you watch the DVD, check out the special features. Brando and De Niro show of there many improvisational clips that were finally picked from, to roll in the movie.Nortons' worst movie in my book. "},{"Title":"Great Acting Saves the Day","Date":"9 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"   The Score will be remembered more for presenting three great actors from three different eras in the same film rather than for its story. The score of the title is a priceless scepter being stored in a customs house in Montreal. Robert DeNiro plays a professional thief who is looking for that one last score before hanging them up and settling down with the lovely Angela Bassett. Along comes Marlon Brando with just such an opportunity. Into the mix comes the inside man Edward Norton who has convinced Brando to include him in the job. The rest of the plot involves the preparations for the job and of course the score itself. DeNiro and Brando kind of spar with each other. It's too bad that we don't get to see more of them together. Norton takes the acting honors in this one, particularly when assumes the guise of the simple-minded janitor. Angela Bassett is basically wasted here. She is a very fine actress and could have more than held her own against such formidable talent had her part been bigger. This film is also noteworthy in that there is no sex or violence to speak of and no glitzy special effects. The acting carries the film and the direction by Frank Oz keeps things moving along nicely. Imagine the challenge of directing BOTH DeNiro and Brando. The Score, although predictable, is still a very entertaining film. It's great to see Marlon Brando again. It's a pity that he deprived us of his considerable talents for so long. "},{"Title":"Awesome movie in a nice city!","Date":"7 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I loved The Score, not only because it takes place in my hometown of Montreal, Canada but because the acting of DeNiro & Norton is just great and the story is very good.  The pace of this movie will keep you on the edge of your seat for sure! "},{"Title":"Awesome movie in a nice city!","Date":"7 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I loved The Score, not only because it takes place in my hometown of Montreal, Canada but because the acting of DeNiro & Norton is just great and the story is very good.  The pace of this movie will keep you on the edge of your seat for sure! "},{"Title":"A lesson in acting","Date":"7 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Actors don't get any better than Robert DeNiro and Marlon Brando and along comes Edward Norton to give the performance of his career and leave the audience breathless.  Few movies can match this cast in acting.  The story is a much used theme but the movie creates twists and turns at the end, to leave the audience shaking their heads.  Great finish to a very good movie.  I rate this a 7.   "},{"Title":"Good caper flick","Date":"5 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  De Niro plays a master thieve who decides to do one last heist,but things get messed up.Intriguing,with fine performances from Norton(who gives one of the best performances of a retard since Tom Hanks starred in Forrest Gump)and Brando & De Niro(who both won oscars for playing Vito Corleone in The Godfather & The Godfather part II).Angela Bassett has very little screen time.Flick has a surprise ending.The DVD has a commentary track featuring director Frank Oz (puppet maestro).Rating**** (out of five)   "},{"Title":"Great artists do not guarantee great art. 2/10","Date":"5 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Why was De Niro in this movie? Did he have a balloon mortgage payment due or what. I was embarrassed to see his talent wasted in such a relentlessly dull movie. This story has been done a hundred times before and there is NOTHING new here. The so called 'surprise ending' can be seen coming a mile away by anyone who is still awake.It's actually painful to have to watch the immobile Brando on screen. One can't help but be reminded of Jabba the Hut. Please - someone give that man a colon bypass! Norton plays the same character we always see him play and I guess he's getting good at it, but that character is sooo annoying.A boring story is boring no matter how good the actors. I'll bet you can guess the surprise ending without even seeing the movie, so don't bother. "},{"Title":"More like, the BORE!!!  Ha, I kill me!","Date":"5 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I had really high hopes for this one.  It turns out to be one of the most boring movies I've gotten to see in a while.  I'm not kidding!  You HAVE to concentrate on Ed Norton having the most perfectly formed neck in the human species or YOU WILL DIE OF BOREDOM!!!Okay, fine then.  Don't say I didn't warn you. "},{"Title":"The overpowering cast didn't sink the boat Better than Oceans11","Date":"5 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The big talk is about the combination of 3 generations of acting Brando, De Niro, and Norton. When I saw how powerful the casting was, I feared for Frank Oz and I feared that it would be the typical flat performances of an under-directed cast. I was DEAD WRONG. Frank Oz did a fantastic job in allowing these great actors plenty of space to do their thing and yet he got some great performances. Basset wasn't quite believable in her role as 'thief's girlfriend' but she had such a minor role that it didn't detract too much. In fact, the big surprise here was Ed Norton. He turned in the most convincing performance of them all! Way to go Gen-X'r!!! I voted this film a 7 primarily because of the Sloooowwww start. not much action and LOTS of Basset scenes made for a weak opening. In fact, even the exchanges between De Niro and Brando were missing something in the beginning. Overall, I definitely feel this was a better film than the recently released, Oceans 11 in that 'Score' offered at least SOME tension which draws you into the crime scene and opens you up to a world that you never knew existed (Oceans 11 offers ZERO tension but is nearly identical in plot to this picture) "}{"Title":"A nicely crafted caper flick","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is a nicely crafted caper flick with a talented cast and a well conceived story.  The heist genre has been heavily sown over the years, so it is difficult to come up with a truly fresh storyline.  Still, there have been so many bad heist films that to see one of this caliber is a treat. Robert DeNiro plays Nick, a thief who wants to do one big job to get out of the business.  Marlon Brando is Max, the fence who brings Nick together with Jack (Edward Norton), the inside man who conceived the job.  This standard setup is far from original and is a staple of this type of film.  What makes it excel is the way it unfolds.  Director Frank Oz, steps out from his outstanding career with the Muppets to take on a completely different type of project, performing quite admirably.  Oz unwinds the tale deliberately, taking time to develop relationships and motivations usually missing from heist flicks.  The result is an extremely believable yarn with characters whose behavior is consistent with motivations revealed throughout the film.The story, which is a collaborative effort by four writers of little renown, is very tight.  They do a good job of creating a story that evolves effectively, adapting ingeniously to each little wrinkle they introduce.  While the probability of a double cross is pretty transparent, the ending twists a couple of times, first giving the viewer what he has been set up to expect and then delivering the unexpected.  That is good storytelling.The acting is uniformly good from a cast of accomplished actors.  DeNiro doesn't break any new ground with this character, but Nick is so familiar to him that he can't help but deliver a terrific portrayal.  This may not be a career performance for DeNiro, but there are few actors I can think of who could have played this character any better.  Marlon Brando is a legend, of course, but he has not done anything of consequence since `Apocalypse Now' (1979).  Even that was a kind of grotesquely twisted character that came nowhere near some of his great performances starting with `A Streetcar Named Desire' (1951) through `Godfather' (1972).  This is the first film I have seen him in since 1979 that shows a glimmer of his true acting ability.  Though it is a small role, Brando interprets the character with subtle undertones and a raw power that we haven't seen from him in many years.The new kid on the block (by comparison), but no less talented is Edward Norton.  I have been impressed by Norton's audacious style with each new film he has made.  Once again he adds to his range with this film, delivering a fantastic imitation of a palsied man as a cover for his inside work.  However, this is only a footnote to an otherwise powerful performance.  He conjures a seething arrogance and cunning resolve in a character determined to show the old timers how he is really the best and smartest of them all.  This is a fine addition to a growing resume of Norton's exceptional performances.Though Angela Bassett's character is really superfluous, I must give her credit for an excellent job.  Bassett infuses great emotion and sincerity into a character that is little more than a motivational point of reference for Nick's behavior.  Still, she plays every scene flat out, making the most of a limited opportunity.I was very impressed with this film on a number of levels.  I rated it a 9/10 on the strength of how it compares with the genre.  Even taken in a broader context, I would give it a 7/10 or 8/10 because it is such good filmmaking.  Though a bit slow for the action junkie, it is an engaging film with plenty of entertainment value.  "},{"Title":"The best thriller in years","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  When I first rented this I could tell it would be great, simply because my two favorite actors, Robert De Niro and Edward Norton, are in this. What also gave me high expectations was the fact that Marlon Brando was in this. And sure enough, it was great! This is the best suspense thriller I've seen since 'Heat'.I also really enjoyed Angela Bassett. She gave very good support as De Niro's girlfriend who only wants him to quit the life and be with her. Frank Oz did a very good job at directing this movie. Besides the heart-pounding heist scene, and the big chases, I think I enjoyed the acting the most. Seeing these characters go through so much crap for there number one score is very entertaining.I think that anyone who enjoys the high-tech gadget style of heist movies, than this is the one to see. Great acting, great plot, and lots of suspenseful moments make this one a must see for everyone. This is not one of those big shoot em' up, bloody gory robbery movies like Reservoir Dogs (that is one of my favorite movies, though), so any one who rents this movie with those kind of expectations, don't rent this, because there is no violence in this movie. 10/10  "},{"Title":"One of the best suspense films - ever.","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I could not sit through this video. It had me on the edge of my seat. I kept finding little things to do yet keep listening to what was going on. I wanted to fast forward it to see how it ended. Excellent ending. "},{"Title":"Brilliant acting and strong plot make for an enjoyable evening of cinematic pleasure.","Date":"2 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Needless to say, the star power of this movie stands on its own.  Robert De Niro is in a league of his own, Marlon Brando is greatly respected, and Edward Norton will find that same type of stardom as he matures in age. His acting skills are amazing.  These three men click together in this action thriller.  It's like Mission Impossible meets The Godfather.  I would recommend this movie to any and all looking for a great film to dive into and forget about real life for a couple of hours. "},{"Title":"has everything but no cigar","Date":"30 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  2/10 only for the offbeat performance by Ed Norton.  Brando is good and DeNiro is better.  The story has been told a million times.The film having such great actors one would expect a brilliant film.  Forget it. It was interesting and fun to watch but predictable.  Except for Norton who gives an excellent performance as the younger con man. "},{"Title":"Solid Entertainment","Date":"29 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The Score is a well-made, rock solid crime thriller true to its purpose. Like all really good crime dramas, there are no cops. The scores to be settled are between the bad guys. Plot summary - Nick (Robert DeNiro) is a Montreal jazz club owner, who sides as a high end heist operator. Max (Brando) is a crime boss of some sort who wants Nick to take one last job, with newcomer Jack (Norton), also a heist man. The score is to steal a priceless sceptre from inside the Montreal customs office, a seemingly uncrackable building. Jack is working as a janitor inside, posing as a mentally handicapped man that everyone likes.The problem - how do they work through the guards, the security codes, the maze of tunnels below the building and everyone's genuine mistrust for eachother to pull this off. Deniro is his usual reliable self. He has played a bad guy so many times so competently, that I am beginning to believe that he is a career criminal rather than a Oscar Winning actor. Edward Norton has emerged as one of , if my, my favourite actor of the new generation. He somewhat reprises his role from Primal fear, playing a criminal posing as a handicapped individual. Brando and Angela Basset perform well in completely disposable roles - the movie would have gotten along just fine without them.Frank Oz takes a quantum leap from pie-in-the-face comedy and voicing muppets to make a patient, sprawling Michael Mann style heist movie, with a film noir look and feel. In the director's commentary, he mentions trying to invoke the shadowy feel of A Touch of Evil, and not to put the two films in the same league, I think he succeeds.This is not a classic or even a Ten Best of 2001, but a very enjoyable rental, targeted for crime fans. *** out of ****. "},{"Title":"Fairly Predictable...","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  You could do worse.  Edward Norton turns in another great performance while De Niro takes the day off on this one.  Not that he's awful, just that role is not anything challenging.  Without giving anything away, you can tell what's going to happen about halfway through the film and when it does, you can pretty much predict what the result will be.  Worthy of a VHS priced rental. "},{"Title":"Take it for what it is and you'll like it.","Date":"27 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  What a clever little heist picture.  And make no mistake -- this is a heist picture.  The fact that it has such an A-list cast doesn't mean it's another Godfather or something like that.  It's simply a genre movie where all the actors stay entrenched in the genre.There's no Oscar grandstanding, no scenery-chewing bad guys, no tears forming and falling in one take... it's just solid, understated acting and a well-thought-out plot that actually has no holes.  Well, none that I could find.If you take The Score for what it is and don't fret with overhyped expectations, you should find it to be relatively fun.And hey, there are no gunfights, no massive explosions, and no wisecracking action heroes.  That alone makes it worth it.  "},{"Title":"Classy","Date":"27 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I rented the score on DVD last night. I found the quality of film first rate. While the story, was slow and predictable at times I found the film demonstrated a certain class to it. The soundtrack was very good. If one is into the Jazz, The soundtrack for the movie is worth the investment. No matter what Brando does on the screen, it is always a pleasure to see him at work. As far as I am concerned, the scenes with De Niro steal this movie. One thing I noticed, was the interaction between De Niro and the girl in the room at the beginning of the movie mirrored how Norton treated the old janitor in the utility room. With the exception of course, to having the old man look at him. Norton does an acceptable job but not earthshattering. Maybe they should have offered his role to Johnny Dep? Bassett does a good job in her role although limited at best. All in all a classy effort at best. "},{"Title":"Average - but the worst of De Niro","Date":"21 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I LOVE De Niro - before this film I was positive that he had this impeccable taste. From this movie on, I'll be more careful - the film is as boring, eventless, unoriginal and monotonous as they get. The first time you see Norton's character (Norton's performance was terrific though) you know he's there to screw everyone, the first time De Niro's character talk - you know he's not the one to screw. How much more unoriginal can you get? There is a whole wealth of useless lines, characters, episodes going NOWHERE and pretty much taking care of the film fitting in the time it fit. This should have been a 30 min film. I mean really - think about this story a noble robber who wants to quit (how original) and lvoes a woman to wants him to quit (God! that's something new) and robs the... ok, not bank (that was the only new thing) because his freind is in trouble, Brando plays himself and would have been as great without any script!, Norton plays same guy as usual, as soon as he spends 5 min on the screen everyone knows he is not going to take S#@t from anyone and will try to screw them all, the scene of robbery is actually fine (B or B+), the bad guy is punished and the good guy rides in the sunset. BORING. What a shame that such three great actors took these roles.  "}{"Title":"Average - but the worst of De Niro","Date":"21 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I LOVE De Niro - before this film I was positive that he had this impeccable taste. From this movie on, I'll be more careful - the film is as boring, eventless, unoriginal and monotonous as they get. The first time you see Norton's character (Norton's performance was terrific though!) you know he's there to screw everyone, the first time De Niro's character talk - you know he's not the one to screw. How much more unoriginal can you get? There is a whole wealth of useless lines, characters, episodes going NOWHERE and pretty much taking care of the film fitting in the time it fit. This should have been a 30 min film. I mean really - think about this story a noble robber who wants to quit (how original) and loves a (beautiful) woman (can't it just once be simple a CUTE one???) who wants him to quit (God! that's something new) and robs the... ok, not bank (that was the only new thing) because his friend is in trouble, Brando plays himself and would have been as great without any script!, Norton plays same guy as usual, as soon as he spends 5 min on the screen everyone knows he is not going to take orders from anyone and will try to screw them all (authors even disclose this in the trailer!!!), the scene of robbery is actually fine (B or B+), the bad guy is punished and the good guy rides in the sunset with the gorgeous Angela. BORING. What a shame that such three great actors took these roles. Where is Hollywood going with this?  "},{"Title":"Not a gem, but this movie scores","Date":"21 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  OK, so you take a look at the trailers.  The cast includes Robert DeNiro AND Edward Norton AND, as if that wasn't enough, Marlon Brando AND, if that wasn't enough, we throw in Angela Bassett.  I couldn't help but keep my hopes up!  So I'm sorry if I found the film a little less-than-satisfying.  But I still had a good time.  You can honestly say this movie has the best cast ever assembled.  When DeNiro and Brando appear on screen at the same time, you just want to faint.  This IS pure motion picture magic!  And the scenes between them are great.  Brando improvised some great material, providing hilarious comic relief.  In the DVD, they included some additional improvisation between Brando and DeNiro that wasn't included in the final cut and I nearly fell off the couch, laughing!Edward Norton is an up-and-coming young actor, but an actor who's destined for success.  I've never seen him deliver a performance that was even slightly below par, and he blew me away with his debut in Primal Fear as a shy choirboy with multiple personality disorder charged for murdering a priest.  Once again, he proves his supreme acting ability.  Angela Bassett, one of my favorite actresses, is also great in a role that was quite interesting and I wish her character could've been developed more.  The relationship between her and DeNiro is very interesting, which is why I wish the film emphasized it more.  The plot is moving, though not as taut and suspenseful as I expected.  The film has its lulls, but with a cast like this it's hard to doze off. My score  7 (out of 10) "},{"Title":"All fans of slow moving formula action pictures line up here!","Date":"20 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  It appears that many liked this film so I must be in the minority in my feelings.  I really expected much more.  The movie begins slowly and never really hooked me.  The major characters could be copied from a How to Write a Heist Movie book.  DeNiro plays the reluctantly coming from retirement thief.  Norton is the talented but young hotshot with a few things to learn. Brando is the older, wiser friend with more trouble than he lets on. Basset is the woman.  The filmmakers took these characters, a plot concerning a heist and just added water as prescribed in the textbook. The end result would indicate that they forgot to stir.  "},{"Title":"Of scores, heists and eleven frat boys","Date":"19 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  In a period of about two weeks I've watched three heist movies, and this one is the best.  Not that The Score is a great movie; it's a good movie, entertaining with competent direction, enjoyable dialogue and solid acting.  Some have commented about the slowness of the film and the lackluster performance of DeNiro.  I disagree on both counts. The slow pace was perfectly suited to building up suspense on a psychological level.  One of my favorite scenes in the film is of DeNiro hanging upside down for what seems like an eternity, wrapped in his thief garb and sweating profusely.  He doesn't say a word, but you can see in his eyes that he is thinking I need to pull out.  (I actually wish he had pulled out - that would be an interesting twist on the genre).Marlon Brando playing the flamboyant aging backer was effective and the scene of he and DeNiro in Brando's master bathroom was one of the best moments of the film.  It was in scenes like these where I really felt that DeNiro, however, proved his mettle as a great actor.  He doesn't ever wave his hands or raise his voice.  He just has a way of turning out a phrase and making it come out believable.  Here he is tempted to back out of the plan, but caves into a desperate plea; again I think the film would have taken a more interesting route had he backed out and the story could have gone on from there.Ed Norton is a decent but highly over-rated actor.  I'm not sure why so many were so captivated by his performance in this film; I'm assuming it was his retarded act, but I still don't see what was so wonderful about it.  He plays his role well enough, and nothing more to say about it.  Angela Bassett's character as the token girlfriend was a complete waste and was almost as lame a female character as Julia Roberts' character in Ocean's 11.  I think we need some smart women to make movies in Hollywood, cause the guys are living in 1950.I liked the scene at the park... nice tension.  I didn't like the computer-geek hacker.  He seemed like a character out of Ocean's 11 and totally out-of-place in this more serious film.  If only Ocean's 11 had one or two good characters like this geek, it might have been a tolerable film.That brings me to the inevitable comparison with the other score films (Ocean's 11 and Heist) and why The Score is much better than both of the others.  Heist, like the Score had a core of good veteran actors that keeps your interest.  But it also stars two horribly cast young performers that simply cannot keep up with the likes of Gene Hackman.  David Mamet's dialogue is so self-consciously trying to be cool, but only comes off as corny 90% of the time.  As far as Ocean's 11 is concerned, there's not much to say about that monstrosity.  It is the movie equivalent of a frat party, and like all frat parties, I can't imagine anyone but the members of that frat enjoying it.  What a waste and insult.  Hard to believe that Steven Soderbergh could make a remake of a bad film that's even worse than the original.See The Score and enjoy the ride, but even though you have good performances from greats like DeNiro and Brando, don't expect this to be a classic film.  It follows many conventional formulas of heist movies, it has the requisite twist at the end, and the actual job is full of holes.  But it's entertaining in its convention and done well, and with modest expectations, it delivers. (7/10) "},{"Title":"Caper films are all the same. Or are they?","Date":"19 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  First off most people are commenting on the script as being unoriginal. It is a caper flick folks. Most genres follow a specific plot. Look at most westerns for example. The Score was to me an excellent caper film. Set in Montreal (what a change of pace that is. Guess what country I live in?) DeNiro plays the role of an aging thief willing to take one last job for a big reward at the end of it. (Just like he did in Heat) Norton plays an up & comer added to help. Brando is the one who brings them the job. Basset well quite honestly isn't really needed. For me the best thing about this film is the technical aspects of it. So few films Day of the Jackal & the aforementioned Heat are two that come to mind where we are brought into the world of the characters as opposed to viewing the from the outside. The film almost makes one feel like you are there in the Montreal Customs House with both Norton & DeNiro as the heist is going down. Sure Norton does an almost spot on Rainman. Only Dustin Hoffman can do it better. While others may call it slow I call it engaging. The people who find this slow are the people that need something exploding every 5 minutes or some kind of assinine car chase. There is a twist of course, but what is a caper film without one? Now for Marlon Brando. What a treat it is to watch him. The guy has still got it. To see three of the best actors of each of their respective generations is really a joy. Do yourself a favor & rent this one on DVD. The added footage has one scene done 3 ways as Brando & DeNiro just kind of improvise.  That alone is worth renting this film. All I can say is watch this film with the vision that you have never seen a film in this genre & you will love it. I'd easily give it 8 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"don't expect too much","Date":"19 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  the only good thing abt this movie is the cast. the plot is really too simple. i expected a lot when i saw its preveiw, but there's nothing much to it. edward norton is....okay, de niro and marlon brandon are as good as always. i'd say its worth a look. "},{"Title":"Been there, done that.","Date":"18 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I rented it on DVD and found that it really didn't give the audience anything new. Having recently seen The Heist in the movie theatre, the bait and switch ending seemed too familiar and typical. Other movies have ended like that too, of course. Once the heist (I mean, The Score) began to take place at Canadian Customs I thought to myself, Haven't those customs guys seen The Usual Suspects?? It's ALWAYS 'the Gimp' (I don't mean that in a derogatory manner). None of the performances stood out. I always like Edward Norton and respect what he was trying to do but he was working with a boring script. Brando and De Niro's performances did not impress me. Haven't we seen Brando do that character before? Paul Soles is always a good addition to a cast but the only really good performance was that of Angela Basset. On a positive note It was neat to see another movie set in Montreal. "},{"Title":"One of the best heist movies I've seen!","Date":"17 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Awesome movie. One of the best I have seen in awhile. This movie builds up so much tension right up until the end that it makes you want to rip your hair out!! All of the actors were really good, and the story was written well. Some people may think it takes awhile to develop, but at no point did I find the movie slow. It just keeps building and building until........ BOOM!!!! The climax of the movie unfolds and your just sitting there with a dumb look on your face saying HOLY S..T!!! That didn't just happen!! Definitely buying this one.    "},{"Title":"Not bad but...","Date":"15 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Well, let's see... The Score is not a bad film but isn't great either. It does take a while to get started and much of the first half hour is a waste of time, but as it plods along it has some interesting elements, particularly once the heist begins. Edward Norton's role was well played. And Robert De Nero did a creditable job. Marlon Brando was okay too, but didn't have a great deal to do in this film. Elderly Canadian character actor Paul Soles did a fine job with his janitorial role. While the acting wasn't a problem, the script was. The problem is that the caper wasn't quite believable. Norton is smart enough to plan the heist, but not smart enough to see the outcome which, although part of his plan, appeared to backfire in a surprising conclusion. He should have known... We're left to wonder was De Nero just lucky or really cunning as a thief? The Score is worth viewing, but better films in this genre include Ocean's Eleven and The Thomas Crown Affair (only the recent remakes, not the originals). Likewise, a better De Nero vehicle, though darker, was Ronin. Just as The Score takes place in French Canada (Montreal), Ronin uses Paris, Arles, and Nice as its French backdrops. Ed Norton was also much more sympathetic in the funny and touching Keeping the Faith. If you see The Score that's fine... but see these other films as well for better entertainment value. Overall, a 7.5/10. "},{"Title":"The Slowest Robbery Ever","Date":"15 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  For heist films, The Score fills in as a decent entry, but it is themovies pace that keeps it from being a much better film.  The firsthalf of the film is very slow as they set up the score, and in thesecond half when they finally go to do it, it still is plodding.  A lessclimatic climax I've never seen.  Because of the films slow pacing,it doesn't really get the adrenaline flowing like this type of filmshould.  It does offer a typical plot change with issues of doublecrossing and trickery.  A almost transparent side love story is soweak that it is a wonder why they waste 10 minutes on it.  Overall,it is a fine film if you really like the genre, but it isn't a must-see forthe regular movie-goer. "}{"Title":"WOW!!!","Date":"13 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Finally!!! A Heist movie that WORKS! Who would think....Frank Oz...the guy who works with MUPPETS....BLOWS AWAY the bloated and pretentious director David Mamet when it comes to directing a crime caper! (The Heist stunk)From Brando, Norton & DeNiro (Too bad Angela Basset didnt get NAKED) this is one sweet intelligent crime caper...ingenious! and I was truly SURPRISED at the twist ending! GREAT MOVIE....check it out NOW! "},{"Title":"unbelievable!!!!","Date":"13 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film was awesome.  It had an awesome ending.  It was very suspenseful and intriguing.  Robert DeNiro and Edward Norton were magical together. Norton's changes between his two characters were great.  He is one of the best actors around.  DeNiro is known for these types of movies and once again fulfills his role as a tough guy. "},{"Title":"Bobby D, Ed N - good; Marlon B - average","Date":"12 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Spoiler comment - Do not read last paragraphDe Niro and Norton are good but not great in the movie. Marlon Brando's performance was somewhat of a disappointment. The plot creates some excitement especially in the middle part of the movie. Worth purchasing on DVD.The key scene (switching of the scepter) can however be anticipated. The way De Niro's character opens the safe however bears a big goof A flow of water through a sprinkler system produces a mechanical alarm to go off that cannot be disabled electronically.   "},{"Title":"Scores of Talent","Date":"12 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Director Frank Oz is known mostly for lightweight comedies like In and Out, What About Bob?, and various Muppet movies.  The Score is his first entry outside of the comedy genre, and he's done a fantastic job creating an intelligent, absorbing, and refreshingly different kind of crime flick.Robert DeNiro stars as a brilliant, skillful thief who wants to settle down with his girlfriend, a perfunctory role played by Angela Bassett.  Problem is, he is sucked in by temptation and a huge payoff into doing one last job for retired thief and friend Marlon Brando stealing a priceless scepter from thr 1600s.  Enter Edward Norton, who works at the customshouse being targeted for the robbery and feigns mental retardation, enabling him to get info and access about the security system.Perhaps the most attractive, engaging aspect of The Score is the variety of its three lead actors, arguably the best actors of their time.  Each brings uniqueness and individuality to their roles, all the while bouncing off each other and creating a mesmerizing powerhouse of ensemble acting.  DeNiro is calm, collected, and ever so professional as the tired, eager to withdraw thief, Marlon Brando is believable as the seasoned, retired thief with a been-there, done-that attitude. and Norton comes off as both arrogant and knowledgeable as the rookie.  Angela Bassett, a good actress, has little do here besides dote on DeNiro; her role is severely underwritten and could have benefitted from more development.  The Score is also an usual crime movie in that there are no grandiose shootouts, no car chases, and no climax culminating in huge fireballs and explosions.  The screenwriters have wisely chosen to let the talent of the actors and the complexity of the caper take center stage, and director Frank Oz slowly and laboriously paces the film as it leads up to the heist. relying solely on dialogue and clever plot twists to build suspense. While The Score may sometimes seem to tread familiar ground in its plotting, the bevy of talent bursting from the three lead actors more than makes up for story lulls; in fact, it makes The Score feel more like an authentic, old-school thriller than an explosion-filled, testosterone-fueled heist flick.8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Norton, Deniro at their finest","Date":"11 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie contained great actors, acting greatly to provide the film with everything it needed. The story was good, with a magnificent end. Deniro and Norton are a tag-team in this one and should work together more often...and of course Bobby gets in the last word, as he should. "},{"Title":"Not the worst film DeNiro has done","Date":"11 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I was certainly expecting a bit more from this movie. While the acting from all parts was spectacular, the movie itself was predictable and unoriginal. Norton's performance as a handycapped janitor was commendable and Robert Di Niro is as excellent as you would expect from an actor with such a well-known career. The safe-scene was done spectacularly well and the dialog between the characters really worked. You could see that they were itching to take each other on, but prevented by the job they were working on. Di Niro was a convincing thief, and you really felt for him when he wanted to retire. But overall, it didn't require much thought and wouldn't be suitable for a demanding audience. "},{"Title":"One of the worst ever !","Date":"10 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I went to see this (I just can't call it a movie because it didn't move and it certainly didn't move me ) with a friend, I managed to sit through the thing where as my friend left halfway. So I saw the 10 minutes of it that were almost worth the sit, almost. I wish I had left too. The story just drags along. Why de Niro played in it I don't know , it was  not worthy of him. I saw some people write in their comment that Norton played a good role, why is it that anytime anybody plays a person with a handicap be it real or not , everybody starts raving about how good they were? There was a huge advertising campaign for The Score in Holland, the only one's that scored were the movie people.I only lost the money to go to a better movie,witch is not hard to find. A positive remark...... it was better then....Escape from L.A.  oh and police Academy 2-13. "},{"Title":"Spoilers here.. i promise i wont reveal the end tho )","Date":"9 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Well, first of all, im disappointed. The movie just didn't add up. Some great effects, promising plot, great actors - and no good movie.Characters are to black&white, starting from deniro's old pro attitude down to security guards lazy tv-watching and computer geek playing halflife in dark room and living with mummy. Situations are seen hundreds of times (cop walking out the night-bar in the most inappropriate moment) and are, quite frankly, boring. Plot is predictable almost through the whole movie.I must admit that deNiro's charm almost makes up the poor story.. almost. Only if there wasnt _so_ many logical errors that the whole thing made me frown.Now, if you want to see the film yourself, stop here.Well, if you read on, this is list of most obvious mistakes 1) How does the deNiro get into custom house second sublevel? He uses the sewers. I mean, not to mention that city sewers starting from very close to surface dive _at least_ 4 floors below the ground, im sure that custom house security wont notice the trapdoor from sewers to the most secure area of their warehouses. 2) The security guards. Cameras go out in house. Guards watch tv. Cameras go out second time. Guards still watch tv. Noise from offline cameras starts annoying guards, so they call tech support. WTG. Not that they should check the reason or something. Also, guards fail to notice that the janitors radio is about twice heavier with gun hidden inside than normally. 3) Passwords. 4 numbers, security ) Also, no cameras, no motion detectors in main control room. 4) Logic behind the young guy actions. Whats the point to smuggle in the gun through metal detectors if he is going to get stash of things from other source later? Why did he leave witnesses who could identify him? 5) The piano the treasure was hidden at the first place. It was infected with termites, so custom workers encaptured it into polythene. Everyone knows that its real problem for termites who eat wood. Nod.List should go on, but you get the point. For me, such obvious mistakes show makers disrespect towards the watcher. "},{"Title":"comments on the ending sequence (spoiler)","Date":"7 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I thought that the ending to this film was very well executed, and really made the film a great movie.  I am sick of thriller movies that always try to surprise you one more time.  These movies will drag on and on . . . they kep asking you Who done it? or Who has the gold?  They ask you this so many times that by the time you leave the theater you could care less who has what, you're just glad that the movie is finally over.  The Score, however, ended at the best possible moment.  There was no jockeying back and forth over who had the goods.  Instead, there was a simple plot twist thrown your way and you were left hanging just a little, wondering what might happen next.  I couldn't think of a better possible ending for this film. It is one i could easily watch again without growing bored, and that is why I liked it so much. "},{"Title":"slow plot,easily detectable clips-NOT a must-see!","Date":"6 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"    Three generations of actors` best!What could go wrong here?Well,it looks like everything!De Niro kinda retakes his Heat character,Brando is like an overveighted Jon Voight of the same film(Heat)and Norton,well,he`s just proving on his fitness for a fortcoming Oscar!Is it only in my imagination or did anybody else notice that lately Bob is,well,recycling his previous hits?(fire expert cop in 15 Minnutes aka Backdraft,the famous Taxi Driver question again in Rocky & Bullwinkle)and if so,what for?Sorry,guys this doesn`t look like a blockbuster!   "}{"Title":"Absolutely terrific.","Date":"4 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I thought this movie was brilliant. The twists and turns it takes will keep you on the edge of your seat.I didn't believe that one single actor carried the film, Norton and De Niro's performances were quite excellent, and Brando delivered a very well rounded support role.Make sure you catch this movie, as it will really keep you on edge, and get your heart ticking! "},{"Title":"Yes, a low score","Date":"4 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  At the time of writing The Score has a vote rating of over seven, but the comments all seem to reflect my own opinion that this was a dreadfully weak film and a real let down for the likes of de Niro and Brando. The only good thing was the excellent performance of Norton. I don't mind 'slow' one little bit, but there has to be a reason for it, there needs to be something of substance to every film. This one didn't go anywhere at all. If it were a car, it would be something white, with an undersized engine and itchy seat coverings. "},{"Title":"Disappointment","Date":"2 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I am sorry to say that the movie was a disaster, a disaster for the career of Edward Norton and De Niro. How can they be a part of such a simple scenerio.. The whole movie story is based on a Canadian Customs House robbery, full of dilemmas in the story and weak characters beside the Norton, De Niro and Brando. When I had first seen the trailers of the movie, I thought 'yeah another perfect movie is comin' up..' Actually I shuld say so, especially after Norton's 'Fight Club' and De Niro's 'Heat' But except the scenerio, Edward Norton's role is still good. He is one of the most promising actor for the coming next ten years..Lastly I should say, I do not wanna see such good actors in such simple story movies. They do not have the right to give us disappointment by making such movies as 'The Score' "},{"Title":"I enjoyed it.","Date":"30 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Well what can i say,it was a good movie,maybe not for everyone,but i personally enjoyed it immensley.Yes it was too slow at times,but supurb acting from De Niro,Brando and especially Norton more than made up for it,brilliant. "},{"Title":"well acted but fairly unexciting","Date":"30 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie nearly put me to sleep although it was well acted by DeNiro,Norton and Brando (what else would you expect)- the movie is a basic documentary of the methodology of a safe cracker, and despite its little twist at the end, it was fairly and generally boring.I would not recommend this movie(unless you want to learn about safe cracking) "},{"Title":"Decent flick - wasted talent","Date":"28 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Why do already rich and great actors make films like these? Don't get me wrong, the film was basically good from an action entertainment point of view, but when will De Niro and Brando turn their talents to something more interesting? Overall this film was exciting to the end, although I did get the feeling that there was also something remarkably ordinary about this. "},{"Title":"three great actors. one dull movie.","Date":"25 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Don't be fooled by the prospect of this 'dream' cast, because , quite frankly, the film does very little with them. Not that De Niro and Norton always choose good roles, because some of the movies these guys have been in recently fall well below thier talents as actors. Keeping the Faith... Rounders... Men of Honor... 15 Minutes... need i say more? The Score is essentially a Hollywood crime flick of the worst kind big stars, big budget, bad story, bad characters and a terribly predictable twist. Like i said, don't be fooled. "},{"Title":"this one SCORE's high marks","Date":"20 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film is the type of movie which leaves you with the desire 2 see it again. De Niro is always believable, Norton has a fiery intensity, Brando is a pleasure to watch. These three actors make theis whole film dynamite from start to finish even is its slow in parts. Methodically made, articulately put together with a final 20 minutes that are taut, tense and exciting. dont miss it. ***1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"FINE MOVIE","Date":"16 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  WARNING POSSIBLE SPOILERS AHEADI just watched this movie a few hours ago, and I must say that I got out of the theater very satisfied, De Niro and Norton are one of the best on screen team I've ever seen, the only character that I really didn't like was Marlon Brando's Max, I mean, he wasn't expressive at all!, I expected something better coming from this great actor. Another thing that the movie missed a bit was that feeling of unexpected situations, the ending was great, but, I think everyone in the theater knew that De Niro's character was going to win (as all ways). Any way, this picture may not be a movie classic, but it a nice way to spend two hours.watch it.    "},{"Title":"A film showing classes how to steal a priceless sceptre","Date":"12 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Two old lions of the cinema, Brando and de Niro for the first time doing something together. It is impressive the dialogues of both, very realistic and masterfully, but Brando is too old to do certain things and for him the best role is the one of godfather or a rich man saying what he wants and paying for it. De Niro played as usual, and this is the real value of the film. The rest, including the real plot of the film, can be seen in any of the pink panther's serials. Edward Norton, being a rookie in comparison to Brando and DeNiro, played also very well.      "}{"Title":"Three actors decide to rob hard working movie goers of their $8.","Date":"11 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Saw The Score tonight. Should have been called The Bore.I'd call it a by the numbers movie, but that's doing a disservice to by the numbers movies.Where were the twists? The only one was Norton deciding he was going to rip off Bobby, but ha ha Bobby is too good for him and switches the sceptre. And that's it...period.Norton rehashing his mentally impaired schtick was great in that movie with Redford back when he was Ed No Ones Ever Seen Me Before Norton. Hell I thought he was retarded in that movie, so when he comes out of it at the end it was a great twist. But in The Score it's old. It's been done. It's tired. I'm tired. The guy in row G snoring looked tired.A real turn up and pick up your 7 figure checks boys for Norton, De Niro and Brando. Although with only 1/5 of the theatre full, and 4/5 of that 1/5 making out I don't think many people bothered to ask for their money back.I want my Bobbys Raging, my Eds Fighting and my Marlons On the Waterfront where they belong.  "},{"Title":"If nothing else, see the acting.","Date":"8 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" 	You can usually &#145;bank' on a heist movie to be entertaining.  Weak pun, I know.  But, I needed a way to start off this review, and couldn't think of a way to start it off with a &#145;bang'.	Still here?  Good.	The Score is another good summertime movie.  It doesn't try to bend genres around; it doesn't try to be something that it's not.  It's a movie about a heist.  Not a heist with aliens, not a heist with talking animals, not a heist with a Will Smith song about it, just a heist, plain and simple.  Knowing that, you know what to expect, and that's what makes it good.	One of the fun things about heist movies is trying to see what will go wrong.  I'm not spoiling anything here &#150; things falling apart is one of the staples of the genre.  It's seeing how and when and why the plan falls apart that keeps us going to these movies.	That being said, here's a rough breakdown of the plot Nicky (DeNiro) has been in the business for 25 years, and is thinking that it's time to &#145;retire', live with Diane (Bassett), and run his jazz club full-time.  Max (Brando) offers him (you know what's coming) One.  Last.  Score.  A score that will pay Nicky $4 million.  Now, for something this big, it's gotta be tough, and an insider will be needed.  Enter Jack (Norton), who as &#145;Brian', a developmentally disabled part-time janitor, has unrestricted access to the Montreal Customs House where the heist will go down.  From here we connect the dots, try and out-guess the crooks, try and figure out what will go wrong, make mistakes, watch the plot twists, and enjoy the show.	This is a strict genre piece.  It's not breaking any new ground here.  It's not Reservoir Dogs, and doesn't try to be.  There are some Tarantino-esque bits of dialogue (not so much with the sailor talk, but with the terse bits of detail), but, that's to be expected.  With the massive footprint that Quentin Tarantino made on American cinema, it's nearly impossible not to steal from him, especially in movies about crime.  The actors are all stock characters, but the actors who are playing them represent 3 generations of the best actors American cinema has ever seen.	Marlon Brando may be a big fat man now, but his acting is still top-notch.  His eyes are incredibly expressive, and you can still see elements of the animal magnetism that made him a star.  Robert DeNiro... well, he's Robert DeNiro.  He's not charting new territory like he did in Raging Bull or Taxi Driver, but, it's not like he's going to turn in a bad performance.  Besides, it's not like he's acting for Martin Scorsese.  Edward Norton is so good that it's scary.  His portrayal of &#145;Brian' might be better than Kevin Spacey's &#145;Verbal Kint' character in The Usual Suspects.  Angela Bassett is there as a plot device &#150; not quite a femme fatale, but as a motivation for DeNiro's character.  But, in order for a character like that to be able to hold her own against the likes of Brando, DeNiro and Norton, the actress would have to be good.  And, she is.  	And, what about Frank Oz?  You know that you've seen that name somewhere before.  Oz was &#145;Miss Piggy', &#145;Fozzie Bear', &#145;Yoda', &#145;Grover' &#150; yup, a Muppeteer.  He's done acting without a Muppet, too (as the man who gives Jake Blues his belongings back when he leaves prison in The Blues Brothers, for example).  Now, after having worked with George Lucas, John Landis and Jim Henson, Oz has clearly learned something about directing.  He's not a notable director, he's not prolific, but he puts out good work, and he can handle actors who really know their stuff (Bill Murray and Richard Dreyfuss in What About Bob?, Eddie Murphy and Steve Martin in Bowfinger).  This makes him almost ideal for directing a film like this.  He's not out to make a huge artistic statement; he's here to make a good movie.  And, he has.	Is The Score a classic?  As a film, probably not.  As a chance to see three truly gifted actors on screen at once (and the first time they share the screen together is electric), it just might be.  Odds are, this will wind up being a sleeper hit, either in the theatres (like The Usual Suspects was), or on video (like The Shawshank Redemption was).  Either way, you're not going to go wrong with seeing this movie.  "},{"Title":"Saved from averageness only some excellent acting","Date":"7 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I saw the Score principally because of the stars of the movie. I didn't go expecting much originality in terms of a plot, or directorial techniques, etc. and thus was, alas, not disappointed.The plot is simple - Let's rob something that's really difficult to get to. In The Score's favour the film doesn't irritate by introducing trivial sub-plots to pad itself out. The whole film is based around the heist and it doesn't bother to deviate. Good. However the plot itself doesn't contain much. It's a fairly mellow affair - no big blazing gun battles, no huge body counts - which would be grand except what there is isn't enough to quite sustain the pace. You're never exactly bored by the movie, but neither are you ever excited. The movie failed to draw in this viewer too often.I feel that I must now mention the plot twist. When the twist occurred I started praying nearly that it wasn't as obvious as it seemed. I nearly shouted at the cinema screen. I hoped they wouldn't do the twist, that there would be no twist. I was wrong. This was one of the most disappointing twists I've ever seen in a movie and just made me feel disappointed they felt the need to be clever and introduce it at all (and yes it could be argued its consistent with the nature of the characters but, in some ways, it's also very inconsistent).What saves the movie from falling into extreme averageness? The performances. Brando's is nothing to particularly notice - it's perfectly competent. De Niro is good, as always, and, as always, he seems to be playing the same sort of character. There's nothing quite wrong with it - he's excellent about it - but we've come to expect it. Nevertheless he makes watching the film enjoyable because he is consistently good. The acting performance of Edward Norton however is highly commendable. I'm in awe of his performances. He seems to merit the label as the best actor of his generation. His dual role as a thief and the handicapped janitor are both portrayed excellently, particularly the latter character of Brian. He can switch from being the cock-sure young thief to the amiable simple young man with admirable ease. Watching him here made me able to enjoy The Score whereas another actor in his place would most likely have made me begun to tap my fingers.In short The Score is quite an average movie in terms of everything but acting. If you can appreciate the actors qualities then you should be able to enjoy yourself for a couple of hours watching it. "},{"Title":"Hmm. Unfortunate.","Date":"7 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Blah, blah, blah.three best actors of their respective generations.blah blah blah. Heard it all before and didn't agree with it the first or any of the subsequent times. Marlon Brando suits his role. Robert De Niro suits his role. Even Edward Norton (the single most talented actor of the three and my own personal favourite) manages to get a little into his role. It is true that it does indeed make a formidable cast of leading men, but the content of the picture lets them all down. The obligatory twist and turn do keep you guessing until the end, but nothing about this picture makes the viewer come alight. Not crisp enough to come across as anything other than rushed in the making, I feel. I find it difficult to make further comment, as there is so little to say about it. The acting makes up (to a certain extent) the inadequacies of the plot.  "},{"Title":"The best heist film ever made","Date":"4 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"       Frank Oz's The Score is probably the most effective movies I've ever seen, as well as the best heist film made in recent years. While viewing the film at a local theater, I couldn't help but notice how well the plot flowed. To say the least, it was very linear, yet unpredictable at the same time. There were no annoying sub-plots taking over the story, the cast was supreme with top-notch acting and the thrills came not from blood-soaked violence, (The Score is probably the least violent heist movie I've seen in a long time, furthermore making it wonderful to watch)but from the intellectual turning points of each of the characters.      When the movie starts out, we learn that Robert De Niro (in a fabulous performance) is a jewel thief and has been recruited by his old friend (Marlon Brando) to do one more favor for him before his retirement. He wants De Niro to steal a scepter from a museum, where it's been hidden in a...... well I'm not going to actually give it away. It's your job to see the movie first. Not to spoil any crucial plot elements, let's just say that the seemingly normal plot takes some immense leaps and bounds before the credits start rolling. It's really something.      You know a film is good when it's not slapped with some completely incomprehensible violence/gore, which is why The Score is excellent. Even though the F-word is uttered quite a bit, I can't quite see what the heck kept this movie from getting a PG-13 rating. Some people in the MPAA are just paranoid I guess. But honestly, there is no violent content in the movie that deviates greatly from the story-line, (or no violent content AT ALL for that matter) which puzzles me further about its rating.      To end off my review, I must say that The Score is a brilliant piece of film-making and that the director and cast should all deserve Oscars for their engrossing performances. The film starts off like a roller coaster and ends like a sparkling jeweled scepter. My rating (0-10) 10 "},{"Title":"Very fine heist film. Who's going to double cross who? Will they get away with it. Brando even makes and effort.","Date":"29 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  First hire Robert De Niro, Edward Norton and Marlon Brando. Now that's a good cast, especially if Brando flexes his acting muscles.Add a good script, a concentration on character rather than action, perceptive and careful direction from Frank Oz (In & Out, Dirty Rotten Scoundrels, Little Shop Of Horrors and countless Muppet stuff), and there we have it, a very good heist flick.The plot has many of the classic elements. Crack safe cracker Nick (De Niro) is lured to do one last job by crime boss Max (Brando). The heist has been initiated by new kid on the block Jack (Norton) who's been casing the possibilities of a very big payout for a very acceptable risk. Jack has infiltrated the building where the item to be stolen is kept under tight security.Now Max has to get Nick in on the job. The film had opened with a safe break that nearly goes wrong. We see Nick perform exceptionally well under pressure but we also see the sweat on his brow. We've been introduced to an older, careful thief, getting tired of the risk. The camera and the story centers on high tech, especially crafted, safe cracking equipment but mostly on the personality of the man using the gear.Brando and Norton enter the picture and again we're enticed by character and plot rather than action. Take the bullets and chases out of the Mission Impossible films, add much more capable acting, and we enter The Score.Frank Oz's direction of The Score is tight and economical. The film mixes the aridity of excellent drama with the tenseness of a tantalizing story. It's not great art but it's engaging. It's terrific to see Brando actually making an effort. With the exception of the charming Don Juan DeMarco (1995) Brando has appeared to have been pretty lazy in recent decades. Edward Norton and De Niro continue to never let us down.The Score does have some lapses. Angela Bassett as De Niro's girlfriend is pretty cliched and I'm sick of nerdy, mad computer freaks. Would criminals use mobile phones as much as we see in this film and what of the lead in to the discovery of the item to be pinched?But those are pretty petty items in relation to a film that's enthralling and very satisfying. Get in and see it. But if you have anything valuable in a safe somewhere make sure that there isn't one of this lot lurking about.4 Flash Crack Flys out of 5  "},{"Title":"Ed was great...what a range","Date":"21 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Edward Norton's range continues to astound me. I am always fascinated by the characters he plays.  I kept routing for the criminals in this film - and hoped they would ALL be caught.  Being asked to accept the ending as a happy one left me feeling soiled. Angela you fell for a louse!  "},{"Title":"Good, but slow","Date":"17 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I must admit when I went to watch this movie my expectations were high, however, on leaving the movie, I was wondering why.  The cast is a dream come true - Brando, De Niro, Norton, what went wrong.  I found that I was actually about to fall asleep in places with this movie and the ending, seemed to be up in the air.  However, saying that, Ed Norton's casting was inspired, though Brando and De Niro seemed to be shuffling through the movie.  On the whole it was an okay film, could have been better could have been worse. "},{"Title":"A mediocre experience which is dissapointing considering the cast **1/2 out of five","Date":"15 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  What a cast may I say what a waste. Okay so this isn't terrible but it is mediocre and considering the cast that is a dissapopintment. Overall this is quite a cliched,unoriginal film that is also quite predictable. Although in it favour its never badly acted and its nearly always entertaining. But also this is mostly a seirious crime drama but sometimes its silly try at humour is irratating and destroys its image. Its overlong aswell. In the end its entertaining but not great and quite a big dissapointment "},{"Title":"good one","Date":"14 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was fairly dark yet enjoyable. I found myself thinking I was watching a routine break-in/heist thriller, but the performances really carried the film. The surprise ending (which I will not reveal) made the entire film for me. The great cast (De Niro, Brando, Norton, Bassett) made it worthwhile as well.** 1/2 out of **** "}{"Title":"Three fine performances; one missed opportunity","Date":"7 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Directed by the man who gave us the voice of Miss Piggy (Frank Oz), the plot is entirely unoriginal an aging professional thief is persuaded to do one last job before he plans to settle down with a younger woman and you just know that things will not go smoothly and someone is going to be double-crossed. But what makes this movie worth seeing is a few differences.First the pro (Robert de Niro) owns a jazz club, so we get to hear a little cool music. Next the location is French-speaking Montreal and we usually only have Canadian locations when Toronto is set up to be an American city because Canadian technicians work for lower rates. Above all, though, there is the intriguing casting of three terrific actors from three generations. Young Edward Norton is excellent in the most demanding of the roles; the eminently-watchable de Niro gives the kind of performance he can deliver in his sleep; while there is a rare opportunity to see the now physically inflated, but still commanding, Marlon Brando. Not anything like as good as it could have been, but still superior fare.  "},{"Title":"All-around Excellent Heist Movie","Date":"6 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Of those movies that belong to a clearly defined category, the ones that stand out often display a high quality and craftsmanship not only in aspects relevant to their own genre, but also in aspects that are important to all movies.`The Score' is clearly one such movie. It follows Nick (De Niro), a night club owner by day and safe cracker by night who is persuaded by his business partner (Brando) to execute one last big coup before finally retiring. He maintains his uneasy decision, even tough it forces him to contradict his own principles, to work with a young hot shot (Norton) whom he doesn't know nor trust and to face an increasing number of complications as he comes closer to reaching his objective.As an unmistakable `heist movie', &#145;The Score' showcases technically ingenious ways to overcome the obstacles that safeguard the prize coveted by our protagonists. That alone, though, would not be sufficient to raise it above the level of other movies with similar themes. What distinguishes `The Score' is the superb realization of the movie on a number of levels the cinematography, which for example in the first part of the movie features a number of scenes against gates, portals and doors, as if to portend what the protagonist must face before getting his trophy; the dialogue, which most of the time flowed quite naturally even if a character said something unexpected; the acting, especially by De Niro and by Norton, who was quite credible as a thief impersonating a mentally handicapped janitorial assistant; the simple but effective story line; and the three dimensionality of the characters, who as criminals not beyond trying to trick each other nevertheless retain a high degree of likability.To be sure, there are a few technical flaws that were essentially ignored. For example, none of the main characters seem to consider that the meeting in the park to purchase the security codes might just be a setup; or that the same `laws of physics' that eventually force the Main Safe door open would have likely crushed or at least deformed the scepter and the container it was in. These are likely no great concern to most viewers, nor do they need to be, as the rest of the plot, particularly with its punch at the end that illustrates the tagline more than makes up for them.On a final note, this film is proof that movies prominently featuring criminals in their professional activities do not need a high body count to be suspenseful and exciting to an adult audience.  "},{"Title":"Old fashioned film for grown-ups","Date":"4 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Only slightly less so than de Niro's last big caper thriller, Ronin, you could be forgiven for thinking The Score was made in the 70s.  Only the presence of Edward Norton and the liberal use of the f-word link it loosely to the present.  It's also very obviously targetted at a lately adult born in the 60s audience.  It screams sophisticated adults only, from the big name cast to the cod-jazz soundtrack to the faux-european setting (Montreal doubles for what probably should have been Paris or London).  To its credit, with the exception of The Crimson Rivers it is the only big-budget film this year with a plot that keeps working all the way to the end of the 3rd act, and where the French film's plot finally collapses into the improbable this one stays true to its self-imposed reality and delivers an obvious but effective double-twist.  "},{"Title":"Get a grip, Bobbie","Date":"29 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  It's been four years since Jackie Brown. In the intermittent period,Robert De Niro's reputation as one of the finest actors of hisgeneration has remained unblemished. Time for a rethink. Afterthe unenviable hat-trick of Flawless, 15 Minutes, and, mostbizzarely,  The Adventures Of Rocky And Bullwinkle, the sour-facedmaster of Method has once again opted to star in a movie thatneglects the most basic elements of storytelling and requires himonly to scowl a bit. And play with some cool gadgets.De Niro plays Nick, a veteran smooth criminal whose day jobinvovles running a Montreal Jazz bar, and whose extra-cirricularskills include breaking into a safe faster than Houdini could breakout of one. Asked by his eccentric middle man Max (a whale-sizedMarlon Brando) to endeavour on one...last...job for a cool $6million, his initial reaction is to refuse the prospect because of therisk. But after some persuasive encounters with the  up-and-coming young heister Jack (Edward Norton), he changeshis mind and - guess what? - the con is on.Director Frank Oz (In & Out, Bowfinger) has never tackled a thrillerbefore, and it shows - his lengthy, steady, shadow-shadedphotography is so concerned with mimicking noirish cinema thathe forgets to build up any tension for the first ninety minutes. He isunaided by a shocking script that allows for no conflict, noback-story, and no comprehensible understanding of what theobject they are trying to steal actually is. And our hero's motive? Ifhe does the steal, he gets to pay off the mortgage. Genius. If Ifinish writing this review, I can go to Starbuck's and get a coffee. Tobe fair, things do step up a gear for the final reel, but to say that aheist movie has a good heist scene is like saying that KarmaSutra has some sex in it. Of course it's not exactly De Niro's fault that it all turned out thisway, but, considering the influence he must wield in Hollywood, itsurely wouldn't have been difficult for him to demand scriptchanges that might actually have made himself and his co-starsshine in the way that they ought to. Movie fans all over the worldshould join hands and hope that he has now learned his lessonand can return to form. However, considering his next two projectsare sequels to Analze This and Meet The Parents, that's somehope indeed.  "},{"Title":"Three Brilliant Actors In One Brilliant Movie.","Date":"29 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Robert De Niro plays Nick, a professional thief who knows how crack into safes, etc. Nick has all the money he wants and eventually wants to retire from this job for good and to be with his girlfriend, Diane and carry on running his Jazz Club business. Until, a good friend of his, Max, (Marlon Brando.) and a young guy named Jack (Edward Norton.) ask him to do one more job. They have get historical French sceptre, which is locked up in a safe. Now, once they get the sceptre they will all have a share of the money they get for it. Nick is a bit hesitate at first but eventually agrees and this leaves Nicks 'final job' into one big stealing adventure. But, who will end up getting the sceptre and what will happen? Watch the movie to find out. You won't be sorry.The Score stars three of the best actors around, Marlon Brando, Robert De Niro and Edward Norton and they all give great performances as always. There's good performance from Paul Soles who plays old guy, Danny.The movie is exciting all the way through and has a good ending to end this great movie. See it if you're fan of all the lead actors or if you just want to see a good crime/drama. The Score is great and I give it a 9/10. "},{"Title":"Disappointing for what it could've been.","Date":"27 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This movie was at least disappointing for me. Brando, DeNiro and Norton, performing SO badly in such a badly written movie is something that is definitely worth seeing. First of all, Norton's part bears a striking resemblance to his debut role in Primal Fear. It seems that he has a talent for roles that include faking a retarded/disabled person. And where Primal Fear was original and well performed, this role is not. Forgetting about the fact that the character he played was -- in many respects -- similar to the character in Primal Fear, his performance is definitely less appealing than the one in other movies, showing a more 'relaxed' stance on his role. DeNiro is a master of any role that has to do with Law Enforcement/Shadowy types/spies/master criminals etc. He has performed in a large number of movies at many different levels of realism/comedy and is universally accepted as a great actor. I am not so convinced only because his performances always revolve around the same type of person/character and adventurous situations. Even though I personally like watching Robert DeNiro's movies, I think this performance was disappointing. He does however stand out of the remaining cast. I will not comment about Brando since his role is fairly limited in the movie. The movie as a whole is a sheer dissapointment. It could have been a milestone, having three of the most respected actors of our time in its cast list. It is slow, badly written, predictable and it seems as if the actors are bored performing their parts. On the plus side, the photography (especially the way Montreal is depicted) is very good and was the only thing I enjoyed during the film. But then again there are so many more movies with DeNiro with more qualities and better photography than this one.  "},{"Title":"The words come out of their mouths, and just die.","Date":"25 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I can't believe some critics that I respect thought that this was a good caper flick. The dialogue is not just awful, it reeks. Cliche after cliche occurs, both in the dialogue and in the plot. You can spot the ending coming a mile away, but if you are still with the film by that time, I share your pain. Kudos to Marlon Brando, who seemed to sense he was involved in a complete travesty and just gave it up. Or is Marlon even able to act at this point, as he wheezes through his scenes? It was  up to Oz to get him to make even the most feeble attempt to act, and he fails.  Sad, because at one time or another we have seen these actors doing really good work.  "},{"Title":"A well crafted flick","Date":"16 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Three crafty actors...from three different generations and a beautiful woman and big bad bouncer make for a tasty movie treat.  Highly recommend this movie for those who enjoy DiNiro or Ed Norton.  They create a fine, taut drama with a rousing twist at the end. "},{"Title":"It's not Ronin, it's not Fight Club, but it will do","Date":"10 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Very few true cinema admirers can resist jumping from their seats when they hear the names De Niro, Norton, and Brando- especially if they are in one movie. The cast itself promised a huge audience.To some it promised a great movie- I don't believe the cast alone makes the work great(see Marvin's Room or To Wag the Dogs). However, I must admit the usual goosebumps I feel before every movie got more intense when I went to see this one. Too bad I wasted my goosebumps on something so regular.There is nothing bad I can say about the acting(there rarely is with such a cast) even though Angella Basset, who is otherwise a superb actress seemed pretty lost in the action(perhaps due to her role).Anyway, it was pure joy to see young and old Vito Corleone back together(they never were together, but...). On the other hand, I have never been disappointed by Edward Norton's work and he once again proves to be a young, talented actor of a rank almost equal to his companions in this movie. He might not be as convincing as Kaizer Soze in his crippled act, but he comes pretty dang close. The Score has a pretty nice plot, but don't expect anything too complicated or anything brilliant. It's a nice crime story that leaves you happy, but doesn't affect you in any other way(as opposed to the Usual Suspects for instance). The Score relies on the sparks that fly when the three actors confront each other. Well, there are sparks, but they certainly don't light up a flame. The Score is a litttle dark, a little slow, a little not up to the competition. However, it is also a little genuine, a little pure, and contains just a little magic. It's a shame to see just a little magic when you have Harry Houdini, David Copperfield, and young Mr. Harry Potter. Better luck next time, magicians. "},{"Title":"Good stuff","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  It sure has the names Brando, DeNiro, Edward Norton.  This is sometimes a recipe for disaster, but The Score works on every level.  The script doesn't insult the viewer's intelligence, the characters are interesting and (this almost goes without saying) well-acted, and the suspense is both real and realistic.Viewers who insist on car chases and big orange explosions are going to be disappointed, but there are plenty of those flicks out there to keep them sated.This film is for grown-ups, and it's good. "}{"Title":"Great acting.  Scenes too dark.  I like to see","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Norton, De Niro, Brando all do an excellent job.  Norton in particular was outstanding.  The story line was good and direction was good.  The film was too dark for my tastes.  I like to see characters and props and in some scenes you could see neither clearly. "},{"Title":"very average.","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  ***spoilers within***after doing a power search of all de niro films on imdb.com, i came across the score... it was new , so i hadnt heard about it yet... looked interesting... so i clicked on the link....and robert de niro AND ed norton? awesome, i thought.how wrong could i be.. the movie was bad.it was very cliche, predictable and formulaic. i couldnt believe that both norton and de niro would accept to play their respective parts in this movie.movie starts out with de niro at work, sets the scene, bla bla... moves real slow... then like.. they need the passwords, de niro calls his guy, bit of tension (oh im so on the edge of my seat) at the park, where they exchangee. etc.. some geek on his computer and his mom hacks into some copmuter and some IT admin chats him in a private chat room!! wow thats cool .... erm. one hopes you're familiar with the literary device known as sarcasm.norton always just seems to know when to pop up near the start, walking into max's house, the nightclub etc.... the whole one last heist thing was very tiring.. boring, ya de dah, who cares, we all know hes gonna do it anyway, etc.. the whole girlfriend thing is tiring too..... relationships/women just clutter a movie =) i dont reckon de niro and norton gelled very well...altho its not easy to gel with de niro... however, check out de niro & reno in RONIN... awesome team, awesome movie.man i was SO disappointed in this movie.. as i'm so my fellow de niro and decent action/adventure lovers will agree.stick to RONIN and HEAT.BAD BAD BAD... BAD. what a let down. "},{"Title":"it just doesn't get any better","Date":"1 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  In the spirit of full disclosure I could watch Robert De Niro read the newspaper, he is truly one of the great actors of our time.  However, in The Score, you get to see him as an intelligent, feeling jewel thief knows all about blending the strategic, tactical, technical, and emotional aspects of `a heist.'  The movie starts slow and moves progressively faster leading up to both surprising, and pleasing, ending.Edward Norton, of whom I've never been a big fan, has won me over.  he plays a brash, but intelligent `DeNiro wannabe.'  He plays his role perfectly.All-in-all, a movie I highly recommend.  "},{"Title":"De Niro gets some acting practice between important films.","Date":"30 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The best thing I heard about The Score prior to seeing it was the rivalry between Frank Oz and Brando. Rumour had it that Brando called Oz Miss Piggy and De Niro had to direct Brando's scenes with Oz on a remote back in the trailer. Unfortunately, Brando should stop acting. But I give him credit for keeping in the business, as he's one of the only classic actors still alive. As far as the plot, it was fair but predicatable. Ed Norton did a good job, but he's getting typecast for playing such dual roles, although he's quite good at it. Angela Bassett, who was billed as De Niro's leading lady, was a bit abesnt from most of the film. I would have given her a few more scenes, perhaps involving her in the final action bit somehow. I agree that the story builds, and the pace starts of slow, then speeds up towards the end. It's that kind of a film. Overall, not bad, better than many movies of that genre, a 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"One awesome movie!","Date":"28 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"   I don't see how anyone can not like this movie! It's flat-out great modern noir. I loved the acting and the way the characters explain things. These guys are a marvel to watch. One of Ed Norton's greatest roles, but nothing tops his performance in Primal Fear. Robert DeNiro plays his part real cool and is, well, Robert DeNiro! Marlon Brando doesn't have a gigantic role, but he is still entertaining and still has a presence. The film is suitable for anyone. It doesn't have much violence, it isn't dirty, and contains mild language. It is pleasant to watch. The pace, story, acting, and ending sum up as being one of Frank Oz's best efforts.       10/10 "},{"Title":"the best","Date":"28 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  It's the best. A really good movie. I didn't think I would like the movie but i really did. I give this movie 20/10. Edward Norton is one of my favorite new Actors. He did a really good job playing those two characters that he played. D'Niro and Brando were good too. But Norton was the best. I recommend seeing this movie. Also another good movie bye Edward Norton is American History X. "},{"Title":"This movie is awful!","Date":"23 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I looked forward to checking out this flick, and I was very disappointed. There isn't much action in this action flick, and whenever there is action, it is very predictable.  The characters were very shallow.....I neither learned much nor cared much about them.  I actually fell asleep for 20 minutes in the theater, woke back up, and was able to pick up where I left off because the story line moves so slow.  Ed Norton gave a great performance, but I've seen it somewhere before.  COUGH*Primal Fear*COUGH  I won't get into the plot much because there isn't one.  Did they think they could just throw in a bunch of veteran actors, a half-ass story line and we would enjoy it?  Besides, I wouldn't want to ruin the surprise ending for anyone, which after you see it, shouldn't come as much as a surprise. DeNiro's character wasn't very believable.....at times demanding that he wanted no parts of this heist, but yet allowing his arms to be twisted several times.  Brando's character was even more unbelievable.  I mean, who owes someone 4 million dollars on a personal level and lives to tell about it anyway?  I think DeNiro needs to pick his scripts a little better.  And so does Angela Bassett.  Her character was very one-dimensional for an actress with a track record like hers.  Very disappointing movie. "},{"Title":"Great suspense movie","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I really loved this movie.  It's a suspense masterpiece!  As long as you can put up with the F-wurd cause it's said 904 times.  I have only one problem with the movie; The method used by Nick (Robert De Niro) to crack the safe would not work in real life.  He uses a fire sprinkler system to extract water from, but sprinkler systems are equipped with sensors that detect water flow.  They are required to have these sensors to know when a sprinkler head has opened, otherwise they will never know about the fire! So as soon as Nick would have started flowing water, the fire alarm system would be activated, while the burglar alarm system would not. "},{"Title":"Not for the action fans","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  To be honest with you, I was kind of sucked in to seeing this movie.  From the commercials, I figured The Score was half action, half drama.  Boy was I wrong.  Even though De Niro, Norton, and Brando were excellent in their roles, they just flat out talked too damn much.  So, for your viewing pleasure, I've picked out the scenes to watch1 The scene where Norton is paying off the internet guy from Ironclad Securities.2 Every scene that Marlon Brando's in.3 The whole score scene.For the rest of the movie, you can sleep, kick it with your girlfriend, anything, but I guarantee you won't miss anything.p.s. My only other beef was the suddenness of the ending.!!POSSIBLE SPOILER!! After Norton and De Niro both escape from the warehouse, the film had already gone on for about an hour and a half.  Assuming that there would be a half an hour long segment of De Niro vs. Norton, I turn to my girlfriend and said Damn this is a long movie.  Imagine my surprise when the flick ends less than five minutes later!!In the long run, I gave it a 7/10 for great acting, awesome characters, and a quality (but way too short) ending. "},{"Title":"about a good thief","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Robert is a good thief. Experienced, non violent who is asked by his girlfriend to quit. He will, but not before a last one. Filmed in Montreal, very nice pictures and ambiance. The plot is classic. They have taken a template and added some modif to it.But it does not matter. It is alway good to re-hear the same story as long it is well told. And that is the case here. You want the thief to succeed. The ending is unexpected and efficient. 7/10.  "}{"Title":"A flawed but enjoyable film.","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  POSSIBLE SPOILERSTHE SCORE is an entertaining old-fashioned heist flick that, while not perfect, is better than pretty much anything else you will see this summer.  I will briefly go over my three biggest problems with this film1 No boakground on Edward Norton's character.2 Angela Bassett's character feels tacked on.3 De Niro is playing the same guy he played in HEATOkay, now that that's out of the way, let's discuss what's good about THE SCORE.  The film features top notch performances from De Niro, Norton and a hilarious Marlon Brando.  It is interesting to watch De Niro's old pro work with Norton's rookie as we wonder whether the two can really trust each other.  Equally entertaining is De Niro and Norton finally pulling of the big heist at the end of the film and watching as Norton lets the whole thing go up in smoke.  See this film to see the only film this summer that is providing us some honest flair.  And if you don't like it, just watch as Brando struggles to stand up during his scenes. "},{"Title":"Refreshing, sincere film.","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A very refreshing film.  If you're getiing tired of all the unmotivated camerawork and speed-freak editing, go see this film.  I really enjoyed watching this film because of the excellent acting and the unpretentious directing. "},{"Title":"exceptional piece of work","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is a great film with plot twists, great performances (actually, maybe the best ensemble cast in over a decade), extreme suspense, and smart writing. All that gives you a fulfilled feeling at the ending of the film and it is very satisfying. The only problem though, it starts too slow, but by the end, it actually seems to fast to keep up with. Overall, excellent.  "},{"Title":"What happened?","Date":"14 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  **Do not read any of this if you haven't seen the movie yet** !!!SPOILER!!! I am at a complete loss as to how this movie was so disappointing.  I left the theater spouting off things I heard idiots say about the Blair Witch Project; what a rip off!  what was the point of that? and things along those lines.  The movie was a little on the weak side to begin with, but the ending just killed it.While I was able to avoid any real information about the movie to avoid ruining it for me, all I heard was that the end was great, and I should see it before everyone started talking about it.  I have never been so misguided in my life (and I'm including my parents telling me that there was a Santa Claus).When Ed Norton's character pulls his double cross in the vault and DeNiro's character starts to almost cry, I knew something was up.  DeNiro throws down the bag, and Norton picks it up and doesn't look in it.  I figured right then and there that it was that fake one that we saw in a none-too-subtle shot earlier.  This didn't bother me.  I continued watching the movie waiting for the big surprise to come.  It never did.  I honestly can't believe that Frank Oz expected us to fall for that and act all surprised at the very end.  I normally expect more from my Jedi Masters.This movie finally made me realize that these kinds of movies are pretty boring.  Heist movies are either stupid and unbelievable (3000 Miles to Graceland) or realistic and boring (The Score & Heat).  However, Heat is one of my favorite movies.  So what separates realistic heist flicks between wonderful and insulting?  The only thing I can come up with is style.  A realistic heist movie is all about planning and executing with extreme caution in order to remove as much risk as possible.  In 'The Score,' that's all the movie is.  A rather straight-forward presentation of the job with a sorry excuse for a twist at the end of the movie.  This also points to people's moronic feelings that a twist at the end of a film equals brilliance.  Anyway, a film like Michael Mann's 'Heat' has a lot better character development (more in depth than spending a half hour establishing that it's one last job), an actual theme (DeNiro is constantly being pulled in two different directions), and the best police shoot out ever at the end (where the music stops st the firing of the first bullet).You have to avoid using too much style though.  If you pile it on, you'll end up with something that looks like Oliver Stone, Quentin Tarantino, and Spike Lee exploded in one giant crap-fest.  I like those guys, but when they miss, they really miss; (U-Turn, Four Rooms, and Clockers).Of course the acting is good in this one.  Anyone who says otherwise is nothing more than a Steven Seagal loving freak who thinks that Leonardo DiCaprio should have won Best Actor for his guest spot on Growing Pains. Brando is Brando.  DeNiro has been better, but this performance was better than 15 Minutes.  And Norton never fails to amaze.  But why are we so quick to forget CopLand?  All the good actors in the world don't make up for a lousy script.  This is just plain dull. "},{"Title":"'The Score' misses its' mark!","Date":"13 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" If there were a prison for unforgivable and bad filmmaking &#150; Director Frank Oz would be in it right now. Perhaps I am being a tad harsh but how is it that an inexperienced and unproven director in the field of drama/thrillers assembles an all star cast that composes Robert De Niro, Edward Norton and Marlon Brando? Not only does he assemble this great cast, but he delivers and unbalanced, poorly written, bland piece of filmmaking that is laughable at best in terms of its' standards as a heist film. Simply put, Director Frank Oz (&#145;Bowfinger', &#145;In & Out' and the voice of Yoda in the &#145;Star Wars' films) cannot master the fine art of suspenseful filmmaking as demonstrated in his film &#145;The Score'. Even the best directors have the toughest of times assembling great actors such as these in this film &#150; yet Frank Oz does. Why him? And what does he have to show for it? Nothing. &#145;The Score' has a lot of negative traits that find one will find simply unforgivable. How can one assemble such a great group of actors and have an end result that is dissatisfying and brutally disastrous? The only fantastic thing about the film is its' acting. Brando has been absent from the silver screen since John Frankenheimer's &#145;The Island of Dr., Moreau' in which he played a barely recognizable mad scientist. In this film he displays a comedic yet brilliant improvisational style that only Brando can get away with. Although he shares only a handful of scenes with his costars they are among the most funniest and poignant scenes in the film. Edward Norton does all that he can do with an underdeveloped character whose alter ego is a mentally challenged night janitor that allows &#145;The Score' to happen at the Montreal Customs house. Finally, De Niro is De Niro. Bobby D's style will never be boring in my book but something tells me that even he was unhappy with the direction this film was taking during filming.Yet, no matter how superb the acting is &#150; it is but only one of the important elements needed to deliver a great film. As for this film, there are many other elements that lack which drowns &#145;The Score' into a tiresome film. Once again, If I am being harsh, forgive me. Yet, let me remind you that it is not everyday that De Niro, Brando and an actor who is worthy to share screen time with these icons such as Edward Norton are all cast in the same film. Expectations were high and the result is tragic. The story sets itself in Montreal and it is great to see that for once the city is playing itself instead of standing for a New York or Chicago. These three men are drawn together to retrieve a heavily guarded ancient scepter worth millions of dollars. The film in essence is the activities that prepare these men for this daring heist. Such adventures include meeting De Niro's computer geek sidekick who hacks into computer systems and who has an eerie relationship with his mother. Or how about an exchange of computer codes on a bright sunny day in a park with a gun pointed to Edward Norton' s gut.  All these activities seem pointless if they are not developed nor shot in a manner that is gripping and comprehensible.From the opening scene where we see De Niro at work in a pointless display of his kindness yet aggressiveness, the intelligent filmgoer will quickly grasp the notion that this is a poorly made film with some of the greatest actors that ever graced our screens. Director Frank Oz starts the film off with a painstakingly slow pace that the film seems never to recover from. It seems that he does not have that style that must be developed over time and through experience that is a prerequisite to truthfully capture and convey the notion of danger and deceit. Want proof &#150; watch the climactic sequence in which an alarm goes off and witness the sheer disaster of about four minutes of film that is simply terrible to watch. Cameras are shaking as if pretending to convey the notion of fear and the editing is horrible and although our main character must elude danger &#150; we do not care.Simply put  - this film is a terrible waste of talent in terms of its' ability to gather three great actors in one film. Yet, the result is a disastrous and misfired attempt at creating a classy, elegant and stylish &#145;caper' film that does not score at all.Giancarlo's Rating *1/2  "},{"Title":"slooooooow, then a good finish","Date":"13 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was very, very slow.  You almost feel like you are a thief casing a joint for three weeks like the characters in the movie.  But that is not a good thing when you're sitting in a movie theater.  Although it is slow and uses a very unoriginal plot (one last heist for old thief who is partnered with a younger cocky thief), the last 20-30 minutes of the film are good. Unfortunately, they do not save the movie. 5/10. "},{"Title":"Big Cast little inspiration","Date":"13 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  DeNiro, Norton, Brando, and Bassett  Big names in what was otherwise an uninspired crime drama.  More and more DeNiro seems to be going through the paces repeatedly playing the same character.  Here he was clearly playing second fiddle to Norton whose breath of character carried the film.  While it could have had something to do with the fact I saw this film in the same week as Jonathan Glazer's Sexy Beast, The Score was a paint by numbers crime film whose best attributes where that it was not overly excessive in its pyrotechnics.  Given this cast, that isn't saying much. "},{"Title":"Just to see Marlon Brando","Date":"13 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Not being a fan of Robert de Niro, I went to watch The Score just because of Marlon Brando. I must say that he still is an impressive personality and his mere presence lifts the quality of the movie.The rest is just an average though entertaining safe cracker story, far from being anything like inventive. Without its superb cast, it would probably pass completely unnoticed. "},{"Title":"Score scores as a good one","Date":"12 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A good plot, great actors, and suspense make this movie.One can always enjoy a movie when it is well developed and draws you in to what's going on and what might happen.Well done. "},{"Title":"Worth and evening of your life.","Date":"10 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Movies like this can only work we are interested in the interworkings of the criminal world, if the characters possess a depth beyond their criminal prowess (especailly delivered in Deniro's case as his character comes close to reprising his Heat criminal/lookin' for love character) and if the object of the criminal act does not affect us in a personal way (as in a 17th Century royal septur--how many of us really feel badly about one being ripped off?)and therefore become reprehensible.  The filmakers know this all to well and parley this presience into a well-constructed movie with a predictable ending (SPOILER SPOILER SPOILER!--did anyone really think that Deniro gave Norton the septur?).  Overall a sound, yet not exceptional work. "}{"Title":"two actors who used to be great and one who is","Date":"8 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The score is a good movie that could of been great. It takes three of the best actors alive today. The problem is two of them are tired. Brando was expected because of his shape and lack of recent roles.But deniro dissapoints. Please if you want to know how good deniro is watchgoodfellas,casino,deerhunter,meenstreets or any of his other great movies but he appears tired and sleepy in his role as the cautious robber. He used to explode in his roles.Even cautious to him used to be explodingly cautious. Norton(favorite actor)is excellent and continues to amaze me every performance. See the movie because of him and a decent plota 7 out of ten "},{"Title":"A good popcorn movie, but you've seen it before","Date":"8 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Wow, it's not often that a film with this many major stars plods as conventional a course as The Score.  You've definitely seen all this before.  Still, I found myself entertained even as I groaned at the predictable plot.  Sometimes I think the only reason they make these things is that it gives a notable actor or actress the opportunity to put on one of those cool thief-ninja rigs  you know, the all-black jumpsuit with ropes and pulleys and suction cups and pockets and bags and a skimask.  Where do you buy those!  I want one.  Also, if I ever encounter an infrared defense field, I think I'll now know about 15 ways to defeat it.  I thought De Niro was cool as Harry Tuttle in Brazil too, so it's nice that he gets to wear the same getup again.  But Catherine Zeta-Jones looked better in that suit in Entrapment.  Well, all the actors are good sports here and do good, professional work, even  Angela Bassett, despite the fact theat she doesn't really have a character to play.  Pretty familiar ground, but in the summer of Pearl Harbor, it seemed solid and fun.  Ed Norton is definitely emerging as a fine, dependable lead.  Look out Tom Hanks! "},{"Title":"A Blowout","Date":"7 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The Score is a great heist movie because it keeps it rathersimple. Some people want something expensive. They decide totake it. The thing is protected. They try to take it anyway.Really, by keeping the plot simple, the makers of this film are givenmore time to develop the characters, which they do rather well. DeNiro plays the stereotyped aging criminal mastermind looking todo his last job before retirement, but he does it with a ratherendearing and believable quality. It should be a tired role, but itisn't. Ed Norton plays the witty, mouthy, young criminalmastermind without experience which also isn't an entirelyoriginal concept. But the movie shines in developing a relationshipbetween the two that is surprisingly interesting. The quality of theacting makes it work. Marlon Brando is likable as an eccentric,slimy, but amusing enough contact between the two maincharacters. Angela Bassett is pretty much a time filler. Thecharacters, as written, aren't anything we haven't seen before, butwhat makes it good is that De Niro and Norton are playing them. There isn't that much to complicate the story here, and that is agood thing. It doesn't require you to strain your frontal lobe trying tofigure out what is going on. With that out of the way, the viewer cansit back and appreciate the subtleties of the suspense of theplanning and robbery itself.   The ending itself isn't incredibly surprising, (Norton seems to betypecasted in the role of character that turns out to havecompletely different side in shocking finale) but because of theaudience's attachment to De Niro's character, the viewer leaveswith a smile.  This isn't the Usual Suspects or other great robbery films of yore.But it keeps it easy, and doesn't tie the plot up in knots. In the end,it's just a story about two guys taking something that isn't theirs,and that proves to still be an absorbing film idea.  "},{"Title":"Good Film","Date":"7 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  II agree with most people who liked the movie and I highly recommend it. Among the silly films like Jurassic Park or Rush Hour this film looks like a jewel. De Niro and Brando are, of course top notch and there is almost unanimous agreement and their part were well played. However, I disagree with some of the people on this site about the acting and character of Ed Norton. I think most people, with  a little practice, can imitate a person with Parkinson or whatever disability the character had. So in that area it did not require much talent. And, this it not the fault of Norton, his character was weak. Why do youwant De Niro to hang from the rails in the basement of the customs house before he has done his job? You want him to do the job and then humiliate "},{"Title":"3 great actors in a must-see-movie","Date":"7 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Great actors, great movie, great plot... and, most important Cassandra Wilson! One of the best movies in 2001, I guess. Edward Norton shows, that he is one of the most gifted actors of his generation, Robert de Niro acts as cool as in Ronin and Marlon Brando is the godfather, isn`t he?  "},{"Title":"the score does","Date":"6 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  it's not surprising that a film this smart, quick and cunning, gets overlooked in the mish mash like ape droppings in rush hour traffic. fine acting performances and a script that doesn't insult the intelligence make for a thoroughly engaging day in the film house. if you're a fan of plausible story lines, cool characters, realistic sounding dialogue and some good old fashioned high-tech burglary, then this is for you. the added treat is the nice climax that isn't an overblown ear shattering mess of sound editing and car crashes. it's good. if you liked thief or three days of the condor, check out this very nice show. "},{"Title":"Some Incredible Acting, But . . . .","Date":"6 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Want proof that great acting can rise above the quality of a script?  Look no further than The Score.  This film, which features a pedestrian screenplay riddled with predictable movie cliches, is still fun to watch . .. but mostly because of its stars.  Edward Norton, Robert DeNiro, and Marlon Brando take this dead-on-arrival film and turn it into something decent.  It won't be nominated for any awards, but The Score manages to succeed where so many other supposed 2001 summer blockbusters have failed -- The Score is entertaining.The Score is about an accomplished thief named Nick (Robert DeNiro), who's looking to leave his life of crime and wants to go straight.  His fence -- and friend -- Max (Marlon Brando) gives Nick an opportunity to commit one last score -- steal a $30 million dollar scepter from a heavily guarded vault in Montreal.  With his take from this job, Nick would be able to retire and live in peace with his girlfriend Diane (Angela Bassett) . . . but there's a catch.  (What a surprise, huh?)  In order to steal the scepter, Nick must work with the cocky young thief Jack (Edward Norton), who is the only person who can provide Nick with access to the vault.  Nick, who normally works alone, is forced to put his trust in Jack -- and Jack isn't exactly the most trustworthy of souls . . . .The Score is one of the most conventional movies ever written.  The second that Nick announces to Max that he'll be retiring after this one last job &#150; that he'll be going straight from now on &#150; the floodgates of movie cliches are thrown wide open.  (A movie about a criminal's last job?  WOW!  Hey, that's never been done before . . . yes, these words are dripping with the proverbial sarcasm.)  An older man saddled with a younger partner, tense sequences involving digital countdowns . . . the elements of the film are nothing new.  Even the `surprises' and `plot twists' in the film come across as stale, simply because they've been used verbatim in dozens of other thrillers and action films.  The only genuine surprise might be the ending, just because the film is wrapped up with such surprising speed.  After watching `The Score', you might find yourself scratching your head and wondering, `Gee . . . is that all?'Despite its banal nature, though, `The Score' still manages to entertain, if only because its cast and its director lend their best efforts towards giving life to this tired material.  Director Frank Oz takes `The Score' in a direction rarely seen in modern film thrillers &#150; instead of jacking up the testosterone and the volume of the film, and turning the film into an orgy of quick camera cuts and bizarre camera angles, Oz instead lets `The Score' move along at a leisurely, unhurried pace.  Moving at the slower pace lets some smaller moments unfold (watch the background for the way certain characters float in and out of a scene) &#150; it's refreshing to see scenes build at a gradual pace instead of having them jammed whole down the throat. Certainly, not every thriller or action film should have this laid-back approach, but it's a genuine pleasure to see every once in a while.  Under Oz's careful, calm direction, watching `The Score' becomes like sipping at a glass of favorite wine &#150; the taste is very familiar, but it's excellent nonetheless.The flavor of this `wine', though, comes from Marlon Brando, Robert DeNiro, and Edward Norton . . . and they're outstanding.  Marlon Brando is only featured in a few scenes in this film, but he manages to steal every one that he's in.  Considering that he's usually on screen with either DeNiro, Norton, or both, that's no small task.  If anything, I found myself marveling at Brando, and wondering why the man doesn't do more films &#150; he's still so talented, it's almost obscene.  DeNiro and Norton both do a great job with their respective roles as well.  They both give their characters little nuances and subtleties that make even the most innocuous scenes stand out.  In evaluating performances, I usually ask myself, `Could other actors have played that part as well?  Or played it better?'  Well, with `The Score', I think there's only one or two in Hollywood who could've played the parts of Max and Jack as well as DeNiro and Norton . . . and there's no one who could've played them better.  `The Score' is a out-and-out clinic on outstanding acting, and for that alone it's worth watching.`The Score' isn't a great film, but it does contain some great performances, and it's presented in an unusual enough manner to provide some genuine entertainment.  Just don't be surprised if this trite, worn-out story seems familiar.  Grade B-  "},{"Title":"Not a great movie, but a GOOD movie","Date":"6 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  In this era of big budget nonsense like Pearl Harbor, Jurassic III and Tomb Raider, The Score is a breath of fresh air.  It is a heist movie, we've seen it before in different variations, but this movie was compelling nonetheless.  DeNiro plays his character straight down the middle, and slips into his role seamlessly.  He is a Montreal jazz club owner and also a professional high stakes burglar, who approaches his craft with caution and professionalism.  Edward Norton is the cocky young guy who has the inside info of a great treasure in the Montreal Custom House.  Marlon Brando is the man with the connections who is like the producer/fence of the whole operation.  In lesser hands Norton's role could be a generic one, but Norton once again proves himself as the man to watch in films, he simply walks away with this movie (with no disrespect to the other 2 greats).  As for Brando, well, I could say The horror, the horror, but he does lend his personna to his few scenes and it's fun to see him again.  Angela Bassett serves merely as decoration, her role doesn't flesh out DeNiro's character very much.As for the plot, it is very riveting after a methodical buildup, and certainly the ending was well worth the wait.  Very satisfying movie, and a good antidote to most of the garbage that Hollywood is churning out these days.   "},{"Title":"Talented Film-Making","Date":"5 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The Score had so much talent put into the making of the film that how could it possibly be bad? It didn't quite live up to my expectations, but it certainly turned out to be a great suspense film. Robert Denairo stars as a professional thief who has been in the business for 25 years and is looking toward retirement to settle down in his hometown, Montreal, and maintain his restaurant. His partner in business, Marlon Brando, approaches him with an offer to steal a sceptor in the Montreal House of Commons worth more than Denairo has ever stolen put together. With the aid of the cocky and devious Edward Norton, Denairo reluctantly agrees to take the assignment. Basically the rest of the plot revolves around the characters and their quest to pull off the scepter heist. I enjoyed this movie thoroughly. There are not many elements to complain about other than I wish there were a few more scenes of suspense. There were a few parts in which I wished that there was less plot development and more suspense (unusual coming from me, seeing as how I feel movies today require much more plot development to be good). I also enjoyed the setting of Montreal, instead of the usual New York or LA setting (or even London or Paris for that matter). The ending was very enjoyable and did not drag on too long, but left me feeling satisfied. It did not try to play games for too long like the movie Entrapment (which wouldn't end!). The element of the movie I enjoyed most was that it did not turn the story into a shoot-em-up, 2 hour action scene with twenty heavily armed gaurds running down a hall getting picked off in bullet time by the main characters (which is a problem most movies recently have given in to). The movie was very entertaining and is one of those under-hyped summer movies I hope makes out well in the box-office. "},{"Title":"A waste of great acting...","Date":"5 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The movie was utterly predictable. The only thing that makes this a 5 is Ed Norton was fantastic and DeNiro was solid. It was nice seeing Brando, but he wasn't anything fantastic. And Angela Bassett? I could have saved the studio some cash by hiring nearly anyone to play her role. This is not a knock on Bassett, but rather on the writing. Her character was boring.  "}{"Title":"A waste of great acting...","Date":"5 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The movie was utterly predictable. The only thing that makes this a 5 is Ed Norton was fantastic and DeNiro was solid. It was nice seeing Brando, but he wasn't anything fantastic. And Angela Bassett? I could have saved the studio some cash by hiring nearly anyone to play her role. This is not a knock on Bassett, but rather on the writing. Her character was boring.  "},{"Title":"For insomniacs only","Date":"5 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  If you have any tiredness or fatigue when entering the movie theater, you will have little chance of lasting through this movie.  The first hour or so of planning and jockeying for position will put you out for the count.De Niro and Brando generate real drama and emotion in one scene (set in Brando's half finished basement swimming-pool), and the 20 minutes or so of heist footage that rounds off the movie is riveting.  But its a crime movie with a distinct shortage of crime, and too much talk. "},{"Title":"This has been done, and re done and re re done.","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I wish I could say that I really liked this film, but I've seen it before, and much better...the caper movie with a twist.  It was really only an excuse to put De Niro and Brando together.  Norton was the only bright spot, in my opinion.  Save your money.  Peter. "},{"Title":"Wanted An Ending","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The Score hits the mark in one huge way, it features three of the finest actors in the business.  Marlon Brando, Robert De Niro, and Edward Norton each add to the flavor of the film.  Brando is exceptional in his role as Max.  His on-screen presence hasn't faded over the years. Mr. Brando still controls the flow of the film whenever he is pictured.  His simple movements and actions are very entertaining and amusing.  Not to be out done, Edward Norton delivers the best performance of the entire cast.  His portrayal of both Brian and Jack illustrate the versatility of Mr. Norton.  He demonstrates why he is clearly one of the best in his generation.  Robert De Niro is the enigma of the film.  Mr. De Niro is one of the best actors of all-time, but in this film he seems tired and his performance is hackneyed. De Niro seems to have lost a step in the tough guy role.  This is not an insult considering it is a genre which Mr. De Niro helped to define continuously throughout his career.  In this particular film though it can be seen that he is acting, the lines and actions don't flow like they used to.  He still gives a good performance, but this may be the first step in the decline of the old Robert De Niro image. The Score itself starts out slow and develops to late int he film.  Much of the film has been seen before and, aside from the Norton scenes, provides nothing new to the audience.  The Score is simply a less extravagant Entrapment.  It's twists are easily predictable and offers no real elements of suspense.  The one major problem is that the film leaves the viewer hanging and offers no real closure to the story.  This is not the way to end a movie featuring this all-star cast.  The Score is still an entertaining film and provides a not often seen setting (Montreal).  2.5 out of 4 stars.   "},{"Title":"Entertaining!","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  DeNiro has become a master of the genre. Good movie with suspense building up throughout the film. Some scenes are a bit slow at the beginning. Actors are excellent DeNiro shines, Norton suprises and Brando dazzles. Filmed in Montréal, in the old quarter, a part of the city I know.Strange that it's present as a more violent film than it finally is. Nobody gets hurt or kill in this one. Viva something different!Out of 100, I gave this one 76. That's **½ on a **** stars rating system. Seen at AMC LIVONIA 20, in Livonia (Michigan), July 29, 2001. Marko Roy. "},{"Title":"Should be called the Bore","Date":"3 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I can't believe how this movie can take 3 generations of great actors and make such a boring movie.  I mean, Brando, DeNiro, Norton and Bassett are all really top notch actors; the problem here is they are not really given a lot to do.   The biggest problem is that for the first half of the movie there's no real conflict as the characters plan their theft.   There's no evil villain, no evil corporate company, no race against the clock.    And any good movie has to have a good villain to show the strength of the heros. This movie is like pitting Luke Skywalker vs the Smurf's Gargamel. The only characters that do pose the slightest potential of threats appear are some nerdy hackers and a 70-year old janitor.  Oooh, big threat.  In fact, the only thing that really does evoke any suspense at all is the music, and that gets tiring after you realize, Hey, the only thing that was exciting in that scene was the musical score.  Again.  Maybe that's why they call it the Score. "},{"Title":"Slow but sure","Date":"1 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film moves slowly.  But if you're not hopped-up on the eye-candy of the latest FX-ridden forgettable flick du jour, you might find something of real value here. Blissfully lacking the latest frenetic Shaky-Cam look of TRAFFIC et al., the cinematography of THE SCORE was steadily and slowly paced so you could pick out some beautifully subtle touches. Most of the scenes are dimly-lit, with the details standing out as white-on-black (we generally perceive things as black-on-white).I'm not entranced by the performances of DeNiro, Brando, and Norton, which is a bit of a disappointment considering they're the greatest actors of their generations. Brando and DeNiro pretty much let the new kid do all the hard work; Norton ably fools a team of security guards with a Rain-Man style performance. In actuality he's casing a heist of a Custom's house and aiding DeNiro who plays a master thief.  Brando is their Sydney Greenstreet-ish backer. It would have been interesting if he'd been allowed to play it like a queen, but director Frank Oz (formerly Miss Piggy's puppeteer from The Muppets) wouldn't have it. Brando reportedly told him, you'd really love it if you could control me by sticking your hand up my a$$. Then he refused to film his scenes if Oz were present. (I guess DeNiro directed them.) If Oz doesn't get extraordinary performances from extraordinary actors, at least he delivers a visually-interesting film. The slow-moving story and camera allows you to appreciate the composition of the shots. There are thematic allusions in these visuals. It must be seen widescreen by the way. Actors are occasionally isolated from one another, standing on opposite sides of the screen at the extreme edges. I'm thinking especially of DeNiro's scene with Angela Bassett where they talked across the screen at each other through an expanse of emptiness.Also the indoor pool scene with DeNiro and Brando seems rather symbolic. The opulent interior is marred by electrical lines and cables, parallelling Brando's character finally exposing his deepest fears to DeNiro. They sit by the pool's handrail, separated by its sharp steely diagonal line. Oh, I'll shut up now and let you sort out for yourself if it amounts to anything.I'll just add that the ending felt a little flat.  If the heist hadn't dragged on for so long, the post-heist drama wouldn't seem to end so abruptly... and they could have dealt with other things.  The DeNiro/Norton tension wouldn't have stopped so abruptly.  Also they'd created tension about a nemesis for Brando but left it unresolved.  We're supposed to accept that he makes his payoff and lives happily ever after. "},{"Title":"Scores Well!","Date":"1 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Have you felt that some of the dramatic films that have come out this summer have stolen your hard earned money? Well, folks I have the right combination to unleash those worries break into your local movie theatre and catch `The Score.' This electrifying intense film stars Robert Deniro, Edward Norton, and Marlon Brando (ever heard of them?). This flick is about an aging thief who teams up with a cocky young colleague for one final big `score' theft. Score big brownie points for the fine acting of Deniro and Norton. Eddie should make american history again with a best supporting actor oscar nomination. Director Frank Oz was a real wizard in orchestrating the film. As far as Brando is concerned, I though he was ok but I also think that the producers of the film gave him an offer he could not refuse. All in all, `The Score' was high enough to declare this one a winner! **** Good   "},{"Title":"Smart, suspenseful heist flic","Date":"31 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  If there is a book that describes how I wasn't gonna do any more heists, but for $10 million I will flics should be written, this could well be the blueprint.  This is an extremely intelligent and well-written flic.  It is very deliberate and features three actors at the top of their games.  Norton, Brando, and DeNiro are all excellent in their parts casing out and stealing a scepter.  The movie is very deliberate and the attention to detail makes the film very sensible and down-to-earth.  Basically, DeNiro's character had planned to retire, but he is lured out of retirement by the specter of a $4 million payday.  Norton is the inside man who cases out the place; he gains access by playing a night janitor who is retarded.  Brando is the man who gets wind of the opportunities.  Brando is terrific.  Having never before seen him in a film, I wanted to see why he is so highly regarded.  He is a very expressive chap and DeNiro brings his focus and intensity to his role.  Norton's character is cocky but talented enough to get away with it.  Norton himself is very understated and confident in the picture too.  He doesn't seem at all intimidated and in order to really make a movie work well, one needs a counter to DeNiro.  The pacing of the film is the strongest aspect.  The director, Frank Oz, pays acute attention to the plot and it is a strong and logical one.  The movie is very methodical and this for me, is what really makes the film very good.  10 out of 10 for me. "},{"Title":"DeNiro Looks Tired","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A caper flic is a REALLY iffy proposal.  Either the caper overwealms the plot and characterizations (Dead Heat on a Merry-Go-Round) or plays uninteresting second fiddle to cutesy romance (How to Steal a Million, Gambit).  Once in a while, Hollywood gets it right (Topkapi, The Jokers).  Alas, The Score is not one of those instances, albiet it is EXTREMELY entertaining.  The problem is (GASP!) Robert DeNiro.  DeNiro plays a world-weary safecracker hired by Marlon Brando (doing an adorable Sidney Greenstreet impersonation) to help Edward (TERRIFIC, as always) liberate a priceless scepter from Montreal customs.  DeNiro looks more tired than world-weary. His romantic scenes with Angela Bassett (wasted!) are unconvincing. We're SUPPOSED to sympathize with DeNiro.  Instead, we PITY him!This movie would have played better had Bruce Willis (DOUBLE-GASP!) done the DeNiro role.  I do believe you'll enjoy Brando, Norton, the great photography, editing and music. "}{"Title":"A Mission Impossible that should make Tom Cruise jealous.","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Frank Oz' The Score is one of the more pleasant experiences you'll have all year at the movies.  It contains all the elements of what a true thriller should have.  Three powerhouse performances, good dialogue and characters, and exciting twists and turns that don't cheat the audience.The story concerns Robert De Niro's attempts to retire from the heist game, so he and his girlfriend (an underused but delightful Angela Bassett) can live a normal life together at last.  But when his best friend Max (Marlon Brando) gets him involved in one last job, he finds himself paired up with a hotheaded kid who thinks he knows what their in for.That's a plot outline, not a detailed description, because I feel that audiences will be most pleased to find out the surprises for themselves. Frank Oz is a good director of comedies like In and Out, but here he gives us a movie that is alive with great acting and exciting action scenes.  By action I don't mean explosions and car chases, but scenes that crackle with suspense.  One of the best elements of the film happens to be Marlon Brando, who has one of his best roles in years.  He provides a character that is at times funny and warm, and also surprisingly touching (as in a poolside scene between Brando and De Niro).  It is a treat to see that he still has the chops, after years of speculation that he simply lost his ability to deliver a performance of real weight (no pun intended).  De Niro is effective as the retiring Jack; and Norton is once again quite good as De Niro's partner on the last job.The Score is simply a great Mission Impossible with a twist ending worthy of what came before.  It makes you realize what Tom Cruise's movie could have been like if the writers had put a little more effort into it.My Rating  * * * 1/2 (out of four) "},{"Title":"The Score doesn't.","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" You have a tired one last heist plot. Direction that never generates humor or suspense. And Brando sleep-walking through yet another where's my paycheck performance (why this actor is viewed with such awe totally mystifies me). All of this could have been charitably overlooked -- and Norton and DeNiro's low-key performances enjoyed -- if it weren't for the fact that totally illogical plot twists are tossed in that make no sense whatsoever. For most of the way this is by-the-numbers film-making. But, apparently in a desperate attempt to give the film some element of surprise, two characters pull major double crosses. But in doing so they only set themselves up for their own potential downfall. Think about it, right in the middle of the robbery, Norton's Jack double crosses DeNiro's Nick, endangering Nick to possible capture. But if Nick is caught, that leaves Jack wide open to being named as his accomplice. This is especially puzzling since Jack, though portrayed as being a very clever criminal, makes inadequate plans to escape and leaves behind a trail that makes him the main suspect in the robbery. Plus, since Jack is angry that he is getting too small of a cut of the loot, wouldn't a smart guy mention his dissatisfaction before the robbery? Especially since the robbery is impossible without his participation. We are supposed to be impressed by Jack's clever double cross, but what he does is absolutely stupid. DeNiro, however, double crosses Jack. But, again, if Jack is caught, wouldn't he naturally name Nick as his accomplice. And Nick's ploy is obviously not a spur of the moment decision on his part, because he brought the fake scepter with him to the heist. After the robbery and getaway, when the money for the scepter was in hand, the attempted double crosses would makes some sense. But to derail a carefully planned heist and foolish risk everything, only makes this passable caper film seem insultingly simple-minded. "},{"Title":"Great acting, average script","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  You want to see The Score for one reason the cast. De Niro. Norton. Brando. Bassett. What could go wrong? Thankfully, not much, or else it would have.The Score is a solid, enjoyable heist film that boasts the kind of performances you'd expect. De Niro anchors the film with his nuanced role as a career thief looking to pull off that last Big Job before calling it quits. Norton exudes intensity as a cocky upstart who takes more pride in fooling people than stealing from them. It's hard to know what to say for Brando at this point, except you're happy when he makes it through a film without attacking the camera guy or getting naked. Bassett does a commendable job with what is essentially mop-up duty.Everyone in The Score does well with what they're given. But what they're given is lacking, as the script doesn't really live up to those performing it. I know, how COULD it? And it is a competent script with some decent thrills, but it never rises above the genre's cliches. Had things gone a different way, The Score would have been a surprisingly good script for Eric Roberts and Michael Paré. Instead, it's a very average one for De Niro and crew.But like I said before, you're not going for the script. You're going to watch four great actors do their thing. And they do. So go already.  "},{"Title":"Went past my expectations.","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  When I first saw the preveiws for this movie it looked good. I didn't expect this to be anything great. You can't really make a movie like this great. Not only did it have three of the greatest actors working today, but it was smart. I was even expecting to be disappointed on this one, but I was very pleased. Like I said, you can't make a movie like this great, but it was good. As a matter of fact, it was better than I thought. It went past my expectations. This is a very good movie that is pretty clean. I was pleased with that one, too. No violence, no sex. Just some bad language. Not too bad at that. I defenently recommend this. "},{"Title":"Really an excellent film.","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Smart,stylish and well acted. It requires an audience with intelligence and patience. You almost have to see it twice to catch the subtle nuances in the script and with the actors to appreciate how good it is. More of a character study than an action piece yet once it gets moving you're on the edge of your seat. The ending in absolutly perfect. "},{"Title":"Scored a 5.","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  It's tough for me to say I liked this film. It was pretty boring. Ed Norton & Robert De Niro are playing themselves. It was predictable. i dunno. I guess there was good acting (+1) good directing (+1) but pacing was slow almost like a bad 80's thriller. The technology they used was totally believable and cool (+2). It wasn't a bad story, it was pretty typical and predictable. I can't think of any other good things other than I didn't HATE it (+1). "},{"Title":"Good movie, but not Fight Club good.","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie.  It's no To Catch a Thief, but a good movie nonetheless.  Edward Norton *makes* this movie, his acting is, as always, extremely interesting and riviting to watch -- and he's funny.This is the best I've seen from Robert De Niro in quite awhile.  I had almost stopped watching his films, but he made a pretty predictable story a fun thriller.  De Niro should really do more comedy -- he's a real riot! 7/10. "},{"Title":"Great Film, Great Actors","Date":"28 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I never thought I would enjoy this film after sitting through the first hour of it. During this first hour, you will start to wonder, what are three very talented actors doing in the pile of dung. Then the actually score starts to unravel up and you start to not regret spending 8 or 9 bucks. This film is so tastefully done that you want more. Edward Norton sheds light on this rather dark tale. He brings a comical yet dangerous and deceiving character to the screen. Robert DeNiro plays the older thief with a little more heart and a little more common sense. And Brando plays the...fat guy. But he's still great. And the ending will bring a smile to your face. "},{"Title":"Four out of five stars","Date":"28 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A good film that delivers a dull punch at the end. The technical achivement of sneaking into a maximum security facility and getting out with what you came for is a fascinating idea for all of us. It's fun to see how these guys accomplish that feat. But, what happens to the loot?The film is one part Indianna Jones goes to Montreal and one part Mission Impossible.  There's a Jonesian opening where we see the expert at work getting away with a nice load of diamonds. But, unlike Dr Jones, making it look like an easy trick. That's the flaw in the movie, it really goes pretty easily for these guys, and there's never really any tension until the surprise twist at the end. The surprise being there is all of a sudden a conflict amoungst the theives that was poorly setup (which is why you don't really see it coming).It's very much a visual movie so watch carefully to connect the dots left out of dialogue.I also found a few goofs There's a spool of wire that appears in the pool scene with Brando and DeNeiro which is later used by Ed Norton to block a doorway in another building. Also, why would Brando sit around in his bathrobe next to a pool with NO water in it? "},{"Title":"great cast, less filling","Date":"28 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"   Obviously, the cast alone makes this film noteworthy. The actors delivered for the most part, considering the cliche-heavy script. Any six-year-old could see the plot 'twists' coming miles away. Still, in comparison to the other dreck released this summer, this film looks great! It moves along quickly, the actors are fun to watch, and it does not overstay its welcome. An average Hollywood movie two decades ago, today an oasis for the discerning moviegoer. "}{"Title":"What a cast! What a Movie!","Date":"27 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A movie with this delicious a blend of visually pleasing and talented actors, only comes along every decade or so. The Score serves up the ever smooth Bob DeNiro, snickering Edward Norton, a welcomed-back-to-the-screen Marlon Brando and hold-her-own-with-da-boyz Angela Bassett. All this oozing talent is directed appropriately by a man use to puppeteering Frank Oz. How could it lose?And it didn't. The Score is a rich combination of talent, intelligent script and great direction.Here's the score...Nick Wells (Bob  Tribeca Boy DeNiro) is a master thief. He's also an upstanding citizen type who enjoys subdued lighting and fine brandy. He's smitten with a fine young thang, Diane (dazzling Angela Bassett). All he wants is to spend a little time around the house. Get to enjoy his rewards. So when what he thought was his eternal last job loses it's buyer ala a bronze casket six feet below the top soil Nick is lured by a long standing friend and colleague Max (Marlon Please- No fat jokes, I've heard them all punk Brando) into the quintessential last last job. Max wants, needs, Nick to join in with an inside guy named Jack and do a team job on a priceless (not to them) artifact.Natch, this last job is the über heist that will set him and his sweet chocolate love, Diane up for the rest of their lives and their future off springs lives. Still, Nick is apprehensive.Enter Cracker Jack, wise Cracker, Jack (Ed- call Emily Blunt at 1-800-742-6565-Norton). Jack's a young bright uprising criminal who's has that strong odious belief that his poo above all others poo doesn't stink. Nick instantly hates him. Max kind of hates him. But they both need him. They all play nice.The stage is set. The job is a go, and it's a beauty. Physics and facts play a big role in assisting the mix-matched duo in pulling the job off. Nick an expert at safe cracking and Jack an expert at...well, BS and codes. Max? He's the friendly neighborhood fence (the guy who sells the goods-the thieves steal). A big time criminal fence burrowed in a large palatial home filled with deep cavernous crevices where one might hide an extra freezer or two to store food in for the winter or for a late night snack (Couldn't resist).DeNiro is a God. An acting God. He's also one of the sexiest men living. Of course it's a well known fact Mr. D enjoys the darker slices of female meat, and in The Score he's paired perfectly with a sultry Angela Bassett. The two are believable and romantic.Let's talk big old smitbug bite. Edward Norton. I simply adore this man. Why? Have you seen Fight Club? Or American History X. At first he appears all dorky and innocent till he opens his sexy brilliant mouth. The boy can act with one hand tied behind he handsome back. Wrap him up...I'll take him. The fact that he's apparently, an intelligent man as well, only ads a whipped heavy cream topping to the already devilishly decadant slice of man pie! Maybe we could chat about the downfall of the Turkish Empire pre- Macedonia as I hand feed him Godiva dipped blueberries? Just a thought...The cast usually tells a story about what you're heading in to see. The Pledge faux pas aside. The Score telegraphs it. It's going to be dynamic on so many levels! Frank Oz directs his human puppets to perfection, milking spectacularly sublime performances from some of our greatest living talents.And, frankly, all fat-guy-puffin-through-the-flick-like-a-black-sheep-Daniel Baldwin-high-on Twinkies and Fritos brand corn chips jokes aside, legendary Brando eases through his role as Max showing people why he's an actor's favorite actor. His signature voice softly delivering lines that had more then a few of teary eyed as we watched a hero, an icon, back where he belonged and in the company of actors, that could not just hold there own, but that shared the screen comfortably with this colossal (sorry) legend.Get out and see this. It's an all around pleaser; great looking cast great actors, great script, and great direction. Bravo. And thank you Mr. DeNiro, I was getting worried after a few of your choices in the past couple of years. Doubts rested.Snack Recommendation Sonny's all you can eat beef and pork parts BBQ, with sun-dried tomatoes.Starring Robert De Niro, Edward Norton, Marlon Brando and Angela BassettDirected By Frank Oz "},{"Title":"Don't Bother","Date":"27 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was slow from start to an anti-climatic finish.  Movie watchers go to see this movie excited to see three huge actors, all proven to be great, but are severely disappointed when they realize that this movie lacks in every sense of the word.  I am not typical at being critical of movies, in fact far from it usually always give movies the benefit of the doubt. This movie would be one of the rare exceptions where I wanted more from it and it didn't deliver.  If you really want to see it go ahead, but look forward to a stretched out movie around 2 hrs 15 min, and disappointment. 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Rather Routine Thriller with Good Cast","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I guess I expected too much from this one.  DeNiro, Brando, Norton.  A somewhat pedestrian script and plot hinder three generations of great actors.  It was entertaining to see Brando and DeNiro together on screen for the first time but there always seemed be something missing.   Norton gives another very good performance--this young man is one of the finest actors I've seen.  As I mentioned, the plot has few surprises--the standard double-cross and then the double-double-cross.  The direction is more than competent but not Oscar-worthy.  So, if were Ebert, I would give this one a weak thumbs up.  7/10 "},{"Title":"Powerhouse.... until it ends","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The Score is a perfect example of what happens in a movie when thewriter has no idea how to end the movie. The whole movie had a singular pace to it. Well constructed and well acted.The Score is definitely a Frank Oz styled movie. Not much swearing. No real violence, and nothing real horrific. The Score is a typical movie with a typical ending and not much more than that. You mostly watch it for the three main actors who each try to outshine the other.i recommend catching this on matinee or video. Do not spend the 7.50 for it. It's good, but it's not a must see in the theater good. "},{"Title":"9 on a scale of 10","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I was torn between an 8 and a 9 on this movie, but finally opted for the higher rating. The reason, ultimately, was that I couldn't think of anything of any substance that was wrong with it AND I was so entertained throughout that I never lost interest - even for a moment.Besides those two points, the movie was suspenseful, had a good deal of action and was well acted. De Niro and Norton were fantastic as usual. Norton played two different characters in the movie who couldn't have been more opposite. Great performance! Personally, I didn't think Brando had much of a role - though he did a fine job. But, anyone could have played it. And, Bassett was absolutely nothing more than an unrelated throw in.The chemistry between De Niro and Norton was exceptional and that buddy aspect is largely what drove the movie. But, just as importantly was the plan to steal a priceless object from a local museum. We've seen that many times in film, but this was especially well done. There were several angles that I don't recall having seen before. The plan was the movie. The carrying out of the plan was the payoff. And, the the twist at the end was icing on the cake.Very entertaining. Can't imagine why anyone would dislike this movie. "},{"Title":"Typical theft film.","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Norton was great and Deniro and Brando were good, but the film was a cookie cutter partner theft film.  You could see both twists at the end coming a mile away.  Also, why Angela Bassett?  That just threw me a little bit. She didn't seem like the right woman to be with Deniro's character.  Still an enjoyable film, but not a great movie by any stretch of the imagination. "},{"Title":"Cast Score's in heist film.","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The Score might not have scored at the box office, but the actors themselves stole the show in this less than ordinary heist.Directed by Frank Oz his work was a step to the side, more or less, for him with such hit comedies as Bowfinger, In & Out, and `What About Bob?  Mind you, The Score is not a perfect movie. There are a couple of large holes in the plot, particularly some things that happen toward the end. But it's so much fun watching this cast work together that it really doesn't matter.The title refers to a difficult task presented before thief Nick Wells (Robert De Niro) with a most profitable outcome.  All that is going on with his successful Montreal jazz club and his stewardess girlfriend, Diane (Angela Bassett who doesn't get much screen time as I had hoped for), he could gain money for his participation in ripping off the U.S. Customs house to finally settle down in his new law abiding life.The U.S. Customs house has confiscated a rare French piece of national treasure.The only eyes that have bared witness to it's being are the U.S. Customs agents and the inside man named Jack Tellar (Edward Norton) with his alter ego attitude who mops the floors as a janitor inside the U.S. Customs house.In spite of the risks involved, Wells decides to go ahead with the scoreeven with his financial partner Max (Marlon Brando) breathing down his neck with suspicious untold truths.With a change in genre for Oz, my hat goes off to this film.  With this star filled cast and jazzy score by composer Howard Shore, everything fit into place. The cast shared a give-and-take relationship between each other.  I sensed at one point that Brando was ad libbing a few times on screen with De Niro, but still gave the two main characters a chance, De Niro and Norton, to earn the spotlight.  "},{"Title":"I Am Jack's Total Waste Of Talent","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The Score is a trite, plodding piece of formula hack.  DeNiro, Brando, and Bassett offer totally lifeless performance-- and Ed Norton is the only bright spot in the film, for about three minutes' worth of pseudo-witty dialogue.  Brando is especially bad in this hokey heist.  Every plot twist could be smelled five miles away, and the script reeked of unoriginality. Which is to say one catch-all phrase about the film in general-- IT STINKS! "},{"Title":"This movie ROCKS!!!","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Robert De Niro is as awesome as ever, and Ed Norton is an amazing actor.  The movie was exciting, funny and one I would definitely see again.  The thrill of the heist and getting caught kept me on the edge of my seat... just waiting to see what would happen next... and I wasn't disappointed.  The split second action was fabulous... a must for any action movie.  The ending was spectacular... if you want to know what happened you'll just have to go see the movie.  For you action lovers out there, who love thrills and excitement, go see this movie... I give it a 8.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Good, escapist entertainment","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Score is far from a perfect heist thriller. It drags in some places and some of the plot twist were predictable. But despite those flaws, I was entertained. The Score is not going to change the world of movies.It also didn't hurt to see great actors like Robert De Niro, Edward Norton, Marlon Brando and (despite another very underdeveloped role) Angela Bassett in the movie either. I guess two things surprised me and it had nothing to do with the plot.Director Frank Oz has created some memorable characters and direct some funny movies. It was nice to see that he's expanding his film horizons.Also, I was so glad to see the city of Montreal playing Montreal and not some other city. "}{"Title":"Engrossing Heist Movie","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Don't expect acting fireworks because of the presence of Brando, DeNiro and Norton. Norton does most of the heavy lifing, but DeNiro's performance is solid too. More important, no one gets in the way of the story. The hesit is ingeniously plotted and the action is a lot more convincing that say, MI. Plaudits for setting the film in Montreal and not trying to disguise it as an American city. Cassandra Wilson and Mose Allison do cameo musical turns and Monk is heard in the background. Stick around for the credits; there's a great song by Diana Krall. Why a six?  Angela Bassett plays the girlfriend and it's a damn shame the writers  couldn't figure out a way to give her more screen time.   "},{"Title":"STYYYYYLE!","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film has a large amount of style.  With a jazzy Lalo Schifrin type score by Howard Shore, dark lighting and good camera angles, it's a laid back heist film with clever writing, peppered intrigue and good performances.  I was totally blown away by Edward Norton, who, alongside two legends like Robert De Niro and especially Marlon Brando, does the best work in the film.  Brando only has a few scenes but provides the film's comic relief and it's hard to get to know De Niro's character.  Hurting the film is Frank Oz's direction which is perhaps is little too relaxed and Angela Bassett is wasted as De Niro's one dimensional love interest.  Also, customs officers in Canada DO NOT wear guns. "},{"Title":"Title says it all.","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie really is about a big robbery.  It is focused and tight.  I was really undecided about seeing it and this is one flick that I really could not get a grasp on from the imdb reviews.  I was expecting more mafia stuff.  it has nothing to do with that and bares no resemblence to The Godfather movies in any way.  It has a little of the of a Bogart Maltese Falcon feeling, a little Entrapment feeling, a bit It Takes a thief and a bit of Cary Grant heist film feeling to it.  Frank Sinatra, Dean Martin and Sammy Davis and the Oceans Eleven cool atmosphere also pervade but it still has film noir elements to it.  Brando has a fair part considering how little has been seen of him lately.    He is not comical here and his swimming pool scene discussing the heist is interesting.  You can be sure that was real whiskey in his glass  It makes you hope he tries another film or two but he will probably disappear again and remain mysterious.  Angela Bassett is fine.  This film is not a forum about race or age or something you might have to listen to in some college classes.  Its just a tight smooth class act.  Cheers.     "},{"Title":"Well done, but nothing new.","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  It is rather hard to not like this film, even though I new exactly how it was going to end before the film was half way over. De Niro and Norton both give performances that were incredible. Brando though was wasted, giving a rather anemic and lifeless performance, but it is good chance to see him and Bobby D sharing screen time. If you want to see a well acted and well done film, than this may be of interest to you, but if you are look for films that have twists and turns with surprise endings, than you may want to look elsewhere. "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I just watched this movie in theatre, and was very surprised to see that it was so well done. Edward Norton shines through and does an excellent job with his character. As always, so do Robert De Niro & Marlon Brando. With twists and turns, it's everything that is expected from viewers and more. Although, at times, I did feel it get kind of dull and not very fast moving. Maybe it was just the suspenseful parts I couldn't handle, but it was great. Not that long either, you should see it. "},{"Title":"Great Actors, Weak Film","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A rare Brando performance is well worth seeing.  Edward Norton is also very strong in this movie.  DeNiro turns in a standard high-quality performance.  The movie itself, the plot, and the ending are all fairly weak.  Enjoy the performances, but don't expect much from the story . .. "},{"Title":"slow and steady","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Robert De Niro's character in The Score says that he never takes a chance in his line of work as a safecracker.  He is always totally prepared and plods along to the final payoff.  (He must be a Virgo in this movie.) Perhaps his character is symbolic for the whole film, which moves along at a steady pace, never taking a risk, but paying off in the end.  Personally, I was disappointed that there was not greater tension and suspense, but I did appreciate the acting.  Angela Bassett was luminous as DeNiro's girlfriend, Marlon Brando held up his end beautifully and Edward Norton was brilliant, as always, playing dual roles as a retarded janitor and crackerjack breakin man.  De Niro was De Niro, playing this role in the same likable manner that he has in dozens of other films.  You like him and you root for him, and even though he is a calculating criminal, you want him to succeed in his last heist.  See the movie and see if he does. "},{"Title":"Fine heist movie with a very satisfying ending","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Heist movies can be tricky things, because the audience for the most part really can't get ahead of the characters, and the pros involved really need to have access to professional knowledge, as if this really is their job.  So, in The Conversation, (not a heist movie, but bear with me please), you really believe that Harry Caul knows surveilence equipment intimately and he's worked the job for years.  You believe the guys in High Fidelity have worked that counter and knit together as a dysfunctional unit. That's the touch which finally sells the audience.I believed De Niro, Norton, and Brando here.  I could see that they knew their work.  It was terrific to see the practical application of knowledge in preparing the heist.  How do you know you can break into a safe?  Build a scale model!  How do you know you can smuggle necessary equipment into the building?  Plant a harmless-seeming, somewhat ineffective employee no one would ever suspect.  Indeed, the employee is beloved enough that he's literally handed the keys.The film ticks away slowly and patiently and sets up an ending which is satisfying without being smart-ass about its own ingenuity.  Man, I wish IMDB would give us 1/2 stars, because this is another that would go on my 7.5 list.I'd like to have seen about ten minutes shaved off -- the film feels about that much too long.  I never got restless, per se, but there were moments when I felt that the point of the scene had been made, and they could get on with it.  The actors were probably having too much fun, and the acting alone ws worth the price of admission.  The fact that good thespian skills were hung on a strong frame just makes it all that much more enjoyable.Frank Oz does a good job here, and with this and Bowfinger he's creeping onto my list of directors to watch.  And that, too, is a nice surprise. "},{"Title":"He shoots...he doesn't score","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The post reviewed this movie as `the new 'Usual Suspects' which is part of what convinced me to go see it.  Want to see a good heist movie? Then see 'The Usual Suspects' and don't waste your time on this film.  The beginning was terribly slow with establishing characters, but Brando steals the scenes from Dinero.  And while Norton gives a good performance, the ending is obvious from the beginning and offers up no surprises.  Too many subjects were trying to be covered which made the film drag from Dinero's love life to Brando's money problems.  The film finally comes to life, but by that time I had lost interest and just wanted the movie to end.  If still interested in this one I would pass it up for now and wait for it to come out on video.   "},{"Title":"great pacing","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The main thing I liked about this movie, besides the considerable displays of acting talent, was the pacing of the movie.  Unlike many movies cranked out nowadays which use (or abuse) hyperkinetic editing, superfluous subplots, special effects and other devices to keep you distracted while the movie plods along to it's inevitable conclusion, this one doesn't pull any tricks.  Instead, it keeps itself focused on the meat of the movie, cutting scenes only as necessary, resulting in a very enjoyable pace that lets you absorb the textures of the movie more thoroughly, and lets the tensions of the movie surface nicely without the unnecessary distractions.  On the down side, the writing is only slightly above par.  Overall, a solid 8/10. "}{"Title":"Kudos to Oz","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Frank Oz turns to a life of crime, approaching a very traditional heist-film from a dark angle, and though there's nothing new here, all is executed smoothly and with unflinching style. The gang's all there The soft-spoken safe cracker on his last job (DeNiro), the hotshot youngster with some tricks up his sleeve (Norton), the love interest (Bassett, woefully underused), and a wise old crook with a head for trouble (Brando). Around the story's corners lurk a thug, a hacker, a systems engineer, a janitor, a sprinkling of guards and jazz musicians, and each is memorable.There's some fun to be had watching these experts ply their illicit trades, but every second is played for tension. Fatal mistakes are always just a few inches or a few seconds away, and everyone seems appropriately nervous. Montreal looks lovely, and Oz leans heavily on its old world rather than the new. Architecture, antiques, and interior decorating frame everyone in an aire of sophistication that smoothes the blacker edges of their character.On a more personal note, it was delightful to see a crime drama with so little violence. Normally these films have double-digit body counts and gallons of blood. Here the violence is almost entirely intellectual, and every action is cautious, chosen, and sure. Powerful without being showy. Film-makers take note. "},{"Title":"amazing...","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this movie, this movie is good, you dont just go around making a dumb, no-sense movie with 3 legendary actors, its just not going to happen!  I dont feel like writing a craptacular outline of the movie like everyone else, all I am saying is this movie was good. I liked it. DeNiro was great...lived up to the expectations, THE GODFATHER himself Marlon Brando was amazing too....and Norton...well come on he was in Fight Club.....AWESOME!      yea well stop reading this damn message and go see the movie.....oh and another thing....you cant see California without Marlon Brando's eyes!!! "},{"Title":"Solid entertainment","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The Score has three actors of three generations...all with amazing acting ability.  In a sense, this is a score for the movies today.  Finally we see the young and old Vito Corleone together.  Finally we see the present Robert De Niro and the future Robert De Niro together.  This movie, although far from great, compliments these three actors nicely.  Frank Oz, a very good director of such films as In & Out and Bowfinger, takes on drama for the first time and succeeds.The heist genre of films is an interesting one, but it has left its days of innovation.  So if one was expecting great things from this movie, they might be a tad disappointed.  Really I see this movie as a tribute to the genre...not an addition to it.  It follows its genre in its classic style; it does not become wild in its plot; it does not have a gunfight/car chase/deadly ending.  The Score is pure and professional.  It's solid entertainment.Acting, well...I think this basically goes without saying...was excellent.  Norton and De Niro were both as solid as ever.  They fulfilled their roles realistically and completely.  However, Brando, who seems to have lost his acting talent since The Godfather continued to show this downward trend.  Angela Bassett, in all of her talent, had a cliched and one-dimensional character.  Unfortunate, too, because this role could have been written into something special.  Supporting performances were excellent.  This was the key to making this film an acting gem.Direction was also a plus in this film.  This was a very quiet, tense, suspenseful film.  The ending sequence was just amazing to watch; it was done with such efficiency and vision.  It also had suspense, some twists and turns, but nothing too fantastical.  It stayed on task, and that was the key to this movie.  Bonus points to the music, which was tremendous and very appropriate.Weaknesses existed.  Angela Bassett's character, Brando's acting performance, the lack of innovation (which I tend to look for in films), and the plot itself (nothing special) were all setbacks in this movie.  However, I found plenty of entertainment in this movie.  It was completely involved making me so, as well.  For that, this movie is a pleasant success.7/10 "},{"Title":"Heist films can be such fun, and such jazzy scores","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The Score is a heist - a rather suspenseful one, especially when we get to watch De Niro's character Nick cracking safes in such technical detail. The critical sequence he inter-played with Ed Norton's Jack, alias Brian the innocent looking janitor, surely puts audience on edge - it's not horror, it's the dry-mouth excitement anticipating whatever comes next.An entertaining safe-cracking story that comes through without blood-spilling/killing is absolutely rare for a successful Hollywood movie these days. Bravo to the screenwriters and director Frank Oz. Of course, the stellar casting of De Niro, Norton plus Brando is quite an attraction to The Score. Howard Shore's music is so jazzy, befitting the exciting moments and suspenseful sequences; while at times, the wisdom of having no music at all in the background worked simply well. De Niro is as strong as ever portraying Nick the 25-year experienced pro, reluctantly taking on this one last job, which was getting more challenging with complications as the plot proceeds. Norton is perfect in the role of the inexperienced, self-important, greedy Jack. To complete the triangle, Brando certainly complements/complicates as Max with the 'resourceful' ideas. Angela Basset is the love interest to Nick and inspired his decision to end his 'crime streak' for retirement. It's refreshing that the locale is not NYC but the city of Montreal with spatters of French. The object of desire is a sovereign sceptre. This reminds me of Jules Dassin's Topkapi 1964, the mother of all heist capers with dazzling high wire act mimicked by many films (like Tom Cruise in Mission Impossible 1996.) Istanbul is exotic, and a cast of Melina Mercouri, Maximilian Schell, Peter Ustinov, and Robert Morley, is simply irresistible. There's also Charles Grodin in 11 Harrowhouse 1974, a London caper with mounts of diamonds heisted with the suction help of James Mason and lovely Candice Bergen; chase scenes involved a van, a sports car and men on horsebacks. The Score really has no car chase scenes - that's its simple beauty.    If the entertaining, suspenseful plot of The Score without blood and guts or car chases is too 'clean and tidy' for you, try director Jonathan Glazer's Sexy Beast 2000, a thrilling British crime drama, brilliantly scripted by Louis Mellis and David Scinto, with sensational performances from Ben Kingsley and Ray Winstone. Sexy Beast is entertaining, suspenseful, with some blood and guts, some car scenes, and a clever and tidy plot with a locale of Costa del Sol, Spain, besides the underworld of London for a jewelry heist. Story-wise, The Score is quite earnest, Sexy Beast is thrillingly surprising, 11 Harrowhouse is rather delightful, and Topkapi is the most fun of all. More heist flicks Peter Yates' Hot Rock, The 1972 with Robert Redford, George Segal, and Zero Mostel having fun stealing a priceless diamond; Richard Brooks' $ (Dollars) aka The Heist 1972, with Warren Beatty, Goldie Hawn and Gert Fröbe outsmarting heists in Germany.  "},{"Title":"It's OK, but is that all we should ask for?","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The Score is not a bad film.  It's paced well, the story is mildly interesting, Ed Norton has some good moments.  Why then, do I feel so depressed after seeing it?  I think it's because this film continues the long slide of mediocrity of film in general and Robert DeNiro in particular.  DeNiro seems to have made nothing short of a conscious decision to stop challenging himself and his audience.  15 Minutes? Rocky and Bullwinkle?  Men Of Honor? Meet The Parents?  What is this guy thinking? Considering the method acting firepower assembled for this film, the result should have been incendiary. Instead we get an adequate film that could have been mildly entertaining starring just about any three decent actors.  The script is OK (unless you are tired of seeing films about criminals that don't seem to portray any downside to their chosen lifestyle) Frank Oz's direction is acceptable but uninspired (except for one scene involving Brando and DeNiro conversing around an empty swimming pool).  Marlon Brando is still interesting to watch in spite of himself, Norton's youthful energy practically carries the picture.  But in the end, it's a pretty humdrum movie you'll forget soon after you see it.  Maybe this film is somewhat a victim of expectations, but then again if we don't have high expectations of these three, who else should we have high expectations of? "},{"Title":"This movie had the potential to be so much...but falls","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I walked into this film thinking it was Heat meets The Real Mccoy and I left feeling unfullfilled. The ending to this movie abruply finishes kinda like well where out of money and ideas lets just end it...It took them 2 hours to get to the robbery and 5 minutes to end the movie. It had all this steam and it loses it. If your going to make a 140 minute movie you have to put some action in it to keep you awake.I wanted to see the robbers fight it out for the freakin prize like the previews made you believe..but no, thats not the direction the movie went because it ended. The script was just a let down. Hollywood is really running short of ideas lately. The cast and acting was well done. Ed Norton was amazing, playing a handicapped man is hard work. I know... Blazip zat doodle mmkay thanks h.h.hi Mr....Get my point. Trust me rent this one. 4 0ut of 10   "},{"Title":"This movie had the potential to be so much...but falls","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I walked into this film thinking it was Heat meets The Real Mccoy and I left feeling unfullfilled. The ending to this movie abruply finishes kinda like well where out of money and ideas lets just end it...It took them 2 hours to get to the robbery and 5 minutes to end the movie. It had all this steam and it loses it. If your going to make a 140 minute movie you have to put some action in it to keep you awake.I wanted to see the robbers fight it out for the freakin prize like the previews made you believe..but no, thats not the direction the movie went because it ended. I dont know what the critics were smoking when they watched this one but the script was just a let down. Hollywood is really running short of ideas lately. The cast and acting was well done. Ed Norton was amazing, playing a handicapped man is hard work. Trust me rent this one. 4 0ut of 10   "},{"Title":"Nothing new, yet entertaining","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Like any other heist or crime film, The Score doesn't deviate from what's expected. The storyline is basic and lacks the freshness that these type caliber actors ought to bring to such a film. Deniro's character is calm, almost too calm for the film's sake, seeing that drama is by its definition reliant on conflict. Brando jumps in and out of scenes offering as much as a comic relief would in an otherwise minor role. Norton, as usual, steals from The Score its only jewels...acting.Perhaps one might make the point that Norton's performance was the ingrediant for the movie's success. Without his presence, I fear The Score would have been better titled The Scandal, in light of what could have been, but wasn't.Everyone whose seen it raves on about the killer ending or the great plot twist. To each their own, I say. I guess audiences are too easily impressed these days, having seen nothing but a streak of mediocre films for the past two years (excluding of course the occasional quality that appeared). This plot could not only be spotted from the film's midpoint, but from the trailer itself. I will not reveal it here, yet it must be said. The ending was not at all spectacular, much less surprising.Regardless...The Score still entertains, and the actors still amuse. It's well worth watching and definately one of the better films of its genre.  "},{"Title":"The Score Scores!","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Yoda directs a Montreal based heist flick starring three of Hollywood's most acclaimed actors.  Whether it took a Jedi mind trick to get the elusive Marlon Brando to return to the big screen after a six year absence remains to be seen.  Stories of tension on the set, between director Frank Oz and Brando may have lead some to believe there are serious problems with the film.  The truth is, co-star Robert Deniro took the directing reins for some of Brando's scenes and things look flawless.  Fortunately for Oz, there are only three key scenes with Brando throughout the film.  Unfortunately for the audience, these three scenes are not enough.  Brando plays an aging mastermind, who is urging two younger thieves to steal a priceless Egyptian scepter.  Deniro coolly plays a middle aged, almost over the hill thief who wants to get out the game and have a normal life, running a jazz club in Old Montreal.  Edward Norton is the up and coming hot shot con man who is looking for a big risky score.  The three men intricately plan to infiltrate the heavily guarded Montreal security house that contains the scepter.  Brilliant acting and a cool and moody directing style make this flick feel tense and grainy.  The plot moves slowly, but the payoff to the buildup is worth it.  Final rating = 7.1/10 "},{"Title":"Poor Man's Mission Impossible","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  We've seen all this before; nothin new here.  Very good acting but a disappointment.Although this has all the elements to make a good film it's all been done before and anyone who has been going to films the last 25 years knows the way you circumvent security cameras is you either give the camera a direct feed of what you want security guards to see or take a photograph and hang it in front of the camera with a clothes pin.  You =do not= shut off the picture causing the security guards to come running.The screenplay is the stuff of yesteryear.The only reason to see this film is for the same reason Space Cowboys succeeded; seeing some favorite actors do what they do best. "}{"Title":"Derivative, derivative, derivative","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Seen Heat?  Primal Fear?  Sneakers?  The Score combines the cheesiest aspects of these movies and you can smell them coming a mile away.  If not for the well-acted dual role of Edward Norton (which we've all seen before) and the neat gizmos (Heat, Sneakers...The Real McCoy for God's sake), this wouldn't be worth watching at all.  The characters are shallow and the plot predictable.Marlon Brando's role is similar to that of Anthony Hopkins in Hannibal and Robert Duvall in Falling Down.  It's cool because of who he is, not what he did in this movie.Want a heist movie with action and suspense?  Try Ronin.  One with heart? Rent Thomas Crown Affair.  But unless you love the genre, avoid The Score, which combines the worst of both worlds. "},{"Title":"not to be seen in theaters","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  this movie was a waste of my money. i suggest seeing it, just not in theaters, wait and spend half the money. the only good part about it, was predictable at best. watch the ending. i give this movie 5 out of 10 because Edward Norton gave a great performance. if you like this type of movie you will think it's great but if you have any doubt in your mind about seeing, don't because you won't enjoy it.see this at home so you can fast forward through the slow parts. "},{"Title":"Settle for the field goal cause you're not gonna get the touchdown with this one.","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Ed Norton deserves an A, Robert De Niro a B+ (the part was not demanding) and Marlon Brando a C.  Brando does his usual fat man trying to be cute bit. I don't understand why such first class actors attach themselves to these mediocre scripts.No need to rush off to see this one in a theater.  Will be a great video title. "},{"Title":"Boring and Predictable With Interesting Gadgets","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  My title sums it up.  The Score was simply a boring crime caper with a script to weak to really liven anything up.  There were scenes in which the actors actually looked pained when stating their lines.  Sub-plots were introduced, not developed, and then conveniently resolved at the end.   The art direction and set design were uninspired; the clothes looked like they came straight from the nearest J. Crew outlet.  No character in the film was compelling because there were all simply prototypes without any real depth.  Really it was just so bland as to be almost monotonous.If you want to see R. DeNiro in a great, recently made crime movie go rent Ronin.     "},{"Title":"The Negative, The Positive, and The Bottom Line","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The Negative  If you've seen The Thomas Crown Affair, if you've seen The Saint, Entrapment, Sneakers, Mission Impossible, etc... then you've already seen this movie.  No new twists.  This movie has what every 'burglary' movie has ever had (romance, betrayal, a switch, you name it).  What a surprise. The Positive  The acting in the movie was great.  Norton has amazed us again.  Deniro does his thing, and Brando (brought back from the dead) even does a little Godfather in this movie.  Excellent acting.The Bottom Line  If you go to see this movie, understand that it is slow, with no real surprises.  The acting is very good, but it doesn't make up for the slow and commonplace story.  This movie would be best served at someone else's house, on video. "},{"Title":"A satisfying thriller!","Date":"17 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  In the past few months, we've seen thrillers that try too hard (MEMENTO), not hard enough (THE TAILOR FROM PANAMA), hardly (ALONG CAME A SPIDER).  Now comes THE SCORE, a movie that's so graceful that it doesn't seem to be trying at all.  I suppose it's easy to look effortless when you have a cast that includes De Niro, Norton, Bassett and Brando.  But there's no denying the supreme effort everyone involved put into every aspect of the film. The camera work, editing, musical score are all first-rate.  It is also refreshing to see a summer movie without a talking animal, a Matrix-like action sequence, a two-gun-shooting shootout, an endless car chase, a loud rock score, or a mask-peeling twist ending.  Sure it's another one-last-heist movie, but it's never been done with an A+ cast like this. De Niro, Norton and Brando have certainly been better, but they deliver just the right performances here (my only gripe is that Bassett isn't given more to do).  And just right is all that this classy, intelligent thriller needs.          "},{"Title":"A very good movie...","Date":"17 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Edward Norton commands respect in this film. His character Jackie, who plays a character named Brian in the movie, was great. I love Ed Norton anyway, but this just shows me that he is still the actor I remember him to be. Robert DeNiro is wonderful, as always, and Angela Bassett will always be Tina Turner to me. The movie itself was a little slow in the beginning, but it picked up nicely once Norton comes on screen. I would recommend this film to anyone who is a fan of DeNiro or Norton, as it is good.  "},{"Title":"Excellent movie - for a change","Date":"17 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  After a wasting precious money on countless over-rated movies, The Score finally pays off.  What an awesome film!!  If you loved Heat, you'll love The Score.  The acting was top notch, the script was flawless...I won't go on and on.  Just go see it. "},{"Title":"No Heat in The Score","Date":"17 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  If you saw Heat then you will see DeNiro playing basically the same type of charactor. I went to this movie with high hopes as I liked Heat a lot and wondered if this one would come close. Unfortuanely it doesn't. The movie just sort of floats along bringing us up to the inevidable heist. I like DiNero, I like Brando and I can tollerate Ed Norton. It was an OK Flick with a bit of sizzle in the end. See a matine' and save a few bucks if you must see it or wait for it to come out on video. Take it for what it is... A high tech It Takes A Theif without a lot of grit. I may be wrong but I don't think this one will have any legs... "},{"Title":"A factual error","Date":"17 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I noticed a goof in The Score, and we can't add goofs yet I'll post it here.In one scene a fire sprinkler system is tapped for water to use for a safe cracking.  Most, if not all, fire sprinkler systems are set up to send an alarm (fire) when water flows in the system.  (Water flow in a fire sprinkler system indicates a head has begun to flow, thus a fire) In the movie, no alarm was activated when the system was tapped. "}{"Title":"The Bore","Date":"17 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Weak script with poor character developement.  Not much is noteworthy at all about this flick which makes it pretty much a waste of talent when you look at the credit list.  Don't get me wrong, Robert DeNiro is solid as usual.  Ed Norton, also a great actor, does a good job as well but the performance loses some steam when you consider the character and his plot involvement is somewhat of a rip-off of Verbal Kint (Kevin Spacey) in the Usual Suspects.The poor script writing is most evident at the end of the film when Norton's turn occurs.  It is cliche and feels contrived and hackneyed - thrown in the film out of necessity of an overly dramatic climax rather than one built constructively from intelligent character development.  Being a fan of films that offer an alternative/change from the MTV paced shlock (usually starring Freddy Prinze and his ilk) that comes out of Hollywood on a regular basis, i was disappointed to not see more done with this film and talent.  It could have succeeded at that rather slow pace; however, to do so it should have been (and could have been) smarter and more refined - for example, cutting the Bassett character completely and instead building more of the DeNiro/Norton relationship to make the plot twist actually worthwhile and rewarding).  Instead of engaging me this movie left me fidgeting in my over sized stadium seat.  "},{"Title":"consistent, disregarding contrived ending","Date":"17 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Interpretation, SpoilersWith the beginning robbery near-fiasco, Nick is narrowly saved due to the fickleness of a seductress. Consequently, he begins to reexamine his lifestyle, and concludes that a settling down would be a well-timed decision to make at this point in his life and career. He sees crime as merely a necessity in order to preserve the truly important things &#150; his woman and his club. With this mindset, the sequence of events may be appreciated. Basically, nearly the entire movie consists of obstacles to the score repeatedly arising. Namely Nick is almost discovered in the sewer, Jackie is almost caught stealing papers in the basement, access codes are missing from the building and must be attained elsewhere, the park exchange nearly goes awry, Nick discovers that the score is only Max's attempt to get out of debt, and both infrared and new cameras are placed over the sceptre. With so many occasions for error present, why does Nick go through with the plan? As he tells Jackie, `I never took a long shot.' Everything is taken in and accounted for, even human greed. A tension exists between the criminal skill of Nick and Jackie. From the first robbery, we are aware of Nick's expertise and professionalism. With Jackie, great pains are used in showing that he is no mere amateur &#150; as Nick first suspects (and later confirms). Both are shown to be attentive and calculating, but only one may come out the victor. Nick conquers because he has been the most disciplined and the most professional by taking the most variables into factor.Thus the ending is consistent with the flow of the movie. After many obstacles of similarly small magnitude are overcome, a more formidable challenge must be reckoned with. It demonstrates that even seemingly not-likely obstacles must be taken into account. Nick gets his money and can finally settle down with his lover and club life. This ending is difficult to stomach after the excellent consistency of the beginning and middle of the ending. The audience cannot help but think, `If his lover and his little club are so important, why is he so obsessed with becoming a millionaire?' After all, before the score, he already had his woman and club. It was his criminal activity that had compromised these supposedly prized items from the start. The movie seems to suggest that robbery itself was Nick's most prized hobby, not as a means towards something more meaningful, but as an end in itself. There is nothing negative about this. I could see how the thrill of a perfect crime could become pleasurable; it is the movie's inconsistency in this regard that vexes me. Valuing crime fits perfectly with the valuing of calculation and discipline that the remainder of the movie speaks for. But this would not be widely accepted. A happy man-reuinites-with-woman ending is more cinematically allowable. It's almost a law. Yet the movie could have easily soften up the blow for this ending. Though it would have still been inconsistent, it would have been less inconsistent if just a few minutes were used to develop Nick's supposed love of his woman and club. Instead, said woman and club are always described in ways only relevant to the upcoming score. This lack of development further shows that the score was the only truly meaningful thing in Nick's life. It is not this theme, but the movie's obstinate refusal to present this obvious theme that detracts from the movie &#150; for me.   Basically, the consistency of the score is maintained for naught when we realize that the motivation for the score is inconsistent with the flow of the movie. The potential for a good movie was lost because of the need for the movie to attract audiences and make money. A happy movie is always preferable to a consistent movie.  "},{"Title":"If it weren't for the acting of DeNiro and Norton this film would have sunk","Date":"17 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Set in Montreal, DeNiro is Nick Wells.  Nick is a methodical thief who cracks safes.  He is ingenious, smooth, smart, calm, and in the life of crime a veteran which is a rarity in his line of work.  Nick lives in Montreal but he does his work outside the country, knowing that the risks are less.  However after finishing one heist in Boston his co-hort Max (Marlon Brando) tells him that there is another big prize they should go after.  Inside a heavily guarded customs house in Montreal is a gold scepter that is priceless a real French treasure.  It's ironic Max should mention this since Nick has told him he's had enough and wants to quit.  He's even less interested when Max tells him he has someone else working for him on this particular assignment, a young brash kid named Jackie who has charmed his way inside pretending to be a retarded janitor who is casing the joint for the heist.  After all Nick works alone, and Jackie is everything Nick detests, cocky, arrogant, anxious, and impatient.  But while Nick realises the payoff for the heist would set up his retirement for his bar and business he goes in even though his girlfriend (Angela Basset) is less impressed waiting for him to pack it in.The initial tension between Nick and Jackie is kind of a let down because in the end you know somehow it will lead to an important obvious climax at the end.  Also there's nothing complicated or intriguing about the characters they are pretty straight forward and carbon cut outs.  With this in mind you'd think you'd have a recipe for a cookie cutter movie.  But it is anything but that.DeNiro and Norton's chemistry is great, and the movie pays off huge in describing the crime, creating uncertain snags, and generating big suspense once the heist is set out in motion.  Flaws are a slow start, and the wasting of Angela Bassets character which in many ways was underdeveloped and probably not even neccesary.However, 'The Score' is a very good edge of the seat thriller with great chemistry that lets you overlook many possible errors in the films that would deter from the actual believability of the caper.Rating 7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Interesting Story with Unexpected Twists","Date":"17 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The best part, and I've read this before and concur, is the unification of three great generations of actors.  Marlon Brando takes in the typical head guy who sets up everything role, and the Brando voice alone keeps fans attune.  Robert DeNiro plays his common role also, the man who is not only very smart, but has contacts everywhere and never gets fooled.  Edward Norton plays the new up and coming criminal who is easily fools others by thinking they have the upper hand when he is always in control.  Therefore when Brando sets up the two to pull off a robbery that will cash them in millions, the two worlds collide.  De Niro's cunning experience vs. Norton's deceiving personality.  One is on his way out, while the other is on his way up.  Neither truly trust the other but both realize they have to trust one another to successfully pull off the heist.  This story, full of twists and turns, leaves you satisfied when you leave the theater.My tagline for this movie would be You think you know what will happen when two totally different criminals try and team up to pull off the biggest heist ever? Well you don't know jack!I rank this an 8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"The Score narrowly misses","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Greetings again from the darkness.  Close call here, but once again a 2001 movie misses the mark.  This movie ends at what should be the mid-point.  Some nice scenes with Brando and DeNiro, but Edward Norton pretty much steals every scene.  I have always been a huge DeNiro fan, but have grown tired of his sleep walking through action pictures (Ronin) and would rather see a little stretch such as Meet the Parents and Wag the Dog.  My tidbit on this one is for you real movie lovers Brando looks like Sidney Greenstreet's brother in this picture.  That gave me a good laugh!  Yoda's direction creates some intensity on screen, especially during the key break-in moments; however, too many script holes and an extremely disappointing ending make this a near miss that had hope.  P.S. The music/score is awful and distracts from numerous scenes.  A real problem in a suspense film. "},{"Title":"Game called for lack of interest.","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  minor spoilers The Score is star-package film making at its most cynical. True, Hollywood regularly releases even poorer, less entertaining movies, but this film's reason for being, and for being aggressively marketed, begins and ends with the `concept' of having arguably the best actors of the last three generations interacting on screen together. Alas, providing Marlon Brando, Robert DeNiro, and Edward Norton with a screenplay that gave them something challenging, credible, and meaningful to do clearly did not enter into the production equation.  Instead the audience is subjected to a ludicrously weak re-working of a genre &#150; the caper film &#150; whose limited possibilities were played out decades ago. Even then, has there ever been a caper film whose pacing was as botched as this? I certainly can't remember one. The Score plods agonizingly through its first two acts only to lead to a visually frenetic third act with predictable twists, loose ends galore, and an abrupt, anti-climactic resolution. What's more, the only one of these great actors who was appropriately cast was, oddly, Brando. His age, bulk, and whimsicality create a Sydney Greenstreet air, cheerful but profoundly corrupt, that this screenplay unsurprisingly fails to develop. Instead, his character becomes a simpering pawn of a yet bigger boss whom we never see, whose interest in the caper is never revealed, and whose function in the plot is utterly superfluous and unresolved. DeNiro is simply too old and out of shape to credibly perform the elaborate gymnastics that the caper requires of his character. Norton's character is (a) poorly motivated and (b) an embarrassing imitation of the actor's career-making split personality role in Primal Fear. Angela Bassett, the fourth `name' actor on the bill, is given absolutely nothing of interest to say or do. Her casting in the role of DeNiro's love interest does represent another commendable, if small, step in the direction of color-blind casting although the romance itself adds one more unnecessary and unconvincing sub-plot to the mess.    "},{"Title":"underdeveloped, yet entertaining","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The Score is a guilty pleasure. It is suspenseful, it is explosive, it is pure fast-paced fun.. despite being noticeably underdeveloped. While being over two hours long this movie seems to go by quickly.After seeing this movie, I had this strange feeling that it had been *missing* something.. that it wasn't quite as good as it could have been. I thought a while and came up with this.. While the heist itself is pretty impressive, everything leading up to that, well, isn't. Nothing is fully developed and it all just seems too easy. I also didn't particularly care for the ending. **possible spoiler**While Jack had admittedly done something bad (for lack of a better word, that is -- but to me it seemed more a fit of insanity than actual presence of logical motivation), it is still hard to believe that he deserved a fate such as this movie happily tosses him in what seems like a half-baked desperate attempt to land a fitting ending. It is far too well-rounded.. it seems like the ending to a fairy tale. Difficult to accept or believe, really. The score to this movie also could have been better. The same monotonous not-very-exciting theme playing over and over as if on a loop got pretty old pretty fast for me.Robert De Niro's performance as Nick Wells, a jazz club owner slash underground thief who is thinking seriously of retiring from the latter profession, is relatively bland and not notably exciting to watch. However, this movie has secured Edward Norton's position in my small list of favorite actors. His showstealing performance as overconfident amateur thief Jackie Teller, partnered up with De Niro's Nick, is incredible. He is young and impulsive, he is confident, he is intense. And as Brian, the mentally challenged janitor's assistant that Jack role plays on the midnight shift, Norton is -- as always -- amazing, believable, and impressive. Can we please give this man an Oscar nod already? Otherwise.. Marlon Brando lisps/slurs his lines in a particularly annoying way and his performance is nothing outstanding; and Angela Bassett, while delivering a solid performance, was unfortunately given a role that was completely unnecessary and could (and most likely should) have been dropped as excess baggage.I'd say this movie is worth seeing, despite some of the negative things I've mentioned. It's a fun ride, really; good entertainment. Plus, seeing Ed Norton, sweaty, in a beater, looking rather suspicious and intense, is surprisingly -- and almost even disturbingly -- appealing. Hm. "},{"Title":"Big Disappointment","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  What a shock that a film that gathered this group of talent could be such a disappointment.  The development of the film was agonizingly slow, only drawing my interest in the admittedly exciting execution of the heist.  The rest is slow, filled with cliches and vapid dialogue. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable overall; trailer ruins ending","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  It was a treat to see Brando, De Niro and Norton (not necessarily in order of rating of performance) in the same movie and in the same scene a couple of times. Contrary to other comments, I enjoyed Brando's work in this movie. Perhaps it wasn't much of a challenge for him, but he looked like he was enjoying the role, and he delivered his lines with the wisdom of the veteran actor he is. Have to agree that Norton had the best role and did the most with it. De Niro looked a little bored.This movie was another case where a trailer can tell too much, as was observed by another commentor. What is up with these trailers that don't whet your appetite but, rather, force-feed you the Readers Digest condensed version of the whole movie, synopsis of plot and all? As a result of having seen this movie's trailer, there was no unexpected plot twist for me. Pretty much had the thing figured out before sitting down; went to see the three actors... and that was reward enough. "},{"Title":"Some cliche' plot features, but a great movie overall (no spoilers)","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The old mastermind, the aging, one more heist and I'm done, professional, & the sharp and up-and-coming young thief.  Sound like a story that's been told before?  It has, but it doesn't make this movie a run-of-the-mill, over-hyped, under-delivering movie.The acting in this movie is superb.  Some potentially flat, stereotypical characters come alive in the hands of three elite actors.  Norton's acting as well as his acting within the context of his character shows just how amazing he can be.  Expect to see a nomination if not an Oscar for this role.At times the pace of this movie can drag, but I believe that the reason for this was because the movie wanted to give a very authentic feel.  Endless planning, meticulous preparation, and hours upon hours of problem solving goes into planning something that, the quicker it's over, the better.  The movie was very true to this.  The cost of this authenticity is a slower movie, which is not as exciting as it could be.  Though I'm sure it's not a popular opinion, I feel this was a very good tradeoff and made for an excellent movie with depth rather than flash on the surface. 9/10 "}{"Title":"While not fantastic, best movie so far this year","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  While considering the poor quality of movies so far this year, this is so far my favorite.  Even though it was fairly predictable it still managed to keep me interested throughout.  It had an impressive group of actors that played convincing roles.If you liked 'Ronin' you will probably like this movie as well.  I gave this movie a 7 (and Ronin an 8 btw). "},{"Title":"Solid performances, great ending.","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The Score brings out the best of all the actors in it.  Robert De Niro plays the perfect aging tough guy, Norton at his best as usual with the hot headed youngster, and Brando as the boss.  The movie starts out a little slow, but the lack of action is made up for by fantastic camera shots.  Good job Frank Oz.  The musical score is just enough to provide the right mood in the right scenes.  During the heist scenes, no score is needed, only the masterful acting by De Niro which is more than enough.  The characters could have been slightly more developed which would have made the end even more sweet,  even though it already is awesome.  Overall a very well done flick with some great lines and great scenes.   "},{"Title":"loved it","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  We just got home from seeing The Score. It was great fun. Robert De Niro is great to watch on the screen. Brando's acting was impressive too! The scenes between these two pros was enjoyable. I loved the tension and build up to the end. Go see it you will not be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Somebody got robbed here all right","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The fairly strong reviews by the professionals failed to deal with a stark fact.  This is a dull, uninvolving story that contains virtually nothing new.Just how many times we have seen the veteran thief who takes a young thief under his wing, I don't know.  But this film proved that Hollywood has gone to the well, or perhaps the film vault, one too many times.Running down the plot is sort of a waste of time here,but it involves a long time heist man agreeing to-- here's one you've never heard before -- one last job!  There's a sedentary mob boss, a young show off and the old veteran who has to hold it all together.  The old vet even has a girlfriend who he'd like to settle down with when its all over, but she won't start picking out curtains and wallpaper with him until he agrees to put away his jimmy for good.Like all big heist movies, it takes a lot of planning to accomplish and we sit through every agonizing moment.   When the big day comes, there are of course, unexpected complications and unexpected twists.This has all been done before and done better in so many movies, you couldn't count them all.  But try Asphalt Jungle, The Killing, The Getaway and the French classic Bob the Gambler. All of them put this film to shame.What is supposed to save the film is its A list cast.  Not exactly. Angela Bassett has about three flat scenes playing a generic girlfriend. Marlon Brando starts off very well playing the mob boss, but some of the fun is just seeing Brando again. His role is really so thin that he quickly runs out of the stage business he's doing to beef it up, and then the character sort of drifts away.  Ed Norton is quite good as the aspiring young master criminal and sort of steals the picture.  Robert DeNiro, however, is the top star and he pretty much sleep walks his way through the film.  He displays very little emotion and even less charisma. In fact, I'm not sure he smiles during the entire picture, adding to the doom and gloom of the whole thing.Overall, a weak effort from DeNiro and you have to wonder what if anything he saw in the role, or was it just something,like the heist in Score, that he just did for the money. Hey, how's that for a plot? A veteran actor wants to get out, but prodded on by a young hotshot, he agrees to do one last part in a  dangerously bad.....oh, never mind!  "},{"Title":"Strong Cast but the movie cut the corners","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The movie overall was beautiful, what else could you ask for then to see Marlon Brando make his reappearance.  The cast was very strong and powerful and basically held the movie through its dull moments.  DeNiro and Norton were amazing and thanks to them the movie just passes the failing mark. The acting was amazing the story was beautiful but several things made this just a regular low-rate movie.  The location was neither exotic nor prestigious, the movie should of been developed more into a longer film, though the end was surprising it was too quick and snappy.  Overall its just another movie, it lacks the luxury of a Mission Impossible type movie, lacking the James Bond scenes, giving it a dull ambiance.  Ok movie, don't recommend to see it in theatres. "},{"Title":"A lesson in the joy of acting","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The teacher is that consummate cut-up, eccentric, and tormentorof directors, Mr. Marlon Brando. In the pasteboard role of adandyish rich guy who backs a high-tech safecracker (RobertDeNiro), Brando seems to delight in every aspect of acting--andhis big scene, desperately convincing DeNiro to finish a job,reminds you of why he stands alone in the canon of movie actors.(And it sure ain't all about technique, either.) The notion of three generations of acting greats was a littlemisconceived from the start. The third part of this equation shouldrightly be Sean Penn, not that flashy teacher's pet Edward Norton.(Gimmicky, self-loving, smart-alecky, oneupmanship-obsessed,and oddly likable, Norton is the Dustin Hoffman of His Generation.)The misconception was compounded by the miscasting of FrankOz as the director a bright, solid maker of conventional comedies,Oz is no John Frankenheimer. And the script (credited, amongothers, to the great Lem Dobbs) is a routine caper number, withinterminable scenes between DeNiro and Angela Bassett abouthow this is gonna be the last criminal thing I do, baby, swear onmy life. What a snore! The movie reminds you of the seventiesmovies we elect not to remember.Brando aside, the movie reeks of actor vanity. One gets the sensethat the players ran roughshod over Miss Piggy. Norton'scharacter, screaming at DeNiro, I'd appreciate if you'd give me alittle respect!, seems all too self-consciously concocted with aneye to the meta-text of the actors' careers. DeNiro's notoriousfondness for black women is indulged with the casting of AngelaBassett, who gives one of her hoky, church-organ-voiced,smite-you-down performances; she has become stiffer and moreboring than Ashley Judd. How did his hero Brando's joy in actingnot rub off on DeNiro? He gives a groggy, depressed  performance--a veritable parody of his superlative minimalist workin movies like CASINO and HEAT. He needs to take some time off,and, one hopes, look for a good script and a good director again.It's been some time. "},{"Title":"Angela Bassett Wasted","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Marlon Brando presumably did The Score because it gave him a few good scenes, financed his peculiar lifestyle for a few more years, and allowed him to be seen on the silver screen in something a bit more satisfying than Free Money or Don Juan DeMarco.  Did they need to name his character Max Baron?  No.  But I understand Brando's presence.Angela Bassett on the other hand...  Does the roll of the disappointed/doting girlfriend really add *anything* to the story?  And even if her character fills some sort of necessary Hollywood quota, did they really need to waste the great Angela Bassett on this role?  Her agent and the casting director should be lynched. "},{"Title":"Okay film.","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The score is a very good drama suspense movie until it reaches it's third act, when it immediately turns cliched, and I could have sworn that I had seen every scene in the third act before with different faces.An intelligent drama, with enough attention to the characters to make it human too. But, as soon as that third act begins, it takes the easy, cliched way out, and falls into a terrible mess.Angela Basset's character could have been cut out, then the movie would have been shorter and better. Also, the motivation from that girlfriend thing is cliched.The three leads all deliver powerhouse, possible Oscarworthy performances. Brando is hilarious and very realistic as De Niro's boss. De Niro finally does a good job in a good movie- that hasn't happened since Heat. His character is traditional De Niro, and he plays him really well. But the standout showstealer is Edward Norton. Every single performance this kid has given with the exception of Everybody Says I Love You has been in my mind Oscarworthy. He again shows us that he can give us an intense performance that is also funny, and shows more of how the character is.Good cinematography, and mediocre Shore Score, and slightly flawed direction by muppeteer Franzk Oz are some the the film's elements that I have not mentioned.You should rent this flick, it's not worth theatre prices, and it has no huge F/X that condemn it to be seen only at the theatre. Just don't expect a crime movie like Heat. "},{"Title":"Heart-pounding heist thriller","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I guess the guy who gave this film an average rating must have seen a not-completely-finished preview version a few months before this film came out.  For me, THE SCORE was a taut, heart-pounding film.  Ed Norton is amazing in a double role, and DeNiro is much more subdued than usual.  Frank Oz does a bang-up job directing his first non-comedy film.  This modern-day film noir has some great dark and moody camera-work.  Of course every well-planned movie heist has something go wrong, but this one will have a very unexpected twist.  Amazingly, there is barely any on-screen violence at all in this film.  If you like DeNiro and/or suspense films, this is a must-see. "},{"Title":"When will the studios ever learn","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Let me say this first and foremost; I enjoyed THE SCORE as much as I have enjoyed any movie this year and when compared to such atrocity's as PEARL HARBOR and TOMB RAIDER this movie is Oscar caliber. Now, I'm no saying it will win anything, it is way too enjoyable and pleasing a movie for the Academy to ever recognize it, but it is a movie that automatically raises the bar for movies this year.De Niro is good as the ultra-professional thief who knows everything there is to know about burglary and has every cool little gadget there is to have. Brando is ever billiant as the backer of the big heist, Max, who, though dosen't have a lot of leeway to develop his character, is still a thrill to watch. The ability to still look like your not acting, that everything is new and fresh, is something that must be admired. The true star of this film, though, is Ed Norton. I have been a fan of Nortons now ever since Primal Fear and have been dissappointed that even though many of his movies have become cult classics, Fight Club and Ameican History X, he has seemingly never really showed up on Hollywoods radar screen. Simply put Norton is the best at what he does. He can be the dorky guy next door, the murderous villian, or the cool thief as he so brilliantly plays in THE SCORE. Norton is the center of attraction every time he is on the screen and some how seems to completely overshadow both De Niro and Brando when he is paired with either one of them. Though this performance may not land Norton an Academy Award it will hopefully secure his first major hit.But, to get to my original point, why oh why do studios decide to give away EVERY LITTLE PLOT TWIST IN THE TRAILER? This movie's twist ending is completely give away by the trailers and though I won't give it away here, anyone who watches the trailer will more than likely figure it out. Why does this continue to happen? Why do movie studios sabotage their own projects? I knew exactly what was going to happen at the end and I am so dissappointed that I did. The Score is a wonderful movie and most definetely worth the price of admissions, but something has got to be done about these trailers. I mean, with a movie starring Brando, De Niro, and Ed Norton did they really believe that they couldn't just run a vague yet interesting and drum up some interest. I hope that in a year when movie like Pearl Harbor and Fast and Furious can make $100 million + then the Score will hopefully be a big block buster. "}{"Title":"A solid, all-around professionally done thriller","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The Score *** to ***.5/****In what seemed like and often felt like a variation of Michael Mann's Heat(The Movie best known for putting Al Pacino and Robert DeNiro together for the first time), DeNiro teams up with Edward Norton and Marlon Brando in Frank Oz's successful caper The Score. The film enjoys the same pluses as Heat, all around good acting and a story line that doesn't suffer from many distractions. However, Heat did suffer from several points of confusism and redudance which The Score doesn't. Robert DeNiro plays Nick Wells, a career thief who's ready to retire and settle into his Montreal jazz club that he owns. However, Max(Marlon Brando, who definately gains 50 pounds by the end of this movie) convinces him to participate in one final score. Nick reluctantly agrees and is teamed up with the young and cocky Jack(Edward Norton). The catch here is Jack gets a job posing as an autistic janitor for the Montreal Customs House, where the heist will be taking place. One problem with the film is that it takes a long time to set up. Me, being a fan of the genre, wasn't turned off by the slow pace, but undoubtedly other movie watchers were. However, Oz creates an extremely suspensful final 30 minutes, which more than pay off for the not so great beginnings. As for the acting, DeNiro is good as always playing the foucused, no-nonsense, im in control actor. Many people overlook these type of roles, claiming DeNiro is overrated, but fail to realize that he perfect;y fits into characters like Nick Wells. Norton did a fine job as always playing both roles. It's fun to see Brando again although he was hardly anything special. A minor disappointment was the miscasting of Angela Bassett, who played Nick's girlfriend. Bassett is too good of an actress to be confined to a small role like this. Like I said, the final 30 minutes do several good things. First, they keep the audience in suspense. Second, they contain a couple of solid plot twists that wont quite blow you away but you realize the film has earned them. But most important;y, Oz makes a wise decision in straying from the use of violence. The Score would have been like any other 2001 action picture if it did what people expected, end with a bunch of messy shootouts and explosions. However, the film stays true to the story and accomplishes at least as satisying of an ending without any fireworks. For that, the people involved with The Score deserve some major props.Rated R for language and a minor sex scene  2 hrs 5 min  A Paramount release "},{"Title":"One of the year's best films","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I just saw The Score and thought it was a near-perfect heist caper.  The three lead performances are brilliant, the directing is right on, and the writing (despite what the critics say) is first-rate.  This is the best action film of the summer, and one of the year's best.After watching the mediocre Sexy Beast and being utterly dissapointed I kept my expectaions low.  So after watching The Score I was filled with complete satisfaction, this movie was exactly what I wanted it to be.  It was smart, darkly funny, entertaining, and suspenseful and it boasts two of my favorite actors (Norton and De Niro).  It's nice to see Brando back in action.  It's like watching a prize fighter, passed his prime, throw punches with the best of today.Bottom Line Brilliant written, directed, and acted The Score is the best heist movie in a long time.  I give it a big **** (out of ****) "},{"Title":"It's all about the ending","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Kind of like De Niro's character, it does the job and nothing else. It's very talky and whatever. Like okay, so Brando and De Niro are in a film together. I couldn't take my eyes off the screen. But then they just kept talking and talking and talking. And I was like shut up. I wanted to kill myself. Partly, because the sound guy would also let us hear Brando gasping for every breath and that made me want to throw up. Anyway, the first hour and a half is endless babbling with a few sequences that titilate your need for suspense.But the third act is brilliant. The last half hour kills and at the end, when the audience applauded, I knew one maxim still holds true The audience forgives a mediocre movie as long as the ending is good. The ending is good. And that may be all that matters. "},{"Title":"A good heist","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The Score is a solid film straying from cliches prevalent in many  of today's offerings.  It does not resort to shoot-outs or mind-numbing car chases with big explosions.   Rather it relies on the screenwriters words and the actors to create a compelling story.The performances are solid.  Robert De Niro gives a nice subtle performance as a thief looking to get out of the business after this final score. Edward Norton plays the promising protege on his way up who's a little too impatient for his own good.  Norton is excellent and really makes other actors of his generation look like fledglings.The weakness of the film is Angela Bassett.  Not that she was unbelievable in her role, but her role was superfluous.  The film would have been stronger without the love interest weighing on De Niro.Overall a good movie worth seeing.   "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I saw the previews for this movie about a month ago, and I was not that excited about it. However, a few weeks ago I saw a TV ad for The Score and I wanted to see it. I wasn't expecting much from this movie, but it really surprised me. With a cast like this, how could you go wrong? Brando is a legend, DeNiro delivers his usual great performance, and Edward Norton steals the show. I did not expect Norton to be so good, but on the other hand, I wasn't even expecting to like this movie. I don't want to give away anything, so all I will say is that in my opinion, Norton is a damn good actor. Brando plays a small role, but his scenes are memorable because well....he's Marlon Brando. One of my favorite characters is the hacker kid who lives with his mom. He delivers some pretty good comic relief. Angela Bassett is hardly in this movie. The previews made it seem like she played a large role. Anyways, I enjoyed The Score, and I highly recommend it. If you're sick of the crap Hollywood has been putting out there lately, go see The Score. It's the best movie so far this summer. "},{"Title":"Quite a Disappointment","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The Score is a movie that had definite potential but unfortunately fell short in just about every respect.  I saw this movie more because of the cast than because I was intrigued by the trailers.  It takes real talent to put together such a talented group of people and come up with such a terrible movie.  The plot is predictable and moves at an excruciatingly slow pace.  I don't want to waste my time writing much here, but I will say one last thing.  The movie has a plot twist at the end.  If you can't figure it out at least half and hour before the end then you have never seen a heist movie in your life. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is so great. Edward does such a great job of acting and so does Deniro. Those two made a good pair for this film.  Everyone was so great. The movie just seemed to be planned out very well and it was easy to follow just making it a great film. To anyone who hasn't seen this movie yet I would recommend you do.  "},{"Title":"a return to american noir","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The Score is not a perfect film.  It is excellent, and well qualified as a noir piece.  At times, it is reminiscent of those great post-war generation flicks like Kubrick's The Killing and Roy Hill's The Sting. It's nice that this film came out in the middle of a summer where anything goes (ie. The Mummy Returns and Tomb Raider).  Big budgets seems to spell it all this time of the year, but The Score lacks explosions and car chases.  It relies on the audience for a change to piece together its clues and deal with a few dragging moments so they can get to the ultimate payoff.  And what a payoff it is.  With no gunfights, and almost no violence at all, The Score is an intellectual keeper--a satisfying work of peaceful, suspensful, filmmaking.   "},{"Title":"Above average heist movie","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I'm not sure which movie one reviewer was watching, but this is a crackerjack movie on several levels. First you have a great blend of veterans -- Marlon Brando, Robert DeNiro and those destined to take their place -- Edward Norton, Angela Bassett. Then there is the taut suspense -- it is a believable nailbiter with excellent plot turns evident especially towards the end of the film. Of particular note is the performance of Norton as the young upstart out to show the veteran safecracker (DeNiro) a thing or two. He is not about to be ripped off by the likes of Brando or DeNiro and this makes for very interesting bi-play during the film. Bassett's role is not major and you wish there was more to it but I think that would have detracted from the flow. To top it off, the film is graced with the excellent vocal range of Cassandra Wilson....too bad there wasn't a little more of her, but again that would take us away from the main plot. All in all a fine movie that will keep you on the edge of your seat. "},{"Title":"He shoots... he scores?    Nope.","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" How can you miss when you assemble three generations of actors in a caper film set in exotic French Montreal? Light a few candles, throw in an NYC jazz club ... am I in Casablanca? Although you might see the Sydney Greenstreet character in Brando, any similarity to the classic ends right there. But I'm sure I've seen this movie before. We are introduced to these characters early on, but they are really only playing their stock roles. Nick Wells (Robert DeNiro) stages a heist in a mansion under the collective noses of revelers who were probably snorting their wealth up their collective noses. He's a smooth operator, keeps cool in crisis and scores - which surprises you? Max (Marlon Brando) mumbles through charming scenes without once unclenching his teeth. The aging master is surrounded by decadence and improvisation... and the character we all recognize as Brando. Jack Teller (Ed Norton) is never better and... well, you see where I'm going with this. I can't help myself! I just saw this derivative film noir. I thought Norton was going after the Spacey Award for sensitive portrayal of a differently-abled character but one role was enough for him. Aside from all that, the story maintains suspense and you'll be charmed by the plush interiors and the classic architecture of old Montreal. Well's love interest (Angela Bassett) provides him with good reason to mount that one last heist and for his late-life crisis. The Renaissance man prepares his amour a meal and even consults her in on his career decision. Prepare to distrust everyone though. All these strong personalities an their attendants remind you that we're not dealing with choirboys. But who's going to do what to whom? That'll cost you the price of a ticket. It's worth it for one film in 2 hours to combine DeNiro's Ronin, Brando's Don Juan deMarco and Norton's Fight Club. But those wouldn't be a waste of your time either. Don't expect to see these three together again in the near term. They all demand center stage and there's not enough room in any script for the three. Actually there's not enough room on the screen for Brando by himself. Cheap shots aside, they may have scored but they didn't win. Crazy Beast beat them at their game.CyCy "}{"Title":"Standard heist movie, but pretty good","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I went to see this movie and shelled out $8.75 purely for the cast.  As Edward Norton said, these guys could've been reading the phone book and I would've shown up to watch.  Was it a good movie?  Yes, in comparison to some of the other crap out there this summer.  Was the script up to the standards of these three actors?  No way.  This is a very standard heist movie.Caution, some spoilers ahead.The opening scene is extremely anti-climatic.  In fact, it's dull.  You get a feel for the precision in which DeNiro's character works, but it didn't raise my blood pressure at all, nor really draw me into the movie.The middle of the movie dragged in some parts.  It was all set up for the final heist, but certain scenes got downright boring.  DeNiro's character is the only one that really has any depth.  While Norton's character has a lot of good lines, I never really got a good feel for what his story was and how he knew Brando's character and got into all this in the first place.  And we really find out nothing about Brando's character.  He seems to be there to deliver funny lines.The final heist is, however, very exciting and very original.  I was on the edge of my seat.  And the ending is really good.  You'll leave the theatre laughing at the cockiness of youth.NitpicksAngela Bassett's character was completely unnecessary, and her role was TINY.  I heard many of her scenes were cut, so hopefully we'll get to see those when the DVD comes out.All three actors give fine performances, but I had a hard time buying Norton's handicapped act.  Even though I think he's a great actor, it felt very fake to me.During the final heist, Norton's character had to know that Danny the janitor would eventually come looking for him because he was gone so long. You'd think that he would have covered himself a little better on that end. Was this because he was inexperienced?  Possibly, but it felt like a huge and obvious slip up.  And why on Earth did he let him live?  Duh.  Even I've seen enough heist movies to know what he should have done.  And why didn't they loop the tape in the security cameras instead of shutting them off? They had to know that the security guards would come looking for them eventually if the cameras were off for that long.End of spoilers!I do recommend this movie, purely for the cast members.  Don't expect a whole new idea, here.  Like I said, it's a standard heist movie.  There are some memorable scenes and good dialogue, and compared to a lot of the crap that's come out lately, this one's a keeper.  I look forward to seeing the extras when the DVD comes out.  "},{"Title":"Excellent acting, adequate script","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Brando, De Niro, and Norton are all excellent, and the direction is good considering the script. The script, however, was apparently unfinished when filming started and it shows to a certain extent. Angela Bassett's character is underdeveloped, and most of the twists the film takes are fairly predictable. There are a few very good scenes, and I would recommend the movie, though. I think this is simply an argument for not rushing a movie into production. Would could possibly have been a very, very good film was merely a good one. "},{"Title":"Go see it.","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Very fun movie and the ending is great. All the actors were excellent. Don't leave the theater at anytime, you'll miss something. Good Movie! "},{"Title":"A good movie with a familiar formula that works on many levels.","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Frank Oz truly intrigues me.  The man has done numerous Muppet voices and even provided vocals for Yoda in the Star Wars films.  His talents extend past the obvious voice-over ability, as he has directed some terrific comedies in recent years.  When I think of Oz, films like BOWFINGER and WHAT ABOUT BOB? come to mind.  About a month ago I watched the trailer for THE SCORE.  It looked like a gritty crime drama, and featured some very serious actors in what seemed like a very serious story.  I was shocked to see Directed by Frank Oz at the end of the trailer, and have been wondering ever since just what exactly to expect from this film. 	THE SCORE begins with our protagonist Nick Wells (De Niro) pulling off a seemingly typical robbery from a posh estate, while the owners are holding a loud and lively party just a room away.  We follow him through his numerous drop off points, and eventually into his decorative home, all the while getting the impression that this man is obviously a seasoned professional.  A few minutes later Nick walks into a fancy restaurant, which just so happens to be his, and is quickly met by Max Baron (Brando) who offers him a rather big job.  At this point we can tell that Nick wants out, but the payoff involved with this latest gig creates quite a temptation.  There's a woman named Diane in the mix, played by the lovely Angela Bassett, who really likes the idea of our hero leaving his second line of work.  Nick begins to realize that by pulling this last job he can not only retire to a life of normalcy, but also satisfy the desired wishes of the woman he loves.  One major obstacle stands in the way.  Max informs Nick that in order to pull this gig off he must work side-by-side with the very man who lined it all up.  Enter Jackie Teller, played by the unbelievably talented Edward Norton.  Jackie is everything Nick isn't.  He's impulsive, hot tempered, hasty and new to the game.  But Jackie has all the keys to making things work.  His mentally challenged alter ego named Brian just so happens to work in the facility housing the precious prize.  Everyone there trusts Brian, and nobody considers him a threat, which makes him the perfect inside man.  Just when it seems everything is coming together, our buddy Nick begins to have second thoughts.  The whole thing seems like too big of a risk to take.  To make matters worse, the job gets more and more complicated with each passing minute. 	THE SCORE is an effective thriller filled with just the right blend of tension and light comedy.  Each character seems good and bad in different ways.  We're never really sure who to trust, or how safe anything really is.  Frank Oz has constructed a fantastic movie that has everything we could want in a film.  The strong cast and solid performances help fuel the story even further, creating an exciting and engaging feel that holds the audience tightly within it's grasp.  De Niro is and always will be the man who can play any role and be convincing.  Brando is used sparingly, which is good since he is apparently way past the days of oscar-caliber acting.  Max is a background character plain and simple.  What the enormous Brando does with it is just enough, and that suited me just fine.  Angela Bassett, looking incredible as always, plays the troubled love interest with simple yet effective form.  This wasn't a big role, nor was it all that important, but it serves the character of Nick and she makes it work.  The standout performance here comes from Edward Norton, and for those of you familiar with his work, that should come as no surprise.  Watching Norton seamlessly transform from Jackie into Brian is impressive, funny and almost disturbing to a degree.  You have to wonder if he's pulled this act before, because it would almost certainly work in the real world.  Having the two lead characters as opposites of one another is nothing new for movies, but witnessing two acting greats like these is always fun.  I'm very impressed with Frank Oz.  He had already proven himself as a capable comedy director.  Now he can add the successful ability for drama and thriller to his merit, thanks to this very well-made film.  There's isn't anything too terribly surprising in THE SCORE as far a story goes.  What you get is a good movie with good acting.  That's something that seems hard to find these days.  "},{"Title":"Best movie i've seen in 2001!","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  When i looked up Edward Norton's profile a few months back i noticed he was doing a movie with Robert De Niro. From that moment i knew i was going to go see it the day it came out. All i got to say is Edward Norton made himself another winning performance! De Niro made this movie at the end.. Bottom line is you should go see this movie. Its not the most complicated but in a way it was brilliant. A simple twist at the end made the theater roar! 9/10 "},{"Title":"Good cast, bad film","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  (Maybe, a minor spoiler or two) When three actors the caliber of Edward Norton, Robert DeNiro and Marlon Brando star in the same movie, many would think these three would make it one of the best films of the year, at the very least.   Well, with another film that might have happened, but instead we, the audience, get these three in The Score, a crime thriller that is almost too subdued and dull for it's own good.    Norton plays a customs house worker who is looking to score a cool $30 million dollar deal by having DeNiro break in and steal a 350-400 year old French scepter. Brando, whose a friend of DeNiro's feels that Norton's plan can work and both DeNiro and Brando could retire if the job is pulled off.   This premise might have worked had it not been so obvious what was going to happen next. Director Frank Oz has assembled three of the greatest actors in film history, but doesn't give them much of anything to work with.   But to the film's credit at least the acting, for the most part is good, Norton does a great job as usual and DeNiro is good as well. As for Brando, well he's not bad either, though I had to strain to understand him during a couple of scenes.    The story is pretty dull and despite the good acting, the film has a very sleep inducing feel to it. *1/2 out for 4 stars. "},{"Title":"A simple short well done movie.","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Two con artists formed a perfect partner to still a priceless treasure from the maximum security Custom House in Montreal.The plot was simple, straightforward. The acting from Robert De Niro and Marlon Brando were solid and expected. Ed Norton's portal of Jack/Brian was brilliant as always. He's been my favorite actor since American History X. Angela was wasted in the movie though I don't know if she's got any.I only give a score of 6.5 because its lack of story. And I expect more from assembly of those talented actors.  "},{"Title":"Worth the price of admission","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is certainly one of the better movies I have seen this year. Even though I got weary of the details of the heist it had enough action and suspense to hold my interest. It had enough twists to keep you wondering how it would end and the cast did an excellent job. Don't miss this one. "},{"Title":"Very Good Film has slow start","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The movie was extremely good, but slow to get started. The first half was spent getting to know the characters, but was great, exciting and tense the last half. DeNiro, and Norton played their parts masterfully, and even Brando acted well in this film. ******* "},{"Title":"suspenseful, keeps you glued","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The problem with most movies of this varierty is that they give up to much in the build-up to the climax. Not so here! The Score is a fastpaced thriller that keeps you glued until the credits roll. The writers/director (Frank Oz) took careful measure not to reveal too much so that the climax is actually entertaining. And trust me, you will stay in your seat. DeNiro brought in some real-life safecrackers to the set so the film has an authentic look. And Ed Norton - he gets better with every movie. Brando has a different role than what he normally gets. Although Bassett gets billing, albeit secondhand, I thought her role as nothing but filler. Once the plot starts to move along, she basically drops out.DeNiro's Ronin was superb. This is ALMOST as good. I ranked it an 8. "}{"Title":"Great cast, great acting, great story ... Great movie.","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The Score is an excellent movie.  Edward Norton has yet to let me down...he does a tremendous job in this movie.  Robert De Niro put in a fantastic performance as well.  Marlon Brando and the forementioned, talented actors teamed up to deliver this story superbly!I found the story itself to be very interesting from the very start.  As it developed, my level of interest increased.  It is very entertaining, from the first scene where we see Robert De Niro working his magic, all the way to the very end.  The surprise ending is great!This movie was worth every dollar.  Do yourself a favor and go see it! "},{"Title":"Dazzling reminder that acting and writing still make great films","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Marlon Brando's presence adds quirky laugh-out-loud humor to a rather dark caper film that is more about gifted performances than about the traditions of heist movies.  It's fun to see the leads, Robert DeNiro and Edward Norton, snarl and snipe and simply hate each other while they are forced to work together on a score in Montreal's nearly impregnable Custom House. Of the three great actors, Brando is full of the most surprises.  Frank Oz's direction suffers some from too much adherence to the darkness of noir films -- so a scene outdoors in a sunny park was very welcome. DeNiro is the heroic, moral, and brainy center of THE SCORE in a performance that is so skilled that I dread the thought of MEET THE PARENTS, II.Norton proves again that he's one of our most agile actors as he slips effortlessly in and out of character in the dual role of Brian/Jack. A MUST-SEE performance.  "},{"Title":"Great film with many surprises.","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was awesome.  It had been hyped up in school for months by my friends and I.  All of us saw it at the 1100AM showing this morning, and it was worth it.  Watching Norton's brilliant acting as Brian and Jackie was worth the price of admission alone.  The movie was full of unexpected things, but some scenes were different from the ones shown in the trailer. This is a Must-See movie! "},{"Title":"Great fun if you like a good crime/suspense/robbery type movie!","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Overall this was a very enjoyable movie - well worth the price of admission. If you enjoyed Heat and Sneakers, then I am sure you won't be disappointed with this film.  The movie has an upbeat tone overall (I am sure largely due to Frank Oz, who has the widest spectrum of talents in the business!), mixed with plenty of classic nailbiting suspense.  As I hoped, the cast was perfect for the movie.  The story relied on a clever script, rather than the typical senseless violence that is common in many blockbusters these days.  Have a fun night out and give The Score a try! (rating = 8) "},{"Title":"good movie but...","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  In Primal Fear Ed Norton steals the show from Richard Gere. Great, GREAT movie. He didn't get a chance in Rounders, and we see the same thing happen again in The Score.  Robert De Niro (who I can't take seriously anymore after Rocky and Bullwinkle) does a decent job, but he has lost his edge. He is not the De Niro of old, face it.  Angela Bassett?  She fit in to this movie how??  Didn't see it.  I guess I just anticipated more Norton, which is the only thing, by the way that kept me in the seat during Brando and De Niro's countless dialog scenes.  A little dry to say the least.  Well to wrap it up, another brilliant performance by Norton, a fabulous homage scene to The Usual Suspects, and all too much of everyone else. "},{"Title":"Slow start, fast ending","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  ******SPOILERS***********The beginning of this movie is pretty slow.  There is a lot of dialog which is not needed.  But the movie sets itself up well.  Edward Norton's performance is excellent. De Niro is good as well.  Brando's and Basset's characters aren't really in the movie much which leaves more room for the actual robbery.  The movie picks up after roughly 30 minutes when the planning for the robbery begins.  The robbery is cool and has a lot of suspence.  The end of the movie made me mad.  I was rooting for Edward Norton's character but he got jipped.  Also the ending was a little sudden.  It would have been better if they had cut some of the dramatic dialog at the beginning and had more interaction between De Niro and Norton.6 out of 10 "},{"Title":"great film","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  After seeing the trailers and reviews of this film, I must say my expectations were rather low. Man were the critics wrong. The Score is a tight, suspenseful film, DeNiro's best since Heat. For those who think DeNiro is on autopilot,I don't know what they were watching. Sure, DeNiro has the same mannerisms and personality in most of his films, but he is a CLASSIC actor. His character is just perfect...anything else would ruin it. Brando's role, while not very large, adds a lot to the film, a bit of light material to an otherwise intense film. Norton is excellent...his brash style to DeNiro's methodical plotting make for an interesting contrast. The movie builds to what I consider to be one of the most suspenseful and surprising endings I have seen in a very long time. The last two thirds of this film are absolute magic...and the first third, while slower, is neccesary to set up the finish. When you put it all together, The Score is a wonderful film worthy of some serious praise. Ignore the critics and go see it for yourself.    "},{"Title":"too long, too predictable","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie could have been cool. It was too long, though, and I knew what was going to happen from watching the trailer. Edward Norton's character was great, though. If you haven't seen it yet you should, but wait til it hits the dollar theater. "},{"Title":"Another great film from Norton, DeNiro, and Miss Piggy","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  All kidding aside, this was a great film. I am so glad to see an intelligent and well crafted noir flick, as lately the movie industry has been wallowing in the mire of poorly written and poorly acted films that try to be great.Edward Norton, as usual, was fabulous. He stole the show, and was a perfect compliment to Robert DeNiro's cool and collected performance.I loved the addition of Marlon Brando. At first I was hesitant, because I felt that he would end up being a mockery of himself. But I was pleasantly surprised by his performance, which was probably the best cameo I've seen all year.Frank Oz never ceases to amaze me. From The Dark Crystal to Bowfinger, to the Score, thinking that such greatness can come at the direction of Miss Piggy and Yoda blows my mind. Frank Oz is a versatile and fascinating man, and I look forward to better and better things from him in the future.So, if you only see three films this summer, see Sexy Beast, Memento, and the Score. I know you'll be glad you did. "},{"Title":"The Score fails to score","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Same old run-of-the-mill caper movie. Nothing new in the script, nothing new technologically, not one second of real suspense. (The trailer for the upcoming Heist looked much better.)I gave it a six solely on the beautiful interior design in Nick's apartment and jazz club. And old Montreal has never looked better.  "}{"Title":"An enjoyable film.","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"   B+  I must say I enjoyed the film, particularly the cast...the acting. The story was pretty good, too. A clever and satisfactory twist rapped up the movie, which was also very nice.   First of all, Norton was amazing, playing two personalities in this movie - both done very well. DeNiro was equally impressive, portraying an experienced thief. Brando did a great job as well and it was nice to see him on the big screen again.The suspense was good, especially near the end. Frank Oz (mostly known for directing comedies) did a great job directing, making the movie realistic but never boring.   Bottom line, it's worth to see it in the theater. I recommend it.  "},{"Title":"Builds to the big ending, but really that's it","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" With the huge cast and the vision of another great Heist movie, I had to go and see The Score. It started off pretty slow as you would assume and built as the heist was planned. De Niro's character isn't anything special, but Norton does deserve credit for his ability to morph from his character into his cover, a handicapped janitor, seamlessly and instantly as the scenes demand. Overall I thought it was a pretty good movie, but once the big finish was over, you weren't left with much in reflection.  "},{"Title":"One Of The Best Process Films I've Ever Seen","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Okay.  My mom and I LOVE this movie.  We are seeing it like 5 times today! Twice already!!!It was very well acted.There was good chemistry between Mr. DeNiro and Ms. Bassett.Mr. Norton was incredable (as he is in ALL is films)Mr. Brando was in it for comic relief more so, but he still did a good job.The thing I liked most about it (BESIDES Mr. Norton) was the fact that they showed all the tools and how they would crack the safes and get around all the cameras and security.The three greats in the movie were incredable.  It was nice to see Mr. Brando and Mr. DeNiro together and the fact that Mr. Norton was the third guy makes the movie worth seeing right there!To sum it upIt Kicks BOOT-AY! "},{"Title":"Cliches abound","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  It's amazing how The Score gets you to cheer for the bad guy.  As Robert DeNiro is pulling off the clichéd `one last job', you can't help but feel some anxiety that he is going to get caught.  Wait a minute!  He's a criminal!  He should get caught.  Despite the clichés, which abound in this film, The Score has some good elements - namely Edward Norton.  Norton never ceases to amaze me as an actor.  Whether he is playing a crazed neo-Nazi (American History X) or a priest who is in love with a childhood friend (Keeping the Faith), Norton is simply amazing.  Here he plays the `man on the inside'.  Pretending to be mentally disabled, he goes to his night job as a janitorial assistant at the Customs House in Montreal to case the place.  He is so convincing as a mentally disabled person that you begin to wonder why he is wasting his time as a criminal.  He should be an actor. You know that Norton is good when he outshines the once great Marlon Brando, who, because of his tremendous girth, can do little more than loll around and incoherently mumble his lines.  I kept waiting for him to grasp his chest and drop in mid-sentence.  Poor Angela Bassett.  She probably thought that she was signing on for a great role.  Look at the other talent she would be costarring with DeNiro, Norton, Brando.  What an opportunity! Alas, she is little better off than Halle Berry in Swordfish.  Reduced to the typical girlfriend who wants her man to go straight and narrow.  At least she doesn't have to expose herself.  Frank Oz does a good job of wrapping the abundant clichés in a nifty package that is somewhat entertaining and suspenseful.  I imagine it would be more so if I lived under a rock for the past 20 years. "},{"Title":"good actors - average movie","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The feeling is like one of the other movies where a robbery, theft or burglary is planned - like Entrapment - but not as sexy and high tech oriented.I liked the movie and with Ed Norton (who had for sure the best role) the film gets a 'you don't know what will happen' touch. But all over it's just an average burglary movie not really thrilling, and on some marks in the movie you know what comes next. "},{"Title":"Not getting my rousing score!","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  BEWARE... MINOR SPOILERS! If I have expected to see an original crime movie, I'd be disappointed! This flick is riddled with cliché upon cliché of the conventional `heist' genre flicks. If anything, it'd be curiosity that's the driving force for anyone to go see this flick.  Yep, curiosity as to the impact from the collective Brando-De Niro-Norton talents on this flick! Sadly, the combined talents fail to ignite the intense and energized quality as seen in Sexy Beast.  Their characters are poorly developed.  Brando's Max character is excruciatingly boring. Apart from a few effective one-liners and his fancy attire, he mumbles along without exhibiting anything special.  I should say he's simply a decorative Dom DeLuise ornament that's hardly appealing in contrast to the spectacular furnishings of Nick's home! I can't help wondering whether his character does much to sustain the viewers' interest. And De Niro's character?  Banal and somewhat pathetic! His acting has become rather stilted and his character isn't interesting enough to make a drastic deviation worthy of the viewers' excitement.  However, Norton's Jackie is an interesting character.  And his performance is above par, but he certainly is no Dustin Hoffman!  Overall, this flick seems almost a medley of films, such as Michael Mann's Thief and John McTiernan's Tomas Crown Affair. It definitely lacks the spice of originality!  I wonder whether Frank Oz has any intention of flushing out reminders of his Dirty Rotten Scoundrels! Far, far from being a great treat, it's predictable and slow paced for a crime thriller. And it's hardly dramatic, witty, nor humorous.  And events that lead to the ending are questionable.  One in particular -- the necessity for Jackie to reveal himself to Danny - seems more like an abrupt decision for a hasty ending!   "},{"Title":"Good movie...","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Starting off a bit slow The Score gave me a feeling that the movie is going to suck. But as the movie progressed it became somewhat more interesting. There were a couple of laughs and most of the story is easy to follow. The acting was not bad, but putting all of these actors in a room does not make any sort of magic. Anyways as we progress through the movie we come across a few surprises and a really neat ending. If you want to see a non-sleeper movie go see The Score.  "},{"Title":"Great film! Very nicely done.","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  While it may not have been the best performance for any of the lead actors in the movie, all put on a great show!  The plot was nothing spectacular, but I was certainly on the edge of my seat throughout the movie. This is one of Frank Miss Piggy Oz's better films. Well worth seeing, especially considering some of the other movies out there now (Scary Movie 2; Fast and the Furious)  If I had to give it a grade, it would be an A-.  "},{"Title":"The Score is a must see","Date":"7 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I saw a preview of The Score and I thought it was terrific.  Finally there is a film this summer which is smart and satisfying.  It goes without saying that seeing these 3 actors together was extremely  entertaining and they did a splendid job.  I especially enjoyed seeing Brando. This is not a 'shootemup put as much violence on screen as possible' film - instead -  The Score's  plot unfolds and intensifies until it reaches  a suprise ending. This is not to say that there is not alot of tension and intensity,  it is just such a relief to have a film out which does not insult the viewer with oodles of sex and violence. Also to note - the cinematography is beautiful.  It is worth it to see the film just for the moody and atmospheric photography. The Score is a classy film and a must for all.  Except for some bad language the R rating could really be a PG-13.  Appropriate for teenagers as well.  "},{"Title":"Great potential, almost a good film","Date":"20 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The only times that close matters is with horseshoes and hand grenades. This movie comes very close to being good.  First of all, when you collect the talents of Ed Norton, Marlon Brando and Robert DeNiro and put them in the same movie and the same scene, you expect fireworks to fly off the screen.  Instead, we get an almost casual scene that could have really been with any actors.  Not to say that the actors aren't good in their roles, it just that the sum here is less than the total of its parts.  Ed Norton steals the movie with his performance and his performance within the performace.  Robert De Niro is still in the same autopilot mode that he's been on ever since Ronin.  And Marlon Brando is there only to provide a little comic relief in it all.The movie starts off a little slow.  The opening heist is very weak and the first third of the movie feels like its nothing but setup - which it is. Things get a little more interesting when Norton shows up on the scene as he adds a little intensity to the mix.  The heist scenes are good and the ending is a great idea, but there just isn't enough conflict there to carry the whole movie.  De Niro's character is too much in control of the situation and we never feel as if he's in any danger of anything.  He's just too cold and collected for the ending to really be satisfying.  There are some nice moments of suspense here and there but many of the scenes feel dragged out a little too long and the pacing is just off.  Also, the music is not up to par and sometimes works against the film.  The Score needs a new score. "}{"Title":"Very good","Date":"24 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This film is pretty decent. A nice plot, easy to follow, great characters and a very compelling story. Robert De Niro does a great job as Nick Wells, who is a retiring criminal who wants to settle down and spend more time with his girlfriend. But when he meets a young guy named Jack Teller (Edward Norton) he is convinced to do one more heist and try to steal a golden scepter. But all goes wrong when Jack stabs Nick in the back and have him get arrested and Jack stealing the scepter, but Nick out smarts Jack by a mile.A very good film with lots of twists and turns. Robert De Niro and Edward Norton put on great performances along with a star stunning co- stars such as Angela Bassett and the great legend Marlon Brando. I highly recommend this to everyone who loves movies.~~Jimmy "},{"Title":"The Voice of Grover & Fozzie Bear Directs Three Top-Notch Actors in a Surprisingly Good Heist Movie","Date":"29 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Make a movie I will! If you told me that the man behind Bert, Fozzie Bear, Grover and Yoda could stop throating and direct a heist movie involving three of the best actors in the business, two of whom are practically legends, I would have been sure you were running a Ponzi Scheme. But Frank Oz went behind the camera to manage the team of a very taut and compelling suspense movie with three actors that could all bat clean-up by themselves--each representing a different generation Marlon Brando who began his career in the 1950's playing lower middle class urbanites, Robert DeNiro, who began playing tough-talking New York Italians on the rough end of New York and Brooklyn in the 1970's, and Edward Norton, the new kid on the block, whose similar resumé includes amoral characters with a nervous-angst that comes off like Anthony Perkins on speed; he began his acting career in the mid-1990's in films also in urban settings. And of the three performances, the most compelling may surprise you.Brando, the grand titan of the three, probably has the least interesting and weakest performance of the three, although it's still decent but maybe not quite up to the usual Brando standard. He plays Max, the man setting up and funding the heist. Next in line is Robert DeNiro who could act his way out of a paper-bag, although the character he plays in The Score, Nick, is not unlike many other roles he has played in recent years, somewhat akin to his leads in Casino and Heat. Here he plays a genius safe-cracker. Certainly, his acting is right on the money, but nothing that he hasn't done before. Believe it or not, the standout performance of this film is Edward Norton, playing a character who acts like another character. Norton plays a rookie thief, Jack, who has landed a job at the Customs Office in Montreal, Canada, by pretending he is Brian, a retarded graveyard shift worker who manages to fool the other employees and security guards that his brain is a few flakes short of a complete bowl of sugar cereal. It's Norton that really makes this film work as well as it does.The film opens with DeNiro on one of his heists lifting a prized diamond-studded necklace. And it almost backfires. Later, Brando approaches DeNiro with a new proposition to heist a piece of priceless antiquity, a late renaissance golden scepter made in the 1660's. Brian, the retard who is really Jack (Norton), had known about the scepter and its new home in the Customs Office. Somehow he gets himself hired by the bureaucratic office by playing a seemingly harmless mentally-handicapped who brings a lunch and a little used tape player to work every midnight. He listens to recordings of Mozart in mono while he mops the floors. But when his associates aren't looking, he's scouting out the premises and stealing documents. Max then has to convince Nick to work with Jack on the heist. The three become sort of reluctant bedfellows. But once the commitment has been made and the plans start being executed, the movie really takes off.This is a highly entertaining heist movie, with a bit of a twist at the end. The standout talents have to be Edward Norton as Jack/Brian and the director Frank Oz. Oz' compelling direction is as good as anything Brian DePalma or Martin Scorsese could have dreamed up. DeNiro is right up there too, and Brando has to keep up. Sometimes things are not always as they should be. "},{"Title":"A Well Acted Movie","Date":"28 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I recently viewed this film, and while knowing that De Niro, and Brando were fine actors (in their day), I began to wonder how well of a movie they could do together. Than I began to have memories of the first two Godfather films, in which Brando and De Niro play Vito Corleone, respectfully. Is that why they were paired up for this film some twenty years later by Director Frank Oz? Who knows.What I do know is, that although I have not seen very many of Edward Norton's films, I must say that he acted out his part very good in this film; a mentally challenged janitor. And why in the world was the heist in Canada. It almost made me not care if they got ripped off; I mean it was an American made film.As good as the film was for about a half hour, the ending was much worse. It struck me as lead way for a sequel, and this film doesn't exactly need a sequel. I am grateful to see Marlon Brando in one of his final film appearances, therefore, I gave this film a 9. "},{"Title":"Easy is sometimes better.","Date":"17 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This film is a perfect fantasy movie with easy story,but this time this easy story proves how important could be the other parts of a film.I don't know the facts how Steven Sodebergh would tell you he's opinion,but Frank Oz did something very good with a very easy story.The acting is poor,BUT THIS TIME THIS IS VERY GOOD !Why ?Cause all the players of Danny Ocean's gang are not as good as Mister Robert De Niro,and Mister Edward Norton together with Marlon Brando.The twist is very good,I give just for the twist 7/10.So I sad Robert and Edward were poor as actors ,but I was good cause I sad George Cloney's team don't play well,but that is maybe direct,cause Steven Sodebergh is Steven Sodebergh,and Frank Oz is Frank Oz.So finally Robert and Edward still has no real big mistakes. "},{"Title":"Unsuccesful but still interesting attempt on reviving the heist genre.","Date":"25 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This movie is not really my idea of an exciting and or tense one.In the '00's and late '90's, lots of heist suddenly became popular again. Lots of movies were made to revive the genre (Entrapment, The Thomas Crown Affair (1999), The Italian Job (2003), Ocean's Eleven (2001), etc) that was at its peak in the '40's. Most heist movies tried to adapt the style and atmosphere to modern standards, by putting in lots of pace and action. The Score tries to be more traditional, by putting in many old genre elements such as backstabbing characters, a 'good' and honest thief, a couple of twists and many other things. It however doesn't really work out. The story doesn't flow well or quick enough, mainly because it features too many sidelines and it takes unnecessary long before the main action occurs.The story and concept of this movie might had worked out fine in a '40's film-noir type of heist movie. The story and concept just doesn't fit in a 2001 kind of environment and style of film-making. The movie is now nothing more than a slow moving not exciting enough heist movie, that is still made interesting by its big-star cast.Of course by having a cast with actors like Robert De Niro, Edward Norton, Marlon Brando and Angela Bassett in it, expectations are high. It already is for most reason enough to watch this movie. I'll admit that with a different cast with less big names in it, I probably would have never watched this movie and I wonder who would have had. The actors give the movie a certain class and lift it to an higher level. Robert De Niro does a good job as an aging thief but even better was Edward Norton in a sort of double-role. The Marlon Brando and Angela Bassett roles don't seem to be significant enough for the movie and it seems that the movie could had done without them. They provide the movie with some unnecessary and not always interesting subplots that makes the movie unnecessary slow and too layered. Especially disappointing when considering that this was Brando's last featured film role before his death in 2004. But I'm sure that if his character was played by a different and unknown actor, I wouldn't have even complained about the character. It's just purely the fact that he is being played by Brando that makes his character and its significance for the movie so disappointing. All the more reason why it's disappointing is that this is also the only movie that features Brando and De Niro in one movie together. They both played the same character in The Godfather and The Godfather Part II in and they're both big names in the genre, so more was to be expected from their first collaboration. I also couldn't help thinking in every of the Brando sequence's; 'Is he wearing any pants right now or not?', because of the known fact that Brando refused to wear any pants all the time during the shooting of the movie.The movie still tries to put some life into the movie by giving it some twists and creating some unpredictable characteristics for the two main characters. It does provide the movie with some good moments but it doesn't help to really make the movie a more exciting or tense one to watch. I found the movie to be terribly lacking in some good pace and tension to make this movie a pleasant- and good to watch movie. This was just not really my idea of a great, original, tense movie.But of course the movie still does have its good points. The earlier mentioned big-star cast is definitely one of those good points. The movie also has some good production values, with good looking sets and camera-work. It makes sure that this movie still remains a perfectly watchable one to watch maybe once. After that also all of the surprises will be already gone of course.Not my idea of a great, tense and entertaining movie but a good and interesting enough one to watch, still. I just hope that in the future Frank Oz will stick to directing only comedies instead. His talent obviously lies there.6/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"DeNiro fans, run away!","Date":"21 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Alright. I love DeNiro. If you love DeNiro -- if you've ever loved DeNiro, DON'T see this one. I went to it with friends. Expecting a great movie. Boy, was I disappointed. So were my friends. We all thought, DeNiro good, movie good. *sigh* Edward Norton was the only bright spot in the midst of lots and lots of talking. Where was the action? Where was the reality? Oh, boy, was this bad. Plot horrible. Acting 99% garbage. Script? Don't make me laugh. This one deserves to be put in the pile with Ishtar and any other bomb and shipped off to the ends of the Earth. Oh, DeNiro, how could you do this to me? I will never be the same again. From now on, I wait to hear what my friends say before I'll see DeNiro -- not in theaters -- but on DVD. "},{"Title":"..entertaining to me..","Date":"26 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Please read a couple of these reviews to get the gist of the movie - some folk were so detailed, you don't even have to watch it -...although I think Marlon Brando was wasted in there, I enjoyed him. I'm still not sure I understand all that method-acting. Either you can do a role or you can't. Brando certainly couldn't be screaming Stella! along about then, but he convinced me he was a fat man with style. Too bad he didn't have more screen-time, but maybe he was such a pain - walking around the set naked ? Ugh ! - Frank Oz decided he had what he needed from him, mostly his NAME. No doubt Brando needed the cash; I don't think ANYONE in the cast thought they were doing Oscar-quality acting. SURPRISE ! Everyone needs to work. Except for the last hour of the movie, if those scenes weren't first-takes, then they wasted a lot of time. Taylor's and Salem's script, except for the park-scene, couldn't have had too many words on the pages.The cast was so skilled, put-up the sets and let them do their work. Yeah, DeNiro has aged; he can capitalize on it. As for being the best actor of his generation, what happened to James Dean, etc.?? Angela Bassett played her role well, with just enough sophistication to make a good contrast to all that macho stuff. After all, she played an airline-stewardess, not a psycho-slut. All the other supporting cast did what they were paid to do, to make the movie seem real.Ed Norton definitely stole the movie. His portrayal of the handicapped guy was brilliant. His plain-ole guy was very convincing. He absolutely out-acted everyone in the park-scene. His character was intelligent but vulnerable, and he recouped after every screw-up. His cockiness seemed to be so natural, and his shock to discover he had been out-betrayed appeared to be genuine. Bravo Norton ! Heist films make me wonder why I'm not smart enough to do that. All that preparation and stress keep me honest. Those high-tech elements during the heist-scene were well thought-out and would never have occurred to me. I wasn't able to figure-out what would happen in the end, because I don't attempt to do that. Let's see it on the screen ! The Score worked for me - I'll no doubt watch it several times again. It's a good night's entertainment - try it again. "},{"Title":"Satisfying and entertaining film-making","Date":"8 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Score was the last chance to see Marlon Brando in a contemporary film. And it certainly is a fitting adieu for this legend because his scenes with Robert DeNiro crackle and shimmer with all the life and depth which those who saw him during his prime remember. More than that though, as the documentary about the making of the film on the DVD reminds us, this is a historic summit of great actors from three generations. And indeed, all men-De Niro, Brando, and Edward Norton-dispatch themselves quite well in a film that one might say is simply a frame on which to hang these stars. This might be true to some degree but it is also an excellent, minimalistic heist movie. Frank Oz, who has ably overseen some very funny comedies like In-n-Out, Bowfinger, What About Bob, shows a deft touch in managing his stars and allowing them to shape the direction of the film. He knows these performers need minimal direction and he allows their performances to set the direction of the film accordingly. His stars do not disappoint and neither does Angela Bassett as Diane, who distinguishes herself in her role as Nick (Robert De Niro)'s sometime romantic interest. The two seem to have an understanding relationship. Both are busy and have many interests, but also enjoy each other's company. However, Nick is considering leaving his life of high-end robbery and committing himself more fully to Diane. She does not put any pressure on him but when he makes a false promise of his intent to leave the life immediately, it causes tension in their relationship. Max (Brando) convinces him this last heist is worthwhile because of the potential pay-off, and in spite of the fact that the theft would require Nick to break several self-imposed rules implemented to protect him from endangering himself-namely an unwillingness to work in his town, a commitment to working in the United States (while he lives in Montreal), and a commitment to working by himself. Nick must co-operate with his inside man, Jack (Ed Norton as a brash, intelligent, and ambitious thief). While Nick hesitates about committing to the Max- planned heist, Jack makes a persuasive pitch for his ability as a thief. Max, unbeknownst initially to Nick, has pushed this heist to some degree because of financial indebtedness to a gangster named Sapperstein (Richard Waugh). Nick is angry when he learns of this but because of his long working relationship with Max and his personal affection for him, he agrees while insisting that his cut should be more than normal. The film is, as producer Gary Foster says during the Making of&#133; featurette that this film is a character study about personable, intelligent men who are robbers. This is true. But the heist element of the film is not given short shrift on account of director Frank Oz' commitment to creating an aura of realism. The heist and the preparation for it are very well outlined. Oz knows how to maximize the emotional heft of each of his participants. He deserves a lot of credit for recognizing the assets at his disposal and not interfering excessively and thereby diminishing their potency. The creation of a film with such a wonderful balance of an interesting set-up and such well-outlined characters makes for a very satisfying and entertaining film. "},{"Title":"Stale Air","Date":"2 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" If you have never seen a heist movie wherein the protagonist is a professional thief who wants to get out of the business of stealing (or killing or wearing brown shoes with a tuxedo) but can't because he gets pulled in for just one last job, then The Score is for you! If you have, though, avoid this stale, tedious Frank Oz foray into one of the basic variations of the crime drama genre. I was drawn in by the cast--Robert DeNiro and Edward Norton (although the last time Marlon Brando did something I liked, Nixon was president)--and felt ripped off by the story of a jazz bar owner (DeNiro) who part-times as a jewel thief and gets sucked into one last job to cover his mentor's (Brando) debts, thereby giving some young punk (Norton) a chance to play with the big boys.You've seen it all before and probably better.Sucked is right. "},{"Title":"Very quiet caper film","Date":"20 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This movie will and has no doubt disappointed quite a few people,mostly because a film that promises the legendary acting talents of Robert DeNiro,Marlon Brando,Edward Norton and Angela Basset and the comedic,sly directing touch of Frank Oz will find themselves probably cheated,since the acting here is fairly restrained from all but Norton and there are almost no comic touches here.That,however,shouldn't't deflect away from the fact that this is one last chance to see an American legend in Brando on film(to be sure,it seems Marlon's film appearances after the mid-1960s were increasingly rare),or a chance to see the quiet tension that builds between the slow-burning DeNiro and the hyper-kinetic Norton,as cat burglar-in-retirement and an aspiring young con,respectively.The plot is painfully simple hereDeNiro's Nick is convinced to help steal a priceless painting from a heavily secured art gallery with the aid of Norton's Jack,financed by Brando's Max. Nick neither trusts nor likes JAck,but feels convinced that if he can pull this one last heist off,he can somehow shed himself of his old life for good.Oz tries something different for a change,and the result is something that may lack the sizzle or crackle of your usual heist/con movies(think Thomas Crown Affair or Ocean's Eleven,the Soderbergh remake)but still carries a nice flow of set-up and suspense. Worth a look to fans of any or all of the actor's involved. "}{"Title":"some great movie","Date":"11 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" it is really great movie. man ed Norton has played some good or excellent acting here. i usually like crime movies but this one is great. as usual Robert DE Nero is awful. great movie. Angela Bassett is great and sexy as usual. this movie has showed me how ed Norton is such a great and talented actor. Robert DE Nero has always been great. he is one of the best ever actors of all times. it was great to see the events taking place in Montreal as a change plus Canada is a great and opened country. good choices for director frank oz he has done a great job.Angela Bassett is too sexy in this movie she had made a great style. and finally i cant say more than this is a great movie. "},{"Title":"The Score scores huge!!","Date":"4 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The Score (2001) Directed by Frank Oz Starring Robert DeNiro, Edward Norton, Angela Basset and Marlon Brando Rated R for LanguageProfessional jewel thief Nick (DeNiro-Taxi Driver) wants to get out of the life and live with his girlfriend (Basset), but Max (Brando-The Godfather) has one last heist teaming him with rookie thief Jack Teller (Norton-Fight Club). 'The Score is one of my favorite movies of all time with the superb acting of 3 of the greatest actors alive. I urge anybody to see this whose a fan of the cast or just loves a good heist movie.5/5 on performances (Especially Ed Norton!Great!) 5/5 on dialouge 12/5 on entertainment  "},{"Title":"Nil-One","Date":"24 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Real Madrid, the world's most famous football team, have a squad packed with galacticos, the most celebrated players in the galaxy; but last year, had a fair few disappointing scores in spite of this talent, and won nothing.  The club provides a good model for 'The Score', with talent a-plenty in the line-up but which proves formulaic and unremarkable in practice.  'The Score' is a heist movie, but it's hard to care about the characters, who seem cleanly detached from the criminal underworld and who have little real motivation for attempting this job; only Marlon Brando's character appears to have a reason for doing what he does.  All that leaves is for us to be impressed by the technical execution of the job; but it's a set piece that manufactures problems in order to solve them, and thus far less thrilling than a real life story like 'Escape from Alcatraz'.  the fact that a lot of the action takes place on computers also doesn't help, and there's a predictable twist at the end.  As for the actors, Brando (in his last on-screen role) is alright but his character is minor; De Niro is dull, while Edward Norton's performance as a man for whom disability is a disguise is palpably inferior to Kevin Spacey's masterclass in 'The Usual Suspects'.  That film was a real winner; 'The Score', by contrast,  is destined to languish in mid-table mediocrity.   "},{"Title":"The Greats meet the new blood","Date":"14 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I have never been able to describe caper movies of this sort. They are intricate and sometimes confusing but seldom (if done correctly) boring. In the 90's, the caper movie has become more taut and action packed but also, far too often, filled with more filth than a litter tray that's long overdue for a change. But this one works mainly because of the heavyweights in it. And they are the old masters, Brando and DeNiro.Too much has been made of Marlon's weight and the psychological aspects of why he has become such, but never - and I repeat that - NEVER does he disappoint in the acting department. Marlon Brando has always has the gift of making you want to see him more. He even lingers in your mind long after he is on screen. Just look at the Godfather and see how little screen time he actually has and yet anyone who has seen that film (and if they haven't, they must still be toddlers or live in a cave) can forget his contribution to that film and indeed to film history. The man is MAGIC.Now, we have Robert DeNiro, another follower of the method who knows his craft as well as the best jeweler knows his own. He is so real, it is sometimes frightening. We feel when watching him that this is a moment in a man's life who is not aware there is a camera present making all of his motions and emotions subject to public scrutiny.Now along comes Edward Norton, an actor whom I have always felt knows the moves and yet is always trying to impress us that he's not really acting, but is. It's almost as though he took a few courses in how to act before the camera and memorized the text of those lessons but doesn't give the emotional input necessary to a great performance.Still, The Score has power because of these three principal actors, the first two more than the third. My only complaint is that we don't see enough of Marlon or, for that matter, the much underrated Angela Bassett. Not to mention she's damn fine to look at.Still, the director Frank Oz seems to have learned how to position his camera and let the actors just do their thing within the narrative framework, but there is nothing spectacular about his contribution here. (Also, there are the stories of Marlon's chasing him off the set and riding him about being Miss Piggy.)So what we have here is an engaging though not great film but with the combined talents of some damned fine actors and a few who are just competent. I'm just glad this one is part of my collection especially now that we have lost Marlon Brando, a fabulous talent who never really peaked though some have said otherwise. Forgive them. They're young and haven't learned yet how to appreciate the classics. "},{"Title":"Archibald Tuttle where are you? (SPOILER)","Date":"15 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Subtitle Pointless boring movie, packed with stars, which ultimately has no soul. The plot is unsurprising, but heist movies are typically not very original, so this should be no problem - it looks like Oz isn't putting too much of his own into trying to catch the attention of the viewer. The characters are quite standard, and this is where the all-star casting should help - but De Niro looks quite dusty, makes you wonder why he accepted such a role, where he really had interpreted much more interesting ones in the past (even Heat was better than this). Angela Bassett and Marlon Brando play two minor roles which are supposed to lend some depth to De Niro's Nick, but they turn out to be useless. Edward Norton plays the usual two-faced villain you've come to expect from him, he's the most entertaining but his lone effort cannot help save The Score from being an entirely forgettable movie. "},{"Title":"This movie was mediocre at best","Date":"14 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was not as excellent as jellyneckr says.  De Niro is a fantastic actor, but this certainly was not his best role.  Taxi Driver, Mean Streets, Raging Bull, Analyze This/That, The Untouchables, Casino, A Bronx Tale, and Goodfellas!  De Niro can make any role great, but this was not a character that had much depth.  Brando was just a big name used for the part.  Anyone could have played his character.  What really impressed me was Norton's performance.  Yes, he has proved himself a worthy actor in various films before The Score (i.e. Rounders and Fight Club) but his talent is very evident here.  He plays a very cool character and his impression of a mentally handicapped individual is uncanny. The plot was very expected, and the twist at the end isn't that great.  Frank Oz, stick to doing the Muppets on TV. "},{"Title":"A shame considered the talent provided.","Date":"25 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  THE SCORE (2001)THE GOOD--The three main actors featured here - Robert DeNiro, Edward Norton and Marlon Brando - are three of the most accomplished actors of their respective generations. DeNiro and Brando are acceptable enough in their roles, though personally I expected a lot more from these actors. A couple of times it looked like they were about to nod off. Indeed, Norton's performance is quite the opposite. He is excellent, energetic and intense. Norton provides the film's most charismatic acting moments, and his character is the meatiest of them all. The actor has to play both a mastermind safecracker and a mentally handicapped janitor - not an easy task - and is completely believable in both roles.--The computer geek character in the film, I can't remember his name, is very entertaining. This character provides for one of the more suspenseful sequences of the movie (the codes being handed over) and his bantering with his mother is hilarious (Do you want some lunch? I'm on the phone BITCH!).--After the boring first and second part of the film (save a few entertaining moments), all the happenings (not many) in the plot lead to the final heist sequence, which is deliciously entertaining. While I was quite uninterested for the first 40 minutes or so, this final sequence was a miraculous saviour for the film, it got me completely involved in its happenings and all the goings-on were both surprising and unbearably suspenseful at times.THE BAD--In a film of this kind, romance is not at all necessary unless it has some kind of purpose in the plot. The Score features a romance between Angela Bassett and DeNiro that is wholly unneeded in the grand scheme of things. The romance provides for ONE interesting scene, where DeNiro faces up to the challenge of deserting his beloved for one more score and they have a bit of an argument. This is a good dramatic sequence but in the end doesn't really amount to much. Bassett has never been a bad actress in my eyes but her character p***ed me off a lot in this movie and she OVER EMPHASISED about every line in the bloody script. Even worse, the final scene of the movie is Bassett getting off a plane and hugging DeNiro as they walk off into the distance, as if the whole movie were about their romance. It wasn't, and I couldn't have given a rat's ass about what their romance scenario at all!--The final twist in the story is old, and I predicted it quite early into the final heist sequence. When movies take an old story and twist it around, it's fun, when they use clichés, one's we've seen millions of times before and are now sick of, it isn't. Plain and simple.the final twist was crap, and crap I've seen more times than I can count. It's a lame ending to a great sequence that annoys me more and more as I think about it.--I hate to be bland, but the first 40 minutes or so of this movie was BORING. There were a couple of interesting moments, but when all things are considered, it just seemed to run on forever until we got to the action, the pacing was awful, the characters uninteresting and the dialogue mostly simply exposition for the forthcoming plot. I was thinking a 4/10 around that time, until things began to heat up, for which it earned a couple more points.RATING6/10 - Well, as you can see this definitely isn't the perfect 'score', so to speak. This film doesn't suck, but with the talent provided, the overall result is definitely disappointing.IF YOU LIKED THIS MOVIE I RECOMMENDFight Club (10/10) Mission Impossible (6/10) Ocean's Eleven (9/10) Panic Room (5/10) Snatch (7/10) "},{"Title":"Attention to the details","Date":"11 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Possible spoilers.It is strange to see, that the Score has such a low rating. I liked this movie, because the authors paid attention to the details. De Niro transformed completely into the Nick's character. There are no missed spots in his performance. Other actors were up to their roles too, but De Niro was in the focal point of the movie. Suspense was increasing steadily from the beginning of the movie. I did not divert my attention from the screen even for a second. May be, it was better to watch it on DVD. Because in that case you don't expect to be entertained and surprised in every bit of a movie, you just enjoy watching it.The thing I noticed the movie producers probably did have good consultants from law enforcement and physical security agencies. But as computer side is concerned, they cut the budget. What hacker said in the movie, it did not make any sense. Also the system administrator, who sold the passwords to the system, could be traced very easily. But it seems, he had intentions to stay on the job after the heist. The only excuse I can imagine, that he was completely idiot )My rating is 7.5. "},{"Title":"nothing original about this","Date":"5 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is your average movie about a thief talked into pulling one last job.  There really isn't anything original about the plot. Like who wouldn't have guessed that there is a twist at the end. At least this movie didn't have a bunch of different twists, making it confusing. The acting is good, and of course it's cool to see someone breaking into a place that seems impossible to get to.  I don't know why they wanted Marlon Brando in this since his character is nothing special. Any actor would have worked.FINAL VERDICT OK, nothing great. If you are a fan of DeNiro or Norton, then it would be worth your time to see. "},{"Title":"Disappointing! So, so very disappointing.","Date":"25 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  THE SCORE sets itself up in the previews, and indeed, in the first few scenes alone to be a cerebral chess game of a movie, pitting the seasoned veteran against the rookie with everything to prove. The finale proves this to be a movie that spent too much of its money hiring three hollywood Titans (As Norton is quickly becoming), and not enough on a screen writer. Brando does the best he can with the fluff that he's given, but we don't buy into his fear and determination. DeNiro shines as always, but seems to lack a softer side that would have the audience really pulling for him. Norton's best performance is as the janitor's assistant, and throws away the rest of his lines as slickly as a used car-salesman selling snake oil. This audience member doesn't trust him from the onset, and thusly, the end of the movie comes as no surprise. All in all, this movie promises a lot, and delivers exactly what has come to be expected of a move that spends more time post-production selling tickets than pre-production actually making a movie worth seeing. "}{"Title":"Norton vs Brando vs De Niro","Date":"29 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A nice entertaining film that can use a little bit more suspension. The strength of this film is the cast. If they used unknown actors for this film it probably would not make it to the box office.Three generations of famous actors doing their thing. De Niro plays the classic role of a tutor like he did in 'Heat'. Great performance. Nothing wrong with that. Norton however, takes and makes the movie without doubt. De Niro fades to the back the moment Norton enters the scene. If you like Norton in this film.... Check out 'American History X'.Brando. In his glory days he probably was a big actor. Nowadays there is not much left of him. Just his name.My rating 7  "},{"Title":"Milquetoast","Date":"3 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  ***Danger SPOILERS*** Another cookie cutter Hollywood off-season action bore-a-thon.  It's got all the classic elements yanked right out of the `mediocre heist flick' file. The main character is a weathered old pro who wants to retire but is recruited for one last job by the ambitious young hustler who wants the big score.  There's also a sufficiently cliched supporting cast consisting of the girlfriend who wants the old pro to settle down, the middle man who goes way back with the old pro and needles him into the job, and last but not least the hyperactive computer geek who lives with his mom.  The guts of the film contain a lot of standard robbery fare; state-of-the-art vault, surveillance system disabled by computers, unexplained gadgetry used to bust into the high tech safe, ZZZZzzzzzzz.  Finally to cap off this tribute to script writing laziness, the movie ends with none other than the old switcheroo.  All in all, I think this film would have been better if the acting were worse - it could have had a campy silliness to it if actors like John Travolta or Sly Stallone were cast in Norton and De Niro's place. Instead we're left with a finely performed snoozer.  "},{"Title":"Not quite done.","Date":"1 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  An acceptable heist film. It has one major problem, however, in that it ended before it began.SPOILERS FOLLOWFor me, the story begins the moment Norton's character realizes he's been completely outclassed. This moment occurs about 30 seconds before the credits roll. The instability demonstrated by him through the movie would indicate that he would try to get revenge on Nick somehow. I was looking forward to this - it maintains the conflict in the film. Frankly, I remain astounded and disappointed - the filmmakers chose to simply keep it a one-shot procedural heist flick.This film reminds me a lot of Ronin, also with DeNiro - another film that had style and grace and pacing, but nothing below surface motivation. The Score does have deeper issues in its characters, but it doesn't follow up on the most important one - the wild card Norton represents. "},{"Title":"The plan failed","Date":"19 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  It is unfortunate with the talent on board this project, THE SCORE is a bit of a letdown. Ironically, a by the numbers exercise that leaves the viewer feeling like the victim of the crime. As a heist vehicle the film contains the necessary precise planning on screen, but you would have hoped the production itself could have seen the faults in its execution before delivering a flawed result. Indeed as part of the experience we might be entitled to our share of the takings. Sadly it seems the project made off with our cut.The result is a picture that does not give the actors (a draw to watch this film in the first place) enough scope to push their craft. There are too many wasted moments of dull editing and sequencing, with little to distract the audience (which doesn't say much about the dialogue). Indeed if the tone and pace of the film is played out in the low key, understated fashion we find here, then it needs to be anchored in interesting mis-en-scene, screenplay and ultimately larger focus.The mis-en-scene is unimaginative and neither suggests character's emotion or motivation as screen composition helps to. Scenery and locale say little save that we know the picture is going to be reserved due to the style of Jazz on offer. Color and shadow (we find De Niro in the dark so much that even Brando complains) only suggest secrecy and hidden agendas but do little to portray fatalism or mood. The framing is not in sync to suggest either emotional distance or are there sufficient close ups which would have allowed for more studied characterization. Both suggestions I feel would have allowed for more gravitas which would have also kept in line with the studied pace of the film.The screenplay delivers in a few scenes but generally the dialogue isn't engaging or emotionally binding enough to connect the viewer to the coolness on screen. There are some good light moments between De Niro and Basset and some comical lines given to Norton, which although keeping with the naturalistic dialogue was a nice contrast from the talk given to the heist itself, which was bland on the whole (see THE KILLING). Not that I was expecting to find cartoonish gangster language in a mature picture but the set pieces seemed stilted. Just going through the motions to fill space. It might have been better if there was less talk with dialogue kept to a minimum and totally spared down. A picture designed for physical acting, which along with my other suggestions may have suited this subdued heist film well.However where this film fails to engage the most is in its wider scope as a metaphor about the art of acting (see OCEAN'S 11). Ultimately the film concerns actors and the act of putting a film together. The 'item', the 'score' is the film itself. With the players squarely in the crosshairs, what should be a celebration of the talents of two of the most accomplished actors of the screen, and one of the most promising of the new stock never materializes. Taken in context of a film about getting a job done, or as Norton states to be 'treated with respect and as a professional' (ultimately the ambition of any actor), this leaves the whole project wanting. The one star who did deliver was Brando who belied his large frame to give a performance full of casual weight and ease. His attitude added well to the naturalistic feel, which was also a welcome release in a film of studied content.There could have been more time given to the relationship of De Niro and Basset. It would have allowed for the audience to associate closer with the picture and the core theme of De Niro wishing to leave his life of crime and find fulfillment in a healthy loving and trusting relationship. Instead their relationship is only offered up in as a cliched reason for 'one last score'. Further additions that may have benefited the picture could have expanded the theme of duality between De Niro and Norton (see HEAT). Although they are both criminals, the men differ in values of honor. As partners walking a tightrope of trust, some physical distance could have added to the tension. Or there could have been focus on the abundance of gadgetry used. A fetishistic viewpoint of the tools and mechanisms that offered an alternative attraction would have added interest (see THIEF).Though in portraying THE SCORE as a 'letdown', let this opinion be taken in the context of the expectations of the film due to its huge star power. We must also remember the standards that De Niro, Norton and Brando have set and as such the film can be seen as a watching some of the 'worst of the best of acting' going through the motions. There is nothing new or visionary to be found here and so the disappointment is watching proven talent unable to rise above the formula. As De Niro states in the film, his scores have never been 'fliers'.  So accordingly our share of the entertainment was somewhat limited.  "},{"Title":"Fine performances but not outstanding material","Date":"1 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Robert de Niro, Marlon Brando and Edward Norton put together a heist from a Canadian Customs House security vault. Imagine Mission Impossible with a laid back jazz sound track and De Niro's creaking bones instead of Tom Cruse at high velocity and you get an idea. Edward Norton's performance is superb and memorable as he disguises himself as a disabled and lovable janitor. The film eventually has moments of genuine tension but it sometimes seems it will take forever to get to them. "},{"Title":"Not as good as heat","Date":"28 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I just saw this movie and now that I am home I gave this film a 7, and my wife gave it 8, so I voted 8.  Robert De Niro gets type casted in some of his films, and this movie is seen it done it before. Edward Norton plays a great role.  Some awesome acting, when you go to the theater you will know what role I am talking about, and he did it perfectly.  A decent script, but they could have cut De Niro's love interest out.  It's the film's weakpoint and makes the movie drag.  Brando does a good job and following the score is interesting, but has a few holes in it. "},{"Title":"Disappointing rehash with poor characterization.","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I was hopeful that The Score would be what there are too few of today, an intelligent thriller.  Instead, I walked out feeling as though I had just watched a movie that I had seen done better before. Angela Bassett and Edward Norton do a great job in this film, but I began to wonder why a character like Bassett's would fall for a looser like De Niro's.  Robert De Niro is simply void in this film.  He seemed to be on autopilot reading his lines.  Marlin Brando came across as pathetic, which his character should not have been if he had been successful in a difficult industry for at least 25 years.If you simply enjoy the specific members of the cast or you have never watched a film of this genre, you may enjoy the movie, but don't go expecting exciting characters in a creative plot. "},{"Title":"Entertaining and slick enough to enjoy on a popcorn level but with numerous other elements to it that are also effective.","Date":"10 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Before seeing this film, I read a TV guide's review that stated within the confines of this film; certain characters attempt to pull off 'the heist of the century'. Two things first, what does that actually mean when you say 'of the century'? The century had only been two years old when The Score was made so in actual fact; it probably was if you only count the heists that had happened between January 2000 and whenever The Score takes place. Secondly, why is it that every time a heist film comes out; it's dubbed as 'the heist of the century'? In recent years; films like Ocean's Eleven, its sequel Ocean's Twelve and the remake of The Italian Job have been made and have achieved success to a degree; these films, I feel, have also got people more into heist films but what they perhaps fail to realise is that The Score was there before most of the examples I gave and thus; shows you don't need to remake a film from the 1960s or indeed make a sequel to a remake from the 1960s. The Score is an energetic, nicely paced, well thought through crime film that combines romance, gives the different audiences something each to map onto and has, what I heard somewhere else, 'the three greatest actors from three different generations' those being Brando, De Niro and Norton.What I found to be distracting for the first twenty or so minutes of The Score was some of these elements mixed in with others. The fact the heist has actually already been planned by a character not yet involved in a major way and the fact nothing much needs to be thought through for the early part (lending more time for the Nick/Diane love story to progress) was disappointing. Part of the reason I liked Ocean's Eleven was down to the way they planned an announced it to the other members whilst showing us where it was they'd do it. What made it better was the fact it was seemingly impossible. In The Score; the item they're after is merely in a safe, in a basement &#150; nothing too fancy.Also, the point of Marlon Brando's character. The fact the only reason Brando was cast seems solely to be down to nostalgia (as he wasn't getting much screen time round about the time) is odd enough but he really didn't feature too much and a tiny twist that cropped up about half way through didn't seem to have a major affect on what the outcome was going to be. What's more, most of the 'three greatest actors of three different generations' actually just stand around for the early part bickering to one another about the whole thing &#150; hey, you think you've got it tough? Check out those fellas' heist from Ocean's Eleven.What was clever, though and what really involves the audience is giving them different characters to relate to. I was once told that if you don't have characters in the film the target audience can relate to &#150; they'll totally zone out and hate your film. Here, there are two relatable characters one is Nick Wells (De Niro) and the other is Jack Teller (Norton). Nick is the senior, 'been doing it too long', knows all the tricks, just about to retire guy but Jack is the young, up and coming, too smart for his own good, outgoing guy. Let's face it, this is a film aimed at males and males of different ages so each guy can relate to one of these two character in a way that reflects their life at the moment. Are they more elder? Close to retirement? Know all the tricks of their trade? Or are they more younger, more cocky, more outgoing types. Whatever the answer, the tactic on display here works really well in involving the audience.I liked a lot more things about The Score than I disliked and when I did dislike something, I ignored it as it was relatively minor. There is nothing really 'wrong' with the film, it just does what it's supposed to do but is it the heist film of the century and does it present us with the heist of the century within itself? Hell no. "},{"Title":"Not a perfect plot, but great acting","Date":"12 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The caper doesn't have a perfect plot -- either as a movie or a crime. Too much is left to chance or quite formulaic. How many times have we seen a soon-to-retire/just-retired master thief called up by a life-long friend/partner/lover for one last job with a huge pay-off and forced but whatever means to work with a young, arrogant unknown? But despite my best efforts to dismiss this movie, the three main actors are captivating ... passing the viewers' attention around as effortlessly as the Harlem Globetrotters with a basketball. It's well-worth seeing just for the acting, but it's sad to think what was missed by not giving these guys a better script.Seven of ten from me. "},{"Title":"Norton Scores!! (SPOILERS)","Date":"14 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Why so many negative reviews of this Fantastic movie?!?!?!?!!! I was hooked on The Score from the moment I saw it. It is clever, intelligent, with many twists and turns in the plot and even though it is a crime thriller it is not totally immoral - no-one gets killed and the film contains quite a large quantity of comedy moments, too - such as the computer nerd Steven, and the meeting in the park. I think it is quite sweet the way that Jack (the divine Edward Norton) makes a number of mistakes because he is quite young and naive. The only word for Ed Norton is simply Stunning - I could not take my eyes off the screen during the final 20 mins of the film !!! And for all those of u who seem to think that Ed simply looks normal instead of Totally Drop-Dead Gorgeous - where d'yall live???? I must move there - I could die a VERY happy woman!!!!  "}{"Title":"It is hard to believe that any of these actors could make such a bad movie.","Date":"1 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This non movie is probably the worst I have seen in many years.  The lines are stilted and boring, there is no action or drama, and the actors deliver bad lines with disinterested disinterest.  Brandon and De Niro slept through most of the movie and Norton played Norton playing retard.  Angela Bassett is one of the most unappealing actresses in this part of the universe.  Even the filming in Montreal was boring.  Montreal is a much more interesting city than these camera showed.  On top of all that the music was bad.  Is there any reason for making movies like this? "},{"Title":"Damn Water","Date":"2 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I saw a show I think on Discovery channel, supposedly for debunking scientific Hoax's and Myths in movies, where this experiment was tried on an actual safe, and failed miserably, and hence judged as scientifically unsound as per their evaluation, but not from what I can tell.Water was always designed by God as a coolant. It was intended to douche, to calm and to put out fires, not intended to fuel, to enrage, to exacerbate and to assist fires. Water is creative. Water nourishes and gives life. Water is not destructive. Water has a high boiling point. It is not even flammable.Having said that, there is nothing wrong with that idea which is sound in theory. Steam boilers and Pressure cookers have been known to blow a pressure valve all the time. Hydraulic pressure systems and pumps are used all the time, but the compressibility of liquids and the expansion of gases is different for different liquids and and for different gases, thus the pressure they can exert is also different. But water again is not intended to be destructive. Water vapor and steam will not generate enough pressure to blow up anything. But all flammable liquids which are the creation and the work of the Devil will. If you pour even a decent amount of gasoline or petrol in the safe and just ignite it with a spark, forget dynamiting it, that will certainly blow up the safe, no matter how thick walled or how thin walled, no matter how sealed or how unsealed it is. "},{"Title":"Classy cast, excellent cinematography, good script.","Date":"13 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This film shows, more than any other, what a brilliant actor Edward Norton is. And, of course, as always Robert De Nero delivers. In the scenes that they share, they have an wonderful dynamic. The other 'great' in this film is of course Marlon Brando. Whilst at the very end of his career and therefore lowest ebb of his professional life, he still manages a performance that's above most other lesser actors' best.The cinematography is lovely to watch. The lighting in Nick's apartment fits the mood of this film perfectly. And the pacing is just right. All-in-all, all of the people involved did a wonderful job. It's a pleasure to watch.The story itself concerns a heist at the Montreal Customs House. Instigated by Edward Norton's character (Jack Teller), Robert De Nero's (Nick Wells) aging professional thief decides to take on One Last Job, despite that job containing some less-than-ideal risks (including it being located in his home town.) The story is ostensibly about Jack's wish to have one big score, Nick's desire to retire comfortably and live out the rest of his days as an ordinary businessman, and Jack and Nick's attempts to outdo one another. Thrown into the mix is Marlon Brando's (Max's) role as a fixer, putting one in contact with the other.The above plot points are, however, as in all good thrillers, merely MacGuffins. The real story lies in the interplay between the characters. Their various strengths, weaknesses and motivations are revealed as the story moves along towards its conclusion. Like all good anti-heroes, there's much to admire and to despise in each character. I particularly enjoyed the scenes between Jack and a rent-a-thug hired by Nick. It was very well done, and demonstrated both the toughness and the self-control of Edward Norton's character, Jack.I'd put this film in my top ten of all time across all genres. It's not quite on a par with Heat (my all-time how does this compare to? film in the crime genre), but it's still pretty damn good. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Edward Norton (especially) and De Niro ---make this stand out","Date":"12 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is a heist movie--the one last big job a veteran safe cracker needs to retire.Unusual for this genre the acting takes precedence over the action although both are very well done---particularly impressive is Edward Norton playing a fake retarded cerebral palsy accomplice of De Niro. De Niro has to be one of the world's most natural actors but Norton out shines him here at least to my simplistic eyes.The only thing I found a little squirrelly about the plot was the item they were to steal but without it the twists would not have worked.I enjoyed very much the Montreal setting and seeing Brando (his last movie) is always fun....so win win win.....It gets an 8 maybe even 9 since De Niro gets away with the crime i.e. not the old Hollywood norm crime doesn't pay....Cost $60 million grossed $130 million. Brando apparently argued constantly with Oz (director) calling him Miss Piggy. (Oz used to do the muppets).RECOMMEND HIGHLY "},{"Title":"Typical suspenseful twists but so professionally directed!","Date":"22 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Robert De Niro at his absolute best. Edward Norton showing the world once again that he is a premiere American actor. Angela Bassett has the smile to end all smiles. Only Marlon Brando sinks deeper into the quagmire of his latent, malignant career. It is amazing to think that it is Fozzie Bear/Miss Piggy (Frank Oz) who directed this gem.The Score starts out earnestly to build the interest of the audience. Then lags a bit with Brando's foolishness, but BOY does it build to a crescendo at the climax.Suspenseful, enjoyable entertainment. It is not the most believable caper and it probably helps if you aren't familiar with James Bond style burglary tools (LOL) but it all worked out in the end for me. "},{"Title":"Predictable Crime thriller","Date":"2 April 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" With Deniro and Norton headlining this movie, I was thinking it could be great. I was wrong. The Score was simply a boring crime caper with a script too weak to really liven anything up. There were scenes in which the actors actually looked pained when stating their lines. Sub-plots were introduced, not developed, and then conveniently resolved at the end. The art direction and set design were uninspired; the clothes looked like they came straight from the nearest J. Crew outlet. No character in the film was compelling because there were all simply prototypes without any real depth. Really it was just so bland as to be almost monotonous.If you want to see R. DeNiro in a great, recently made crime movie go rent Ronin. "},{"Title":"Very worthwhile!","Date":"3 March 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" OK, maybe The Score is not the world's greatest heist movie.But it doesn't matter. First, we get to see Marlon Brando in his final film, and he gets to act with Robert DeNiro. Seeing the two men who played Don Vito Corleone in the Godfather films in the same scene is itself very interesting! And special kudos to Edward Norton as well! Add to that the Montreal locations, the fantastic film score, and additional casting that includes Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer star Paul Soles in a live-action venue, and this otherwise fairly routine heist film is elevated to something very special! All in all, very worthwhile! "},{"Title":"Say What You Like..It's a Solid Thriller","Date":"14 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Even though Brando had to turn side-ways to get through the door, it was good to see him paired up with Bob De Niro in this, his final film. De Niro, a jewel thief and jazz club owner in Montreal, has just busted his rear end pulling a heist, only to be informed by 'fence' Brando that the connection fell through...dead and buried. To try to make up the loss, he gets a reluctant De Niro to finally agree to one last caper...one that would have a significant yield and put both of them on easy street. De Niro is tired of the game, and just wants to settle down, but he becomes convinced by the take that maybe he should go ahead and do this last job before he marries girlfriend Angela Bassett and settles in. He does not know about Ed Norton, who plays like a guy with Down's Syndrome as a ruse. De Niro sees through the game and gives Brando hell...even sends a hit man after Norton, who turns the game around during the supposed hit. Norton is flashy and undisciplined, De Niro is systematic and meticulous, and the clash begins. They overcome numerous obstacles in the planning and execution...but on the night of the heist, there is a double-cross. This is not, as I have heard some people report, cliché ridden or even predictable, and the ending has a very nice touch to it. I would suggest you give the movie a whirl, even if only to see De Niro and Brando together in Brando's swan-song to the silver screen. It is entertaining, and has some very thrilling moments, enough to keep you engaged, especially during the heist. Also there is some nice jazz on the tracks and in the club. I won't mention the cats who got credit on the screen, but I will mention the ones who didn't. Backing the vocalist in her first screen number are well known New York City musicians Lewis Nash on drums, and Lonnie Plaxico on bass. I make it a point to give them mention because in the credits they named everyone...even the guys who swept the movie set...but not these two very fine musicians. I feel it is an injustice, and Hollywood should take better care not to neglect the musicians, especially the seasoned players. "},{"Title":"There are no partners in crime","Date":"12 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" DeNiro is a thief and a very good one at that. He gets jobs thrown his way from Marlon Brando, but he wants out. Isn't that always the case? Brando says he has one more job for him, DeNiro agrees to do one last job. Again, isn't that always the case? Ed Norton is also in on the plan, much to the dislike of DeNiro. They have to steal a scepter that is worth a lot of money. But can they trust each other?The Score was an interesting film because it brought together 4 generations of actors. Brando, DeNiro and Norton. All three very talented and gifted actors in one film? Must be a recipe for success. Frank Oz, most famous for his business with the Muppets was directing. Now, the film isn't bad, but it isn't great either. The biggest problem is that the film doesn't try to be anything more than a simple crime caper flick. Again, it has 3 great actors from different generations. All of them are pretty intense and serious about their craft, yet non of them are used to their full potential. Brando sits around and shows up to chat up with DeNiro here and there and DeNiro himself doesn't make a very believable thief. He has that no nonsense attitude down, but we've seen that before when he was on the run from Pacino in Heat. Norton is given a little bit to work with as he plays two roles, the other is one of a mentally challenged cover act who works the place they plan to steal the scepter from. Norton is the one out of the three given the most interesting character with the biggest struggle. Frank Oz directs it with no special flare. It could have been anyone behind that lens and I wouldn't have cared. There was no stamp of originality or sense of ownership. It was pretty much like Deniro's character traits. Safe and simple. Nothing fancy, nothing risky. The scenes with suspense seem to be mildly interesting and you never feel the threat of danger. Oz was able to handle to 3 actors fine, but again, could have done so much more. I can't fault the script because that was the story going into it. He had the chance to make it special and beef it up, but chose not to.The Score is decent and as far as heist films go, it was manageable. The film basically no violence in it whatsoever, which was interesting to see, specifically in this era. It tried to rely on character, performance and story to intrigue. It works to a certain point, but when you have so much going for you, it's hard to live up to that expectation. The Score fails to dazzle and it decides to work on a more moderate level. "},{"Title":"Run-of-the-Mill Caper Film.","Date":"15 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Nick Wells is a long time thief who is looking to get out of the business when Max, his friend and benefactor, proposes one last job. In order to do the job, Wells will have to work with a strange young criminal named Jack Teller.The Score has very little new to offer in a genre filled with nearly identical movies. Nearly every heist movie unfolds the exact same way, and The Score is no different. One reluctant experienced guy leads a group of criminals, each with their own talent and quirk. What sets the score apart is its stellar cast, all of whom are fairly bland. Marlon Brado isn't really in it long enough to make a difference and the script doesn't really give De Niro and Norton that much to work with. Neither does bad, and they have a decent on screen chemistry, but it's nothing to right home about.The plot isn't bad, but as I said before it's not that different from any of the other heist movies you've seen. The heist scene is exciting and the ending is fairly clever, but those are about the only high points. Aside from clichéd hacker who lives with his mother bit, it doesn't have that many low points either.The Score is just an extremely average movie in virtually every way; which makes it a bit of a disappointment considering the talent they were working with. Watching The Score you won't be offended or enthralled, but you probably won't be bored either. "}{"Title":"About as bland as they come","Date":"7 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Brando, Norton, De Niro. What went wrong here? Quite a lot apparently. This movie was just a completely lackluster and lifeless affair. Norton put in a good performance, but De Niro was as mediocre as we have come to expect of late. Brando is hardly worth a mention as his entire performance probably amounts to about 5 minutes. In all honesty I wasn't slightly concerned for anyone or anything that happened, maybe with the exception of the well being of the old janitor. It didn't seem as if Norton or De Niro really wanted the score that badly. Indeed there seemed to be little desperation or passion in their planning or execution. On that note, the act of the heist itself felt dull and mundane. Being the culmination of all their planning efforts and the obvious centrepiece, it should have been knife edge territory.The Score lacks any originality whatsoever. It's as if the standard base plot of every heist movie, that is usually built upon, has simply been cobbled into a stand alone film without any additions.I would by no means recommend The Score to anyone, but just say that if you happen to come across it, that you might want to give it a chance. Nothing to see here. "},{"Title":"what let's this movie down is the score","Date":"13 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Excuse the pun but the music in this film is pulled straight from a 70's/80's TV show or something, like the A-Team. It really is very poor and spoiled my enjoyment of this movie big time The storyline is suspenseful involving a criminal masterminds one last heist job. It needed reinforcement, not a score that detracts or draws attention to itselfThe performances are deserving of better, with an impressive line up - De Niro / Brando / Norton so why spoil it with cheap sounding music when something much more intricate and mood driven was in order? Better to leave the score out of the score "},{"Title":"Works with a formula, but works well with it.","Date":"28 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" In the 2001 heist flick, The Score, Robert De Niro, Edward Norton and Marlon Brando -- three respected actors separated only be generations -- join forces for the first and last time to create a cast that often supersedes the movie they are in. Directed by Frank Yoda Oz, it's a slow-burning, yet stylish and classy movie that works well with a well-worn formula. Robert De Niro plays a seasoned thief/nightclub owner set to retire from the lifestyle and live it up with his girlfriend (Angela Bassett), but not before completing one last job. Set up by his long-time partner in crime (Marlon Brando), he must join forces with a young and cocky criminal (Edward Norton) on what proves to be a very difficult and problematic job.Sure, the plot has been done to death in other films, but it's the actors and the cinematography that carry the film. It may not be jam-packed full of surprises, but for the two hours the movie takes to get to it's point, it never loses any steam. All three actors -- and even Bassett, who is given limited screen-time -- are on fire. De Niro plays the part naturally, as always, while Brando is a blast, obviously having fun with the role and responsible for lightening the load from time to time. Edward Norton, as always, chats up and chews up the scenery in a role that is marginally over-shadowed by his older counterparts. The direction by Frank Oz -- who has directed a few duds in his time -- is surprising stylish and accomplished. Less about action and more about suspense and character development, The Score doesn't break any new ground. Rather, it's a classic story delivered with a phenomenal cast and a good visual sense. Worth watching if for nothing else than to see three legends doing what they do best in one film. "},{"Title":"not the best of Marlon Brando","Date":"12 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" so I watched this movie convinced it would be a great blockbuster since Marlon Brando was in it but man I was wrong Brando doesn't do anything in this picture I think he actually doesn't appear in it more than 5 minutes we see him sitting in a chair but not like a Warhol film however if Andy Warhol had made a movie about Marlon Brando just sitting there that would be interestingbut not here it's more about De Niro and Norton the storyline is boring but if you survive the first 2 hours you will be rewarded with an original ending that makes the whole time watching worth but I'm a Brando fan so I'm still a bit sad about the role he got "},{"Title":"Great Musical Score","Date":"16 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Robert DiNiro, (Nick Wells), Hide & Seek, played a professional thief and night club owner with nice sounding jazz and blues and had all the connections and plenty of dough. Nick also had a sweetheart of a gal, named Diane, (Angela Bassett Time Bomb who was an airline stewardess and knew everything about Nick and even how good he was in bed. Even former veteran actor Marlon Brando, (Max) Free Money played the role of a big time con artist who invites Nick into a big heist that will bring them plenty of cool cash. Edward Norton,(Jack Teller), Down in the Valley, gave an outstanding performance in portraying two people in his supporting role. There is plenty of suspense and lots of nail biting situations that can drive you crazy and especially the ending, which turned out just perfect. Robert DiNiro and Angela Bassett were a great team together and they also made a great couple on the screen. Enjoy "},{"Title":"Three great actors could not rescue this bad movie","Date":"5 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The score is a movie which has three great actors such as Robert De Niro,Edward Norton and Marlon Brando(1924-2004).So,my expectations with this movie were big.But the movie is a very big disappointment.Those three great actors could not rescue this movie.The first problem with this movie is that the story it tells was told by a lot of movies and near the ending,it seems that the screenwriter wanted to put a twist,but that twist was used on a lot of movies of this style.With De Niro,Norton and Brando this movie could have been great.But with the poor material the movie has,they could not rescue it.The score is a big disappointment.Rating4 "},{"Title":"I hate heist flicks","Date":"22 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Even where there is much of interest in a heist movie, I invariably find the heist itself to be completely uninvolving. This tends to be a problem in a movie centered around a heist.I gave this one a chance because of the presence of Frank Oz and Robert DeNiro, both of whose work I admire very much. But not only does this have the inherent weakness of being a heist flick, it's not even good for a heist flick. The romance thing is thrown in for no reason; it doesn't even rise to the level of a subplot. The tension between the DeNiro and Brando characters is sketched in briefly, then left entirely unresolved. And the twist ending is about as surprising as a Wesley Clark flip-flop.Frank, stick to light comedies. "},{"Title":"Brando, looking huge!!!","Date":"14 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  But believe it or not, it's a rare recent example of him trying to act a role, rather than just stand up there as Brando. DeNiro as always, fan bloody tastic. Norton, I'm sorry to say I've never liked and found his performance in this film unbelievable, and borderline distracting. That palsied cripple act wouldn't fool a blind man. But the film is good, not great, the ending I found sadly predictable. It's very well shot and makes excellent use of Montreal as its backdrop. Most movies are filmed in Montreal anyway; this one proudly acknowledges the fact. Give it a shot! "},{"Title":"Simply Awful","Date":"13 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I tried to watch this movie on 3 different occasions and every time I fell asleep during it, only to wake up and find the damn thing still going.  I have no idea why actors of the caliber of Ed Norton and Robert DeNiro would be involved in such a lackluster, slow moving film.  The director looks like he didn't even show up for filming.   Angela Bassett is wasted, an unused goldmine.  Brando - well, Brando is Brando, but certainly not at his best. Why the hell he was even cast in this is beside me.All in all, this movie is a total bore and total waste and I have been completely puzzled by all the people that have thought this film is soooo great.A snoozer.  Don't waste your time. "},{"Title":"Mediocre","Date":"6 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is a thoroughly ordinary film that is not lifted by the cast of Edward Norton, Robert de Niro, Angela Bassett or Marlon Brando!!  With this cast, I really expected something good, but it was a great disappointment.Robert de Niro was badly miscast - these days he doesn't seem to be able to pick a good movie.  Edward Norton was slightly better but wasted - he was better in Red Dragon (where he was also miscast).  Marlon Brando was hardly in it at all.It's just about watchable, but barely.  I wouldn't bother unless you have nothing much else to do.  "}{"Title":"A Real Disappointment","Date":"4 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A below-average De Niro, a foul-mouthed Brando, a foul-mouthed Norton, a foul-mouthed computer expert, an unnecessary love interest, and a routine heist story with an unexciting plot twist at the end. What a bore! "},{"Title":"nice, but no more than that.","Date":"11 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  It's a nice movie, but that's it. It's been done and better at that. At some places attempts at jokes seem to be made, but they don't come off. The female part was embarrassing in it's minimal consequence (to the movie). If anything, that's my biggest critique. Kudos to Ms. Bassett for making what she made of it! That said, it's a diverting movie. "},{"Title":"Much ado about nothing","Date":"22 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  All in all a rather disappointing mainstream buddy movie, with - CAUTION Mentioning some tendencies of the end - promises that aren't kept in the end.I really was disappointed as the entire film seems to indicate a somehow weird and surprising turn towards the end, similar to what we saw in The usual suspects or Fight Club. However, this 'surprising' end is quite conventional to me and it lacks context. It is neither indicated by the personalities nor the story, but seems to take place only because the spin doctors wrote it in the script.All in all another example that out of 3, two De Niro movies are just mediocre.  "},{"Title":"BAD, VERY BAD","Date":"3 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  a mustnot see. do not waste your time on this film! it reminded me of a bad Pink Panther movie. DeNiro is my favorite, but even he can't pull this one off. avoid at all costs unless you are under 15, or someone gives you the movie..........for free!!!!!!  "},{"Title":"You'd expect more from a cast like this...","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Well, The Score is proof that simply assembling an all-star cast doesn't guarantee a good movie. While there's nothing wrong with the acting itself, the plot couldn't have been more uninspiring. Its all been done before, just with different names and different music. Pity, really... "},{"Title":"Tedious Beyond Telling","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  How sad to follow the career of Frank Oz since Miss Piggy dropped him.  Forced to direct at a distance more or less human actors who would probably object to having his arm up their backsides he has reached an almost uncannily improbable low in THE SCORE while having at his disposal, in Brando and DeNiro, some of the most impressive cinematic star power of the last fifty years.  Marlon Brando, who long ago gave up serious acting to become an object of tidal attraction, appears as a scarcely mobile heap of suet, and Robert DeNiro somnabulates through a part that he has already performed to better effect in far better written films.  The plot is absurd, the appearances of Angela Basset anachronistic and irrelevant, and the tempo is soporific.  What a crashing bore this film is, capped by its total lack of an ending. "},{"Title":"No surprises","Date":"25 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  At first glance, this movie looks promising. Even if the cast, especially de Niro, does an excellent job, it remains - a job. The plot is a usual, unsophisticated remake of thousands of forerunners including a handful of MUCH better ones (the best example perhaps being Mission Impossible - the first one).Even so, the Score certainly managed to keep me awake in that unintelligible, but highly professional Hollywood way. Altogether, it doesn't exactly SUCK. But somehow I don't think it's worth seeing twice. "},{"Title":"Great actors","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Love these actors but the story is boring.  The direction and the actors keep the movie going.  Liked some of the criminal techniques and the character relationships.  I liked the whole Wiser player wins premise.  Not very inventive but still entertaining.  "},{"Title":"Two hours spent waiting for punchline that never came...","Date":"17 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Very mixed feelings after the movie. The cast is unbelievably good, it's a dream for any director. And they do their job, no doubt about that. Well, De Niro kind of repeats his 'Ronin' character, but he created so many of them that one can forgive him some repetition. Norton is wonderful, he is indeed the star of the current Hollywood generation. And Brando has still 'got it'. And what all these efforts go into? Some from time to time inventive 'grand heist' plot... All the time you wait for some twist, for some big emotional fit/hit - with the cast you can hardly expect anything else. But in wain - even when some trick, won't disclose it, happens by the end, it is rather weak and leaves you with a small 'ha-ha' only. And the biggest disappointment, the movie ends in a way in the middle of the sentence, a couple of threads picked up during exposition just do not get tied in. It seems, the director said Okay, guys, we already have about 2 hours of this thing, I am tired and want to go home; let's finish it some other time, maybe... "},{"Title":"Norton steals show- the rest just watch.","Date":"17 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  So the movie starts out slow. Only because the presence of Ed Norton isn't felt until about 20-30 minutes into the film. Norton's performance is the only thing that keeps the movie afloat. Deniro and Brando are average. Brando has a few good one liners, while Deniro goes throughout the movie with that look on his face.  They both seem to be standing still for Norton, who just passes them both by and just keeps going throughout the film.  It's a shame that Angela Bassett is only in a combined 20 min of the film.  Her and Norton alone could have made this a blockbuster.  With some character changes of course. I'm not going to get into the plot because that really doesn't matter here. If you like movies for acting, go be marveled by Norton as Jack/Brian. If you want to see it because you like Brando and Deniro; go rent A Streetcar named Desire or Taxi Driver. "}{"Title":"not bad","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Whatever you do, DO NOT PAY FULL PRICE!!!!! This movie was good, but it wasn't THAT good.  The cast was probably the best part.  Robert DeNiro played a good villain as usual.  Marlon Brando did a fine job also, however, I felt as though there wasn't much else to the film.  Anyway, I give it a 5 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Good actors doth not a good movie make","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  In one word, the problem with this movie is... pacing. Though DeNiro and Norton delivered performances that lived up to their standard, and audiences' expectations, (Brando, in my opinion, fails to shine, but through no fault of his own...) this could not help the fact that The Score was basically a plot I've seen a million variations of a million times, but with about 1/10th the action as in previous incarnations. Three quarters of the movie sets up the action in the last quarter, but the set-up required no such treatment, and was less than riveting. "},{"Title":"The Small Crime !","Date":"30 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" When I knew that the 3 stars will be together for one movie about some heist I said to myself  here's one to wait for passionately. Then I watched it to discover how it was the ordinary job already ! You'd sense weird atmosphere all over , I read once how (Marlon Brando) was calling (Frank Oz) as Miss Piggy during the filming !? , or how he didn't complete all of his scenes in here. So it seems that there was uncomfortable mood through it. Generally I liked the meaning of one rash generation (Edward Norton) which thinks that only talent would end it all , and another generation (Robert De Niro) which's less retarded and more wise. Therefore it got more than talent to work it out, and I mean years of practice , and a lot of dreams first of them is to have witty experience. Maybe the movie's title abstracts the whole thing for me as someone waited for (Heat) meets (God Father) ! I should have been more cautious with a movie has the name of (Frank Oz) as a director , since he made once (The Indian In The Cupboard) which's one of worst movies I've ever seen (at the top 10 of my worst 100 movies' list !). In fact you'd feel the magnitude of my disappointment when you know that the commercial title of the movie in Egypt was standing for (The Grand Robbery) ! (The Score) is a peaceful story into what turned out to be average picture despite the respectable names on it. Or objectively it's little fine movie anyway and its big names just misguided us ! So thank God when (Ben Affleck) was offered the role of Jackie, he turned it down , It would have been then little fine movie with problems at acting ! "},{"Title":"The Bore","Date":"1 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I can't believe the comments I've read about this horrible, horrible waste of time.  3 virtuoso performances?  Please.  Edward Norton did a passable job as the slow-witted janitor, but given that his greatest performances (except for American History X which rocked!) consist of over-the-top physical impairments, this is hardly anything new.  How come when Norton does a ridiculously exaggerated stutter in 1996's Primal Fear, he gets an Oscar nomination, and when Michael Palin does exactly the same thing in A Fish Called Wanda, people boycott the film for it's insensitivity? DeNiro is now officially off my list of respectable actors having taken more mediocre roles in forgetful films in the last 5 years than any actor I can think of.  Congratulations Mr. Sell-out, you've become the new Michael Caine.  The only one I enjoyed watching was Brando, but only because I knew he wasn't taking the whole movie seriously - I could just imagine him tossing cookies at the other cast members between takes ala John Travolta's impression of him on Saturday Night Live.  After watching this piece of crap, he won't be alone in the cookie-tossing department.Oh! And watch out for that surprise ending.   Oooooh... "},{"Title":"Terrible Marketing Ruined This","Date":"17 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Score(2001) Review From the commercials, I perceived this movie as a cat and mouse game between De Niro and Norton. The commercials were terrible and destroyed this. Here's my takeHere's what the commercials told me Ed Norton's character betrayed De Niro's character staring off a game to see who gets the Score. That was not the case. Norton's character betrayed De Niro towards the end of this movie. At first, these two are working together to get the score. The damn previews ruined the plot twist that happened and totally gave me a different point of view of this movie.What also hurt this movie is that I was bored out of my mind. This is a very boring movie as well. Thanks to the lousy marketing, I was aware of the plot twist WAY before it happened. Bastards. This movie was to boring anyway, but the marketing was atrocious.The Last Word Boring. At least the ending was good. That's it. "},{"Title":"wondering if Norton was channeling Juliette Lewis for his 'Brian' character","Date":"28 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Robert DeNiro is talked into doing one last heist by Marlon Brando. He then has to contend with young upstart Ed Norton. Honestly the plot is pretty much secondary to seeing the tremendous amount of talented actors on display here. And viewing the movie as such, I enjoyed it. Infinitely better then Ocean's 12. This would be Robert DeNiro's last GOOD film. Hopefully the upcoming The Good Shepherd will wake DeNiro out of his current slump of starring in crap, which I blame Eddie Murphy for starting, by the way. As well as Brando's last non-animated role. He will be missed greatly.My Grade C+ DVD Extras Commentary by Frank Oz and Rob Hahn; 3 deleted scenes; Making-of featurette; Theatrical Trailer "},{"Title":"I live in a city sorrow built its in my honey its in my milk","Date":"18 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Ed Norton's character's portrayal of a handicapped man is insulting. Also this movie is boring. Full disclosure I have not seen all this movie, maybe half, so I don't know how it ends, but I'm not sweating it. So what makes the movie boring? Well, De Niro manages to mail in another lackluster performance as a generic tough guy with complicated past--The plot is never able to materialize, its just people talking tough-- Whatever it is they are trying to steal its not memorable--Like there's this overall impediment that no one can relate to the characters, the lives that De Niro and Norton play out are unrealistic, no one is like that. Its just one more movie made under the premise that if enough big stars are in a picture it is likely to make money. Its the worst of ideas that has a 45% chance of paying out, for movie studios thems is good odds. "},{"Title":"Score this A Winner ***1/2","Date":"22 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Wonderful film with Edward Norton stealing the show playing an assistant janitor making believe he is a palsy victim while plotting a major caper.Marlon Brando appears briefly. Much heavier than his 'Godfather' role with De Niro, 35 years before, Brando looks like a Sydney Greenstreet duplicate and could have easily played him in a biography of the latter's life.Robert De Niro, as a jewel heist specialist, doubling as owner of an inn is sucked in by Brando to have Norton as an accomplice in a major theft plot.Angela Bassett appears as De Niro's love interest, wanting him desperately to retire from the scene and avoid this last caper. Her part is brief and lacks any emotional wallop when De Niro refuses to comply with her wishes.Yes, we have the old fashioned double-cross and ultimate double-cross here. However, it's well done. Of course, the negative theme of crime paying off is bad, but you're in for an interesting ride in this taut thriller. "},{"Title":"A different type of crime piece.","Date":"1 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Robert DeNiro plays Nick Wells, a professional criminal, who after planning to leave crime behind for good, is tempted into one last job by his partner Max Marlon Brando. It's a job too good to turn down, but Nick must work with someone he doesn't know or trust, Jackie Teller Edward Norton.If the above summary doesn't scream out as exciting, well you would be right. For this Frank Oz directed caper is more about the actors and the characters they portray than any sort of Ocean's Eleven coolness and zip. There's a good argument for saying The Score suffers because of the weight of expectation that comes with its leading stars. Lets face it, the names Brando, DeNiro and Norton offer three generations of men considered to be in the best of their time. But scratch away at the picture on repeat visits and you find that outside of the small written part for Brando his last feature film, expectation is met as regards it being an actors film. Yes the plot in essence is straight and safe in formula, but it's with the dialogue and character forming that Oz's film breaks free from being a muchness of a muchness. Sure most would have liked to have seen a Michael Mann meets Tarrantino crime flick, with Bob and Ed laying waste to all in their paths-offering up quips as they go. But this is a different animal and it's obvious to the discerning eye and ear why Messrs DeNiro and Norton chose to do this film. 6.5/10 "},{"Title":"brilliant","Date":"13 October 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Before I go into depths I think Nortons performance was outstanding as usual. Also Brando lives up to the lazy rich man well and deniro again turns out a decent show. Nick wells (deniro) is a retiring thief who has been persuaded to take a risk by Max (brando) and do one last heist. As a pro safe cracker he never takes a gamble for instance working with a partner- Jack Teller (Norton) and in the city he lives in. The direction was good the scenes well edited and the acting was fantastic, a great heist film which you can sit back and watch, not worrying too much about the plot. I could not find a fault except why Norton did not get reckonised by his role in this. "}{"Title":"A crackling good safe cracker flick","Date":"11 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The Score tells of a sagacious master safe cracker and burglar (DeNiro) who signs on to one last big job before retiring. This high tech caper flick with a vein of people issues running through it is an excellent shoot artistically and technically. A taught drama which builds suspense to a satisfying conclusion with a twist, The Score doesn't go overboard on the gadgetry (vis-a-vis Mission Impossible). Should be enjoyable stuff for most, especially gadget geeks and DeNiro fans. "},{"Title":"Score one for both the good guys and the bad guys.","Date":"17 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Another heist movie? Actually, this one's pretty good. Mostly notable for being Marlon Brando's final screen appearance, The Score has aging thief Nick Wells (Robert DeNiro) going in for one last heist in Montreal. Sound like a familiar plot? It is, and if it was just two hours of violence, it would make your eyes roll, but good performances keep the movie from dragging. Of course, how could it not have good performances, starring Brando, DeNiro, Edward Norton and Angela Bassett. Still, I wonder just how many heist-themed movies there can actually be (2001 also saw a movie called Heist).Who ever would have guessed that Fozzy the Bear - that's Frank Oz - would one day direct together in a movie the two men who played Vito Corleone? "},{"Title":"Considering the talent, this is a disappointment. **1/2 (out of four)","Date":"5 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  THE SCORE / (2001) **1/2 (out of four)By Blake French 	I look forward to every movie by Frank Oz. He is a multitalented filmmaker, whose work ranges from voicing many of the Muppet characters to directing comedies like What About Bob, In & Out, Little Shop of Horrors, and Bowfinger. His style usually places the audience in the center of the action-we feel apart of what is happening on screen. The Score represents a distinct change of pace for Frank Oz. It's a serious, dramatic film, while his past work has been with comedies. This is a solid, professional attempt at a heist movie with many enticing sequences and riveting dialogue. Considering the potential involved, however, it isn't quite enough.	The Score was entirely filmed in Montreal, where the story also takes place. The movie's cast deserves some kind of grandeur; every main star owns some kind of award for their acting skills. Robert De Niro stars as Nick Wells, a longtime criminal who's ready to settle down with his girlfriend (Angela Bassett) and retire permanently. His dealer, Max (Marlon Brando), wants him to do one last job team up with a young but talented thief named Jack Teller (Edward Norton) and devise a heist to steal a prized artifact in Montreal's Customs House that is worth millions. The problem is that Nick works alone, and he would never consider doing a job in his home town.	De Niro and Norton make a fine pair, but who in their right mind would put Angela Bassett and Robert De Niro together as a romantic couple-Edward Norton and Marlon Brando make a better twosome. Brando himself contributes an effective performance, he doesn't have enough screen time to make a terrific impact, and he's often used as a plot device. The film's attempts to add personal dimension to Robert De Niro's character feel contrived. The story uses Nick's romantic interest to invoke internal struggles within himself. It doesn't work.	The Score is a smart movie that gradually builds tension and increases the stakes to keep us involved. I didn't understand most of the heist construction, I did believe the characters knew what they were doing. Most of the scenes involved with the heist are quite interesting. In the movie's best sequence-where Jack explains the circumstances involved with Montreal's Customs House-the visualization and dialogue work so well together it probably deserves a place among the year's best individual sequences.	I didn't care for the final twist at the end. I won't reveal anything about the actual turning point, but it comes too late in the film, and the story foreshadows it so clearly that most experienced moviegoers will see it coming a mile away. 	The Score contains an engaging amount of good material. In a summer filled with dreary motion pictures, this is clearly one of the best film's playing in theaters right now. That said, I am not sure the film is worth the high admission prices. I left with more questions than answers, and with a desire of something more from the plot.  The Score reveals its story over a large spectrum, but the story itself is too spread out over too many unnecessary plot contrivances. The film paints a convincing portrait of intelligence characters. But by the end, the characters are at the mercy of the plot. Nothing preconceived is permitted to happen, and that makes the characters puppets, not characters with minds of their own. That's the last thing we expect from talent like this.   "},{"Title":"Don`t Be Fooled By The Cast","Date":"13 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  CONTAINS A MILD SPOILER The problem with THE SCORE is it`s just another heist movie. Sure it has three of the greatest acting icons of the last 50 years in one movie but that doesn`t save it from having a predictable script of planning a heist , carrying out the heist and having a double cross at the end . Apart from a trio of acting legends in Brando , De Niro and Norton there`s nothing you`ve seen here that you haven`t seen before .   "}]