[{"Title":"A highly successful French thriller by Mathieu Kassovitz...","Date":"10 May 2004","Score":"53 out of 66 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" ...who is famous for his intelligent films about social issues; such as 'La Haine'. The suspenseful story, IMO often wrongfully compared to David Fincher's 'Se7en' because of its seemingly similar thematic elements, is set in the French Alps, in the fictitious towns of Guernon and Sarzac. The marvellous scenery contributes a lot to the overall mysterious atmosphere of the film and is an ideal background for the movie's convincing cast. This is especially true for the leading roles which are portrayed by two of the most talented French actors Jean Reno and Vincent Cassel.The plot is based on a novel by Jean-Christophe Grange who, together with director Mathieu Kassovitz, also developed the screenplay. With the book being quite complicated due to its many carefully intertwined lines of action, a lot had to be simplified, altered or simply cut out, a well-known issue with adaptations. Unfortunately, many of the novel's explanatory scenes were omitted, so that ,you end up with a film which is not boring but quite confusing', as main actor Vincent Cassel puts it correctly. The following is a basic plot summary that intends to spoil as little of the story as possibleCommissaire Pierre Niemans is called to the remote university town of Guernon to solve a gruesome murder case in which the victim - the university's librarian - was brutally tortured and mutilated. Neither the university officials nor the students prove to be too helpful during the investigation and Niemans soon gets the impression that there is something very suspicious about the whole situation. Meanwhile, Commissaire Max Kerkerian investigates the desecration of a grave in Sarzac. Soon it turns out that the seemingly unrelated cases are strangely connected with each other and, after a second corpse is found, the two very unlike cops team up to discover a long kept secret. This knowledge eventually gets them into life-threatening situations, the most deadly of them marking the end of the movie, which is set on top of a huge, snow-covered glacier.The acting is simply excellent Jean Reno portrays Niemans as a surly, reserved but brilliant professional with an attitude that often offends the people around him, even if he does not mean to. Vincent Cassel is Max Kerkerian, a quite lively character, sharp-witted but at times lacking self-control and totally unconventional in his methods (the book even mentions him being a former car-thief). The third leading role, Fanny Ferreira, a glaciologist working at the university and the one to find the first corpse, is portrayed by Nadia Farés. Her enigmatic character is more involved in the mystery than it seems.The action is greatly enhanced by the spectacular panoramic views and camera trails used for the location shooting, even though the opening scene, where the camera follows Niemans' car as it approaches the first crime scene, is obviously a rip-off of Stanley Kubrick's 'The Shining'. One scene shows Niemans and Ferreira, the scientist, descending a glacier, a dangerous shot for which huge cranes had to be transported to the glacier in order to secure the actors. The wonderful score was composed by Bruno Coulais, who managed to provide each scene with the appropriate musical background.As stated before, major changes were necessary to transfer the complex novel onto the screen. The outcome was that many viewers felt puzzled by the movie's abrupt, confusing and seemingly illogical ending, as much is left out in the film where the book provides extensive background information. This is where the movie's biggest flaw lies. Other alterations include the renaming of Karim Abdouf (novel) to Max Kerkerian (film). While his characteristics remained more or less the same, it was the author's original intention to include a police officer of Algerian origin in the story. The characters in general are darker in the novel where Niemans even kills a hooligan before the actual story begins. The conspiracy revealed by the cops is larger and was also one of the aspects which were simplified for the movie.All in all, one could complain that some of the action scenes look rather out of place, like Kerkerian's fight with two skinheads or the obligatory car chase later on in the film. The 'mismatched-cop scenario' is not too innovative either, but since it is depicted in such a unique way, it would be unfair to dismiss it as a cliché. While I can only reiterate that it may be difficult to completely grasp the movie at once, it is not at all impossible to follow the storyline as some have claimed. ,The Crimson Rivers' is definitely a great movie in its genre, featuring spectacular camera shots and an excellent cast and is in this vein well worth a visit.  "},{"Title":"Brilliant French thriller","Date":"16 August 2001","Score":"42 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I don't know why but I don't usually bother to go all the way to a movie theater to check out a French movie. This time I made an exception and I'm really glad I did. Les Rivières pourpres was an extremely nice surprise - truly a magnificent piece of first-rate acting (Jean Reno - man who touched us in Luc Besson's Léon and made us laugh in Les Visiteurs - is in one of his top roles and Vincent Cassel plays his clever sidekick) combined with a fabulous and dizzyingly surprising plot, maybe a bit complex but still so brilliantly built that story holds perfectly together and by getting wilder and wilder makes sure that the audience will not be bored at anytime.Film begins with an abhorrent close-ups of a slashed corpse that's being eaten by worms. If you consider yourself to be a a sensitive person I have to warn that it will definitely not be the only grotesque image Les Rivières pourpres offers, it's just the beginning. Sometimes movie looks almost like a horror flick but these tiny little shocks with gore here and there are still one of the key elements of the movie. It's partly what keeps the excitement alive.If I would have to compare Les Rivières pourpres to something even slightly similar, Seven is just about the only flick that pops into my head. Of course it's a completely different movie but it's the only one that I can recall that has captured exactly the same pressuring ambience as in here. Les Rivières pourpres is a very dark and dreary film that can easily make you feel anxious or even sick - just like Seven. Both of 'em are still movies definitely worth watching in spite of anything. At the end of Les Rivières pourpres you'll be pleased you indulged yourself with a perfect thriller experience. Excellent movie, don't miss it! "},{"Title":"An okay story with excellence of execution.","Date":"16 October 2001","Score":"37 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The Crimson Rivers tells of two French detectives on converging investigative paths leading to the who in whodunit as they leapfrog from one tense moment to the next in this good but not great macabre and sometimes gruesome serial killer mystery. What this flick lacks in story it more than makes up for in artistry and verve as it carves itself out of hauntingly beautiful vistas, superb cinematography, great sound and score, and, perhaps best of all for English speakers, excellent dubbed translations. Well worth the time for those with an eye for artistry in film and a taste for dark thrillers. "},{"Title":"I'm talking about Demons, and you talk to me about the police?","Date":"26 July 2007","Score":"19 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Mathieu Kassovitz's film featuring the incomparable Jean Reno (The Professional) and Vincent Cassel (Ocean's Twelve, Ocean's Thirteen) is a thrill ride that never stops.The French countryside with the spooky houses is a feast for the eyes. Thierry Arbogast's (The Messenger The Story of Joan of Arc) camera made this entire film a joy to watch. The scenery was complimented by the music of Bruno Coulais (The Chorus).But, it was Jean Reno that brought me to this film. His Commissioner Niemans was just what I expected from him. He has a way that makes the perfect cop. That is not to dismiss Callel's Lieutenant Kerkerian, who was a perfect partner.The story was definitely creepy with some graphic scenes of tortured bodies, but it was not off putting. It was essential to the story, which really had some extremely interesting twists and turns.Niemans and Kerkerian prevail, of course, but it was the journey that was so satisfying. "},{"Title":"Cutting-edge thriller!","Date":"10 February 2004","Score":"20 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Although french, this movie is better than most hollywood churned wannabes. A gripping thriller with a slightly outlandish plot revolving around genetics and nazism. But dont let that turn u off. The film is absolute edge-of-the-seat fare. Jean reno is good as usual but vincent cassel dishes out excellent acting nuances which add to his character. Great acting! The scenes set in winter among the French Rhone Alpes are breath taking to say the least. The thrills keep on coming without having to take resort to loud background music, which make these moments even more rivetting. The english dubbing is good without too many quirks. RECOMMENDED! Writing Highly Recommended would make you biased! ;-) "},{"Title":"Stunning thriller, good story and characters,  marred by badly thought-out finale","Date":"12 August 2001","Score":"19 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Echoes of The Boys From Brazil and Name of the Rose in this fast-moving, gorgeously-set (small alpine towns near Grenoble) French thriller, which has a really nasty conspiracy in a closed community as an underlying subplot. Two interleaved storylines involve two detectives in towns 100 km apart. Young, feisty Kerkerian (Cassel) is investigating the desecration of the tomb of a young girl. Meanwhile, supersleuth Niemans (Reno) is drafted in from Paris to assist local gendarmes in solving a nasty torture-murder of an academic at a small private University. More bodies turn up, suspects become victims, and eventually the paths of the two cops cross. Visually utterly beautiful, particularly the College, the Library, and the glacier/ice tunnel scenes. Characters strongly drawn and sympathetic. One pretty straight fight scene, little dwelling on active perpetration of violence,  but much lingering on the unpleasantly gory aftermath. This is particularly the case with the rather gratuitous opening sequence, which is overdone relative to the rest of the film. My main cavil involves the poor ending, where a last-minute surprise twist creates more loose ends than it ties up. Nevertheless, so watchable that this one gets 9/10.  "},{"Title":"Solid and compelling French thriller","Date":"27 September 2005","Score":"21 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The novel by Jean-Cristophe Grangè on which this film is based is simply one of the best thrillers ever written,in the same league as The Silence of the Lambs and Misery,and with the help of writer/director Mathieu Kassovitz(who was also supposed to be one of the actors)the author has successfully brought his masterpiece to the screen.From the very beginning,thanks to the location and Bruno Coulais'unsettling score,we realize French people can make good horror thrillers Pierre Niemans(Jean Reno) is in Grenoble to solve a couple of weird and brutal murders,while Max Kerkerian(Vincent Cassel)investigates a damaged tomb somewhere else. Soon they discover the two cases are connected,and the two men have to run against the clock in order to uncover the awful truth about what's been going on in the local university for years.The book has been simplified(the first chapter is entirely missing,as well as some of the details about Cassel's case),but the movie manages to be very interesting,and the chemistry between Reno and Cassel is great.Special praise for Dominique Sanda,her creepy cameo being the film's best sequence(Sissy Spacek appears in a similar scene in The Ring 2).Only defectwhy did they make the sequel? "},{"Title":"I especially like the dialogue between the two detectives","Date":"16 August 2004","Score":"19 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The isolated University of Guernon specializes in the study of eugenics through which the researchers hope to produce academics of the highest calibre. Chief Inspector Niemans (Jean Reno) is called from Paris to investigate an horrific murder involving torture of the University's research librarian(close your eyes if mutilated bodies offend you)...At the same time a local police officer is looking into the desecration of a grave in the local cemetery.  Some intriguing clues ( a bit far-fetched though)bring the two investigations together.The two policeman have a strange relationship.  The Chief from Paris is rather a loner who has his own ideas while the energetic local officer is kept at arm's length until he producers a clue of his own. The dialogue between these two keeps the film alive.  The rest of the characters behave in suspicious ways of course but on the whole play minor roles.Dissection of bodies and opening of grave sites are always gruesome and not every one's idea of entertainment. In this film they are important parts of the plot and certainly add to the atmosphere. It's strange when you come to think of it that police have to do so much of their work by torch light.  But then the shadows are greatly enhanced and who knows what may jump out at them!The police get very little help from the suspicious-looking University staff, a fact which surprises me considering their lives are possibly in danger.For me the final scene when all is revealed is quite a let-down after a reasonably interesting investigation. The solving of the crime in this way seems just a little too convenient.  The final avalanche was more exciting than the solving of the crime. "},{"Title":"Needlessly confusing","Date":"14 December 2005","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" So hands up, who knows which babies were swapped, when, where and why, who got run down by the lorry, why the mother went to live in a convent, and just what happened to the 'bad' twin once her death had been faked? Oh, and can anybody explain why none of this was explained.Thankfully, all of the above has become clear to me now, but only after sifting through the IMDb message boards for this film. Turns out, the film's star Vincent Cassel doesn't have a clue either. It also turns out that everything is revealed on the DVD making-of. Great.But it's a real shame though, because they genuinely had a tense thriller on their hands before it descended into Nazi nonsense. The atmosphere was simmering for the opening hour or so, and using the two detective's investigations as two separate narrative strands was some really intelligent film-making. But then the plot gets ridiculous and unclear, and when you do eventually realise the extent of the convoluted plot, you can understand why they didn't put any explanations of it in. It's a load of nonsense.P.S. I've decided not to mention the 3 minutes of Jet Li theatrics somewhere in the middle of this film. I thought it would save embarrassment for all concerned were I to merely brush over it. "},{"Title":"How do you say trainwreck in French?","Date":"27 February 2007","Score":"12 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" THE CRIMSON RIVERS is one of the most over-directed, over-the-top, over-everything mess I've ever seen come out of France. There's nothing worse than a French production trying to out-do films made in Hollywood and CR is a perfect example of such a wannabe horror/action/buddy flick. I almost stopped it halfway through because I knew it wouldn't amount to anything but French guys trying to show-off.The film starts off promisingly, like some sort of expansive horror film, but it quickly shifts genres, from horror to action to x-files type to buddy flick, that in the end, CR is all of it and also none of it. It's so full of clichés that at one point I thought the whole thing was a comedy. The painful dialogue and those silent pauses, with fades outs and fades ins just at the right expositionary moments, made me groan. I thought only films made in Hollywood used this hackneyed technique.The chase scene, with Vincent Cassel running after the killer, is so over-directed and over-done that it's almost a thing of beauty. The climax on top of the mountain, with the stupid revelation about the killer(s) with Cassel and Reno playing buddies like Nolte and Murphy in 48 HRS, completely derailed what little credibility the film had by then.It's difficult to believe that the director of THE CRIMSON RIVERS also directed GOTHIKA, which though had its share of problems, doesn't even come close to the awfulness of this overbaked, confused film. "}{"Title":"I really liked it","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"28 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I really liked LES RIVIÈRES POURPRES.When I first heard of this movie, I thought What an unusual, interesting and poetic title! I wonder what this movie might be all about! It could interest me. Then I saw this absolutely fantastic movie poster, which I still like a lot a beautiful red - I had to think of the title again! - with the two protagonists in the background and some red blurs (the blood cells, of course, but I didn't know that then).Then I learned something about the movie's content and thought Usually, I don't like serial killer movies at all, because often they're too violent, but that mostly concerns Hollywood movies. So, let's see, what the French made out of it! Which I did shortly thereafter.And what shall I say? I really liked the movie, because it was full of suspense. It had two great lead actors Jean Reno at his best (Watch his face, as he looks at the first corpse!), and a great Vincent Cassel, whom I didn't know before. The two stories in Guernon and Sarzac were well intertwined (save for the end, on which I will comment later on).The cinematography was overwhelming (for example the shots in the mountains, when Niémans drives to the crime scene in the very beginning, and those, when he and Fanny climb through the snowy mountains before finding the second corpse). And finally the soundtrack by Bruno Coulais was brilliantly adjusted to each scene.Moreover, I liked the movie for not being too violent. Although the victims were drastically tortured, before they were killed, neither the torture nor the killing is shown. And the violence is not celebrated, which means it's not shown, as if it were any kind of fun or something the viewer also should do.Once again Watch Niémans' face, while he looks at the first corpse; this scene shows clearly what he thinks of the torture and the killing and that it's absolutely barbaric and immoral to do a thing like that. Hollywood movies often don't show that as clearly (e. g. Is John Doe in David Fincher's absolutely disgusting and way overrated SE7EN not in a way shown as being sympathetic?).Are there any weaknesses in this movie? Yes, of course there are. Firstly, there are the first scenes of the movie, while the credits start The camera shows a rotting human corpse, which was a) quite disgusting, b) totally unnecessary, and c) in no connection to the movie. Because, of the corpses in LES RIVIÈRES POURPRES not one had the time to rot! (Think about it for thirty seconds - you will see that I'm right!)And then there's the end of the movie; let's say the last fifteen minutes. I must admit that I didn't really understand it completely, which in other words means that I don't think it's absolutely logical. In my opinion, it's quite stupid and very disappointing compared to everything in the movie that happened before (though I can't and won't tell you about the end in detail here; go see the movie for yourself!).Shakespeare wrote All's well that ends well. Does that mean everything's bad that has a bad end? (And let's face it The end of LES RIVIÈRES POURPRES can in my opinion only be described as really bad!) The answer is no! Because for 90 of 105 minutes the movie is absolutely great and worth a watch.Behind BILLY ELLIOT and CHOCOLAT it's my third favourite movie of 2001 so far. And if not for the end, it could have easily taken the first place of this list.I'd like to rate it an 8, but because of the end I can't. So I rate it a 7. But it's a strong one. "},{"Title":"Great Movie, But With a Deceptive Conclusion","Date":"28 August 2005","Score":"21 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" In Guernon, an isolated mountain area where the local University rules the town, the Chief Inspector Pierre Niemans (Jean Reno) arrives from Paris to investigate a hideous crime, when the victim was tortured and mutilated before dying. Meanwhile, Detective Max Kerkerian (Vincent Cassel) comes to the same place, following the investigation of a profaned tomb of a young girl. They join forces and find a plot of eugenics in the University, with abductions, murders and revenge.Yesterday I saw this great movie again, trying to find some answers to questions I raised the first time I saw it four years ago. Unfortunately, they have no explanations along the story. Les Rivières Pourpres has magnificent locations, maybe the most beautiful landscapes I have seen in a crime movie. The cast is outstanding, highlighting the charismatic Jean Reno and Vincent Cassel. However, the screenplay has flaws and presents a deceptive conclusion. My questions are (1) If Judith was kidnapped in the nursery of the hospital, exchanged by the daughter of another person, what happened to the other child? (2) Who raised Judith, if her mother got crazy and went to a dark cell in a convent? (3) If her mother knew where her other daughter was, why didn't she go to the French justice and fight to retrieve the child? (4) How Judith found and approached Fanny? Anyway, usually worths watching serial killer stories and this one is very above the average. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil) Rio Vermelhos (Red Rivers) "},{"Title":"Les Rivières  Decent Entertainment","Date":"22 January 2011","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" It seems to me, and here I may be quite quite wrong, that both Reno and Cassel are French stars who have made it sufficiently big to crack the American market, yet still returning regularly to film home productions. As such, Les Rivières Pourpres seemed to me to be a Heat/Righteous Kill of sorts a vehicle to pair together two screen legends.Sent from Paris to assist in the solution of a brutal murder in the university town of Guernon, Pierre Niemans struggles to connect the mysterious dots. Contemporaneously, Max Kerkerian investigates the desecration of a young girl's grave. Inevitably, their paths are thrown together, and they must team up to solve their mutual case.In its opening fifteen minutes, Les Rivières Pourpres makes it seem as though it might take any of many routes to completely different films. A standard police thriller is what it eventually settles upon, after some cinematographic flourishes hint toward the more appealing aspect of a drama of the effect upon detectives of witnessing the horrors they investigate. The flourishes I have mentioned are impressive, but taken a degree too far on more than one occasion. Twice used is the classic dolly zoom, and twice is it wasted, adding nothing but wonderment at why the filmmakers would employ such a thing so redundantly. Technical highs and lows aside, the film works with its two leads, holding off their meeting for as long as possible. This adds to the sense that the film exists solely to pair these two, playing off their respective career successes. Such careers, it must be noted, have come from a certain prowess in acting, and this is on full display here. Reno and Cassel play off each other well, Reno playing the straight man to Cassel's more comical, less battle-hardened cop. Speaking of comedy, Kerkerian's two underlings are called upon to bear the majority of this, unsuccessfully so. Their humour is misplaced and ineffective, though not quite deleteriously so. The plot from which the mystery derives is a little baffling, Cassel himself having gone on record as saying he doesn't understand it. It's not entirely beyond the threshold of understandability, but the film doesn't exactly offer you much help in figuring out its every detail. Mentioned flaws aside, it's cracking good fun, truth be told. Cassel and Reno are a fine team, their unveiling of this puzzling mystery well effected. Don't expect to be blown away, moved to great thought or emotion, or motivated to lend much memory, but it's a perfectly fine way to spend one hundred minutes.A small number of narrative flaws, some misused technical tricks, and some poorly placed humour mar Les Rivières Pourpres to an extent, but not so much so that it doesn't remain enjoyable. A nice fight sequence early on and some functional cinematographic flair are to be admired, certainly, giving the film a nice look to go with its decent entertainment value. "},{"Title":"French cheese can be stinky","Date":"16 August 2004","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  (spoilers) I rented this film because it has two of my favorite French actors in it, the lovely Vincent Cassel and Jean Reno. It started out in a very interesting way-a body is found up on a mountain in a horribly mutilated state.body is that of a librarian/professor at a nearby exclusive college in the French Alps. Reno's character is a hotshot cop from Paris who is sent to investigate the body.So far, so good. But this film quickly degenerates into a morass of trite dialogue, puzzling 'clues' and stupid fight scenes. I had the so-called mystery figured out in about twenty minutes, what there was of it.The director dragged this film out for a long time on a very minor and quite cheesy plot. It was painful to watch two such talented actors as Reno and Cassel wander through this trite film with absolutely nothing to do but spout hackneyed lines and, in the case of Reno, tremble and fairly p**s himself every time his character came near a dog. Sad, really.This movie is a below average thriller. The plot is a head scratcher. There were so many loose ends that I think I could have knit myself a sweater from them. And the demon twins at the end were just laughable. That last fight between Cassel and the 'crazy' twin resembled the fight scene at the end of the really bad and cheesy Canadian film The Final Sacrifice. I was sorely disappointed in this film.  "},{"Title":"A Hollywood Thriller","Date":"10 December 2005","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" !!!!! SPOILERS !!!!! Before anyone sends me a message pointing out that CRIMSON RIVERS is in fact a French thriller let me just say I know , I think it was the fact that everyone was speaking French that convinced me of this . When I said  A Hollywood thriller  I meant that I've seen too many of these types of movies being churned out by American studios since the early 1990s and I've no idea why the legendary French film industry would want to follow suit and if you cast Robert DeNiro and Josh Hartnett in the lead roles and set it in Montana it'd still be the same film . Come to think of it wasn't this made in the mid 1990s with Morgan Freeman and Brad Pitt ? For a French film this lacks a Gallic identity People are being found dead in a French rural town with their bodies slashed , their hands chopped off and their eyeballs removed and it's up to Inspector Pierre Niemens to solve the murders while on the other side of town Sgt Max Kerkeiran is investigating the desecration of a young girl's tomb . Soon it becomes clear that the two cases are linked but what really lets the story down is the misconception involving eugenics which isn't in fact a uniquely Nazi ideal . Nazis also believed in state ownership so does that mean someone on the centre left who believes public transport should be owned by the government is in a fact a Nazi ? Aldos Huxley and HG Wells both believed in the benefit of eugenics but they were very much on the political left so characters gasping  They're Nazis  seems somewhat strange and considering the political subtext is something of red herring only introduced so Max can get involved in a quite laughable fight scene with some neo-fascists .The eugenics sub plot seems somewhat tenuous . It should also be said that the idea of two intellectuals breeding more intellectuals is somewhat silly . There's no evidence in the real world that intellect is in anyway down to genetics CRIMSON RIVERS is an okay film and I guess the producers were more interested in making a movie that would sell abroad hence the rather over familiar plot and techniques in story telling but certainly both Reno and Cassell will both be making better French movies in the future "},{"Title":"mis match of ideas gone awry","Date":"6 June 2010","Score":"12 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" People can comment on camera work, imagery, and acting quality of a film, but all of that does not matter if the writing is...well...crap. Perhaps something was lost in translation here but the film had so many plot holes that bowling balls would fall through it. I wont explain specifics to avoid spoilers but by the time the facts, twists, and the killer was revealed I just didn't care. It was not Oh my god, but Ok, sure, whatever. This was due to a poor story development which meanders and looses it's audience, not to mention poor pacing which made it quite anti-climatic.I gave it a five out of 10 because the story had potential, however it was told poorly, acting and imagery aside.One last rant What was the deal with the transplanted fight scene in the paintball club? The choreography there was terrible and did not look real. It appeared to be a feeble attempt at making it seem like an action movie.I know that the french can do better than that, considering high tension, and frontiers to name a few. "},{"Title":"A great first half gives way to laziness and predictability in the final","Date":"26 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The best detective stories allow their central arc of enigmatic mystery to unravel slowly, leaving behind a trail of clues for the audience to follow. Therefore, it is important when adapting the story to a medium such as film that the clues aren't signalled too early, giving the audience the chance to search in the dark with only a few subtle elements of light to work with. It is also important that the film and its various strands of character, theme and narrative all eventually lead to the same place, confounding but also confirming what the viewer had expected all along.The Crimson Rivers (2000) by La Haine (1995) director Mathieu Kassovitz sticks to this method fairly closely for the most part; giving us the usual archetypes familiar from this kind of heavily investigatory detective fiction alongside the usual contemporary preoccupations with dark, gloomy, atmospheric visuals and intriguing, idiosyncratic characters. It is also refreshing to see a director intelligent enough to allow the film's location to become the centre of their story; framing his scenes so that the ominous presence of the towering French Alps casts a foreboding and omnipotent shadow across these characters and the story itself to perfectly set up a certain sense of the foreshadowing of later, thematic events. As the Alps hold a serious significance over the direction the narrative will take, Kassovitz understandably exploits the set up perfectly; using forced perspectives to give the impression of the characters gradually being surrounded, even asphyxiated by the landscape, to create a more potent feeling of suffocating claustrophobia.The idea of claustrophobia is mirrored by the interior production design, which dwarfs our protagonists against low ceilings cracked with damp, drab, monochromatic tones and deeper shades of autumn, and stark, naturalistic lighting with plenty of shadows. These visuals complement the narrative beautifully, going beyond the obvious and somewhat lazy comparisons to David Fincher's classic detective thriller Se7en (1996) to create a style and atmosphere that seems just right for this kind of twisted, slow-building set up. The story is admittedly fairly well worn, with two seemingly mismatched cops thrown together in the pursuit of a vicious serial killer and slowly developing a strong bond as their lives and rank are thrown into jeopardy and confusion. So essentially we're dealing with the typical buddy-cop clichés, though with more believability and less reliance on comic relief, with any real attempt at humour usually undercut by the explicitness of the violence and that fantastic air of dark, disturbing dread.The central performances from Jean Reno and Vincent Cassel are both very good, with Reno portraying the older, wiser, more intuitive detective paired off with Cassel's headstrong loose cannon. Combined with that fantastic build up of slow burning tension, the intricacies of the plot and the thick air of pure atmospheric dread, we should be looking at a standout, A+, modern-day crime thriller. Unfortunately, the last ten minutes of the film suffer from a serious drop off, creating a dénouement worthy of the worst kind of late night B-movie or TV thriller. It's a real shame too, with the first hour of the film creating such a searing and enigmatic sense of mystery that really draws us, in before the pieces of the puzzle are blown away by a bizarre climax that stretches plausibility beyond breaking point. As a result, the ending seems like an anachronism within the film's post-modern framework; offering us all the answers presented at once in a manner that seems incredibly lazy and unfair given the great sense of mystery that was previously unfolding.In this respect, I would draw comparisons to two of the most recent films by Italian horror/thriller director Dario Argento, in particular Sleepless (2000) and The Card Player (2004). Both of these films feature a great first half rife with mystery and suspense, but loose it in the final act with a complete disregard for logic, character or the thrill of expectation. In similar fashion, the first hour of The Crimson Rivers is excellent; great style, great characters and a story that pulls us in. Unfortunately, the pace cannot be maintained and the end of the film will no doubt leave many viewers angry, confused and severely disappointed. "},{"Title":"highly watchable as a popcorn police thriller","Date":"26 August 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The Crimson Rivers (Les Rivières Pourpres), based on the best selling French novel of the same name by Jean-Christophe Grangé (who also co-wrote the screenplay) is an unabashed attempt to make a French Hollywood-style thriller. Another problem is that for all the interesting ideas and larger conspiracies alluded to, the film doesn't deliver with its grand finale - a cop-out that leaves the viewer feeling short changed. The Crimson Rivers is highly watchable as a popcorn police thriller. It's just such a pity that the film is let down by its final third after producing an initially compelling plot line. CSA "},{"Title":"At times thrilling but not great","Date":"12 October 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Watched it with a mate and we had about the same opinion about it. At times we found it quite thrilling and interesting but never great. It seems to me they stole the intro from The Shining (with Jack Nicholson) with the car driving on the side of the mountains.Anyway, Jean Reno usually a pleasure to watch and he's OK in this flick. The stories were interesting at the start and you were looking forward to the ending to see what was happening and what connection they had to each other. That part was well written.The cameraman did a good job shooting it. I liked when you circled around two or three persons at times. That was something unusual I hadn't seen too many times before, but I don't rate it as great or very good. More like OK. "},{"Title":"Entertaining, but not water-tight","Date":"20 May 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  One can hardly avoid comparing this film with `Seven'. But at the very least, the feel of the film is different, as the French influence and the beautiful mountain scenery is not something commercial American films can manage to create.  The rest, however, is only run of the mill crime story fare.The story has two detectives investigating seemingly separate crimes, the clues for which leading them on to the same path eventually. The story can be so much better if the director, and presumably the script writers, can restrain themselves from all the unnecessary foreshadowing, which only served to give the plot away and dispel the sense of mystery.  Have the clues from early on in the film served to distract or misdirect the audience, this would have been a fine film.  As it is, any member of the audience with an average IQ should be able to know what has happened and what is happening.  The only aspect I did not guess correctly during the film was the fact that eugenics was involved rather than genetic engineering. Had this been an American film, I suspect, they would have substituted it for genetic engineering.There are logical inconsistencies in the plot that seriously undermined the believability of the film.  For example, Fanny's mother supposedly arranged for the `death' of Judith, yet she entered a convent and became a recluse a scant two years after the `accident'.  The whereabouts of Judith is never explained, and she simply popped out of nowhere at the end, completely shattering the credibility of the plot.  While I am willing to take every aspect of the story as told on screen, these inconsistencies are careless, and cause the film to be far less enjoyable.Reno and Cassell are average in the film. They do, however, play their characters well, giving a sense of the rebel cop, with a sense of barely contained capacity for violence. Once the two are brought together, the audience has a fairly good idea of what is going on, and the film becomes more an action movie than a suspense.  Reno's attraction for Nadia Fares' character, Fanny, is, however, too contrived, giving one the sense that the director suddenly realizes the film must end soon, and is bringing the story to a close with scant regard for the abrupt change of pace. Overall, the film is an entertaining piece, even though it suffers from some glaring inadequacies.  "}{"Title":"This river is deeper then it looks","Date":"17 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  As time moves on and artist struggle to reach the newest bar of viewers expectations, it gets harder and harder for new ideas that do go over the top to emerge. As a fan of this genre of films. Se7en, Kiss the Girls,  8mm , `From Hell' Jennifer 8. I can say it's hard to make a movie like this not be too predictable but at the same time not make an ending that comes out of nowhere (`Bone Collector') upsetting the viewer. This movie has it's moments of predictability. Just like the detectives; us viewers want to solve the who, what, when, where, why, and how's of the movie. You get some faster then others. The `Why' was the only question I didn't get answered until the very end. Results may vary. The main reason I rented this film was the idea of two separate cops in different towns following different clues for two different crimes until they meet in the middle. it was an idea I cant' say I've seen done before. I really liked that idea. it almost feels like two separate movies until our heroes Pierre Niemans (Jean Reno / Léon) & Max Kerkerian (Vincent Cassel / Brotherhood of the Wolf) meet.I was too surprised find out that this movie was not done in English.  The version I watched was a region 1 DVD. It has both a English dub and the all hail glory French sound track. Both in Dolby Digital 5.1. One problem most movies that are dubbed suffer from is the drowning out of music and sound effects by the in studio layover of the translated vocal mix.  This film is no different. I started off with the dubbed version.  I noticed right away that the music was clouded by the dub over. I decided to take a hear at  the French sound track. Wow! The use of the sound was definitely noticed. Mystery movies aren't much until you can get the mood right and the sound track on this things helps greatly. From the music to the well done use of the surround channels the sound track puts you right where the director Mathieu Kassovitz (Amélie) wanted. I could go on and on comparing this movies to others of it's type. But I won't all I have to say for now is I'm glad I rented it and I'm glad I watch it in French. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Style redeems all","Date":"16 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The grounds are all too familiar gruesome murders, serial killer, deliberate clues teasing the police, and even the odd-couple cops. The plot is far-fetched, on both counts, i.e. the the identity of the killer and the big scheme behind the whole story (sorry, can't be more explicit, to keep these comments spoiler free).And yet, the movie is thoroughly enjoyable because of Reno and Cassel, because the cinematography, because of the style. The convergence of two initially separated investigation lines has been used times and again elsewhere. Here, it is effectively done, well paced with just the right sense of urgency. I saw a dubbed version, which must have taken something away. However, Reno, I think, was dubbing himself. Cassel was fun watching, but I must say I enjoy him even more as a villain in Brotherhood of Wolves. "},{"Title":"Very good film - but in French ! -)","Date":"2 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This film originally came to me in the guise of The Crimson Rivers at my local video store.  Since it shows Jean Reno of Leon fame on the cover, I decided to give it a go.At the risk of iterating other reviewers comments, the scenery is stunning and the separate cinematic strands were combined skillfully to produce a film which was a pleasure to watch.  However, I would disagree with the previous poster's comments about the violence being too graphic - I think the level of violence depicted suited that which the film attempted to portray - I don't think it was overdone.Jean Reno was his usual excellent self - although the mountaineer never seemed to smile anywhere through the film - she constantly looked grumpy ;-) The biggest surprise for me lay in the fact that the film was dubbed ! Call me old fashioned, but I'm still somewhat unused to watching dubbed films - most of the non English (e.g. Chinese cinema) films that I've seen preferred to subtitle than dub - but c'est la vie ! -)I do think, however, that the film's target audience would have been increased if the film had been produced in English from the start.  In my view, this film was on par with films such as Hannibal - the only thing that in my view, stopped it from achieving a significant market penetration was the fact that it was produced in French.  Alas, the vast majority of the world (e.g. the UK and US) ;-) still prefer their films to be in English.... "},{"Title":"fresh and original","Date":"29 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  So very few good thrillers come out of hollywood, It's nice to see the French taking up the slack. Jean reno is the only one who could play the world weary criminal profiler. Cassell as the studly new detective with a case the doesn't want. When they finally get on the same trail the film takes off, like an avalance.The film reads like the great novel it came from. If you liked Smilla's sense of snow you are gonna LOVE this. "},{"Title":"Hannibal shoulda been this good.","Date":"5 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is the Silence Of The Lambs sequel that wasn't.  This has the suspense that Hannibal is lacking.  And Jean Reno and Vincent Cassale totally rocked the boat on this one.  And unless your an idiot, you won't listen to the dubbed version of the movie.  It's quite true that translated into words.... it does justice to the movie, but dubbed... it's as if the translator's failed english.   A must watch on dvd.  I'll have to say that is one unique way of starting a movie.  Thank God we can rent dvd's online now. )8/10 Quality 10/10     (dubb) 2/10 Entertainment 9/10 Replayable  7/10 "},{"Title":"Jean Reno delivers, the film doesn't.","Date":"6 September 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This film that starts out grabbing you ends out leaving you feel dazed and confused. The dead body found of a young men, horribly tortured and left to die slowly, is the reason d'entrance of Jean Reno. Answering a local investigators question where the unit to investigate is with a stoic I am the unit, you feel you're in for something good. And that's pretty much what you get. A hunt for a killer, slowly paced giving Reno all the chance to shine, which he does, leading you from clue to clue. Not a groundbreaking concept but the beautiful and meticulously filmed scenery quite makes up for that. Then a typical book-like twist is made introducing what appears to be another main character Vincent Cassel. His investigation into the desecration of a tomb seems to lead him to Reno's dead bodies. So far so good until, out of the blue, the writers feel the need to make Cassel go Chuck Norris on some wannabe Nazis's in a fight scene so absurdly bad, including 1980's sound effects, it makes you question what kind of movie you're actually watching. Or what movie the makers want you to watch. Unfortunately, it's all downhill from here. As if the over the top action scene with the Goring 2.0's wasn't enough, a whole lot more of Action Jackson is released upon the viewer as the more and more unlikely plot is revealed quite fast in contrast to the beginning of the movie. After the interesting fight the movie goes for two awards in the weird category with an even so interesting foot-chase ending up in the middle of anti-climax land leading right to a totally uncalled for Mexican stand- off between Jean The Unit Reno and his local constabularies. From here, the credit build up from the start of the movie has declined pretty much completely and the final revelation are met with a sincere Huh. So that was what that was all about. Huh. Still, Jean Reno delivers which makes this film watchable. "},{"Title":"Attractive but mediocre killer thriller effort","Date":"28 April 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" There can on occasion be found an unneeded snobbery amongst genre fans, a tendency to regard the mainstream as some tawdry monolith spewing trash while the best of genre cinema can only be found at the fringes, from foreign realms or the underground. The Crimson Rivers stands as an ideal corrective to such thinking, a French film beautiful, shallow, silly and fun. In short it does little better than most of its ilk, getting its biggest boost from swoon worthy locations but ultimately forgettable stuff with only a couple of especially bright spots. Its a killer thriller, a bound and broken body minus hands and eyes is found hanging from a mountainside, further remains are found and an expert from Paris gets on the case, backed up by a provincial copper who finds their case involving grave desecration pulls them into the same grisly plot. As the expert elder of the piece Jean Reno is his useful self in a performance of low key cool and grizzled authority, a decidedly familiar turn but fairly amusing to watch as he generally is. Vincent Cassel fares better as his younger counterpart, more of a live wire energetic type he puts in more of a compelling effort, together the two work well, they never get beyond the clichés of such a pairing but they are good to watch as they go through the predictable motions. Rounding out the mains is Nadia Fares in a one note sexy/tough kinda role, she has the looks and presence for the character so she fills it quite nicely, without making much of an impression. The film is at its best in its first half, building a sense of mystery and strangeness, luxuriating in its mountain setting with some great aerial shooting and breathtaking scenes atop a glacier then delving within a crevasse. There are a couple of suitably grisly after the fact corpses (the opening a good example, complete with insect ravaged wounds and whilst some of the dialogue is over expository and silly there is a certain sinister pull to events. But when the strands of Reno and Cassel entwine the film rapidly looses the plot and by the end has become outright laughable. Its not that the explanation isn't a good idea at all, just that the film presents no characters or themes with any kind of depth and by the end the film is getting into subject matter that does require some depth. After all, this isn't a giallo or a slasher where such things can be successfully avoided, it needs commitment to work. Still, I was never bored exactly and I did get some chuckles even as the film was going south. Probably a worth one time watch, but there isn't anything here to get too excited about, 5/10 from me. "},{"Title":"What a pity","Date":"13 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This film left me a sense of empty,the impression is of a big occasion waste.In fact the first half of the picture is really brilliant and thrilling ,the story seems very well thought and the places where the plot is developed are suggestive..but after 1 hour of watching ,the picture starts being a little boring and the good ideas shown during the first half aren't well developed,so the final ,really too easy,can delude the audience!,the plot has too many holes and the talent of the actors (Reno and Cassel ,really very good) isn't enough to save the movie from being banal.With an initial plot like this Hitchcock or Polanski would have realized a masterpiece.. but after the success of La Haine Kassowitz ,who has anyway an undeniable talent, doesn't seem (yet) able to realize a film that can finally give him an international credibility. "},{"Title":"A useless film","Date":"20 February 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  One wonders why this picture was made at all  the plot as such is totally unbelievable if not ridiculous, the characters (experienced loner cop versus younger one, quite fascinated) quite predictable, the ending totally murky and impossible to understand (maybe after several viewings but you'd have to have a masochistic tendency for that ; the idea being you have to read the book to understand fully what it's all about)and the acting is bad. Was the basic idea to show that French film makers are able to do as well as Americans in the genre that include Seven and Silence of the lambs ? If so, it is a total failure. It was quite a success though (and has a sort of cult-status as the first French serial killer film)and, it seems, considered as a good product to export. Strange. "},{"Title":"A terrific thriller, watch it in French with subtitles first!!!!","Date":"5 August 2005","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" What a wonderful surprise when I first viewed this film. I'm a huge Jean Reno fan, loved Leon the Killer, and enjoyed his work in Ronin although the movie itself was convoluted and ridiculous. Here, he truly shines. I saw previews of the film on Ebert and Roeper, but wasn't able to find a theater nearby playing it. Anxiously I awaited its release on DVD. Months later it arrived, and it was truly worth the wait. The plot can be confusing and might require a second viewing to put it all together in your mind. But the scenery, the characterizations, and most especially the chemistry (a rarity when talking of two male leads) between Jean Reno and another french actor who I am quickly coming to appreciate for his work in The Brotherhood of the wolf and Read my lips, and also for being married to one of the most gorgeous women in the world Monica Bellucci, the incomparable Vincent Cassell. Reno portrays a famously regarded homicide detective lured out to a remote university for the gifted, by some Rural French police who have discovered a most unusual murder. It's not so much the way in which the victim was killed, but rather where the body was found. On a rocky ledge high aloft a glacial peak. Attainable only by an extremely gifted climber. Cassell is a brash cocky cop, working a strange defamation of a young girl's mausoleum. Somehow the two cases become entwined, and the two find themselves working together to catch a killer the likes of which neither has ever seen before. See this movie!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! "}{"Title":"Enjoyable buddy cop conspiracy thriller with some impressive visuals.","Date":"23 February 2003","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Director Matthieu Kassovitz and actor Vincent Cassel of 'La Haine' fame team up once again for a completely different kind of movie. This time around it isn't realistic social criticism, but a conspiracy thriller. In many ways it uses the same old cliches (mismatched cops who must work together, bizarre methods of death) we've seen dozens of times in Hollywood thrillers, but it manages to remain entertaining because of Kassovitz' energetic and inventive direction, the spectacular backgrounds of the Alps, and the contrasting acting styles of Cassel and Jean Reno, who really seem to enjoy working together. I've heard this movie compared to 'Se7en' by several people, but I really think that's not only misleading, but just plain wrong. The movies are very different in style, content and approach, and I see very little connection between them.  While not a horror movie, it's closer in many ways to 'Anatomie', only it's a much better film in every respect. It even at times reminded me of Dario Argento, but I suppose most moviegoers are more aware of 'Se7en' than giallo, so what can you do? Look, there's no way I would argue that this is a masterpiece but it's a very well made and entertaining thriller, albeit with a slightly disappointing ending. I even liked the nutty and gratuitous martial arts sequence which Cassel busted his nose filming. Not a great movie, but a very good one. "},{"Title":"Another example of the the quality of French Cinema","Date":"5 May 2005","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" To start with I'm a big fan of French movies, a lot less pretentious than Hollywood is in the main.They seem to me to be more English than the likes of Snatch and Lock Stock and Two Smoking Barrels.This film brings together two strong actors (Jean Reno, Le Jaguar and Leon and Vincent Cassel, Brotherhood of the Wolf)in a decent plot. Editing is good and don't be too upset by the opening scene that's as in your face as it gets.It whizzes along nicely and is set in a pretty part of France.Watch it, enjoy it oh and watch the Taxi series too with Sami Naceri! "},{"Title":"riveting viewing!!","Date":"26 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I'm not a fan of French movies as a rule, especially over-rated horror or thriller flicks - I find them either excruciatingly slow & boring (eg Vanished) or gratuitously violent with no decent plot or common sense - just violent for the sake of it and often with ridiculous tacked on plot twists in an effort to appear clever(eg Haute Tension). But this one really grabbed me. I'm glad I gave it a chance despite it's Frenchness. Sure it has some problems towards the end some of which I understand are due to the difficulties of adapting the novel to screen, but I had no problem understanding what was going on. I loved the relationship between the two leads & the interesting way two story lines intersected. The direction & camera work was top notch, great soundtrack that enhanced the atmosphere and terrific acting from the cast. The plot was great too and pretty much everything worked the way it should. It needed a bit more fleshing out & explanation but it's not too obtuse without it. Just feels unfinished.It's a shame the ending is a bit of a let down but it doesn't detract from the movie overall - it's still well worth watching. It just brings it down a few points from what could have been a top rating flick. This is well worth watching for people who enjoy a good thriller, can stand a little gruesomeness but are not interested in pointless slasher movies or self-congratulatory plodding mysteries. If you can handle the level of gore in say Criminal Minds or Silence of the Lambs you should be OK with this one. "},{"Title":"Had potential.","Date":"29 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" When watching this film I found myself completely interested in the plot and mystery. The performance of the actors kept me interested in the characters themselves and the murders, while gruesome, were indeed a unique kind. I was consistently intrigued and wondering what was going to happen next within the first hour of the film. Then towards the ending, when all the clues seemed to line up, I was completely disappointed. While the ending was a complete surprise, it was also absurd. With such a shockingly nonsensical ending it makes you feel that the writers were trying too hard to get the audience's attention, while missing important details that make this ending an impossibility. I at first thought that the answers to the movie could be brought about by a supernatural answer, but no such luck. On a scale of ten I give this movie a six, considering the movie, excluding the last six minutes, was completely entertaining and enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Starts out good, until the last 6 minutes.","Date":"26 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I must honestly say that I was entertained by this film in the beginning. I enjoyed the acting, and the mystery in the film did keep me interested and asking questions. While some plot twists were misleading and slightly cliché, they did indeed keep me entertained. The cinematography was a lovely sight and I enjoyed camera angles used within the film. I loved the film in the beginning, and then it completely let me down in the ending. While the ending was a complete surprise, I must say it left more mystery than revelation. Without explanation, if an explanation was even possible, the movie became nonsensical once I viewed the ending. Through out all the plot twists, intrigue, and interesting character development; the ending, one of the most important parts of any film, completely disappointed me. Out of a ten I give this movie a six, but on the usual scale of four I would give this movie a two or two and a half. "},{"Title":"A strange and fascinating story very well-played, good suspense","Date":"24 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This is quite a troubling amazing movie and the acting of the cast is very good especially Jean Reno and Vincent Cassel. They both do a superb job and play their parts convincingly and with great flair. Jean Reno is becoming the leading French star of the tough roles, his quiet stern look reminds me of the young Alain Delon, without the good looks, in the roles of bad guy or rough policeman I think of Ronin, where he shared the lead roles with Robert De Niro. Vincent Cassel is younger of course, the son of the well known French actor Jean-Pierre Cassel. I see he is doing more and more roles of this type, the unflinching detective going straight on his aim. This is a strange story, how close to reality, is a matter of speculation, yet we know that Skin-Heads are getting fiercer and more and more troublesome in Europe, the States and even Australia. It might be wise for the Authorities to take care of this problem before it gets out of hand. "},{"Title":"Unfortunate attempt","Date":"6 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This is one of those unfortunate attempts to compete with empty headed Hollywood rubbish. The movie starts very promising. The scenery is breathtaking, the plot is mesmerizing and macabre, the main characters quite interesting and so forth. The problem starts with coming up with a satisfying solution. Because it isn't difficult to complicate the plot, any idiot can do that( and they do it often in Hollywood movies), the real problem is ending the God damned thing in a logical way. I don't wont to be too hard on people who made this film. It is entertaining and visually stunning, but I can't help being disappointed with the ending. "},{"Title":"Much cry and little wool","Date":"6 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Well this movie is not so bad as that after all. In first place the general atmosphere is well presented and the characters of the two cops well built and quite convincing in their peculiar behaviour. The weakest point in my opinion is the background story mainly in what concerns the motives for the murders which is barely outlined and a bit implausible to occur around a reputed French university. The theme is too ambitious to be treated in such a superficial way. The sentimental relationship between the main cop character and the alpinist girl would also deserve a little more deepness in treatment. But the action evolution will keep you interested enough during the whole projection. The conclusion to draw of all this is that the making of this movie would require a little more mastery than the one shown by Kassowitz, and maybe some other kind of background plot to achieve a better result. "},{"Title":"A powerful story.","Date":"10 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The story in itself is sinister and fascinating. However, the director boosts the story with unnecessary scenes that not only inflate the overall experience but also detract from the story. The main characters are ultra-cool policemen that are drawn to a secret society and it's nefarious plot. The cult is deliberately left a bit vague and this is turn makes the atmosphere of the movie stronger and grasping. The atmosphere, however, is not enough to keep the story afloat and in times the director fails to present a plausible continuum to events. The sidekick to Jean Reno (Vincent Kassel) does a good job within his limits, but I was left wondering if that role was essential to the role - perhaps Niemans could have solved the case all by himself?The fighting scene with the skinheads feels especially out of place. The Hollywood-Kyu Kung-Fuish moves are utterly unbelievable in the context and also takes far too long - it becomes a purpose in itself. Jean Reno performs his role of ultra-cool special detective with ease. His character, Niemans, is a flawed loner who performs things his way. For some strange reason, however, the director chose to first portray his phobia of dogs and then later let the character overcome his fear way too easily and in a situation that denies reason. There is a strong under-current of despair and helplessness buried deep into the movie and it's presence combined with the appropriate musical scores keeps the viewer in it's grasps. The movie uses rather conventional and traditional cinematographic approaches and would have made a better impact with a more ... open-minded approach. The longish and twisted story comes to an unexpected end rather abruptly considering how much time was sacrificed to present the events leading to the final scenes. Albeit the directing suffers from some flaws, the story is told with patience and fitting pacing. The movie lends some of it's visuals from Silence of the Lambs and Se7en - not a bad thing in itself, but usually the lack of originality makes for an average movie.With a less powerful story, the director's vision would not have made this an above-average thriller. The combination of story and directing in Crimson Rivers makes it a solid, entertaining package that is easily enjoyed more than once. "},{"Title":"Interesting movie bad dub","Date":"26 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Be sure to watch this in french with subtitles.The english dubbed version has some of the worst audio mixes I have ever come across. The dialogue is way too low and sits far behind the foley and environmental sounds. Watching this had me longing for non-foley quiet sections of the film. Dubbing is by far one of the worst things that can be done to a foreign film and this is an all-time low. It's noisy and annoying in all the wrong places. Maybe American film fans can finally learn to read subtitles and save us from earaches like this.Generally an ok film ruined by a slow and plodding plot and an even worse audio interpretation and mix. Cassels dubs are terrible and the guy who does his voice is an amateur. "}{"Title":"It could be great, but ....","Date":"2 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I think the crew wanted to do something like Seven. The first hour of the film is really good, but the end is ... i don't know what... I watched it to the end only 'cause Jean Reno and Cassel. There are really good in this film, but even they couldn't help it... "},{"Title":"Well worth the rental )","Date":"21 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I just watched Crimson Rivers last night and I was quite impressed )Jean Reno is excellant! Sure, you have to pay close attention to follow it (and if you get the dvd version - TURN OFF SUB-TITLES!!! *kicks self* stupidstupid!! P) but if you are in the mood for something not overly thought-provoking, a change-the-world sort of thing with some human and (2) grisly scenes, I definately recommend this one! ) "},{"Title":"MUDDIED Rivers","Date":"19 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This French movie was based on a best-selling novel by Jean-Christophe Grangé, who also co-wrote the screenplay.  The actors and cinematography were great, but decisions made by the director and other crew weakened the film.There is a twist ending, but the filmmakers don't bother to explain the complicated plot.  If you bother to think back about the whole story, you are not given enough information to make any sense out of it even if you watch it multiple times.  Just like Donnie Darko, you will have to get the DVD for the extra features to make proper sense of the movie.Even one of the main actors Vincent Cassel said (English translation), I can't help explain the film because I didn't understand it!  The film editor said, When I have to edit that mess, I'm going to be terrified!Pre-production was started without even a finished script.  During filming, the script was being rewritten every night.  A page would be given in the evening, a new one in the next morning, then another before shooting the scene!Cassel revealed that We cut out everything in the film that was explanatory, therefore 'boring' according to the director.  You end up with a film that's not boring but you don't understand it at all.  In the end, I think it's better to have a boring film with a story you understand. "},{"Title":"All thumbs up!","Date":"18 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Amazing film, beyond any doubt, Jean Reno and Vincent Cassel give superb performance, the plot is fantastic. I loved it. Best watching it in original French version with English subtitles, not the dubbed one. Excellent thriller. "},{"Title":"good late night movie.","Date":"24 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  i came across this movie very late one night. as a fan of subtitled films i thought 'hey why not'. it is in my opinion one of the best movies i have seen in a long time although the plot did seem quite confusing. jean reno is just superb. if you get a chance to see this watch it. then look out the sequel. not seen release date on that yet. next showing sky movies premier 4 3 august 2003  2.20 am "},{"Title":"Wonderful image, no-wonder plot","Date":"2 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I'm sick of all those se7ven, silence of the lambs, etc.  the world is not a horrible place full of clever and evil serial-killers who kill with a good bad reason... So that's my problem with Crimson rivers (les rivières pourpres)  another serial killer fairy tale. I hope I don't spoil you the movie if I tell it is the average profiler (the tv-serie) screenplay. It is. That's for the bad point. A first good point is the total unrealism of the storyline  a private university lost in an alp valley, well, that does not exist actualy, and this is funny. The second good thing is the acting of the two main characters  Vincent Cassel and Jean Reno are very good here. The third good point is the sights  nice moutains, beautiful library, etc. The fourth and last good thing is the wonderful cinematography of matthieu Kassovitz (if you are curious of french cinema, Kassovitz, director of this movie, is the actor who plays nino quincampoix in Jeunet's amélie poulain). Some action screens are brilliant, frightening, but there is also a lot of comedy in this movie. Last thing  the movie is rated 12 in France, 15 in the UK, 18 in Ireland, etc. If you want to know really if it is watchable or not, I'd say it is less gore than Se7en ore silence of the lambs, there is not a lot of frontal view of corpses injuries etc. But it is not for children anyways.I give it a 8/10 "},{"Title":"A great film-noir from France.","Date":"4 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"    This dark and disturbing film-noir from France is a very good crime movie with likeable leads (Jean Reno and Vincent Cassel), who both put in great performances.   The setting, a college within the valleys of ice-peaked mountains, is very dark, and director Mathieu Kassovitz handles it all fairly well. The story tends to lean towards the usual crime film cliches, but in the end I didn't mind so much.   Overall, a great film. "},{"Title":"Very good, but not great...","Date":"31 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  It's almost impossible to find a recent French film WITHOUT Vincent Cassel. And, like most other films he's been in, his talents are well used in this one- far superior to Jean Reno's performance which seems formulaic and contrived. It undoubtedly seems his personal friendship with writer/director/actor Matthieu Kassovitz enhances his acting. This outing pits two cops on the trail of a lascivious killer who tortures his victims before offing them. Basically, it's Se7en light. And it is pretty well done. Rentable..But personally, (and i'm usually VERY bad at this) i knew who the killer was midway thru the film as well as most of the accomplices. The surprise element would've and could've been much greater if they had dropped a few less hints. By the way, did we really need that car chase scene?? Bottom line A good ride, but no seatbelts necessary. "},{"Title":"Style over substance","Date":"13 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The opening is immediately gripping (and slightly nauseating) the camera swoops in loving close-up over a dead and maggot infested body. Then the story begins and it almost never let you look the other way! Not because of it's depth or anything remotely unusual. This is a serial killer story, plain and (sometimes not so) simple. The tone is generally very dark and pessimistic where human beings are concerned. As in Seven (probably a great influence on this picture) there are also some disturbing plot twists (one of them involving a little girl apparently crushed on the freeway under a truck - yuck!) But the director has an eye for visuals that I have not encountered for many year and certainly not from any director in Hollywood. His camera is restless but fluent, creating images of both horror and breathtaking beauty. This is a guy I would sign-up for the next James Bond movie. He sure knows how to display the magnificent landscapes, since they also play an important part of the intrigue. There is also some good acting on display here. Jean Reno is reliable and suitably rugged. Vincent Cassel plays a younger and less experienced policeman with energy and a little gleam in his eye. And the slightly mysterious woman is portrayed nicely by Nadia Farés. But one thing in this movie is deeply disappointing and it's the ending. Actually, it almost makes you re-valuate all the good thoughts you've had about this movie up until those final moments (with a stronger ending I would have rated this movie 9/10!). The idea for this climax might have looked good on paper (there's even an avalanche), but it simply doesn't work very well on film, making the elaborate build-up seem somewhat of a cheat. But otherwise, a very good thriller. Recommended! -) "},{"Title":"graphic violence and weakish plot","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" ...good actors, though. jean reno and vincent cassel do what they can, but nothing saves this movie from being disgustingly violent and sick. since i'm not violent and sick i really didn't like the scenes.i also think the plot didn't make much sense, i understood what they ment, but overall it was a tad confusing and not too believable, and the end i think just sucks.the atmosphere in 'crimson rivers' deserves some credit, though. the director has a good sense of pressurizing the viewer. but, as i said, it's just too gross for my taste.not a dinner movie. "}{"Title":"Brilliant thriller, but awful ending","Date":"25 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Good thriller, in a Se7en style, very good cinematography, the music makes your blood freeze, and two actors with incredible presence. It holds you under pressure almost all the time. The story is original and intriguing... up until the last 30 minutes. What a pity. A story that promises so much at the beginning ends up with a very, very typical thriller ending. The movie is worth seeing though. You can still have the pleasure of watching  Jean Reno and Vincent Cassel. "},{"Title":"The French Silence of the Lambs","Date":"22 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  It's a well known fact that the French have always made better movies than Americans.  The one place we always have them beat is the Slick Blockbuster. Now, they are make a strong case that that's not even true, cuz this is pretty slick.The movie starts with two seemingly divergent plots  Reno's famous uber-cop investigating a murder at a prestigious mountaintop school, and Cassel's rank-and-file cop investigating a grave desecration and grade school burglary.  A bit of coincidence brings the two cops together, and they learn they may not be working on such different cases after all.The great thing about this movie (and to tell you the rest of the plot (which, after multiple viewings, is still a little hazy) would ruin it) is that, until the two cops meet late in the second act, we have no idea what the whole thing's about.  Each holds information that helps the other (and they're supposedly working two different cases).  There are other things to like.  The mountain scenary and cinematography are beautiful.  Cassel is perfectly cocky, and Reno is perfectly jerky.  The plentiful blood and gore will please genre fans.  The only problem is the ending, which, on initial viewing, makes no sense.  It's as though Kassovitz and Grange have a great time getting there, but no idea what to do once they're there.  But it's still a great flick; a must-see for mystery/suspense fans. "},{"Title":"Another great peace of French movie making!","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Bought it on DVD. It had French and English 5.1 digital sound.   I loved this movie. It had great actors, good picture and sound, and great locations!The chase seen was fresh and classic!Another 9 out of 10 for the French! "},{"Title":"The Crimson Rivers","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was surprisingly good. I rented this movie by accident not realizing that it was dubbed. As a rule I don't often rent foreign movies but this one was good. The movie kept me on the edge of my seat for throughout. The ending was a bit confusing and abrupt. In addition there is a rather pathetic fight seen early on in the movie that really has no point except for cool music taken from a video game. I actually had to watch it twice to get everything that happened. The plot had many twists and turns adding to the suspense and consequently the confusion. When you watch the movie your reaction is to try and fit the pieces of the mystery together however this will likely lead to confusion and you will miss a lot of important stuff (like me the first time I watched it). In addition the great suspense the cinematography is superb (THE BROTHERHOOD OF THE WOLF is no exception). The French seem to have a knack at taking stunning shots of the scenery. I highly recommend this movie to anyone who likes mystery suspense thrillers, despite the rather poor ending this movie is done very well. This movie proves that there is good stuff that comes out of France other than pastries. Anyway I recommend trying to rent it on DVD rather than VHS if it is available at your Video Store. The dubbed audio on the VHS is rather poor (as it is with most dubbing, for some reason the music and background noise is louder than the dialogue) and it is occasionally difficult to hear what they see.I give this movie 8/10. Many American movies I have seen recently have had worse endings (seems to be a trend recently) but it is still very entertaining.         *Another surprising French movie I saw in the Movie theatre was THE BROTHERHOOD OF THE WOLF    it also stars Vincent Cassel who plays Detective Max in 'Crimson Rivers' and it is one of the best movies I have seen in 2001/2002. I believe it is scheduled to come out on video 10/01/02.  "},{"Title":"Wonderful","Date":"15 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I loved this movie it had suspense, character build up, and mystery. I just brought this movie at a video store for 7.95, which is really cheap. I would sell it for alot more because it is really good.The movie is one of the best suspense films ever. I would recommend this to anyone who wants a good scare. "},{"Title":"Good movie with weak finale","Date":"9 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Police investigate serial killer - Killer is clever and toys with police - Police have to piece together clues. Not exactly original for a plot but for some reason I like this one, though it had a weak ending which lessened my overall rating, it was actually better than another film with the same plot which was hyped-up to be a big thriller From Hell with Johnny Depp and Heather Graham.*Possible Spoiler Here*I think it's the fact, that, granted the subject matter involved here, it didn't try to shock by going over the top, which Hollywood tends to do frequently. I agree with a fellow-comment person, that they didn't have to actually show the murders being committed to give the right effect. And the pace of the film was good.The cinematography was beautiful and the performances were good. The way the two policemen's paths eventually crossed was well done, and their initial reluctance to work together was believable and yet humorous. Jean Reno is becoming a very enjoyable actor to watch.As I mentioned, the climax was weak, however I did like the way they ended on a funny note, the younger cop asking the other - why he fears dogs. I think you can bet they will become pals from then on. (Sort of a ie. Bogart and Rains at the end of Casablanca kind of thing) Happy Endings - maybe old fashioned but I still like them. Overall Crimson Rivers was better than the average film of this type.  "},{"Title":"Great crime/thriller from france.","Date":"24 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I have started to really enjoy french movies lately,movies like Taxi 1 and 2 and the brotherhood of the wolf. This movie is no worse it is a great thriller with some great actors like Jean Reno and Vincent Cassel. They deliver their roles great and I especially liked that there were a parallel story between those two,and that it connected in the end of the movie. Although i found this movie a little predictable I still enjoyed it a lot.They dont make a lot of crime story's like this anymore so if you come across this movie you better pick it up.    "},{"Title":"Tough thriller","Date":"12 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Okey Hollywood,here`s a French one.This is better than your average Hollywood picture who looks like this.Jean Reno and Vincent Cassel stars as two investigators who`s after an crazy serial killer.The murders leads them deeper back in time than they could ever imagine. Similar to Seven(1995) in its creepy atmosphere and gruesome murders. You think of Seven when you watch this;but this movie stands well on its own.The performances are fine and the story is pretty exciting.It`s also very dark and scary... This is some nice French work,more of this!Let`s rate it 8/10. "},{"Title":"good film","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Viewed the film in french which does contribute to the quality of the acting.  Always liked detective stories that have a slight twist to them. The camera shots are terrific.  The acting is very good.  I have always liked Jean Reno.  Vincent Cassel is a good complement to Reno as a young go getter bored with his mediocre assignment and looking for action. "},{"Title":"Se7en meets Fargo in a rare exciting psychological thriller from France","Date":"10 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Five years is a long time to wait for a director to follow up a modern masterpiece, and to even expect Mathieu Kassovitz to emulate the artistic and commercial achievements of La Haine, would be simply unfair. Happily, Kassovitz moves away from the polemics tackled in his first feature length film, to tackle the age-old genre of the psychological murder-mystery thriller, normally exclusively reserved for Hollywood, in his latest release, Les Rivières Pourpres. Retaining the snowballing talents of Vince Cassel (as Max Kerkerian) and complementing them with the assuredness of Jean Réno (as Pierre Niemans), Kassovitz presents us with a two-pronged approach to a very well crafted spectacle based around an isolated university town in the Alps, whose seemingly sedate daily ritual is disturbed by the discovery of a series of brutally tortured bodies. The film traces two separate investigations of the serial killer in the university town by the seasoned, legendary investigator from Paris, Niemans; and of a desecrated grave some 200 miles away by the local, criminal-turned-cop Max. The two sub-plots slowly intertwine into one, and together, they uncover an altogether more sinister background to the whole affair. It all leads to a beautiful mountain-top climax, which is sadly a little too far-fetched and intricate to do the rest of the film any justice.Kassovitz has picked an excellent genre to match his skills, as he proves to have mastered the art of creating and building up tension, and for most of the film, he holds us transfixed on the edge of our seats, only giving us pause to look away at uncompromising moments of gore. Much of this tense atmosphere is generated by the setting the university town of Guernon. At face value, a peaceful, picturesque town, very insular with a community of academics, but a tried and tested ecosystem where people are born, raised and buried in the university itself. As we follow the investigations, we begin to see chinks in the armour; the splendid isolation of an Alpine intellectual retreat becomes more of a ghost town, an environment hostile for both its nature and its people. Magnificent camerawork (by Thierry Arbogast) and a pounding soundtrack (by Bruno Coulais), add to the experience by giving our senses a thorough examination of genuine fear.The film does not solely rely on the creation and recreation of tense mind games and body mutilation. Moments of humour alleviate the distressing scenario. There is a classic approach of mismatched old-cop &#150; new-cop partners; Réno provides timeless amusement with his deadpan delivery whilst retaining a certain paternal authority over Cassel, who in turn is the cooler, streetwise, Axel Foley figure, fretfully trying to match his superior partner in the investigation. The two lead actors are burdened with being the vehicles for humour, horror and the pulsating action and chase scenes, and they carry it off admirably.Les Rivières Pourpres cannot match the genius of predestination in Se7en or the sheer psychological terror of The Silence of the Lambs, nor can it live up to the study of the struggle for survival of ethnic French youths in the rough suburbs of Paris, in La Haine. But it does bear hallmarks of a director who is rapidly establishing himself on a global stage as a thought provoking artist. He continues to be fascinated by the sheer potential of Nazi power, aims to undermine `established' pillars of modern authority, in particular the police, and he possesses this ability to intertwine great tension with deadpan humour and intriguing character relations. Despite the ending, this film is well worth hiring out on a Sunday night to keep your wits alert and your emotions ruffled.106 minutes 7.5/10  "}{"Title":"terror, suspense and evolution gone horribly wrong","Date":"5 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  `Crimson Rivers' is a chilling mindbomb of a French detective thriller which delves into the most sinister recesses of the human psyche in the frozen peaks of the French alps. The plot twists and turns like a deadly python as two suitably shabby French cops attempt to unlock the mystery of a series of grisly ritual murders in a highly élite and secluded university in the cold mountains. As they slowly begin to unravel the intractably complex conspiracy the pair reveal a scheme more horrifying than you ever would've dared contemplate. With a subtext indicting the civilisation epitomised by the university, Crimson Rivers is breathtakingly controlled by director Mathieu Kassovitz, ripples with tension and suspense and is as much a jangler of the nerves as it is of the mind. "},{"Title":"Captivating French thriller better than most American efforts.","Date":"26 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  After reading the scathing comments from other viewers I am rather confused. I really enjoyed this film.  I'll admit the plot is quite bizarre but it is not incomprehensible and the ending was weak but I thought it had a good twist (there have been lots of big budget Hollywood movies with much poorer scripts).  I must state that I am a fan of Jean Reno's and once again he did not disappointed me in this film. In my opinion Cassel and Reno worked very well together.  I can't help but compare this film to last year's Hollywood effort 15 Minutes.  In 15 Minutes two investigators (Robert De Niro and Edward Burns) working on different investigations team up to solve some gristly murders but the dynamics between them are not a good as with Reno and Cassel.  The plot was just as bizarre and unbelievable and the ending was disappointing to say the least. Yet if you compare the users' comments on the two films one would wrongfully conclude that 15 Minutes was a far better film.  Crimson Rivers has all the polish of any American movie I've ever seen and the soundtrack was excellent.   Although some of this film is needlessly gruesome (I don't think those slow close-up pans of the cadavers enriched the film) I would recommend it as a good thriller that will hold your attention to the end. "},{"Title":"Hmm, what can I say?","Date":"12 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I have some split thoughts on this movie. In general it was good with a bad ending. When I say good I mean that I enjoyed watching it.On the bad front, this movie has so many plot holes that if you would put it into water it would sink faster then Jean Reno thrown of the Brooklyn bridge with his feet cemented. Some of the basic premises of the story (which ultimately leads to the lousy ending) are not just flawed, but dead wrong. Another (bad?) thing is that the movie is very promising until the end, where you really get disappointed. Otherwise, the acting is good, the cinematography excellent and so on.. "},{"Title":"Style very much over substance","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Very stylish, but ludicrous and far-fetched plot. At the beginning I thought I was onto something great, a forensic thriller of excellent quality, but then the story went haywire. And that skinhead fightscene? Hard to imagine such film-making effort was put into such a poor screenplay. "},{"Title":"Beautiful, but the dubbing!","Date":"4 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This film looked great, had an interesting plot, great suspense....BUT dubbing a film should be a crime.  The voice is one of the most important features of the art of acting.  You might just as well dub the Metropolitan Opera into English, or fix the smile on the Mona Lisa.  In the ideal situation, film is ART as well as entertainment, and seeing as this movie obviously has great artistic value, dubbing the voices betrayed everyone involved. "},{"Title":"Depressed cop in depressed village","Date":"31 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is a typical film noir ; it has all the elements. A depressed citycop ,nobody knows what his problem is , comes to a small village to solve a terrible murder.And this is just the beginning,he bumps into people who hate him and into people who like them,but soon he finds out that the ones who like them have more to do with the murders then the others,although... Nothing seems what it is,in this incredible good plot the turns in the story are like the ones you make when catched by a twister. The big climax at the end may be a litle over the edge but it stays credible. Strange diseases,the university and the hospital,all are they factors in an horrible and evil program for a more evil purpose.. And to finish i just want to stress on the very good acting,and the good casting,although i don't watch many french films,i would never have gone to see this if i had a choice but i will be eternally grateful to my teacher who send us to this movie,it was a pleasant surprise,and i would like to reccomend it to everybody who like a good thriller. "},{"Title":"Depressed cop in depressed village","Date":"31 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is a typical film noir ; it has all the elements. A depressed city cop ,nobody knows what his problem is , comes to a small village to solve a terrible murder.And this is just the beginning,he bumps into people who hate him and into people who like them,but soon he finds out that the ones who like them have more to do with the murders then the others,although... Nothing seems what it is,in this incredible good plot the turns in the story are like the ones you make when being lift up by a twister. The big climax at the end may be a little over the edge but it stays credible. Strange diseases,the university and the hospital,all are they factors in an horrible and evil program for a more evil purpose.. And to finish i just want to stress on the very good acting,and the good casting,although i don't watch many French films,i would never have gone to see this if i had a choice but i will be eternally grateful to my teacher who send us to this movie,it was a pleasant surprise,and i would like to recommend it to everybody who likes a good thriller. "},{"Title":"A disappointing ending spoils an interesting movie","Date":"29 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I agree with most of the comments that criticise the ilogical and confusing ending of this movie. I must admit that during the first hour of the film I thought I was discovering one of the  masterpieces of the genre. Although, I would strictly recomend to modify the absurd fight with the skinheads. Unfortunately, the last fifteen minutes I realised that I was going to forget this film inmdiately. I hardly understood its ilogical end.  "},{"Title":"Gives new meaning to the phrase Franco-American","Date":"25 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This film is OK for an evening's diversion (but then, so is Porky's II).  While providing about two hour's worth of vacuous entertainment, it may also revive the age-old style vs. substance debate (again, the Porky's II comparison can be made here).***SPOILERS AHEAD***The story follows along the lines of most conventional thrillers Two police detectives investigate a series of grisly murders that occur at a remote university in the French Alps.  During their investigation, they uncover sinister goings-on at the school (the dean's wife is throwing Sexy Lady parties...no, seriously, it's something to do with horrifying genetic experiments...like when my parents had me).In a daring and creative bit of character conception, the two detectives are comprised of A) the grizzled, seen-it-all veteran (Jean Reno) and B) the young, brash rookie (Vincent Cassell).  What an original idea! I'm sure glad that the screenwriter didn't settle for stale, old stereotypes like the grizzled, seen-it-all veteran and the young, brash...Hey, wait a minute...What else do we have?  Luscious Alpine settings that enchant the viewer enough to graciously accept the convoluted storyline.  Editing and camera moves honed to a soulless, mechanical perfection.  Sure, maybe we swapped meaningful plot development for stylized hokum, but as long as it looks good, that's what's important.  Why, it's indistinguishable from your average, run-of-the-mill Hollywood flick.  That's a good thing, right? "},{"Title":"Good movie breaks at the end.","Date":"13 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Having just seen Les Riviéres Pourpres, or Crimson Rivers, I thought I´d like to comment it.In this movie Jean Reno plays Pierre Niemans, a supercop of kinds, sent to e remote mountain town to investigate a grisly murder. His investigation links him to fellow officer Max Kerkorian (Vincent Cassel), who is investigating a tomb desecration in a nearby town. This naturally leads to an increasing spiral of mystery and murder, and so forth.Niemans is another of example of the Means to an end-style of police officers, a legacy started more or less with Dirty Harry (1971), but unlike most films of these kind, he sort of lacks the opposition within his own force, which so often appears. He does things his own way, but his coworkers mostly shrug and let him get away with it.Kerkorian is an aspiring Niemans. A young guy just transferred to town, he smokes pot in the back of his squad car, breaks into houses and at one point he even steals a car.The two main characters are well realised, and especially Reno puts a good bit of grizzled emotion into his role. If anything, one can only say that they are a bit too alike, only hinging on the old/young slentrian to produce some good interplay.The film is beautifully set in the alps (i think), and the cinematography (by Thierry Arbogast) is equally great, with huge, vivid shots of snowcovered mountains, and a great intro scene.But, sadly it all breaks apart at the end. The plot simply dwindles into the unbelievable. But stay tuned, cause the ride there is great.All in all a decent movie, and worth the rental. Just don't expect a masterpiece. "}{"Title":"Dub Be Bad To Me","Date":"30 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Having read some good things about this film, and being on a bit of a French-Hollywood high in the wake of Brotherhood of the Wolf, I decided to give this classy-looking Jean Reno vehicle a rent. And it turned out to be a perfectly acceptable thriller with an intriguing setting, but from the very outset it was crippled by one thingA totally obnoxious American dub track.Yes, that's right - I'm not sure why I was cursed with this version when every other review that I've read claimed it was subtitled, but I wasn't too happy about it. Even though Jean Reno seemingly provides his own English voiceover (which is pretty surreal in itself), the rest of them - including that of Vincent Cassel, which veers wildly from hip-Californian-detective to hip-Californian-detective-doing-a-bad-French-accent, often in the same sentence - serve to absolutely ruin the atmosphere of a remote, mysterious French university town high in the mountains. Not good.In those rare moments when I could ignore the jarring dub track, the film rolled along nicely enough and packed in quite a few memorable scenes. The pounding foot chase, for instance, and the fight with the skinheads. In fact one particular moment in this fight, where Vincent Cassel clocks his attacker solidly around the head with a pool cue to a yelp of Excellent! from the Virtua Fighter announcer in the background, jumps straight in at no. 2 in the 2001 Comedy Violence League (just behind Sam Neill kicking a pterodactyl in the head then running away in Jurassic Park III).So it's not bad on the whole. The heavyweight leads are great, though they have had better roles to play with (the obvious ones being Leon and the mad-as-a-bike one-armed huntsman in Brotherhood of the Wolf), and there's at least a suggestion of an intense atmosphere that I'd dearly love to have experienced in full. But that dub track... yeesh. "},{"Title":"Excellent, but the ending has me confused","Date":"15 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I'll admit it.  I have NO idea what the solution to this movie was.  If I had watched a copy with subtitles, I might not be so confused, but I was watching a dubbed copy and the accents just lost me because the tension was running high and the actors were shouting.  So I'll need to dig around and find a subtitled copy.  However, I really enjoyed it -- it was like Seven without Brad Pitt and what more can you ask for?Jean Reno (the reason I watched this movie) gave his class-act of a world-weary man who has seen it all and wishes he hadn't.  His expressions convey so much of his characters that he doesn't even need dialogue to get his point across.  I wish that Hollywood would recognize his talent and give him some leading roles rather than sticking him in a supporting part.  Anyway...I was interested in Vincent Cassel's performance since I have enjoyed his daddy's roles over the years and I was struck by the physical resemblance.  He was like Brad Pitt's role in Seven, but NOT Brad Pitt, if that makes any sense.Nice locales in a beautiful part of the world, good script, great performances -- all adds up to 2 hours well-spent.I still want to figure out what the heck happened at the end! "},{"Title":"Suspense raised gradually - to no conclusion!","Date":"4 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Well, at the beginning I thought of this movie as a masterpiece but I have to say this feeling has quickly vanished as I watch through. The plot - overdone, derivative, and pointing to nothing. It all starts pretty well, it raises a suspense but towards the end of the movie you realize how much unbelievable and pointless that is. The cinematography, filming location and music are more than fine. It is actually the only originality in this movie. Actors are OK, Jean Reno is probably the best, but Vincence Cassel is not that bad either.As a summary I would say, that this movie is just good arrangement of a very bad plot. "},{"Title":"Don't bother","Date":"22 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I read Ebert's review of this and was intrigued, but I have to say I was disappointed.  The plot is so convoluted, and the accents so heavy, that I found myself rewinding the tape on several occasions. Recommend getting the DVD and turning subtitles on. Even then, you'll have problems following the plot. Basically, it's a serial killer murder mystery set at a mysterious university in the French Alps.  I still can't figure out why the victims were tortured and murdered, and why the killer did it, or how the killer did it, or how the killer even existed.  It's exasperating, because for awhile the movie draws you in, but the ending plot device is one of the oldest tricks in the book. I'd reveal it, but don't want to spoil it. You've seen it in many movies.  5/10. "},{"Title":"Expect the Expected","Date":"19 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I love Mathieu Kassovitz, I mean I REALLY love Mathieu Kassovitz.  He is one of the most insightful directors of our time.  He has been particularly effective with what I like to call truth-telling.  However, The Crimson Rivers is pure fiction.  Kassovitz's style is there - the demons of both Cassel and Reno's characters are aptly explored.  Nonetheless, I found the whole story to be cartoonish and the other user who commented that CR seemed to be a hybrid of Seven was right on the money.  I think that as an American viewer it is harder to suspend your disbelief with this film, as so many American films, especially recently, have already successfully explored the haunted or chased detective story line (let's just say that if Denzel spoke French he would indeed play the lead in this film).  I feel that with this film Kassovitz was really trying to spread his wings a bit - he wanted to explore the Hollywood-style thriller, and I am glad that he was able to do so.  He has always been successful in the past absorbing his American film influences and making them his own.  I think that this film will serve as a stepping-stone for greater things to come from Mathieu Kassovitz.  "},{"Title":"Not That Good!","Date":"10 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this on Wednesday, Aug 8th and I have no idea if this movie opened anywhere in the US but it wasn't as gory as I thought it would be.  I mean, when you see a quote, Seven Meets Silence of the Lambs, you would think that is where this movie would go.  Not even close.  How it all plays out is very predicable, and there were not any real surprises.  I don't think this kind of movie will play well in the states.  "},{"Title":"Okay movie, except for the ending","Date":"8 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  If SE7EN and Lethal Weapon could pro-create, their baby would be The Crimson Rivers.  This movie has some of the intelligence of the former, with some of the action and dynamics (such as the relationship between Jean Reno and and Vincent Cassel) of the latter.It was an enjoyable movie, except for the ending.  I left the theater scratching my head, and even as I continue to think about it, I'm confused by how the movie ended.I can't say I'd recommend anyone rush to the theater to see this one, but it's definitely one to rent. "},{"Title":"probably the best thriller I've seen this year","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This classy cop buddy movie is a rare treat, something we don't see often enough in the all-stodge-patty age of the MacGibson franchise.  It's been a long time since I enjoyed a film this much.One word of warning, though, it's a French language film released in the UK with subtitles so if you don't speak French or read faster than people talk you're wasting your time.The plot has a veneer of intelligence, boosted by the quality of the direction and photography, and seductive use of the fabulous, wish you were here French mountain scenery.  Two cops follow separate paths to the same murder victim's front door.  One trail follows the film's signature grotesque serial killings and the other a seemingly random series of minor real-world crimes.  Tension builds in the increasingly Gothic atmosphere of the isolated mountain town, relieved neatly with each switch to the younger cop's urban investigation.  The story weaves each cop's story up to their inevitable meeting, clash of wills, and a partnership based on grudging respect.  The worst you can say is there's a slightly Scooby Doo ending as the sinister forces at work are exposed.Jean Reno rumbles through the part of Neimans, the cerebral legend-in-his-own-time with a handy line in kicking down doors, like an on-form Nick Nolte with all the screen presence Sean Connery has forgotten.  Vincent Kassel is great value as action-man Max, the reluctant partner, a young urban maverick cop driven by unexpected Catholic guilt.  Reno gets the best deal, ambling from one no-holds-barred grotesque corpse to the next, but Kassel isn't short-changed in his edgy quest to solve a 20-year-old child killing.  Kassel's stand-out scene is a kick-ass martial arts duel with a skinhead gang, mirroring the game-console beat-em-up tournament he interrupts.  Reno's stand-out scene is .... well, any of them.Things get a bit Hollywood at the end, and the conclusion is all very unlikely, but the journey is so good you can forgive the deja-vu when you arrive.  I wish I had time to see it again! "},{"Title":"A pretty decent policier","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I'll admit this movie has its faults. It owes a great deal to American serial killer thrillers and cop buddy flicks. There was too much exposition crammed into the last 30 minutes, and I'm still not sure I completely understood the big revelation at the end. Still, I enjoyed it. I especially liked the fight scene between Cassell and the skinheads, really got my adrenaline pumping. The opening sequence showing close-ups of a cadaver was (probably a poor choice of word) fresh. The shots of the French mountains were exquisite and foreboding. Cassell's two cop sidekicks were good foils and comic relief. I think the movie showed a gothic side to France that I as an American don't often see.  "},{"Title":"Good but disappointing","Date":"6 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I haven't seen this movie at the theater, I saw it through the french 2 disc set special edition dvd. I read quite a lot about it and my expectations were very high. I think Director Mathieu Kassovitz did a great job, The director of photography Thierry Arbogast is almost as good as some of the best american cinematographers, the editing is good, the soundtrack is by far the very best I ever experienced from a french movie(Saw it with dts 6 channels). So what's wrong with it ?. I haven't seen yet any french actor who doesn't recite his dialogue, I think Jean Reno outperforms Vincent Cassel(he is not helped by his dialogue either) and some supporting roles are simply terrible. The script is very predictable and that is the worst as I understood who the killer was quickly and believe me that spoils it all. Neverheless, french cinema is on the way to gradually becoming as good as american movies. We are far from being there, but this film is the good example that we'll get there someday.        "}{"Title":"The good, the bad, and the ugly","Date":"3 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This film is a cliche, empty of content, leaving you with a sense of profound disappointment. The disappointment is all the more acute, since the first 40 mins or so do not show it in this light. The first scenes showing the dead body, accompanied by interesting soundtrack, are really promising. (It's not a rotten body, as some might think, but a body starting to rot, which happens immediately after death---hence its relevance to the film.) Then Jean Reno appears, although already then---where, for example, he is looking for lighter---you can detect the moves you've seen numerous times in other films. Nevertheless, the film is off to a good start. The grisly scenes are shocking, but not tasteless at all. The second line of the plot, with the detective Cassel, is a smart move. You can always admire two investigators coming from different angles to the same thing. But their characters are under-developed, to put it mildly. They are smart, know to fight, and humane. Wonderful. But when they get together, it's boring. Their relationship is one big cliche borrowed from 1001 American films of the past 25-30 years, starting perhaps with 'Dirty Harry', or earlier.This is where the film gets bad. But it gets ugly when you realize what the fuss was about. Sure 'X-files' looks more realistic than that! This is not because the racial selection was never tried, but because in order to make it convincing you've got to spend a nice effort and more time, than this film does. It's not enough just to read out from a doctoral thesis for two or three minutes. The film, however, gets even uglier in the last 15-20 mins, where everything is rushed in such a hurry, that you wonder whether there was a huge budget cut. The ending in the mountains is truly dumb, and it delivers a mortal blow to the film.There are many more chestnuts in the film, like the Reno/Fares relationship, the description of the college (strikes me as a common misguided perception of Oxford or Cambridge, rather than a European university), and the fight with the skinheads. Rating 5.0. "},{"Title":"Inferior copy of Hollywood recipes","Date":"30 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Each scene in this movie brings either disbelief, plot holes or embarrassement when we see how the recipes that make Hollywood's expertise are wasted in this subsubsubSe7en.Some scenes are directly ripped off other movies, for example Se7en and (?!) The Omen.Interestingly though, I've also watched the making-off on the disc2 of the French DVD edition. Usually a making of is about a crew explaining how they succeded in making a movie. Here they are explaining how they have failed. And they point to the right problem  they failed to reproduce the very strenght of Hollywood movies  expertise in scriptwriting and storytelling.However, Les Rivières Pourpres will be remembered for starting off a long series of French movies that brought back the marketshare of French movies in France to over 50% in 2001. "},{"Title":"Excellent Story Telling","Date":"21 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I went to see this movie with not too much confidence. I've read some comments in this page and some of them were not encouraging. However, I must rate it 8 out 10. A very good story, It cannot be compared to Seven. This is something totally different except for the grotesque the images may look, Good direction. Nice photography. A good touch humor. I would only have convey better the explanation of the incidents because at the end it leaves you trying to figure out some parts of the hidden story, For the rest, there is nothing to complain of about this movie. It is a must-see. I agree it is not The Movie. but you will enjoy it and be entertained with it. "},{"Title":"Wasted Opportunity","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Many people have commented on this film's likeness to Se7en, which is not unreasonable. There is also some Silence of the Lambs, Black Rain and bit of Matrix in there.Sounds good, eh ?Well, not really. Better to be a defining film than a mixture of me-toos. 'Rivieres' seems to be a patchwork of borrowed images, themes and styles, without asserting itself independently.So even if we all agree that it's not a classic, it can still be a good film, no?Rather than a good film, I'd call it a near miss. There are a few moments when the film starts to get a grip on you, but it can't hold it.The plot is at once very complicated and badly explained (even at the end) but at the same time it's quite easy to predict the general outline of the solution to the mystery.The acting is average and the direction is below par. "},{"Title":"A french 7!","Date":"28 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Somewhere in the mountains close to Grenoble, a cruel disfigured dead body of a university-teacher is found. Commisaire Niemans (Jean Reno) from Paris investigates at the university. In Sarzac,  a town 200 km away, Lieutenant Max Kerkerian  (Vincent Cassel) investigates the case of a grave  desecration. The trace leads him to Niemans. The both team up with each other. Was it possibly a ritual murder?After bloodless movies like The bone collector, I  thought the genre of serial-killer thrillers is  dead. I didn´t think that Les rivieres pourpres would tell me anything new, though I heard only good things about it. But Mathieu Kassovitz, the  acclaimed director of La Haine, knew it better. The frightening opening scene with the hypnotizing music carries you right into the happening! The  experienced cop against greenhorn character- constellation is not new - but effective! Besides the weak ending; the twisted story and the brilliant actors kept me on the edge of my seat! Speaking of the actors - well,  usually I hate such comparisons, but I would call Jean Reno a french Robert de Niro. Can something go wrong when you have him in a movie?France doesn´t need to hide from Hollywood - a dignified revival of its genre!  "},{"Title":"Refreshing from beginning... till the end.","Date":"7 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Different. This was my first impression while the opening sequence was displaying on screen. And it persist in my mind till it was pushed from there by the last (and improbable) events. But let's go step by step.I have no complaints at all for the first half of the movie. The plot was intriguing, the acting wonderful and the directing simply astounding. Only a couple of examples the aerial shot at the car of commissaire Niémans that ends being a true helicopter pursuit or the photograph of the accident, seen only from behind. In fact the film is superb while the two sub-plots are independent (slightly better the one with Jean Reno) but, by the time they converge, it begins to lose mystery and to gain action. And the change isn't to better.Just when the film has the possibility to become darker everybody begins to behave silly. The great secret, only glimpsed for brief but thrilling moments, is given away due to a clue that anyone with a minimum of intelligence would have hidden. And so on. But the worst thing is the incoherent final surprise. The movie makers forget that the end not only must be surprising but also logical, so logical indeed that nobody could imagine it till it's explained (remember The sixth sense or any short story from Isaac Asimov).Overall a good idea partially wasted for the resolution. Despite that I give it an 8 out of 10, just for the splendid time i passed watching it and the good moments (a fight, the beauty and well exploited scenery and the interesting camera work) it contains. "},{"Title":"A thriller that gets through your veins","Date":"5 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  At the beginning, we can appreciate and see how beautiful, mysterious, perfect and fascinating a dead body could be. As well as how the forms and the color can create an atmosphere uniquely exhilarating; creating a necessity to know and find out what's inside it, or what is the story that it brings along with him. And then without realizing it, we suddenly get caught inside the film without having the chance of even blinking our eyes.The film itself creates an environment that is asphyxiating, grisly and dangerous. A film that slightly takes you deep inside a world of despair, revenge and anger, in search for something we are intended to understand as Niemmans had. Once you got inside the net of this story it never lets go, it is like nightmare from which you just can't seem to wake up easily, maybe because you don't want to. And then, when you think it is slowing down or about to finish, it takes again down the roller-coaster.I'm sure this film will be very controversial because of its way to much a-la-americanne, but the truth is I hadn't felt like this for a movie in a long time. It was one of those experiences that kept me at the edge of my seat and turned my mind into mush. And of course, there is Jean Reno, who's one of my all time favorite actors and Vincent Cassel who always surprises me with his different roles, I couldn't have thought of anyone better but these two actors to be in this film.So great cast, great directing (I'm sure I'll be seeing the director at Hollywood very soon), great plot, and great atmosphere. This film reminded me what is what I love so much about films.  "},{"Title":"a dark and gloomy psycho-thriller that's still good fun","Date":"4 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I had a mixed feeling about going to see this movie, partly because of the mutilated descriptions offered by the media (dark, gloomy, sometimes revolting depiction of carcasses) and partly because of the artyness often involved in french films. To my surprise, both of my doubts worked well for the film, it's entertaining, but never superficial, the actors always live up to their roles without showing off. The quarrel between the old pro investigator (Jean Reno) and his unwanted sidekick from the province (Vincent Cassel) offers much fun throughout without ever being ridiculous; the murder mystery creates suspense right up to the end (which is a bit of a let-down, I must admit). A good film, no doubt, and for many reasons way above your usual Hollywood thriller. "},{"Title":"technically convincing","Date":"2 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Without having read anything about it before, this film caught me completely off-guard. The exceptional cinematography and the orchestral musical score drew me into a tense story. And unlike other reviewers, I did not find the end too predictable. So, to me it was a technically brilliant thriller with a worthy message. "},{"Title":"the charms of european cinema","Date":"29 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  From the first second until the last one, this movie offers a real alternative to the U.S. productions focussing on similar plots. First of all one has to mention, that it is rather the main characters and the unique alpine scenery that create the movies atmosphere. The viewer quickly realizes the fact, that the story is not too complex, but the great duo of the two commissaires make up for this. In my eyes one of the best european suspense-thrillers. "}{"Title":"Dark French Crime Thriller","Date":"23 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  A very dark French crime thriller, that borrows from movies such as Se7en or Silence of the Lambs. Once again Thierry Arbogast (cinematographer) has shown why he is considered France's best cameraman around - the aerial views and twists and turns the camera takes when following the characters around in dark buildings or open landscapes are simply amazing. The acting by Jean Reno and Vincent Cassel are both top notch - all in all a remarkable film, that is well worth watching - you're pretty much guaranteed not to guess the ending in the beginning of the film. 8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Very good crime story","Date":"20 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  It was too brutal for me, but thats only personal. You'll see multiple human corpses in it, and an indeed hard fight.The movie itself was very good, much suspense and good suspense development, very good style and atmosphere, just everything one would expect from this type of movie.In fact, the character interaction in this film was maybe the best part, the characterization of the different people was extraordinary well.Sometimes the movie was even funny. Too, there is some very, very decent romance.In the end, there where some logical holes in the story, and some major unbelievable facts, which I all can't specify without giving big spoilers. But I didn't noticed these during the movie itself, only after leaving the cinema and thinking about what I have seen.If you like crime stories, I think I can recommend this for you.  "},{"Title":"Destroyed by lack of continuity","Date":"25 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This movie starts off well, with good atmosphere and what appear to be strong characters. This good feeling lasts through the first third of the movie, whereupon the director begins to lose sight of the movie, and starts throwing in what seem to be abstract images. It seems that a large collection of interesting images have been placed together, with little emphasis placed on the connection between them. We're shown images of convents, body parts, and avalanches, with the connections barely explained. In the end, while the movie has excellent art direction, its plot is either too poor to begin with, or essential parts have been cut from it, and this makes it rather boring in the end, and the 'surprise' ending is more bewildering than exciting.(and just for the record, I think the sub-titling was atrocious, I speak some french, and often times the translation was rather poor) "},{"Title":"An interesting twist on the serial killer genre","Date":"11 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  With Hannibal still making a killing at the box office, there is no denying that serial killers, who manage to simultaneously repulse and fascinate us, draw moviegoers, something that Hollywood clued into years ago.  But for every Silence of the Lambs or In Cold Blood we are faced with pretenders to the throne like The Bone Collector or that are poorly written, badly acted and lacking in panache.  While largely a North American phenomenon - most foreign serial killers have been shown to be motivated by necessity (food, money, etc), - the subject matter has drawn the attention of foreign filmmakers, which begs the question of how they will interpret the actions of this most unique group of predators.  Are they driven by nature, nurture, or some unknown qualifier? The small town of Guernon in the French Alps is home to one of the smallest and most exclusive universities in the world - both the students and faculty are from the village and the local environs.  When the University librarian's horribly, mutilated body is discovered trussed up like a suckling pig, Paris dispatches Commissioner Pierre Niemans, to solve the crime.   Soon after his arrival, more bodies are discovered, and Niemans crosses paths with Max Kerkérian, a lieutenant from a nearby town investigating the desecration of a young girl's grave by Neo-Nazis.  The duo is soon drawn into the depths of the Guernon's dark past and dirty secrets.Unlike Baise Moi the other French serial killer film currently in release and gaining notoriety for its Natural Born Killers style of thrills killing and hard-core sex scenes intended to shock viewers, The Crimson River is actually plot-driven.  The script - with its clearly European flair - is well written, and steadily paced, the scenery, particularly the alpine and glacial venues, is breathtaking, (no Vertical Limits Styrofoam ice caves here), and the characters are for the most part well developed.Jean Reno brings the same gritty no-nonsense manner that he displayed in The Professional to Commissioner Niemans.  Niemans is as much of an enigma as the mystery he is tasked with solving - we know only of his reputation in law enforcement circles as a supersleuth, and that he appears to be unbalanced.  His partner lieutenant Kerkerian, played by Vincent Cassel, doesn't bring any more stability to the pairing.  Kerkerian openly flouts minor laws in pursuit of criminals and possesses a dry wit similar to Dirty Harry and is subsumed by an undercurrent of explosive rage that culminates in a well-choreographed fight scene (rare in this genre). The characters gel well and compliment one another, ever if they choose not to admit it.In spite of the tight script and good acting, the film ultimately comes down with a case of Hollywooditis - the ending is contrived and does not make a whole lot of sense within the context of the rest of the film.  Pity. A good Tuesday nighter. "},{"Title":"Great directing but a rough story line","Date":"5 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Kassovitz is good at creating a heavy atmosphere. Because he knows how to use good actors in the scope of their talents. The first hour is a great example of it and the suspense becomes tighter as the two cases are converging on that strange college dedicated to physical education.But once we get too close to the meaning of Crimson Rivers (ie the car pursuit), the suspense goes loose. We then know most of the mystery and yet it's not clear what's behind the scenes. Thus Kassovitz hurries up to end his movie which is quite frustrating.Aside from the great directing work I think J.C.Grangé's novel should have been changed more to make the suspense reach a peak in the final scene. In the movie it's a really far-fetched ending. Not worthy of its director. The facts are Grangé builds up intricate plots but doesn't know how to finish on the same level. As Kasso choose Grangé to adapt his own novel it was difficult to expect a better ending.Other remarks the close shots of the body in the opening sequence are a bit too much even if they have you get directly in the movie. The way the police is depicted has become a ridiculous caricature whereas Hate was more mature on that point. "},{"Title":"Great directing, weak plot","Date":"15 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is a good film. Could have been a great film if the plot wasn't so weak. It's also true that the plot is weak because the Director didn't follow literally the novel but made a lot of changes to preserve the final surprise. "},{"Title":"100% Suspense","Date":"25 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I was somewhat reluctant to go and watch this film as the imdb score was not exceptionally high, in contrast to some very positive reviews I had read in several film magazines. I must say that I was not disappointed the film is superb. The settings, music and actors' play are cleverly combined to enhance suspense throughout the film. Jean Reno is wonderful, as usual. The different plays of Reno and Vincent Cassel help relax the atmosphere which would otherwise be unbearable. My only regret is that the conclusion was a bit too hasty for my liking but that should not prevent you from enjoying every minute of it. "},{"Title":"When Se7en meets The Shining in France","Date":"20 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is truly a very interesting picture. The French Cinema New-New Wave leader Mathieu Kassovitz is directing an edgy film noir that strongly resembles Seven yet goes beyond any predictable cliches of the thriller genre. Moreover, the setting of the cold, snowy French Alps where is nested the unfriendly, dark University campus where the crimes are linked to, reminded me of The Shining's Overlook hotel and the snowcapped Rockies' eerie maze. Every single shot is very well crafted and supports the dark side of the plot, enhancing the great performances by Jean reno and Vincent Cassel and making this movie haunt you well after you left the theater. The story itself, based on the eugenism and genetic manipulations, is complex and mysterious enough to keep you wondering until the end what the hell is going on, and especially who can be sick enough to cut off the hands and remove the eyes of the victims. A great French thriller that has nothing to fear from the American models. "},{"Title":"Duo investigations lose tension","Date":"14 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Parisian police commissioner Pierre Niemans (Jean Reno) is called in to investigate a murder of 32-year old single professor Rémy Caillois of mountain-side picturesque university in Gueron. He's been horribly beaten left naked in a fetal position on the side of a mountain. The university is an isolated self-sufficient incestuous place. Meanwhile volatile inspector Max Kerkerian (Vincent Cassel) is investigating a grave desecration and a school break in.I really like the start with the creepy isolated location and the vicious murder investigation. I like the tone of it and I love Jean Reno's work. Then they split the movie into two investigations. I have nothing against Vincent Cassel or his side of the story. I just couldn't wait for them to get back to Reno. It just breaks up the movie and takes away the tension. The two investigations give off different tones anyways. Around midway, the two detectives are forced together but it needed to happen sooner. They form a fine combative duo. With more time together, they could create more chemistry in the relationship. The mystery is a convoluted one and not altogether satisfying. There is just one too many craziness going on. "},{"Title":"Underrated, pop-corn thriller","Date":"28 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Mathieu Kassovitz's The Crimson Rivers is one of the more watchable Se7en knock offs. A deliberately lurid and ridiculously fast moving serial killer/detective movie, the film finds a pair of mismatched detectives braving incessant rain, snow, thunder storms and dark shadows to catch various gruesome villains.The film lays the style, atmosphere and mood on thick, features actors Vincent Cassel and Jean Reno as super-cool scenery chewing cops, knows how to milk suspense, silence, anticipation and horror, features a very good foot chase, some very good camera work, and is stylish without being too tacky. The character Reno plays channels Morgan Freeman's character in Se7en, whilst Cassel channels Brad Pitt's. The film also cribs the better bits from Silence of the Lambs, Jennifer 8 and Manhunter - all good genre films - but because this whole gothic police detective (which originated with Edgar Alen Poe, father of the detective story) genre spins around archetypes, familiarity, mood and the cosy embrace of convention, you don't care. For more radical fare within this genre, seek out Bruno Dumont's L'humanité, or perhaps The Wire.The film's plot &#x96; some business about Nazi super soldiers - recalls both The Boys From Brazil and Name of the Rose, only faster, harder and with more rain. The film climaxes with a dumb car chase, a dumb showdown, and then an even dumber CGI avalanche. Some of its camera work is inspired by both De Palma and Kubrick. Unlike Se7en copycats like Kiss The Girls and The Bone Collector, The Crimson Rivers goes for a more operatic, more voluptuous, more shamelessly lurid, more deliberately macabre tone. It's what Scorsese recently tried and failed to do with Shutter Island (and earlier, Cape Fear).If this review plays like a string of references, its because The Crimson Rivers, a postmodern collage, is itself all about references and ticked boxes. 7.9/10 &#x96; Good popcorn. See Jeniffer 8, Silence of the Lambs, Memories of Murder, Mother, Manhunter and Se7en. "}{"Title":"One of Jean's better films","Date":"1 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This was a really good who done it film. A detective Pierre Niemans (Jean Reno) is brought to a university on a mountain where a grisly murder has taken place. Clues lead him to find out what is going on in the peaceful campus. In the background is another detective Max Kerkerian (Played by Vince Cassel) who in his own scrimmage of finding out a small vandalism of Swasticas on a grave leads him to the university as well. More clues emerge as each detective finds out that the heads of the university has secretly been manipulating human genomes to create again, the master race. But to give the plot more thickness, Niemans (Reno) discovers by his new partner, that the grave for which the vandalism took place was empty. The supposed little girl who died was not there. This twist of the movie kept me on the edge of my seat. With grand clues, dead ends, mutilated bodies, and dogs for which Niemans has a fear of. All together has given this gem of a thriller a big thumbs up for a foreign film. Jean Reno is at his best, as well as Vince Cassel who by any means is a really good detective role player. His character has wit, strength, and above all a keen eye for clues. Both work really well together. I hope in the future, both can do another of such films. "},{"Title":"Breath taking plot in a fabulous scenery","Date":"21 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This film was shot in English for the main actors and not dubbed afterwards, or if it was it was by these main actors. That gives them a sort of flat accent, without being French, yet not quite natural. The film is an action film in the Alps, in winter, with breath-taking scenes in the mountains, even an avalanche. The plot itself is simple but at the end only. They keep us in the blue or the dark all along. A French university that was trying to produce the perfect race by manipulating the genes of people by organizing their births and shifting babies around in a maternity to make sure the selection worked. That required quite a lot of planning and secrecy and all of it criminal to the utmost. Till twin survivors of these swamps arrive on campus and start cleaning up the plate and that's when the police comes into the picture. All that is rather simple as I said but with the French art of hiding up the truth as long as possible and transporting us from right to left and dumping us in the middle so that we are finally amazed by the simplicity that we had not seen of course. And the eyes being an essential element in this criminal case we are those who are tickled around the gills. But for a bunch of girls they did a good job at keeping the police at bay and us panting.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne, University Paris 8 Saint Denis, University Paris 12 Créteil, CEGID "},{"Title":"An American chimes in","Date":"16 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This French crime thriller has a tremendous global reputation and it is well deserved. Shame on me, but one reason is that it IS an American crime thriller. Only everyone involved is French, they speak French and it was filmed in France.This is not to criticize this flick, but this movie references a ton of American movies. For one reference, The Shining. The entire setting is at a university in the French Alps that is so remote that it can be cut off for a month at a time during winter from the nearby village. What are they up to? This is not your normal university. It is so insular that most of the professors and students, all of whom are geniuses, are children of former professors and students. Can you say, eugenics? One step to uber race.The setting is a stunning portrayal of a remote place in the Alps. In the U.S., this would be the Rockies. Or, perhaps, the Sierra Nevada. Lonesome territory. Who knows what goes on.The ending revelation, I have to admit, caught me by surprise. But it was earned.I am not one to urge American remakes of European films, but this would work as a remake stateside because the plot touches on issues that Americans have had (at least a little) experience with -- fascism, eugenics and racism.That stuff was crazy. But there is a vestigial legacy. Can you say tea party? "},{"Title":"Something about good genes ( not the Levi's kind) ........","Date":"9 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The movie works for the most part, but gets progressively less coherent as it goes along. Certainly the mountain setting is perfect, and the acting totally acceptable. There is good chemistry between Jean Reno and Vincent Cassel. The action sequences are also quite good. The problems with the film are two fold. The English dubbing in places is only marginally understandable, and the story doesn't flow so that you are able to comprehend what is taking place on the screen. I don't know? Perhaps something is being lost in the translation, but to me, The Crimson Rivers is somewhat flawed, but watchable. Just my opinion. - MERK "},{"Title":"Good thriller","Date":"13 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Recap A calm and remote, but at the same time, secluded and elitist, college in the alps is shaken by a hideous murder. The head librarian is mutilated and left dead, hanging over 60 meter up a steep cliff. To aid the local police Pierre Niemans is sent from Paris. He is a legend among the officers and has specialized in odd murders. However, here I fumbles in the dark. And everything seem to come to a point when Max Kerkerian, a lieutenant in a nearby town, suddenly looks for the same suspect in connection to accident which killed a little girl over 20 years ago.Comments A good enough thriller that was able to keep interest all the way, despite being a little too predictable in the end. Meant to be a real hunt in the dark, too much of the solution surfaces a little too early to give this thriller a real edge.Luckily the story is driven by characters played by quality actors, Jean Reno and Vincent Cassel. Both are underrated and a little lost to the big world in French cinema. It's unfortunate because both are really good. Jean Reno has had his share of Hollywood fame but Cassel has mostly been given parts as the bad guy outside France. A real pity, because he has shown that he handles all aspects of acting, and he does here again. Whatever fault this movie has, it is not because it is lacking in its lead actors.And there is not much lacking in the story either. It is a good thriller with its full share of suspense and a little adventure. Unfortunately, as mentioned above, it doesn't really hold all the way through. But it was good fun to watch it.This is a movie fully able to compare with movies from England and North America and to disregard it because its origin is a mistake. And most actors are fluent in English and has dubbed their own voices. However, if you have a choice, my recommendation would to be the French audio and English subtitles. Then you will not get the annoying fact of the dialog being out of sync with the actors lips.7/10 "},{"Title":"What a pity!","Date":"30 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The lighting and the music in crimson rivers gave me a headache (and i watched it at home on a regular size TV screen not in the theatre), it was awful; everything white or lit was blindingly shining for no particular reason!!! the music was horrible too and out of sync. with suspense scenes..the acting was good though so was the story, it's a shame that the lighting and the music ruined what could have been a good movie! One scene was stupid, it was when Niemans was talking to Marie to send back up, he was having a conversation with her right in front of his captors who were just standing there letting him pour his heart out to Marie and ask her to send back up!!! come on, that was a stupid scene. Also, there were many scenes with unnecessary depiction of body parts which by the way did look fake (thank god)! "},{"Title":"Superb thriller!","Date":"12 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" PIERRE NIEMANS is France's leading serial killer investigator, who investigates several grisly crimes in which the victims eyes & hands have been removed before death, with a help of a Detective named MAX, he discovers that the murders are some how tied to the death of a young girl many years prior & sets out to solve the puzzle & to stop this depraved lunatic, before more people falls prey to him. But he soon realizes that there was more to the crimes than what he thought & what he knows about the killings is only half right & the killer once he realizes that Niemans is on his trail, sets out to stop him & his partner, from ever finding out the real truth. THE CRIMSON RIVERS turned out to be a well made & well shot movie, based on the novel RED BLOOD RIVERS by JOHN CHRISTOPHE, each frame of this thriller is eye catching, the camera work splendid, the actors were fantastic, the scenery beautiful, & the film never lets up, always giving us something to watch & keeping us interested. The characters were well drawn out & the mystery of who this is that's killing & why, is intriguing, with plenty of plot twists & a neat twist ending that I never saw coming. Highly recommended & better than many glossy Hollywood thrillers! Dubbed in English & followed by a sequel, CRIMSON RIVERS 2.**** stars "},{"Title":"well build and interesting film","Date":"13 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I rarely watch any movies that aren't from England or USA. However, this one sounded interesting enough, so I decided to give it a shot. Starting out with two different cases and binding them together gives the film a solid base where to build. It works really well. Some scenes of the film are a bit slow, but not to the point where it would seriously start annoying.The plot reveals itself slowly but surely, and doesn't give away anything too soon, it's impossible to know anything before the characters know it as well. Nothing can not be predicted, and it's definitely a huge plus comparing to most American Hollywood films, where the plot is too obvious and doesn't leave any room for hypothesis of what is yet to come.The cast does a great job as well. I have always been an admirer of Reno's work, and Cassel's and Farès' characters are superb supporters. Rest of the cast remains a bit shallow, but the film doesn't give any chance for them to grow either.All in all, a great film with good cast, good plot and decent score. Can't go wrong with those stats.  "},{"Title":"Barely rises above the average thriller...","Date":"11 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I remember seeing this one on video at the time of it's video release. Some of the images actually managed to stick with me, like the menacing school, the corpse in the ice-cave and the avalanche at the end. However, as I saw it yesterday I realized that this film doesn't really rise above the average American thriller when you think about it. It's always refreshing to see a film in a different locale acted out in a different language,(as I, as a European does not have a problem with subtitles) but the plot basically stays the same, and the ending feels like a big cliché.Mathieu Kassovitz, who directed this film pulls off some amazing shots at the beginning of the film that are just beautiful to look at and Crimson Rivers will forever be remembered as a film containing some of the most beautifully shot footage, using a helicopter. The rest of the movie stays more or less true to the opening impression but never surprises beyond that. Credit has to be  given for the avalanche scenes toward the end though, where you really feel as though you're in there with the actors as they're covered with snow and then dug up by the rescue team. Thierry Arbogast, the films cinematographer did a great job collaborating with Kassovitz and it's probably him that should be thanked for the look of the film. However Kassovitz later did the highly atmospheric Gothika without Arbogast so maybe he didn't have so much to do with it after all?The film would have have benefited from a more powerful soundtrack. The music composed by Bruno Coulais is a bit lame and could've been spiced up a bit to elevate the atmosphere to a higher level of fear than is represented in the film. The music can sometimes be the most important ingredient in a film and here it's just not good enough.The actors do a great job and Jean Reno as a cop is something I haven't seen in any other film. But then again, I haven't seen everyone of his films.As for the movie as a whole I'm not sure what they aimed at with this film. It's never the least scary and the cops scattered throughout the film are intended to be funny (and they are, for the most). Films that don't know where they want to be placed and mixes equal doses of action and humor are generally considered mainstream. It feels sad to say it, but Crimson Rivers does not rise above it. If you want to see a film that is A) European with subtitles, B)have a clear view of what it want to achieve in terms of fear and C)has a similar but better plot, go rent the German Horror/Thriller Anatomie! Or it's sequel for that matter, as even that is better than this film. "},{"Title":"Where was this hiding?","Date":"12 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Jean Reno is called to a small village to help solve what quickly becomes a series of odd deaths around private school. What transpires  after his arrival is simply one of the best thrillers in years. Things move along at a good clip and remain just enough off center in the right sort of ways that you really can feel the tension move up several notches as things progress.Although he is joined by a local cop running his own investigation this is far from a buddy film since it a good long while before they even meet and even then there is always sense of distrust between them even if they respect each other. Since we are following both detectives we know things the other one doesn't and even then we are never certain of whether we can truly trust either one of them.The sole problem with the film is the final ten minutes where everything comes together and is explained comes off as run of the mill which is something that the previous 100 minutes was not. It does weaken the film, but doesn't destroy it. Hell, anyone I've shown the film to has wanted more, a feeling I hope the promised sequel more than satisfies "}{"Title":"Great movie, adapted from a novel","Date":"14 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Yes, excellent picture, great acting, dark mood.I would like to precise, to those interested, that this movie is adapted from a -french- novel (same title Les Rivières Pourpres), novel which makes the story much better (like usual in this kind of connection between litterature and cinema); i read the book before watching the movie, and i was quite disappointed, but trust me the book is so .. so .. dark and deep that Kassovitz couldn't have made better than what he succeed to adapt. To those who wants to understand the real point about this strange story, find the book and read it. Then watch back the movie. "},{"Title":"Uh, you know you're in trouble when...","Date":"21 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" ...the actors and crew reveal, in the special DVD features interviews section, that even they never really understood the plot.  Fabulous scenery (Chermonix largely), but don't plan on really understanding the entire plot or being able to plug all of the pieces together at the end of the movie.Low marks as well for overly dramatic background music--if every single scene is over-dramatized with your standard rumbly, deep-bass, profundo oh my god what's going to happen next music, then the scenes that really merit that sort of musical scoring don't have the same oomph or impact. "},{"Title":"The French mimic Hollywood in this second-rate thriller.","Date":"11 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  A secretive, insulated university in the French Alps is threatened by a diabolical killer.  A brutally mutilated corpse and a graveyard desecration send two cops, both well-stocked in the attitude department, on converging paths.  Together they confront the university's dark past and the killer's bizarre plan.Combine equal parts of The Boys from Brazil and Smilla's Sense of Snow, remove all the best bits, add a touch of Se7en, coat liberally with Hollywood-grade icing... and you've got The Crimson Rivers.  This film stumbles from one hackneyed cliche to the next, never getting up on its own two feet to do the honest work of storytelling.  The copses are nasty, yes, but the film never takes the real sort of risks that Se7en does.  The cop characters are the most basic sort of archetypes--the moody old guy, and the young hothead who starts fights with scummy lowlifes for no good reason.  Their clues and connections come too easily, playing like a childish game of connect-the-dots.  The film also includes one laughable scene in which characters make a completely impossible escape from certain death.  Worst of all, the killer is painfully obvious much too early in the film--except for a garish, melodramatic twist at the end.At the 2001 Seattle International Film Festival director Mathieu Kassovitz was asked, during a Q&A, about a certain element of the Commissaire Niemans character, played by Jean Reno.  Kassovitz answered with It's just a gimmick.  Ugh.  Isn't there a list handed out at film school regarding what directors should never, never, never admit? "},{"Title":"Simply, excellent","Date":"5 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  When I saw the trailer, I thought it'd just be a cool French crime movie, with these two giants Jean Reno and Vincent Cassel. I imagined a typical plot, enhanced with the blood many French films delight us with lately. Instead, this is a great thriller, just like Seven, but set in beautiful French locations. A dark plot in an ancient University adds more flavor, and a kickboxing fight, not unlike those of Matrix, finishes the perfect dinner.I don't usually praise a movie every five minutes, but I did just that with this one. Everything was great. I will go to the cinema tomorrow to watch it again! "},{"Title":"when the valley is too narrow the folk's blood becomes polluted. CHILLING","Date":"14 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  It is quite difficult to recognize Mathieu Kassowitz's hand in this well shot thriller film. Nothing to do with the excellent social film success (after the non well achieved Assasins) La Haine - The Hate.The beautiful -and well photographed- snowfalled mountains of the surrounders of Guernon-France are the chilling frames for this storya dead body badly crippled was found in a top mountains glacier where only an alpinist could find it. The shooting shows unseeable details of a tortured and tormented body. This event mixed completely up the local peacefulness of the police organization and an expert commisary (Jean Reno) comes from Paris. The body belongs to a librarian of a famous elite and exclusive -only 1700 students- University in Guernon. Another body is found into the ice of another glacier. In parallel, 150 km away from Guernon, a girl's grave has been profaned and the archives of the young girl -badly ran over by a car in the motorway- disappeared from the primary school's files. A local policeman, Vincent Cassel (Monica Belluci's husband), takes care of this case. Both stories, which initially seems not be linked, cross each other in an exponential whole story complexity and tension.The narrow valleys might give genetic surprises and weaknesses if blood people is not properly mixed and is only at a close circuit. The theory of the film is to carry out genetic experiment in order to improve, strengthen and purify the valley's race. Hands and eyes are the only one that mark the bodies.Similar experiment were done in the film The kids from Brasil with a well defined nazi denotation and dogma. A sane mind in a sane body. The perfect man. The perfect race. We are the leaders, we are the slaves that reign on les rivieres pourpres.Both actors are great for this terrific French film which is a very good example of a scary and intelligent, movie, done with good production supports without being necessarily an American film.Rating 6/10  "},{"Title":"COP out.","Date":"26 August 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" It's really depressing to visit Paris and learn that they have rap stars in France. Not that I didn't expect them to be able to rap, but the form is so completely a product of lower income American black culture that it's absurd to find it transplanted wholesale to another culture with different forces at work.As for who requires France to make thrillers as superficial, unsatisfying and failed as our own, I cannot say.The movie Americanizes lowbrow French entertainment to a grotesque degree. It features a plot so convoluted that it makes a viewers ask; what kind of dim-witted secret society stages elaborate murders so as to draw police attention? Rather than offer a clever solution the movie cops out (way out) by invoking ever more absurd scales, that makes one wonder how on earth it can end. But it does end, quite badly, and after our heros have encountered (supposedly) the worst that humanity has to offer, they stick around for an insipid five second closing shot in which they shrug off what for most people (especially the French) would have been cause to ruminate on the sources of mankind's desperation & evil.Instead, they brush it all off with a dumb, hearty laugh... and the credits roll; the same dumb, hearty laugh that ended 90 percent of American cop shows in the 70s. Absurd. "},{"Title":"We'll go down to the River","Date":"9 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Jean Reno and Vincent Cassel are two policemen working on different cases who later work together when the cases overlap. I liked this movie, although the ending seemed rushed and foreseeable. The acting is good, I just implore you to watch the film sub-titled (a good rule of thumb for ANY foreign movie). The scenery is gorgeous and the story is serviceable enough. Of all the Jean Reno films I've seen thus far, I'd have to say this is my third favorite (just behind Ronin, but WAY behind the outright superb Leon) My Grade B USA DVD Extras Commentary by Director, Mathieu Kassovitz, Jean Reno & Vincent Cassel; Making of documentary; 'Making of a corpse' featurette; The Chase storyboard comparisons; The Avalanche multi-angle; filmographies; and Theatrical Trailer (if you have a region-free DVD player buy the 2 disk UK set instead, as it has better extras) "},{"Title":"A good movie that could have been great, had it just picked a genre and sticked to it","Date":"4 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  When I sat down to watch this movie, I knew it was gonna be a thriller. Unfortunately, the film itself didn't seem to know this, and kept jumping between genres. I don't know who is to blame, the director, the scriptwriter, or someone else, but someone obviously didn't realize the importance of picking one(or two, if you can't pick just one) genre and sticked to that. Instead, what we have is a movie that is primarily a thriller, but has parts of action, horror, and a few sub-genres... there was even a scene of martial arts action; who in their right mind puts martial arts in a thriller? Apart from the problem of not settling on one genre, the film is pretty good. The mystery was quite good, though I'm not sure I entirely understood it. The thriller portions of the film were well-done, and the film has good atmosphere at a few points. The film has some creepy, disturbing and downright nasty scenes involving corpses and body parts. The cinematography was pretty good, but nothing too memorable. One mistake the filmmakers made was making just about every member of the French police force seem like a retard; obviously done for comic relief, but done wrong and pushed too far. In the end, it's pathetic, and actually annoying to watch, rather than entertaining. If they wanted comic relief, they should have implemented it through dialog. Fortunately, though, there aren't too many scenes of these failed attempts at comedy, so it's easily forgiven. The humor that there was, the parts of it that work, were more often than not good, and I liked the relationship between the two main characters, which made for much better, and more entertaining, comic relief. The last problem the film has, is what I like to call the Hollywood Syndrome; the last half hour or so being painfully predictable, and the very end being so awfully happy ending-like that it almost takes the enjoyment out of the pretty good film you've just watched. However, all in all, if you can ignore the shortcomings of the film, it actually makes for a good watch, if you can take the violence and you like a good mystery. A final note; as the film is French, not English(or American, for that matter) the dialog is all in French. My French being crappy, pardon my French(sorry, bad pun), I saw this with subtitles(not that I had much choice, as I saw it on TV, but anyway), so if you don't understand French, you might wanna make sure that the version you're seeing is subtitled(I've heard that there is an English-dubbed version, and that it's awful), in order for you to actually follow what's going on in the film. OK, one final note(yeah, I lied before. Sue me); while watching this, I realized that Jean Reno actually sounds cooler when speaking French than when speaking English. I recommend this to anyone who can stand the violence(which is somewhat considerable and at times sadistic and gruesome), and who enjoys a good thriller-mystery. An all-round good mystery-thriller, with good acting and good production values. 7/10  "},{"Title":"Not quite a clone","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  We open with a shot of maggots crawling out of, and cockroaches crawling over, a mutilated corpse.  This revolting object is treated by the camera as though it's a bowl of fruit.  We see it from every angle, lovingly lit; as the opening credits play we're treated to more and still more images of gashes, clotted blood, and greying flesh, as though such things were appetising.  The subsequent shots of infernally dark libraries, misty mountains, ice caverns, and so forth may drive the film's ugly opening out of our minds, but we ought not forget it, as an example of just how cheap and tacky the director is prepared to get.  If you've seen countless equally cheap and tacky serial killer movies from Hollywood, here's one in French.  There are two essential differences (1) it looks better, and (2) the French policemen have far more charm than their American counterparts typically do, which is a good thing, since these policemen must abuse their power in a similar kind of way (often with little justification beyond the fact that it's in the script), yet convincingly come across as ENEMIES of fascism.  It's quite an achievement that Max and Pierre remain so easy to like.-Oh, and (3) the story is harder to understand - needlessly so.  I think I got it all straight in my mind in the end, but I won't swear to it. "},{"Title":"average thriller, entertaining...but the novel is much better.","Date":"19 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Beautiful scenery in the french alps, great acting and directing, beautiful score from Bruno Coulais (his best with Himalaya).  Jean Reno, who is getting more and more into pop-corn stuff these days, has been pretty OK this time.Don't expect too much of a french touch, Matthieu Kassowitz really filmed it according to the most academic hollywood standards...which makes it puzzling in many ways, especially for european viewers.The problem is with the plot, which is lacking credibility for me an elite college in the middle of nowhere, in a public-education country? Eugenism developed without overall control of authorities? Revenge spreading over more than 20 years from childhood? It may be OK on the paper with all the convincing descriptions, but this superficial 120-minutes movie doesn't go deep enough to draw your attention without any doubt...As a matter of fact, the director Kassowitz (by the way so good in acting, like in Amelie...), seems to take pleasure in not detailing the script to the audiences...you have to understand by yourself. Trendy since Usual suspects or Memento, this elliptical process starts to really suck...! It's not because it's obscure that it is necessary well-written!!To finish with, the end is not convincing, botched up...Overall, an average entertaining thriller, with hollywood-filming technics in french locations, better viewed with home video for the photography. But certainly below Silence of the Lambs or Sev7en...I give it 6/10.According to my friends, the novel on which it's based is a Masterpiece,  first-class thriller Jean-Christophe Grangé, les rivières pourpres. To be checked out... "}{"Title":"what did he say?  who cares what she said!","Date":"21 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This is a classic example of an increasing problem with films. Why is the background noise and the soundtrack dramatically louder than the dialogue? What sense does that make? This film isn't alone. Most films seem to do this now. For 2 years, I wondered if it was just something wrong with my TV, but then I got a new TV & there it is again. BACKGROUND noise that could be taking place a city block behind the actors drowns out the dialogue.It was even more distracting in this film because, in the English version anyway, the woman mumbles constantly. I kept hoping Jean Reno would say Excuse me, would you speak up or get the marbles out of your mouth. If you watch it on DVD & you have even high-school French, I recommend the French version with subtitles.I give it 4 because Reno was so good in Leon. People rave about the scenery, but I saw it on a TV & I lived in the Rockies for a few years, so Enh. "},{"Title":"Terrific french horror thriller","Date":"14 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This french thriller definitely delivers the goods in terms of good writing, suspense, creepy atmosphere and breathtaking locations and cinematography.Commissaire Pierre Niemans (Reno) is investigating the brutal murder of a professor in a remote mountain valley called Gueron. Soon he discovers another body buried in a glacier. At the same time 200 km. away Max Kerkerian, also a cop, is investigating a damaged tomb. His investigation leads him to a twenty year old horrific accident that is directly related to Niemans's murder investigation in the remote mountain valley.Maybe this is the french answer to Silence of the Lambs, this horror thriller from France is exceptionally well executed, with creepy atmosphere to spare, knockout suspense set-pieces, taut action and a killer twist in the end. Technically speaking this is first rate with terrific cinematography of breathtaking locations, The Crimson Rivers simply has an astonishing look.French veteran actor Jean Reno easily pulls off his role as the weary Commissaire who has a paralyzing fear of dogs for some reason. Vincent Cassel is no less convincing as the young hot-head cop who teams up with Reno.For fans of creepy, fast paced and (somewhat far fetched but) well written mysteries, The Crimson Rivers will easily do the trick. "},{"Title":"Works just fine","Date":"11 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" When Tarantino said that European cinematography is bad I instantly thought what idiotic sentence that was from such established director. European movies are simply great and Les rivières pourpres is another example of good European movie. Thriller, that could compete with most of Hollywood thrillers, is another excellent French product. Well known director and actor Mathieu Kassovitz managed to join two stars of French movie Jean Reno and Vincent Cassel. Reno and Cassel have great chemistry together and they work perfectly in this movie. Reno plays commissioner Pierre Niemans and Cassel is younger inspector Max Kerkerian. Both cops work on different cases but soon their cases get connected and they must join their forces so they can resolve the case.Kassovitz gives us very good shots of nature and he plays a lot with camera (his way of shooting isn't ordinary;there are some very good ideas-like that scene when camera rises from down the car, on the BMW sing and then on faces of the actors). To conclude; this movie has everything. Excellent actors. Good director. And what is most important, very good story that will keep you awake till the end. "},{"Title":"Great Scenery And Photography","Date":"26 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Beautiful scenery and terrific cinematography trump story in this grizzly whodunit set in the French Alps. Two French policemen working on separate, apparently unrelated murder cases are thrown together as a team when the two cases converge into one overall conspiracy.Adapted from a novel, the story in The Crimson Rivers is worth telling; it has wonderful thematic depth. Unfortunately, the film's screenplay renders a plot that is terribly confused and muddled. The film starts off well enough, although some of the more gruesome scenes are unnecessary. But the plot starts to break down in the second half, and then collapses completely at the end, as contrived, silly action scenes, typical of Hollywood blockbusters, overwhelm and obliterate the film's thematic message. The film's awful conclusion apparently was inserted so as to make the film appeal to ... kids.The Crimson Rivers does contain some good special effects, and it has great interior sets. Except for the ending, the overall tone is Gothic, a result of dark and sinister lighting and appropriately dreary music. The film would have been far better with a simpler, more straightforward plot, less gore, and a low-key ending, one that enhanced, rather than detracted from, the story's underlying Gothic message. "},{"Title":"Many rivers to cross","Date":"24 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Just enjoyed a feet up beer in hand afternoon watching this movie, which apart from the less then wholesome ending, I would recommend to any fans of a good yarn played out by two quality Continental actors.Cassel and Reno play two cops on the hunt of two separate crimes which by the end of the end of the film become one. And this in parts was my take on the film, because the Cassel crime and Reno crime seemed like tow different stories, and to support this the pacing of the film was distinct for each. Vincent and his sidekicks played out some great comedy whilst Jean and his com padres walked around in a very sombre and sincere manner. When the two meet up half way through the film to reach the final conclusion the film gels well and each compliments each other to play out a good buddy film.The ending. Well....what can you say ? It lets the whole of the film down in a bad way. The 'baddie' is signposted well before they are revealed, but even so, the last ten minutes of the film are better suited to a day time soap than a film of this quality.And quality it is, for the most part. You can see the £9m+ that the producers threw at the film. It oozes texture in the shooting and the acting, and the locations are top quality and compliment the film completely. I'd waited a while to see this film and I'm very glad that I did. Watching the thoughts of all involved in the making of the film on the DVD extras, it proves that a great deal of thought was given to substance of the film and its overall content.It's just a shame a bit more thought couldn't have been given to the ending.7/10 "},{"Title":"Great french film","Date":"4 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This is a great french film with a great style and very fun.Jean Reno and Vincent Cassel are great actors and on this movie they have perfect performances.The film has a great sense of humor and the scene in which Max fights with the skinheads is my favorite.After La Haine(a great movie),Mathieu Kassovitz backed with an excellent movie.The final is a bit predictable,but it is a great film.The locations are beautiful.The serial killer films are boring(for example The watcher) but this one has something that makes it better and brilliant.This movie is great and I totally recommend this movie because you will like it.Great french film "},{"Title":"Wrong detour","Date":"30 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  It stars very well, with mysterious hints of the resurgence of fascism in rural France. Then it goes into different directions taken from mainstream Hollywood action (any Schwarzenegger idiocy) and horror movies (a la Bette Davis' Dead Ringers or Margot Kidder's Sisters), making one wonder where, in this story, is the young man who previously directed La haine or who played the male lead in Amélie. Dominique Sanda and Jean-Pierre Cassel are around in short, thankless roles. "},{"Title":"Outstanding film","Date":"11 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I really like mystery films, I must say that this is one of the best mystery films ever made.  Jean Reno is just fantastic in this movie.  I think he is one if not the best Foreign actor.  This movie is very interesting because it makes you want to try and figure out why things happen the way that they do and why the particular person.  I really liked the darkness in the film.  Darkness meaning the things that one realizes when they hear the story of why the tragedy happened.  The movie kept me interested all the way until the end.  This movie is highly recommended to those that like mystery films.  What I really liked about this movie, is that this movie makes you try and figure out who did the crime and why.  The detective work that is shown in this movie is just amazing.  This movie shows you a lot of realistic things.  Of course this movie was not a real true story, but a lot of detective work is real.  "},{"Title":"Pretty gripping","Date":"5 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  A French knockoff of SEVEN, and similar in style and look to BROTHERHOOD OF THE WOLF. Only the ending ruins it. My youngest kid saw the ending coming a mile off. Not a good sign. See it for the patter between the two leads, both of whom are excellent. I see a different actor has taken over the role of the younger detective for the sequel. Let us hope has is half as good as Cassell. "},{"Title":"Too Cool French Movie for Those Who Don't Really Like Foreign Films","Date":"8 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I watched this movie because I saw that Jean-Pierre Cassel was in it and I'm his biggest fan.  I also wanted to check out his son.I have watched and loved thriller, horror, mystery etc., etc. movies all of my life.  It's becoming increasingly rare that the newly-released ones have anything to offer to excite us old timers in the way of unique plots.  This movie was, however, one of those.  There are initially two seemingly different plots, each being investigated by two different detectives.  The first plot is a series of grisly, yet psychological murders of individuals from a bizarre university in the french alps.  The second involves a defacement of an old grave of a young girl, whose death and past are shrouded in mystery.  Gradually, the two loose ends are woven together resulting in a strange and fascinating story to be told.  Vincent Cassel is a natural and great actor.  Unlike so many other young, European leading men, he doesn't just exist in a movie to engage in macho posturing while appearing to be trying to hide a wounded past, affecting a tough exterior and turning on European female viewers (a characterization that went out in the U.S. in the 70's).  He didn't even smoke!  His character was realistic and not overly psychoanalyzed like so many movie cops.  He was just a normal guy trying to crack a case, not trying to resolve his own past traumas by solving the crime. Jean Reno was the same and also didn't overplay the role, but seemed tired in the movie, although, to his credit, he was playing an older and experienced detective who was sort-of a legend or something.  Cassel seemed energetic and vibrant, especially when busting the heads of a couple of jerks who refuse to give evidence.  His two men were comic relief without going over the top, just seeming to lighten the mood a little when needed.The only weird thing was that Cassel's character was a serious, hard-boiled, no-nonsense cop in the beginning, but then became a kind-of twittery, childlike, sycophant when getting together with Reno.  He is supposed to be in awe of Reno's character and his reputation.  It's cool, though, because the change is unexpected and welcome; it makes Cassel's character appear more multi-faceted.Another great thing about this movie is that the end/solution is totally unexpected.  I can usually always solve a mystery before the end of the movie, but I was dead wrong on this one!  It had a great plot twist, but made sense and came together as well.  It's one I can watch several times. "}{"Title":"Best French movie there is","Date":"1 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is the most awesome French movie I ever saw! great acting by Reno. Impressive scenario. Good directing... perfect movie. I don't know if there s a English version of it, but i suggest to watch the French version "},{"Title":"Oh, if only it was in English...","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  When I bought this film from Blockbuster the other night, I had no idea that the language was French and that the film was dubbed (rather poorly I must say). But, walking out, I realized that the two great actors that play in the film, Jean Reno and Vincent Cassel (both of whom speak English) also speak French. And, realizing that the film takes place in France, I had a sudden feel of disappointment.In a way, it reminds me of FARGO. It can never really decide what it wants to be. A thriller, yes. But, it is constantly twisting the plot with unpredictable and implausable turns. Many scenes in the film were either too long or should have never been in the film in the first place. But, I must say that the body designs are excellent. Whoever designed the corpses for the film did a spectacular job. The grisly images are pretty disturbing and the film is even at times really creepy. I would also recommend SE7EN, FARGO, and THE SILENCE OF THE LAMBS. All of which are just as creepy.THE CRIMSON RIVERS 4/5. "},{"Title":"French X-Files","Date":"15 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I am (was) a big fan of X-Files, but the summary title does not mean to be a compliment. What works on a small screen series, with enough time to develop characters, win viewers interest, create a captured audience does not work well on the big screens, where rules of time, plot and character development are so different. There is nothing more left after seeing the movie but a tough cop story, with graphical images, not too well developed characters, and an ending that does not fit very well in all what happened before. Yes, there is some X-like thrill in the air, but where are Moulder and Scully? Jen Reno is a mega-star in France, and is well known internationally for his US appearances, but even his solid act cannot save this film. Sorry, I love good French films, but this one is no better than a medium American B action movie. "},{"Title":"A very clever thriller","Date":"13 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" After long time I saw again a good thriller like this one on DVD. The film lets imagine or thinking during the whole story with a very surprising end and there were puzzles to solve.I recommend this film to all mystery / adventure / thriller fans who loves also some dark moments. The special effects were incredibly good and the cinematography was superb.Congratulations to the film director Mathieu Kassovitz and to the script writer Jean-Christophe Grangé for this nice present. It was an amazing and thrilling adventure and I am looking forward of part two.I gave 8/10. "},{"Title":"Where did they leave the logic? (6/10)","Date":"18 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie just starts of great. It is wonderfully filmed, but unfortunately the story doesn't hold up to these high standards.There are a few loopholes which the story jumps thru to save it self. But in the end (after having a long discussion about this movie) we came up with no real explanation. It could have been done better, if there would have been a better look at some details. But still, the movie is enjoyable and watchable.If you rent it on video, you'll probably like it, but don't start watching it a second time. You will notice that a lot is missing. Overall I give it six out of 10 "},{"Title":"A complete waste of time for anyone who's analytical...","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** How passionate am I about this review?  I finished watching it less than an hour ago, it's 100am, and I'm registering with Imdb just so I can throw out these few words.The movie is generally entertaining, though if you only watch a handful of films a year, I would not suggest making this one of them.  The real treat however, comes at the end of the movie.  The movie has two major faults in the script, which were so bad, I wound up considering the whole affair to be a complete waste of an hour and forty-five minutes.If you intend on seeing this movie, please don't read any further.  If you already have, and would like to compare notes...  Firstly, these twin girls were swapped in order to introduce new genes to the otherwise inbred Nazi society.  However, these girls would have the exact same genetic deficiences.  What's the point?  Also, considering they have the same parents, don't you think that this sort of mistake would be impossible to make?  Secondly, regarding fingerprints...  When they take the fingerprints from the gun, they find a match to the dead girl's, with aging being taken into consideration.  They raise the possibility that the dead girl's finger had been stolen, but they note that a complete set of prints (from both hands I believe) are on the gun.  We also confirm later that the girl swapped into the Nazi society has performed these murders under the guidance of her (would be, should be killed) sister.  So the prints on the gun definitely belong to the sister that was supposed to be bred with the Dean's son.  ...But hey, identical twins do not have identical fingerprints! These prints wouldn't match the prints of the dead girl, and once again, there's a major boo boo on the part of the novelist or whoever adapted it for screen.Being a reasonably analytical person, watching a movie where the storyline is all built on a couple seriously botched premises, I feel like sitting through it was a complete waste of time.  I've read reviews which have pointed out that the screenplay is ludicrious even by action-adventure standards.  All in all though, I feel the only real crime committed, is the failure of these reviewers to note how big a waste of time this movie might be. "},{"Title":"A complete waste of time for anyone who's analytical...","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  How passionate am I about this review?  I finished watching it less than an hour ago, it's 100am, and I'm registering with Imd just so I can throw out these few words.The movie is generally entertaining, though if you only watch a handful of films a year, I would not suggest making this one of them.  The real treat however, comes at the end of the movie.  The movie has two major faults in the script, which were so bad, I wound up considering the whole affair to be a complete waste of an hour and forty-five minutes.If you intend on seeing this movie, please don't read any further.  If you already have, and would like to compare notes...  Firstly, these twin girls were swapped in order to introduce new genes to the otherwise inbred Nazi society.  However, these girls would have the exact same genetic deficiences.  What's the point?  Also, considering they have the same parents, don't you think that this sort of mistake would be impossible to make?  Secondly, regarding fingerprints...  When they take the fingerprints from the gun, they find a match to the dead girl's, with aging being taken into consideration.  They raise the possibility that the dead girl's finger had been stolen, but they note that a complete set of prints (from both hands I believe) are on the gun.  We also confirm later that the girl swapped into the Nazi society has performed these murders under the guidance of her (would be, should be killed) sister.  So the prints on the gun definitely belong to the sister that was supposed to be bred with the Dean's son.  ...But hey, identical twins do not have identical fingerprints! These prints wouldn't match the prints of the dead girl, and once again, there's a major boo boo on the part of the novelist or whoever adapted it for screen.Being a reasonably analytical person, watching a movie where the storyline is all built on a couple seriously botched premises, I feel like sitting through it was a complete waste of time.  I've read reviews which have pointed out that the screenplay is ludicrious even by action-adventure standards.  All in all though, I feel the only real crime committed, is the failure of these reviewers to note how big a waste of time this movie might be. "},{"Title":"Read the book instead","Date":"30 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The ending makes much more sense in the book. If you do want to see the film, watch a subtitled version, not the horribly dubbed one. Presumably because they wanted to get Reno and Cassel to dub themselves, they have the two main character speaking with heavy French accents and almost everyone else speaking with US accents, which sounds very odd.Shame they felt the need to make the Vincent Cassel character white for the film.  "},{"Title":"Good acting and great Cinematography.Good but nothing special!!!","Date":"13 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This film tries to be everything A drama,Horror,Action,comedy and thriller but it´s more like a B-version of seven.Good acting by Jean Reno and the cinematography is great.I think that silence of the lambs or seven is much better.3/5 "},{"Title":"Oui, c'est excellent","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I'm a huge fan of Jean Reno, so it was quite obvious for me to check out Les riviéres pourpres. Les riviéres pourpres is based on a book written by Jean-Christophe Grangé. Usually I would have read the book first, but because usually the books are better (like Hannibal, for example), I decided to do otherwise. The movie was amazing. The scenes were breathtakingly thrilling. The murders were cruel (never actually shown, only the bodies), but the movie wasn't a typical Hollywood-style blood and gore fest. Everything had to do with something; no meaningless killing, no teens running away from murderer in a Halloween costume. And Jean Reno was superb.Now I've read the book. I did wisely, because the book (surprise surprise) IS a lot better than the movie. But because tha movie was so outstanding before I read the book, I have to rate it excellent. Oui, ces't excellent.(P.S.  If my spelling isn't correct, please notify that my mother tongue is Finnish. Thank you.) "}{"Title":"Spoilers ahead...","Date":"12 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  while jean reno is a dude, the story is abysmal. they use the plot device of the evil identical twin. i mean c'mon, that's so 80s. they don't even explain why they're so mad at the evil nazi eugenists. they just torture and kill them. too much gross stuff too, for no reason. "},{"Title":"Great thriller nicely adapted from the book","Date":"26 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Very good movie, Jean Reno is the best French actor ever!  The plot is excellent, nicely adapted from the book, they plunge us into a thriller revealing little by little clues that leads us to a shocking end.  Powerful images, the setup in the mountains is beautiful.  Well that's it, a must see for people who enjoy foreign movies.  People who liked Seven will surely like this movie. "},{"Title":"a good European thriller","Date":"11 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  In my opinion this movie is a good thriller. It mixes mystery, fear and a little gore. The only thing that looked a little out of context is the video-game fighting scene in the middle of the story. Everything is absolutely logical in the plot, every clue given in the first part has a logical (even is tortuous...) explanation in the second and, with a little thinking, you can infer all the background of the story.A good film. "},{"Title":"The Boys from France","Date":"5 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Les rivières pourpres, which means the blood of the perfect children, is a thriller which mixes esotericism, action, a beautiful landscape and the terrible question of eugenics. two policemen, the expert Nièmans and the young and exploding Kerkèrian, are investigating on the mysterious deaths of some members of an university for genius, in which there is the strange use to live and marry together. In the same time, the grave of a girl, dead in 1982, is profaned by some Nazis. Or so it seems... The next movie of the French enfant prodige Mathieu Kassovitz is very good and thrilling movie, with a blood chilling beginning (a long close up on the body of the first victim). Kassovitz can count on a good couple of actors like Reno (one of the best French actors of all time, which deserves his  worldwide celebrity) and Cassel (with the right dose of rage) and with the guest starring of two icons of French cinema like Jean Pierre Cassel (father of Vincent) as the ophthalmologist and Dominique Sanda as Sister André. "},{"Title":"A good suspense with intense moments, great story line, but not well finished.","Date":"14 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The storyline of this movie is great extremely original, very interesting and is providing wide possibilities. The actors are good, the plot is great but is taking too long to explode into an end. I was kind of waiting the whole film for something to happen but it never really came. Nice to see a French film realized so well even if the end leaves us on our teeth it isn't a typical happy end but something is missing like if the movie had to be ended quickly. Too bad, Les rivières pourpres isn't rapped up, it would have made a great movie while it is just a good one. Judge by yourself!  "},{"Title":"A Clever Thriller","Date":"27 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  It seems to be like Se7en. But it's not. In opposite to some movies which have copied David Fincher's film (like Resurrection or The Bone Collector) this film is a more clever one. Its storyline and development looks like what an X Files episode would look like if James Ellroy wrote it. The themes match with Se7en's but the directing is much more different. It does not take place in a city (as we are used to see) but in a small community lost between cold mountains. The setting added to the strange and complex plot create the perfect atmosphere for an awesome thriller. "},{"Title":"French Se7en Wannabe 3/10","Date":"7 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Jean Reno stars in this bizarre, overly complicated, and yes, even silly thriller that echoes the dark tones seen in Se7en.  The film starts off promising enough, but within 45 minutes of the film, it's almost impossible to follow.  The film has style, thanks to the talented director Mathieu Kassovitz, but it goes nowhere fast.  By the time the silly conclusion happens, one realizes that this trip is not even worth taking. "},{"Title":"Not worth it","Date":"17 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Totally disconnected, same old let's breed a superhuman plot. On top of that, you have to endure the preposterous french style of film-making (yuck). On the other hand, I liked Jean Reno a lot, even though he's not as brilliant as in, say, Léon. "},{"Title":"Kassovitz recovers the perfect film pace","Date":"10 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Les Rivières pourpres doesn't represent only a great French productive bet, but, first of all, the movie that consecrates the great talent of the director, Mathieu Kassovitz. If with La haine he was considered the new Martin Scorsese, Assassin(s), too slow and pretentious, represented a step backwards. Now with Les Rivières pourpres he recovers his particular sense of film pace. Directing a thriller movie he could make the error of following the genre's stereotyped, instead the cleverness of Kassovitz is in creating a personal kind of suspense. And the director succeed to gel his goal thanks to a nervous use of camera, a great musical sound track full of interesting special effects, an excellent Cinematography skillful to increase the Mistery sense of mountain sets of Jean-Christophe Grangé's novel. But it's not only a thriller, it's also a movie that reveals the authorial skills of Mathieu Kassovitz. According to this we can understand the frequent inclusions of pans not apparently useful to the story (such as the cars shots a the beginning) or the long kick-boxing scene and the hasty end. Well played by Jean Renò and Vincent Cassel, clever to interpret two different characters, the movie can be included in the list of the best thriller movie, such us Silence of the lambs and Se7en. "},{"Title":"good start VS bad ending","Date":"29 June 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This is one of that films that have a great starting. After a few minutes you are thinking  great, here are a Hannibal Lecter fan, and two very different policeman that seems to be interesting people . When you arrive the first half of the film all is right, lots of suspects, and some action. But when you are expecting to know more is the time to discover how to destroy a film. All you have seen before lost sense. It's a movie, it hasn't to be just like reality ! Sure of that, and it would have been good if the film start had the same sense of Israelite. After viewing the film i feel like i had seen a mix between the good  Silence of the lamps and the bad Anatomy. it's a pity that a poor ending damage so much a film that seems to be good. "}{"Title":"Stunningly well-directed film....if only it made sense!","Date":"5 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I'm a big fan of the genre (and Seven is still one of my 10 favorite films of all time), but The Crimson Rivers just didn't cut it. It is undeniably directed with enough skill and confidence to rival any Hollywood blockbuster, it is filmed on wonderful locations and it has great performances by both leading stars. But the pace is slow and the plot is muddled. Supposedly the DVD making-of documentary clarifies matters somewhat (and I plan to watch it right now)....but still, that should never be the only way you could interpret a movie.     (**) "},{"Title":"Disappointing!","Date":"25 May 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This film was rather a disappointment. After the very slow, very intense (and quite gory) beginning the film begins to lose it. Too much plot leaves too little time for explanation, and coming out of the theater I wondered what this was all about. The characters remain shallow, the story is not convincing at all, most of it is déja vù stuff without hints of parody, and there are some very cheesy parts... Like, the young cop has to do dig up a body. Of course it's night AND it rains AND he has to do it alone... yawn! Or The Manifestation of the Evil being nazis plus genetic manipulation... Wow, that's really original.  There are some nice bits, though, like the fistfight scene, mountain views and some (running) gags, but (though Reno and Vincent Cassel do what they can) that's definitely not worth it. (3 out of 10) "},{"Title":"Decent movie, horrible subtitles","Date":"13 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Nice mystery, good production values, good actors.But the English subtitles are literally the worst I've ever seen in my life. The subtitles themselves are clear, I've seen movies with problems of readability, but here the problem is that they're only translating about half the dialogue. It just seems kind of random in any given conversation whether or not they translate certain lines or not, and in some cases, this is key dialogue they skip over. Anyone familiar with subtitling knows they leave small amounts out, but for purposes of clarity and readability. Here, like I said, it's random. Whoever was responsible for the subtitles should be fired, with extreme prejudice. "},{"Title":"A reasonably (and sometimes literally) chilling murder mystery","Date":"26 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Two strong French actors at the top of their game and a solid script which is involving, not too gimmicky (for a murder mystery), and certainly not afraid to get its hands dirty for the sake of stronger drama. that is The Crimson Rivers, and it works.Jean Grangé adapts his own novel for the screen with Matthew Kassovitz behind the camera. The story introduces us to two skilled cops working different cases in the Alps region of France. Detective Pierre Naimons is investigating a homicide. A man's body was found naked in the mountains with his eyes removed and his hands chopped off. Meanwhile, Lt. Max Kerkerian is investigating the desecration of a girls gravestone in a cemetery, on which a swastika has been spray painted. Circumstance brings the two cops together only to find that they may be looking for the same person (or group of people).Crimson Rivers puts a kind of ironic spin on the term 'cold-blooded murder'; emphasis on 'cold'. There is only one scene I can recall that is sunny and green. The vast majority of the movie takes place in psychologically chilling and frigid locations, from a damp nunnery, to an extensive chase scene across a university campus in the middle of a sleet storm. There is also one short but memorable sequence that takes us into the eroded labyrinth of a prehistoric glacier. I wonder where they shot that (easy enough to find out I guess). Even from the movie's first shot, you know that you are going to be in for a cold twisted ride. The Crimson Rivers at its core is just a murder mystery (one of the oldest of film genres) but it is in the way the film plays out that makes it feel more legitimate and less derivative. The only problem that the film has which is typical of most of these movies, in that it gets increasingly convoluted, and the connections have long began to fray by the time the climax begins. I still do not fully understand the concept, but I get the gist of it.What is more important is that I had a good time. You may enjoy it too. "},{"Title":"Lots of running blood lacking any suspense","Date":"7 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Not once during this film did I the viewer know more than any of the actors - which means no suspense what-so-ever.My nephew watched it too and could predict all the next scenes - what a disaster. Poor Reno did a good job but the rest of the crew were substandard. "},{"Title":"Dead men tell no tales, but what if they are not dead?","Date":"20 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The film opens with a grizzly close up of a dead man, later we learn he has had his eyes removed and hands amputated while he still alive. Not your usual kind of murder in a quiet French community.Meanwhile 200 km away Neo-nazis desecrate the tomb of a young girl who was killed in a road accident 20 years previously.  The girl's mother, shut away in a nunnery, tells Vincent Cassel (Police Lieutenant Max Kerkérian) that it is the devil's work.  When Cassel returns to the cemetery to open the girls coffin the scene seems to come straight out of The Omen.  What will he find? His discovery seems to explain all but we are just being toyed with by the director.The cinematography is excellent.  A long sequence at the start covers Jean Reno's (Police Commissaire Pierre Niémans) long drive from Paris to help with the murder investigation.  The film opens in the pallid light of autumn but rapidly changes to driving winter rain and sombre valley scenes before the final scene high in the alps in the bright winter sunlight.Reno seems to be a stereotypical cop, a loner focused on his work.  The Police Captain tells him he asked Paris to send a team, I am the team, Reno tells him.  Later Reno tells Cassel I work better alone.  So do I, replies Cassel we can work together then.Comparisons with Se7en are obvious but as Reno comments This is not the work of a serial killer.  The film is less complex than Se7en although different genres are mixed to good effect (Techno, Rap, Occult) and this raises it above your average thriller.  "},{"Title":"How can I summarize this review in one line?","Date":"6 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I rented this movie many months ago and took notes, but haven't been motivated until now to post them. First, here's a random list I started withglaciersdismembermentreclusive nun car chase avalanche mountain climbing Nazi lore fatal highway accident eugenics/genetics secluded private schoolmausoleumice caves eyeballs acid rain Olympians dog breeding rainy nights twins separated at birthI seem to have at the time made an attempt to compare this movie to JENNIFER 8. A tense mood starts it off but the plot becomes overly convoluted. I followed most of it at the time but damned if I can explain everything afterward. Random note. The Jump the Shark moment the video game fight sequence that was dropped in from some lesser Jet Li flick.More JENNIFER 8 The wintry setting, but instead of a dismembered hand kicking things off, it's a corpse minus its hands.And there's the blindness.And the killer in shadow pointing a gun at a cop.And then there's SMILLA'S SENSE OF SNOW. The same intriguing setup but the longer it goes the sillier it gets.And there's the ice caves.And -- I don't remember what this note means -- the crucified victim. This must have meant something to me at the time.Cool chase scene. Nice to see the killer escape for no other reason than being able to outrun the cop. No obstacles or anything.Also like the story structure - how the viewer follows two cops working on two seemingly unrelated crimes, then meet up when their investigations merge.But, whose body was photographed after the '82 accident? Triplets? Where did the body go?Completely absorbed in the mystery at first; when the school files were discovered missing, I was anticipating the best thriller since SEVEN. But the clues and red herrings started piling up like an accident at the screenplay factory, and disappointment set in when the car chase started. Why not a vehicular action sequence? By that point the movie already contained nearly everything else except a long-lost twin and a bag of chips. Reminiscent of any number of serial killer thrillers from the past decade or so, from good (SILENCE OF THE LAMBS, BLINK) to not so (again with SMILLA AND JEN8). Why so many thoughts of JEN8? 1st half 10/10 The rest 6/10Why did the sister impose self-exile? The possibility of a supernatural/demonic element in the puzzle was such a distraction, so was sacrificing her old life don to keep her secrets? And don't nuns have to be virgins? How much did she know about the murders? I'm not sure why she did what she did, if she did what she did, which I'm not sure about either.That's about it. The more I think about what I think I know, the more questions I have.----So, there are my notes from many months ago. Yes, they're ridiculously incoherent, but that's what I wrote at the time. "},{"Title":"Dynamic thriller with serial-killer theme","Date":"16 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" CRIMSON RIVERS (Les Rivieres Pourpres) Aspect ratio 2.391 (Panavision)Sound formats Dolby Digital / DTSThe discovery of a corpse in the French Alps unites two high-powered police investigators (Jean Reno and Vincent Cassel) in search of a serial killer whose crimes are linked to a local university steeped in blood and horror...Ultra-commercial thriller from director Mathieu Kassovitz (LA HAINE), teaming Gallic superstars Reno and Cassel in a high-concept exploration of human depravity, set amidst the panoramic splendor of the French Alps (gorgeous widescreen cinematography by Thierry Arbogast). The climactic revelations are more than a little complicated, and the ending fizzles slightly, but the film plays fair with audience expectations, and the cast is a who's-who of contemporary French cinema. Followed by CRIMSON RIVERS II ANGELS OF THE APOCALYPSE (2003).(French dialogue) "},{"Title":"Enjoyable but slow murder mystery","Date":"17 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Two policemen,(Jean Reno) and (Vincent Cassel) investigate a series of grisly murders in a small and posh university based in the French Alps. At first it is believed that a Neo-Nazi fascist group may have something to do with the murders but as the film evolves we learn otherwise.I thought the first twenty minutes where highly enjoyable and was hoping that this film turned out to be a fairly unknown masterpiece. However, it was a tad slow and did nt come to a satisfying, clever or dramatic enough conclusion. It was a shame as the music was great if a bit over the top, the cinematography excellent and the combination of the two main actors spot on. This is not a film that will stick in your mind for long, however, aesthetically, it did build up a haunting and disturbing atmosphere incredibly well. Definitely worth a watch. "},{"Title":"You will be the poorer for seeing this film.","Date":"14 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  So this is what promising auteurs of the French cinema are now turning their hands to Mindless entertainment with a sauce of pointless style, the whole served up on a bed of re-hashed American mass-market junk.Not even after the Second World War was French cinema in such a dire state that a mess like this would be served up! Even its supporters do not seek to conceal its glaring flaws.We should have realized that something was seriously wrong with contemporary French film culture when Bertolucci's 'The dreamers' actually turned the Nouvelle Vague into a nostalgic costume-drama The very tendency which provoked the most important revolution in film theory and practice has become - ironically, but unfortunately without intending to express irony, - a retrograde parody of itself, dressed in papa's cast-offs.Such disappointing and worthless films in fact represent, with supreme cynicism, a revival of the Cahiers-du-cinema-derided 'Cinema du papa' in the superficially plausible guise of mass appeal to the most shallow values of youth Fat, elderly businessmen - or physically cultured feral ones in killer fashions - sit in the unsubtle glare of back rooms and fleece unadventurous, disillusioned and ill-educated youth of their money, in exchange for an empty fairground sensation.Even the best new French films, like 'Laisser passer', seem largely nostalgic, when they are not pale imitations of Hollywood, or essays in disillusioned yet obsessional sexual morbidity incapable of achieving the vital freedom and balance of genuine, forward-looking creativity. Like its greater geo-political parent, the French revolution in film art has finally betrayed the fresh hopes of the new dawn, and led the intellectual romanticism of Truffaut into the squalor and decadence - albeit intellectualised - of films like 'The pornographer,' or the terror unleashed in 'Baise moi.'You only have to look at the now ruined visage of Jean-Pierre Leaud to see the living death of Antoine Doinel.Only in the almost hermetic reserve of Rivette, Godard, and Rohmer, who have practically retired into the silence of their private communion with personal values, do we see any possible source of inspiration. Unfortunately for us and for culture at large, the maturity of such contemplative dreamers intimidates any engagement with the world of instant gratification. Even Godard's aggressive politics seems to have despaired of the world. He keeps up merely the stance of a polemicist, for form's sake.In the West we live, I regret to say, in a society profoundly inimical to personal values of this kind. The grace of the youthful revelation which the Nouvelle Vague gave us has long since faded into the common twilight of the prostituted urban day.As with sex, the walk from the mystery of the outwardly darkened yet interiorly-illuminated auditorium into the anonymous and indifferent throng of the street is a saddening journey out of the rare illusion we treasure as the creative process, and into the commercial glare of mass-production. And we know that no return journey will now be possible, as the street is no longer the street of Paris in the 1960s.For a while, we were all privileged to inhabit an idealised, intellectualized, Paris. That great city has been swallowed up in the ruthlessly global village. Olivier Assayas even makes his films from the anonymity of crowded Hong Kong. From that perspective, his 'Irma Vepp' recalled the streets of Paris in Feuillade's early, silent, thriller, which were haunted by the absence of all those people who had been drawn away by the vampire of international war-capitalism. That remembered Paris is nothing but a ghost-town, except that it is not to the War that people today have gone, but to Disneyworld, and French cinema has become little more than an aspect of the industrialization of leisure. Where are artistry and integrity to come from in this culture of naked consumerism?The rivers of inspiration have dried up, and only contribute to a stale and dusty pool of evaporating memories. One would wish to translate into French terms that great image of disillusion from 'Once upon a time in the West' where the quintessetial thrust of a European sensibility through the dream of an American West ends, exhausted, not on the crashing shores of the great Pacific Ocean, but on the filthy margins of a transient puddle in the middle of nowhere.But a certain pretentiousness still clinging to these latter-day failures of the French film industry reveals only a profound lack of self-knowledge that does not even know how to expire decently. Their films are as full of animated corpses as that cemetery of light in Hollywood.Perhaps the small and perfectly poised, but irrelevant, film essays of Godard represent the truest farewell to cinema's impossible dream, and its weird swan-song? His mysterious removal from our world of restricted reference at least preserves the concept of alternative possibilities - an absence, a zero Place-holder in the binary union of night-and-day which maintains our persistence of vision. And one fine day, by another mysterious accomplishment of grace, we, also, may find ourselves once more translated by and into the light. And so Truffaut steps aboard an illuminated cloud at the end of Spielberg's 'Close encounters of the third kind'. Perhaps in another forty years he will be returned to us?Perhaps at least we shall be able to pick up his original message again on some Orphic, Cocteauesque medium of secretive cultural resistance, as an oracular modulation in the ether ...?For at present it is the lead strip's expectant stream of silence which is the most engaging portion of any film. For onto this brief glimpse of possibilities we may project the whole of our own interior life. The films that follow now largely intrude upon this contemplation, which alone would enable us to grasp reality again. Cinema was nothing less than an engine of thought; the movies are no more than a trick of the light. We have surrendered our critical role in the creative process to a synthetic dream of mindless satisfaction.Welcome to the soul-destroying trip to be embarked upon in 'The matrix' or 'Demonlover.'Welcome to a world of alien avatars, or technological succubi battening upon our sleeping reason, threatening our oblivious humanity.Now there's a crime - there's a horror story - and there is real human interest 'The invasion of the body-snatchers' for the post-Cold War generations, indeed. And it is the international conglomerates and their creatures, the corporate states, which draw sustenance from those living corpses which they animate by means of empty materialism.Such creaking mechanisms as 'The purple rivers' serve only to divert talent and attention towards indulgence in transient and illusory pleasures, which provide no satisfaction at all. Such blatant commercialism only robs and beggars society. You will be the poorer for seeing this film.  "}{"Title":"Worst film music ever!","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Do not watch this film unless you like to be tortured by horrorbly music. The music (if you can actually call these ugly sounds that) is loud and all over the film. If you can turn the sound off, the first half of the film is reasonable but then it all falls apart especially in the riduculars ending. "}]