[{"Title":"At it's heart it is a dramatic and enjoyable film - the padding is the problem","Date":"13 April 2004","Score":"50 out of 60 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Peter and Alice Bowman are working on a dam in South America in the employment of a large oil company.  When Peter is kidnapped the company bring in expert negotiator Terry Thorne.  However when the oil company runs out of money due to no insurance, they take Terry off the case and he leaves for another job.  However a pang of conscience brings him back to help Alice and he replaces the corrupt locals.  As he tries to help get her husband back he also falls for Alice.As a fan of David Caruso, I was annoyed that I missed this film at the cinema (I blinked and I missed it!) and by the time the video came out it had slipped my mind.  Shown of tv last night was the perfect time for me to see it and, despite negative reviews, I actually quite enjoyed it.  I think the problem is that the critics struggled to get past the handful of problems (more later) to find that the film was an effective, if talky, drama with a thriller edge.  The premise is good and it allows tense scenes where Terry tough talks as well as scenes with Peter with his captors. It's not perfect in this regard as it is a bit talky but for me it was engaging - I got the impression from other comments that people had expected raging gun battles all the way through the film.However what does damage the film is Alice Bowman.  I can see the potential behind Terry and Alice's romance - it could have been another layer of drama.  In reality it doesn't work a bit and only serves to take away from the main thrust of the film - their relationship never convinces and nothing of interest is actually done with it.  Likewise the character of Alice doesn't really work either - I never believed she was emotionally going through the wringers to the degree the script suggested she would be.  A big part of the blame for this must lie with Meg Ryan herself.  She is miscast in the first place, but on top of that she is too pristine throughout the film - hair and makeup perfect no matter what and a stupid little hippie-girl personality that stops her being a real person.  It is a bad performance and the film would have benefited from a shorter running time which lost the romance subplot and scaled back on Ryan's time.However she is carried by a real star turn from Crowe.  It may not be that clever a role but he does `tough' really well and he helps improve the tension of several scenes.  Morse is a good actor and he does well here. The only downside of his performance is that he seemed fit and well outside of his makeup; I was looking for him to look thinner and mentally battered as the film progressed but he didn't - it's not his fault, I guess the film had no time to do this.  Caruso gives the same tough performance he does in every thing he ever does so if you like that then you'll like him here - I do!Overall this is an enjoyable film if you can get past it's major problems surrounding Alice and Terry's relationship.  Script-wise this aspect was weak on paper, but a comparatively rubbish turn from the miscast Meg Ryan just makes it all the weaker.  Thank god that the basic premise is tense and the male leads' tough talking is good fun. "},{"Title":"Great on military details","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"22 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Proof of Life might well satisfy those more knowledgeable in real-life military matters. When Terry (Crowe) explains to Alice (Ryan) how he started out in the Australian Army, but left for the British Army because there wasn't enough action...he was stating a very plausible possibility. The British Army does indeed accept recruits from Commonwealth nations. Terry also says he is veteran of the elite British Special Air Service, and again, it is true that a huge proportion of ex-SAS members end up in private security efforts of various kinds. When the big raid is carried off, the costumers took enough care to dress Terry in British DPM fatigues, while the American Dino (Caruso) wears American BDU fatigues. Again, this is plausible as these are the sorts of fatigues both men took with them when they left military service. I've seen a lot of reviewers here criticize the end raid sequence.I found the actions scenes very good and a welcome change from most movies. Terry and Dino actually plan for covering fire from higher ground, fields of fire, etc. So many military raids in movies (The Dogs of War is a good example) just have the characters march out in the open and fire from the hip, with no seeming plan of movement other than to run around, destroy stuff, and look dramatic. Terry and his team never stuck around any longer, nor killed any more of the guerrillas, then necessary to rescue the hostages and escape.I can see where these details failed to find appreciation with the general viewing public, but I only hope others doing such movies continue to try to be authentic and realistic. "},{"Title":"A Nutshell Review (DVD) Proof of Life (2000)","Date":"10 September 2006","Score":"27 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" What happens in real life will inevitably have an effect on the reel one. Tom Cruise learnt that with his strange antics in real life - his screen one suffered with a less than expected stellar box office for MI3 despite positive critical reviews. Way back in 2000, Russell Crowe and Meg Ryan learnt that too, with their rumoured romance while shooting this movie, one of the many reasons resulting in this becoming a box office bomb.I felt that it was not a bad movie actually, given the story which I found interesting in the first place, for its extremely distant relation to what I'm doing, and being an action adventure movie, it works with its fair share of big action sequences.Russell Crowe plays Terry Thorne, a consultant in the Security and Crisis Response Unit of Luthan Risk International. His job is to negotiate the safe return of Kidnap and Ransom (K&R) victims around the world, and of course, this brings him frequently to where the action is, during the payment of ransoms and the extraction of hostages. He yearns for a management role, but as always, if you're an excellent field operative, you're played to your strengths out there.Which brings him to his latest client, Meg Ryan's Alice Bowman, whose husband Peter Bowman (David Morse), an employee with the biggest international oil firmed, gets kidnapped by chance during a raid in Ecuador. There are numerous scenes in the movie to perk your interest in this much behind-the-scenes industry of K&R, the terrorist(?) groups' motivation, and how the entire business is conducted, with the engagement of peers as well as the involvement of shady government personnel. There are many fine touches that might go unnoticed, like how network of contacts and peers are milked, cooperation extended, the wheelings and dealings of large multinational corporations, and politics in general. But the focus moves quickly towards a micro one, that between Thorne and Alice Bowman, as he accomplishes to build her trust in him that he's the best in the business and knows what he's doing.Perhaps this is one of the rare movies that allowed Crowe to be an Australian (and keep the accent) in a Hollywood production. His Thorne is oozes enough machismo to carry the action through and is credible enough to be believed as a veteran in the business. Meg Ryan this time round has a more serious character to play, albeit at times a weepie one, steering well clear of the pretty ditzy blonde comedic roles she has become accustomed to. They had probably shot some love scenes for this movie, but I suppose the bad press resulted in those scenes ending up on the cutting room floor. The romance between the character was also almost squashed out, save for the out of place suggestion of a strong physical attraction which rears its ugly head in the second half of the movie, slowing the pace down a little without much mature development. I thought that should it had been removed entirely, it'll probably end up a stronger movie, with Thorne more in character as a mission driven individual.The first David, David Caruso, is finding a new lease of life back in television with CSI, since branching off to movies after NYPD Blue didn't augur too well for him. I thought his performance here was nothing much to shout about though. However David Morse, who usually plays supporting roles, put up an adequately engaging Peter Bowman as an executive caught in the wrong place at the wrong time, and examines the fear and desperation of a man kidnapped and constantly at the wrong end of a gun barrel.The theme song by Danny Elfman is addictive (time to hunt it down), and the end credits was played over a helicopter view of the entire Ecuadorian landscape, just beautiful to look at. Clocking at just over 2 hours, it provided some good entertainment for a lazy Sunday afternoon.Code 3 DVD contains the behind the scenes making-of documentary (13 40'), the theatrical trailer, and the feature length audio commentary by director Taylor Hackford. "},{"Title":"Proof that you can follow up a blockbuster with another good film","Date":"3 December 2000","Score":"29 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Globalization is one of those catchy buzzwords that shares the stage with the likes of abortion, and  capital punishment- while one group of people thinks it is a good thing that just might save the world, another thinks it is on par with the plague.  There is however no dispute that with advancements in technology and the search for new capital markets, businesses are expanding abroad at a phenomenal rate into countries with little infrastructure or wealth and the ever-present danger of war.  This expansion has also been the catalyst for a lucrative sideline business - kidnapping.Peter Bowman is a man trying to do the right thing.  In order to build a dam to stop the killer floods in the South American country of Teclac he must work under the auspices of a large oil concern.  As with any overseas project, Peter has to deal with many problems lack of supplies, red tape, feelings of isolation, a crumbling marriage and living with the threat of terrorist activity.  While on his way to work Terry is stopped at a roadblock and taken hostage by a band of guerrillas who demand a huge ransom for his release.  Enter Terry Thorne, an insurance investigator whose specialty is K and R - kidnapping and ransom.  Terry's job is to negotiate the release of kidnapped foreign nationals.  And he is a very busy man.This movie really piqued my interest and not because of the off-screen romance between Meg Ryan and Russell Crowe the father of a good friend of mine is an international financial consultant, and he was almost kidnapped while working in SouthEast Asia.  The attempt was foiled by the quick actions of the special security detail that intercepted details of the plan and whisked him out of the country.   I spoke with him after seeing the trailers for the movie and he said that in country he is currently working in you do not anywhere without heavily armed escorts.  The possibility of being kidnapped is viewed as the cost of doing business.   I forgot to ask him if they had the appropriate insurance.Proof of Life grew out of a story in Vanity Fair and is loosely based on the kidnapping of an American businessman by Colombian guerillas. Taylor Hackford is a director who eschews the safety of studios, and opts for that extra touch of realism.  In keeping with this goal, he took the cast and crew down to Ecuador, where he was met with erupting volcanoes, blizzards, a cast beset with altitude sickness, a coup in Quito, muggings, heart attacks on the set and the death of a stand-in.   The final cut is an apt homage to those involved.Typically cast as the funny, quirky, girlfriend afflicted with endless mini-crises, Meg Ryan has been afforded few opportunities to demonstrate acting abilities.  As Alice Bowman, she has the chance to flesh out a multidimensional character that doesn't spend her onscreen time whining, crying or laughing insipidly.  And she does so admirably.  Russell Crowe, riding high after the success of Gladiator, once again delivers a solid performance.  Crowe draws heavily on his own quiet, severe introspection to create a character conflicted between loyalties, expectations and realities and the feelings he tries to suppress for Ryan's character.  Their real life tryst helped to establish the tone for  the powerful, yet subtle scenes they share onscreen.  David Morse is excellent as Terry, a man trying to hang onto his sanity in an insane situation.  As he is marched across country, and endures humiliation, and beatings, he never loses sight of his goal to stay alive and escape.  His transformation from clean cut businessman (I've never seen him with such a close shave) to disheveled captive is done slowly and deliberately, and the viewer appreciates what he's experiencing. Finally, it was interesting to see David Caruso - who has floated in the acting netherworld since he left NYPD Blue almost six years ago - as a rival K&R specialist who assists Terry with his mission.  Caruso reminds us why he has not graced many marquees  - he's not very funny, action is not his forte, and he is an average actor at best.  The other star of the film is the location.With most of the film having been shot in the mountains of Ecuador, (the guerrillas camp was literally carved out of the jungle) it is not surprising that the film looks gorgeous tumbling waterfalls, plunging ravines and flourishing jungles are stock backdrops for the story and you begin to take them for granted.  One of my favorite scenes was when the infinite expanse of greenery is broken by a band of camouflaged rebels who were totally invisible only moments earlier.  I was surprised how tight the cinematography was given the expansive vistas, but nothing is sacrificed in the process.  In addition to a well-written script that avoids most cliches, and contains palpable suspense, I was impressed with the way the relationship between Alice and Terry was handled.  Rather than have the characters jumping into bed for a sweatfest the writers opted for an undercurrent of subtle tension with the characters exchanging occasional confused glances and moments of awkward silence when their hands brush.The first entertaining intelligent film to come out of Tinseltown in a long while - maybe it bodes well for the Christmas rush.  "},{"Title":"More believable than your average action film.","Date":"30 June 2001","Score":"21 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I like this film.  I must admit that a part of me was hoping for the typical chick flic ending, but if I'd actually gotten it I'm sure I wouldn't have liked the movie as much.  The movie was more believable than I've come to expect from action films, with the possible exception of the bravado of the captive husband.  I find it hard to believe that someone in that situation would be so constantly antagonistic to their captors.  Sure, you might have a moment or two where you'd just had enough and had to push back, but I find it hard to believe that you'd be that way ALL the time.But the negotiations were believable for the most part, and the growing attraction between the leads was done nicely. "},{"Title":"Jon Monsarrat review  worth seeing, somewhat slow","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"24 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I was impressed by Proof of Life and would only make one comment. In most movies, the plot is tightened up to be fast-paced, convincing, make you identify with and care about the characters, and even contain a little moral or have something to say about the human condition.When a film like Proof of Life is based on a true story, there are limits to this. The worst example I can think of being A Civil Action, which I'm sure is true to the story but the ending was not satisfying and deflated the entire film.So it's definitely worth seeing, but it's a little slow, and like real life the there is no consistent tone to the plot twists. (The film does not fit neatly into one genre throughout.)Who should see this film-- Action buffs who won't mind that only some stuff blows up and the film is a little arty-- Drama fans who are curious about the topic, but who are not expecting a romance and won't mind a little violence-- People who'd like some gritty realism concerning Latin American civil uprisingsI give Proof of Life a 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"No Gladiator, but it will do fine","Date":"8 December 2000","Score":"14 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  While I would probably reccomend seeing the epic Gladiator (one of the best films of the year as I now see it) if you want a case of Russell Crowe as a perfectionist actor, if you want to see a movie with him in good form (and in the cinema now), this is good too.  With him in the lead, plus 2 other really good performances, it almost (and almost) seems like there are no flaws.The plot follows an expert K & R consultant (Crowe in great acting shape), who goes in assistance for a wife (Meg Ryan in one of her better roles) who's husband (David Morse who follows up and tops his Dancer in the Dark performance) has been kidnapped.  Then the thrilling tension ensues, as they try and get him back.  With the few flaws possibly being not enough tension and not the greatest delivery I expected, it definately hits the mark on It's acting and delivery (and what an ending).  By the way, if you are looking for Crowe's famous Australian accent, then this is surely for you.  B+ "},{"Title":"Maybe A Little Old Fashioned To Be Truly Effective","Date":"13 March 2005","Score":"26 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Maureen O'Hara stars in a movie where her husband gets kidnapped those damn commies in South East Asia so she hires tough and dashing soldier of fortune Clark Gable to save the day That's not the cast or the location of PROOF OF LIFE but it does have a very similar plot . Did someone mention this was a 1940s matinée blockbuster ? Just curious because while I was watching the movie I was struck by how old fashioned everything felt . Russell Crowe plays an Aussie who served in the SAS and saves a Frenchman from the Chechens in the opening sequence , but you could have had Gable playing an American paratrooper saving someone from the Red Army on the River Elbe in May 1945 . Different actor , different period of history , different enemy but still the same basic story with the action switching from Europe to say South East Asia in 1950 That's not to say PROOF OF LIFE is a bad film . It's not and I found it mainly entertaining though perhaps a little too long . It's just that it is so old fashioned that you can see where the predictable story threads are going to begin and end . You can't deny that both the cast and action scenes are good , it's just that you also can't stop thinking it would have been better if it'd been filmed in monochrome and directed by Michael Curtiz with no bad language or sexual references "},{"Title":"Good actioner but what's with Meg's character?","Date":"28 November 2005","Score":"17 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" According to the director's commentary on the DVD, Meg Ryan demanded (and got) significant rewrites to her character. Maybe Meg should stick to acting because her character is pretty unappealing. When her husband's humanitarian engineering project is unraveling and he's terribly upset, what does she do? She complains about their life traveling around the globe (a very curious scene because one of Meg's rewrites required her character to be rewritten from a country-club wife into a social activist), dredges up her miscarriage which she blames on her husband (apparently because it happened while they were both voluntarily in Africa working on aid projects), and essentially tells him to take her back to America. When he offers to do so, she reverses course and rejects the offer. After the husband is kidnapped, Meg (almost immediately) starts to fall for Russell Crowe though somewhat later she slaps HIM in the face when he's only trying to get her husband back. Finally, when the husband is rescued and returned to Meg, she looks about as thrilled as someone presented with a stinking fish. Yikes! We should be happy at movie's end but I couldn't stop from thinking that the rescued kidnapee had gone from the frying pan into the fire. "},{"Title":"Good Crowe, Ryan, Morse","Date":"21 June 2006","Score":"16 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Despite the obvious ending being reminiscent of Casablanca, which is a great film, Proof of Life held up for the most part with A LOT of action--guns, muscle, and physical cruelty. Crowe is mostly always good, but Ryan surprised me in this. I found her multi-dimensional, able to shake the cutesy business that she usually plays, and really good as a quite desperate wife who has some issues with her world-hopping engineer husband. Morse was believably chauvinistic early on (before the kidnapping), and quite remarkably believable as a desperate hostage. Crowe was solidly heroic, not a Humphrey Bogart, to be sure, but certainly someone whom Ryan as Alice would remember for a long time. Certainly Terry and Alice never had Paris to remember, but there were good vibrations between them as Crowe plotted to save her husband. "}{"Title":"The totally lifeless Proof of life","Date":"11 September 2002","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Set in the volatile political climate of Ecuador, 'Proof of Life' is basically a film about an engineer, Peter Bowman (David Morse, The Rock, The Negotiator) who is kidnapped by a ruthless gang of guerrillas. Enter former SAS man, Terry Thorne (Russell Crowe), a specialist in K&R (kidnap and ransom) to negotiate the terms of his release, whilst comforting and gaining the trust of Bowman's wife Alice (Meg Ryan). The ransom demands are extreme, and as Bowman and his company are uninsured it comes down to the family and Alice to provide the money, except they do not have the requisite amount, being able to accrue a mere $650 000.This is a long and rambling film that fails on almost every level. Considering that Ryan and Crowe were having a sizzling and passionate romance, it is incredible that none of this is transferred to screen. Their chemistry is simply none existent, and although the film moves throughout at a horribly boorish pace, their inevitable romance seems contrived, hurried and without any foundation whatsoever. Prolonged eye contact does not suddenly equate to earth shattering, deep, romantic love. Crowe is an undoubted talent with tremendous and markedly different performances in films like 'Gladiator', 'The Insider' and 'LA Confidential'. There is no doubt that action films suit his acting style, and Crowe can pull off a good performance even when he is given very little to play with. 'Proof of Life' is supposed to demonstrate his more sensitive side, whilst maintaining the rugged charm and hardness that has made him successful, but this is without doubt his worst film to date.Meg Ryan, seems to have built her career out of one film ('When Harry Met Sally') and more importantly one scene (the faked orgasm scene), and she is frankly awful in this film. She seems to be typecast, forever playing an emotional and tearful woman, and in 'Proof of Life' she is no different. Such repeated sentimentality in her characters make her performances much less effective than they might be in isolation, so when the tears come in this film, they are much less potent or moving than they ought to be.'Proof of Life' is completely lifeless, and the only scene that saves it is towards the end where the film gets some 'Predator' like action scenes, and we realise why we have come to watch Crowe, viz. to see him fire his gun. The star of the film is Thorne's close friend, and fellow K&R specialist, Dino (David Caruso, 'NYPD Blue'), but he is in too few scenes to really save the film.The premise of the film is a good one, as kidnapping has gone up massively throughout the world in the last ten years, especially in England, but there is so little that can be said that is positive about the film, although the ever reliable David Morse plays his hostage role particularly well. The usually sound Pamela Reed ('Kindergarten Cop'), plays Bowman's older sister, but her character could easily have been left out of the film altogether. In one scene she leaves for the airport to collect the ransom money and we never see or hear from her again.Director Taylor Hackford ('Devil's Advocate') can do a lot better than this, although I am sure that the film will be a box-office success simply because Crowe is one of Hollywood's biggest actors, despite the fact that it is dull and unentertaining.Overall 2/10  "},{"Title":"Well....","Date":"10 December 2000","Score":"16 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This looked like something made in the 80s, what with the Rambo/Uncommon Valor Finale, the psuedo-James Bondish globe trotting of Crowe in the lead and of course, Meg Ryan. I didn't mind this much, but there are a few things wrong with it...One-it takes TOO long to get to the Rambo finale, which by the way is handled pretty well. You expect going in, to see Crowe taking at least half the flick to go in and get the poor guy being held hostage in the Andes. Not so. He spends instead an awful lotta time yakking into a two way radio with the baddies or pacing around some office or room or whatever. They needed to tighten THAT up.Two-Meg Ryan while I like her, didn't seem to bring very much to this. I donno, she reminded me of her character from 'You've Got Mail'-it was almost as if she left Set#1 and went right onto Set#2 without skipping a beat. Not enough 'gravitas' to the casting or role.Pamela Reed was kinda irritating but at least seemed like she gave a hang about  her brother being held. They never Did bother to explain to us how she scraped up the lions share of that $600K by the way(which they never hadda use)either....Crowe I like, in a Robert Mitchum kinda way this guy's the real deal. He was so good in the Rescue scenes that ya wish they'd turned this more into a 'Predator/Uncommon Valor' type flick and gone with that. I was reminded of 'Predator' in fact in the helicopter over the jungle shots....For the most part, I consider this to be a mature, intelligent presentation-but there needs to be some more thinking to what exactly kinda film it is they want to make. The opening scenes in Chechenya are so effective, you wind up being disappointed and surprised in fact that it's Not That kinda flick; more negotiating and hostage scenes than anything else.(I also, for what it's worth, will tip my hat to both the 'Missionary Guy' and David Morse, they were good. Morse usually is, in things like the Rock and whatever. And David Caruso seemed to be enjoying himself too-he was alright. Quite a comedown from NYPD Blue though, eh? He has disappeared pretty much...)Overall-it's not bad, more a good VCR than anything else....** outta ****  "},{"Title":"Proof of Life","Date":"5 May 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" In a mountainous South American country where drugs are the major crop of the economy, kidnapping is more of a lucrative investment opportunity than a punishable felony. The government is in the business of trying to stop the drug trade and allocating resources for more respectable economic ventures. In response to this, anti government Marxist guerrilla groups frequently block off traffic and raid the streets, kidnapping citizens and tourist alike, freeing the poor ones and keeping the ones who can fetch a high ransom price. Soon they realize this can bring in even more money than the drug trade, and change into a professional kidnapping operation. When they kidnap and idealistic American engineer, Peter Bowman (David Moorse), who is in South America attempting to build a dam that he believes will help the locals grow crops, the guerrilla group finds out he is employed by a United States oil company, and believe that the dam is assisting an oil pipeline, robbing South America of this precious national resource. They take him to their camp in the mountains and wait for either his wife, Meg Bowman (Meg Ryan), or the oil company to pay the large ransom set. The oil company sends in a kidnap and rescue specialists, Terry Thorne (Russell Crowe), to negotiate a lower price, however the ransom is still much higher than either his wife has or the oil company is willing to pay.While it takes place in a fictional South American country, Tecala, we can infer that Proof of Life was based almost entirely on Columbia because for a variety of reasons. The geography of Tecala resembles that of Columbia, with both flat coastal lowlands and a mountainous region, the Andes. The other clue that gives away that Tecala was based on Columbia is the effect of guerrillas. The guerrilla group in the movie is based on La Violencia, which also has a Marxist orientation. In Columbia guerilla groups control almost forty percent of the countryside, just as in Proof of Life. This film does a great job showing the imprint that guerilla groups have left on the local populace. Many Columbian citizens live in fear that every day something bad will happen to them or their families due to the great amount of daily violence in the country.The film snaps back and forth between three story lines, a harrowing escape effort from the mountain camp by Peter Bowman, the intense negotiations to lower the ransom price by Terry Thorne, and Alice Bowman's emotional roller coaster between her budding feelings for Terry Thorne and feelings of loss and despair for her husband. This triplet of story lines can get quite confusing and annoying at times because its prevents us from getting truly engaged in a storyline. Many of the characters actions and emotions are unbelievable, which leads to a distancing of oneself from the characters. Proof of Life overall however, was an entertaining movie, and a movies goal is simply to entertain. While it could have used more action sequences, it succeeded in getting the blood and adrenaline flowing. I would rate it a 6.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"proof of tobacco endorsement","Date":"26 December 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I liked this movie, I liked the characters and the pacing and plot, but what's with the gratuitous use of cigarette placement in this film. it seemed crow-bared into the story for no effect. there was no point to its inclusion. Add to that we never see meg Ryan taking a puff, just awkwardly waving her cigarette around. I first say a stray puff of smoke and wondered what the hell it was then later figured out Meg was smoking (or not). Then we get Crow in on the act and the sister. It just rang hollow and confusing and put a corporate edge on an otherwise interesting story.Crow's character was cool and for the family breaking wife stealer he managed to pull in the real world with meg his character was certainly worth it.Meg looked cool too, pre lip implants.The military stuff was precise and focused and the hostage stuff disturbing. A flawed but good movie. I'm glad I watched it. "},{"Title":"OK - passes a couple of hours satisfactorily","Date":"6 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Proof Of Life is a satisfactory drama.It starts out as a suspense thriller and ends up as an action thriller, taking a little too long to get there. Along the way it winds in a not altogether convincing almost-romance subplot.Russell Crowe is excellent, as is David Morse (as always). Meg Ryan comes across as cold, however even when there are tears and emotional moments, she never made me believe that she was actually feeling anything. A shame, because a warmer performance would have added immeasurably to the movie.Most of the supporting players are fine.There is an awful lot of un-subtitled Spanish. I suppose that this is to drive home the utter isolation experienced by David Morse's character, but there were times when I would have welcomed knowing what was being said it wasn't me who was kidnapped, after all.A decent enough movie, but without anything to single it out as being special. "},{"Title":"Mediocre thriller","Date":"5 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Proof of Life is a solid hostage thriller notable for a ten minute action sequence toward its end.This scene involves a small squad of special forces soldiers infiltrating a forest base camp and rescuing a hostage. The film makers turned this sequence over to military advisers who designed the sequence such that it adheres closely to real world military tactics.It's a good scene, considering how generic the rest of the film is, but even it degenerates into the usual bombastic action finale. Apparently the military advisers on the film planned a far more methodical, fluid hostage extraction, but the film-makers opted for the usual Hollywood flourishes.Only in cinema you'll find these paradoxes. An obsession with realism, with authenticity , with research, all of which are jettisoned at the first hurdle for supposedly more satisfying fantasies.7/10 - Proof of Life pretends to be a realistic military thriller and serious hostage movie, but like The Bodyguard and Man on Fire, it quickly degenerates into an odd romance movie, this time between Russell Crowe and Meg Ryan. "},{"Title":"A poorly directed film that dithers between action, romance and politics.","Date":"4 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  An underwritten, poorly directed film that makes Oscar worthy actors look foolish. Meg Ryan's husband is kidnapped by South American terrorists. Crowe volunteers his time to tediously negotiate the man's freedom. In spite of Meg's distress she continues to maintain perky hair and delighfully co-ordinated outfits during her husband's six month ordeal. The growing intensity of her relationship with Crowe is demonstrated by the sharing of a single glass of beer and the rubbing of Crowe's shoulder while he's setting a price on the husband's head.  A Naive and slipshod film.  "},{"Title":"SPOILER - enough plot depth to make action believable","Date":"27 September 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  the action at the end was the best part of this for me but it would be completely lame if not backed up by the deep plot through the middle. Crowe goes fairly well in this as does Morse. However I was more impressed by David Caruso's appearance in one of his most recent films before CSI Miami. I'd only seen him before in CSI Miami, which I watch a lot of, so his hard but fair cop style was fairly ingrained in my mind. It was like watching every episode of the X-Files and then trying to watch David Duchovny in some other film. You can tell a good actor, though if they can blend into any character and make it believable. Caruso did this exceptionally well here.In terms of the plot I was a little annoyed that Crowe's character Terry Thorne allowed himself to take things beyond a professional relationship with Ryan's character Alice. For one I see Thorne as a more professional man than this, and second it took the edge off the glee when Peter Bowman (Morse) got rescued and returned home because we the audience knew that all was not as well as he thought it was because his wife had been kissing the negotiator.Like I said i really liked the action, Caruso was the most crucial element to the success of the shootout at the end. I didn't, however, like how the opening action scene seemed only to be there to get the audience's attention and didn't really wind into the story. Except I guess for introducing Crowe as a KNR bloke. I would have preferred this screen time to be spent on getting to know Ryan and Morse better, but I suppose the producers wanted to make the film more about Crowe than these two.  "},{"Title":"Movie has no focus and stars have no chemistry.","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Proof of Life is a good example of how NOT to make a movie.Alice (Meg Ryan) and Peter (David Morse) are married and living in a fictional South American country called Tecala.  Peter gets kidnapped.  Terry (Russell Crowe) is a kidnap and ransom negotiator whose job it is to get Peter released.It is possible to make a good movie about a woman whose husband has been kidnapped and the relationship she has with the man who is negotiating to get her husband released.  It is possible to make a good movie about a man who has been kidnapped and the ordeal he undergoes while living with terrorists.  The point is, you pick one or the other.  Proof of Life tries to have it both ways, and it fails.  There is no way one movie can do justice to both storylines.  The action in Proof of Life keeps jumping back and forth between the two competing storylines, and it is very annoying.  The movie has no structure and no focus.The other huge problem I have with this movie is the relationship between Alice and Terry.  The movie falls all over itself trying to convince us that Alice and Terry are falling in love, but I didn't believe it for a moment.  Meg Ryan and Russell Crowe have absolutely no chemistry with each other.  You would never suspect these people had an affair in real life.When Alice offers Peter's sister Janice (Pamela Reed) a glass of wine and Janice says she doesn't drink, this gives Alice and Terry an excuse to exchange a `meaningful' look.  When Alice and Terry take Janice to the airport, after Janice leaves, Alice and Terry stand and stare at each other.  When Terry is on the radio talking to the kidnappers, he sees Alice in another room.  They stop what they are doing and look at each other.  The movie wants us to believe all this gazing is a sign of romantic attraction, but it just looks like Alice and Terry are staring at each other for no apparent reason.There is a scene in which Terry's friend Dino (David Caruso) spends some time with Alice and Terry.  Alice drinks out of Terry's glass.  We see a close-up of Dino reacting to this.  Alice and Terry light candles.  Dino comments on this.  In this scene the movie is hitting us over the head telling us to find tremendous significance in Alice and Terry's innocent behavior.  So what if Alice drinks out of Terry's glass and they light candles?  That doesn't mean they're falling in love!When Dino asks Terry if he is in love with Alice, the question makes no sense because all he has to go on is the behavior described above.  When Terry kisses Alice, it comes out of nowhere.I think Meg Ryan is miscast in this movie.  I just never found her performance convincing.  Alice needs to wear a bra, and her hair is always a mess.  Alice never actually smokes her cigarettes but merely waves them around and gestures with them.Russell Crowe looks good and gives a good performance.  "},{"Title":"We're out of miracles.","Date":"19 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Russell Crowe would of course come to be better known elsewhere (filmicly) in this year, but what of his other release in 2000? Proof of Life is a blender, a picture that is in part thriller, part romance, part drama and part observation on a very real life problem - that of kidnapping for ransom. So many genres to tackle means that invariably Taylor Hackford's film feels over stuffed, pushing the running time to two hours and fifteen minutes, it is this that hurts it. A shame because if trimmed of the pointless filler and drawn out sequences then there is a very efficient (ok, maybe routine is a better word here) and well acted piece on show. The drama and tension (sexual and perilous threat) is all building towards the action packed finale, which, while well mounted, doesn't seem an adequate pay off for the number of extended chatty scenes we have had to tolerate to get there. Nice tip of the hat to a classic at the end, though. 6/10 "}{"Title":"Good movie on the whole","Date":"8 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Apart from the character played by Meg Ryan the movie was quite good. Meg Ryan's character came across as shallow and ever so slightly spoiled---it was all about her. Her husband's sister was also a weak character.She seemed to be more concerned about the hostage's safety then his wife. Having said that, the story was a good one, and apparently based on a true event which happened in Colombia. The scenes of the captives during their ordeal were a little harrowing. I would not have chosen this movie to see at the cinema, but it provided a nice evening's entertainment in the comfort of our lounge on television. Russell Crowe played his part well, as did the actor playing the hostage. I did not like David Caruso in his part---he seems to have the same acting technique in everything he appears in---wooden, and sounds as if he is reading his lines. "},{"Title":"  If  we  do  this,   it  will   be  the  Stuff  of  Legends  ","Date":"3 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" There are many horrid events which pervade the major News services of the modern world. One kidnapping incident eventually became the inspiration for William Prochnau to write a noteworthy article on it. When it hit the silver screen, Taylor Hackford directed the movie with the flair of a dramatic adventure. In fact, if memory serves, I believe I saw an old Black and White film with a similar formula starring the late Clark Gable. The movie is called  Proof of Life  and stars Russell Crowe as Terry Thorne, an ex-soldier, global adventurer and hostage negotiator. David Morse plays Peter Bowman, a Reknown, dam building engineer who is taken hostage by South American rebels who promise to execute him unless several million dollars in Ransom is paid. With his worried wife (Meg Ryan) at home and Bowman's parent company refusing to pay the money, Thorne must find a way to rescue Bowman with private means. David Caruso is excellent as Dino, an experience friend and former soldier who for a piece of the reward money decides to go along. The film is slow to develop, but when it launches itself, it becomes a touch and go, shoot-em-up exciting caper with an explosive climax. This film will be a Classic in the future with Crowe and Caruso taking bows. Recommended. **** "},{"Title":"A good and very entertaining thriller with Russell Crowe","Date":"12 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" While building a dam in Tecala, a country situated in the Andes, the chief America engineer Peter Bowman (David Morse), is captured by anti-government forces during a raid in the capital. When the rebels discover their identity require $3 million to return safe and sound. However, the company of Peter, based in Houston, is on the brink of bankruptcy and has canceled the insurance policy against kidnappings, so it cannot provide the money for their rescue. Abandoned by the company, Alice (Meg Ryan), the wife of Peter, must cope with the situation by your account. She hires the services of the negotiator of hostages professional Terry Thorne (Russell Crowe), a veteran of SAS, which in recent years has dealt with numerous kidnappings.Proof of Life is a film little considered due to high expectations for its attractiveness argument and that is the first film of Russell Crowe after the great success throughout the world with Gladiator. But its director Taylor Hackford has not sought a film committed and complaint, only has sought to expose through a current problem, a simple thriller and fairly, conventional with good scenes of action. Its objective is achieved by far, but it is not at all what has been expected of this film.In terms of its scenes of action, they are very successful and generous, with some contribution of tension well managed. The film is conventional within this genre of films. It has not nothing to do not have seen before, but it knows expose very well the action, although the fabric loving can be considered very secondary fulfills its mission, "},{"Title":"We're out of miracles.","Date":"23 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" With a top notch score by Danny Elfman and a plethora of fine actors, this was a movie worth watching more than once.After Gladiator, Russell Crowe is now A-list. He proved he can act in The Insider, but can he be consistent? He certainly convinced me that, as ex-SAS hostage negotiator Terry Thorne, he would be the man to save my loved one's life.Director Taylor Hackford (An Officer And A Gentleman, Ray) blew it on the love triangle. Her husband going through hell and Alice (Meg Ryan) gets it on with Thorne? Tacky! It's tasteless, but not enough to ruin the movie. It suffers from the frequent leaps between the scenes of captivity and the Ryan/Crowe sequences, Ryan is a little over the top with the tears, but Morse turns in a great performance as he gets dirtier and dirtier. Actually, I would have been happier had they spent more time with him in the mountains. He could have had a go with some native girl and it would have been believable with death at the door. That does not mean I forgive him for his role on House! David Caruso was also surprisingly good as Thorne's buddy. "},{"Title":"all because of a dirty little affair...","Date":"8 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is the infamous film that has been given the notorious distinction of being the way that Meg Ryan met Russell Crowe and thus begat their torrid affair.  Frankly, I think that's the reason I saw this in the theater in the first place.  Other than that, nothing strikes me as great about this film but I do remember being on the edge of my seat the first time I saw it.  However, the second time wasn't the charm...Proof of Life tries too hard to be something that it just cannot be.  At one instance, it is a total guy flick with all the action and the blowing up and the grenades and so on.  On the other hand, Meg Ryan is in it so can anyone out there say chick flick?  Something for everyone you say?  Not unless that person has an excellent attention span and an eye for mercurious details.  I believe that you just cannot make a film that is at one moment bloody and at the next moment all romantically sweet and saccharine.  If I had to use one word to describe this film to anyone I would have to say draggy.  We don't really get into the action sequence until at least 3/4 of the way through it and then it seems like its too late.For all the hype that precipitated Proof of Life's release in December of 2000, I must give total kudos to Russell and Meg and the Warner Brothers publicity department.  Simply because of a dirty little affair and a Christmas season release, this film managed to sell tickets and dupe the unsuspecting public, myself included into seeing something that should have gone straight to video in the first place.My rating 2 stars "},{"Title":"Stunning pictures - shame about the plot","Date":"17 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Yes, Ecuador is beautiful and so of course is Meg Ryan - but that can hardly justify spending over two hours on this unfathomable, poorly directed 'blockbuster'. I just never believed the situation, characters or relationships. Ryan and Crowe try hard but are  overwhelmed by the incredulous situation and the disturbing portrayal of the locals as either stupid or just plain evil.Should and could have been better. 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Better characters than the usual actioner","Date":"6 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Nice to see a director make the effort to develop the characters. Usually they are just place-holders to carry the action. Not to say that the action/suspense is lacking; it holds up just fine. Meg Ryan and Russell Crowe are right on the button as wife of kidnapee and the international ransom expert. "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"14 June 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is a terrific movie, and I'm not the only one who thinks so and as such is well under-rated. It manages to combine a great storyline full of action and suspense with a love interest as well. The romantic aspect is of course really subtle, and all the more compelling because of this, and doesn't get in the way of the action.Crowe is just brilliant, and totally believable, as the kidnapping and ransom specialist Terry Thorne who is called in to rescue Peter Bowman, the husband of Alice played by Meg Ryan. Meg Ryan I think plays her part quite well, but it's hard to see what Russell Crowe's character saw in her romantically.The location and all the supporting character performances also have a real air of authenticity about them. "},{"Title":"Simply Entertaining...!","Date":"29 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I found this to be a very decent, well made motion picture that did what it was supposed to do entertain! Now I do agree with the critics that it has some shortfalls, it is certainly not perfect, but sufficiently good to offer more than two hours of suspense, action and basically film-going enjoyment. I disagree with most that the movie is too long, I find the duration to be fine, I did not catch myself being bored for an instant for the duration of the film.As far as the acting is concerned, I think David Morse put in an excellent performance here as the kidnapped husband. Very good acting indeed. As far as the two starring actors are concerned, I do not find as some say, that Meg Ryan and Russell Crowe were miscast in this picture. On the contrary I think they work well in this type of picture, especially Russel Crowe who does a very good job playing an ex SAS officer. Special forces soldiers do not look or act like Schwarzenegger, they are more or less exactly as Crowe portrayed them. Yes, I agree that Meg Ryan could have been more emotionally involving, more dramatic, but she brings so many other things to the screen that others don't (naivete, believability, charm, etc.). You can't have everything (well you can, but not always...). In other, I found the movie has been well directed, the cinematography and sound are also good. On the flip side, the screenplay could have been a little more 'sophisticated' (Ebert put it very nicely Perhaps the screenplay should have been kept simmering until it was reduced a little, and its flavors made stronger).All in all, not an artistic masterpiece but a good, entertaining motion picture to watch with a beer and a nice packet of popcorn. Isn't this what movies are supposed to be about anyway? "},{"Title":"Acting does not live here... or directing...","Date":"11 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Horrible. Like porno without sex. I don't want to revoke a thing between Ryan and Crowe, but - where is that chemistry that supposed to happened?? They acting like they're in very bad Eurepean movie, without tense, emotions, action, depth or humor.WHAT WAS THAT?One of the worst movies of the year. "}{"Title":"Crap","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Why did this movie take more than two hours to tell?  This was the longest two hours of my life!!!  Weak script, PLODDING story, and an unusually dull Meg Ryan (she wasn't bad, she just had nothing to do except pretend to boohoo over a guy she had 0 chemistry with).  Why did Russel come back to take the case?  Because that's what the hero does, duh.  Gee, who knew the first expert she hired was a crook?  Only me, my girlfriend, the kidnapped guy's sister, Russel (of course, again, he's the hero), oh, and EVERYONE IN THE FRIGGEN THEATER.To be fair, David Caruso was okay (he was still a bit strained as the comedic friend of the hero though) and at least there was some action at the end to wake me up for the drive home. "},{"Title":"Seriously good stuff","Date":"13 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Different people have different tastes but I'm genuinely surprised that Proof of Life has had such mixed reviews.  I consider myself a fairly critical movie-goer yet I was thoroughly engaged by this well-made, well-acted and well-plotted piece of work.The film is an intelligent balance between realistic action sequences (a welcome change from the kind of nonsense witnessed in MI2 or Charlie's Angels) and believable drama (which broadly avoided the crass melodrama usually favoured by Hollywood).One has a clear sense that here we have a pretty successful attempt to 'tell it like it is' without compromising the need for dramatic tension.  The reviewer who said that PoL steers clear of both Hollywoodisation and Political Correctness is spot on - many mainstream films are loaded with both.  Here's a film where you can say to yourself Hey, this is probably pretty close to what it's really like.  There are no cartoon villains (with inevitable cut-glass English accents).  Nor is the rescue mission led by a gay quadraplegic.Crowe is suberb.  He radiates the kind of quiet authority required by his role.  Meg Ryan is good too.  She doesn't give off the I'm such a saintly martyr vibe that Hollywood often demands of its female leads.I'd welcome a more sophisticated and challenging critique of PoL from those who really didn't like it (rather than it was boring) because - for me - it is miles ahead of 90% of what hits our cinemas.  A proper night out at the movies.  "},{"Title":"family movie again","Date":"12 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Only thing i can estimate on this film is the presentation of Columbian reality. You know, the war between ELT and army and corruption and business interests of oil companies. It is good to show these themes to mass public, but any newspaper artical would be better than this film. Of course you have big panoramatic shots of columbian hills and woods, and the pictore of ELT family life. Educational. But as Film it not worth a penny. Even good actress can not save it. And besides you have a lot of bad films with good actors Narration is so slow a literal, everything is repeated twice, and explained again and again. And what about unbearable mix of family movie with action thriller and love story a criticizing world problems? I could not stand it. It was all like very slow internet connection when you wait two minutes or more for a single site a in the mean time you see three warnings The SITe IS CoMINg! "},{"Title":"Mediocre movie with one of the greatest Special Forces/hostage rescue sequences in film","Date":"31 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Its an OK movie overall. There is no arguing that Russel Crowe has some charisma in this film. And Meg Ryan... is Meg Ryan and really not a good fit. Overall not anything to get that excited about. But the action sequences, both when Peter is captured and the film ending hostage rescue sequence in my opinion are some of the greatest and most accurate in film. Not perfect, this is a movie so some creative/dramatic license was taken, but way above par compared to most any other film I can think of with very rare exception. Its pretty clear that they had a rare combination of fantastic military consultants along with a director and cinematographer willing to listen and make the most of it. Tactics, equipment, effects (with obligatory gasoline added to explosions...), even hand signals, how the guerrilla's operate... Spot on! Quite the rarity and very refreshing.Really can't say enough good things about the action sequences. Movie is worth seeing just for this. The rest... meh. "},{"Title":"Proof of No Brains.","Date":"25 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Proof of Life (2000) Dir Taylor Hackford / Cast Russell Crowe, Meg Ryan, David Morse, Pamela Reed, David Caruso Misguided drama about the need for evidence for Meg Ryan's husband has been taken hostage by guerillas in South America. Russell Crowe plays a hostage negotiator and the film plays best when it details the operation. Unfortunately the marketing tool regards the real life affair between the two, which is marketing at its lowest thus giving the film an extremely low appeal. Insightful directing by Taylor Hackford who previously made a much more appealing and compelling film called Dolores Claiborne. This film hardly comes close to that film's haunting themes although certainly it had the potential. The ending rises above the standard action clichés but doesn't save the film. While Crowe steals the film with his skill and knowledge, Ryan is basically there to hint sexual innuendo. This greatly hinders the film, and their real life relationship doesn't exactly help the film either. Thankfully Crowe takes charge in an exciting climax that pays off better than anything else in the film. David Morse does well as her husband although with all the hinted innuendo I was beginning to wish that they nabbed Ryan instead. Unfortunate failure due to its means of using Ryan as a tool for manipulation when in reality she was basically playing the part of a tool. Score 5 / 10 "},{"Title":"An Intense and Political Thriller Almost Ruined By Flat, Unengaging Romance","Date":"25 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" A Disappointing, Mediocre Movie with Just Enough Hollywood Professionalism to get buy on its Looks and Lamenting about Third World Gangsterism and First World Corporate Influence and Indifference.There are Scenes that are Interesting in Tony Gilroy's Script, but like the Film, is Never Consistently Spot-On in the Things that make This Type of Thing Interesting to Movie-Goers. Undeniably, the Movie's Biggest Misstep is the Romantic Angle Forced on the Film and it is Lacking in Believability, Meg Ryan's Pouting and Sniffling, and it is One More Bit of Tension that was Unneeded. David Caruso's Over-Acting and His Character, at times, Acting so Silly, Doesn't Help. Perhaps it is Just One More of the Hollywood Notion that People Going to See Russell Crowe and a Cute Semi-Superstar whose Star Faded Very Fast, Demand Some Soap Opera Amongst its Action, Philosophy and Politics. All that Stuff is a Heavy Load to Take On for Any Movie and its the One Ingredient that Spoiled this Cinematic Brew. "},{"Title":"Russell Crowe and Meg Ryan uncomfortably real","Date":"13 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" South American rebels kidnap Peter Bowman (David Morse), a US engineer who works for an oil company. The company calls in negotiator Terry Thorne (Russell Crowe). When the oil company abandons them, Bowman's wife Alice (Meg Ryan) begs Terry to stay.First we must address the Russell Crowe - Meg Ryan real life romance. It definitely muddied the movie's reception. But it's eerie how the movie mirrors real life. David Morse plays the husband a little bit too unlikeable. It made the budding romance of the leads uncomfortably too real in both life and movie. That part of the movie is just too creepy.What I like about the movie is Russell Crowe negotiating with the rebels. The action at the end is worthwhile. And the whole story flows very well. "},{"Title":"Better on paper than on film but still a great movie","Date":"7 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Tony Gilroy (screenwriter of Michael Clayton and Bourne Identity) based the script for this film on a magazine article in Vanity Fair (Adventures in the Ransom Trade) about the kidnapping and ransom industry in Latin America as well as a first-hand account of an international businessman who had been kidnapped for nearly a year by a paramilitary group (Tom Hargrove's book Long March to Freedom).The article and first-hand account which the film's script is based on had a tremendous amount of potential for a film that was both enlightening and action-packed.As it stands, the film still delivers but it isn't a particularly memorable film. The film splits its time between an imprisoned David Morse (playing a more movie-friendly version of Hargrove) on one end and Meg Ryan, David Caruso and Russell Crowe on the other trying to save him from Columbian guerrillas. The scenes of Morse don't fare as well because there was less opportunity for dialogue between him and his captors so it was hard to get a sense of his inner monologue and struggle.On paper, the delicate balance of professional admiration and lust in the relationship between Terry (Russell Crowe) and Alice (Meg Ryan) was captured much better in the script than on screen. It's ironic because the two were romantically off the set, but I don't think Meg Ryan conveyed that delicate balance as well. Actingwise, the film still had some great moments. Russell Crowe is great as always and there are a few moments in the film where he blows you away.Also, if you have an interest in the consequences of the unsteady political regimes in Latin America (like me), this would especially be the film for you.It's also worth mentioning that I've read a copy of the script so that affected my judgment of the film "},{"Title":"Deserves a better rating than it received.","Date":"22 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I was pleasantly surprised with this film. I wasn't expecting much based on the IMDb rating but I love Russell Crowe so thought I'd give it a run. I was also interested to watch it as it is the film that initiated the affair between Meg Ryan and Russell Crowe. Meg Ryan plays the role of the distraught wife well. The film illustrates the disparity between the lives of the poor in South America and the wealthy westerners - and the perils of venturing into such hostile lands.I found the movie engaging throughout. I dislike all the gratuitous violence in movies these days and I found this did not have too much violence, nor too much mush. It wasn't too wordy either, so you could pop out to the kitchen to get a quick drink and come back and pick up again. And it had a nice, happy ending, which I also like. A good Saturday night flick. "},{"Title":"Typical armchair and limited view of the overall issues","Date":"1 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I just wanted to add something that I think it's missing from all the comments here This kind of approach to South America and its recent history is insulting and biased. 1. The pro-left rebels in the mountains are portrayed as comic stereotypes dirty, illiterate, terrorist. 2. Nothing in the movie even hints the BIGGEST problem, which is the constant involvement of the US in South American and Central American internal affairs and the exploitation of the South American resources by the West. 3. The white characters are so f***** pure and one-sided that it made me want to puke.The kidnapped man is a damn builder who wants to help the people.The wife and the sister are down-to-earth strong American women. The rescuers are funny and charming and have a noble agenda.Whereas everything about the South American country is mercantile and primitive. No s***, Sherlock.Western directors should do some research and soul searching before working with such background stories. This is the real history and drama of a whole continent, not some childish Star Wars story.As for movie itself, I enjoyed it somewhat because of some good actors. Morse is great, Caruso tackles the type of supporting role that we are usually used to see Bill Paxton in, and Crowe is OK in his tough guy military role. The only problem with the acting is Meg Ryan, who's not only miscast but really does an awful job here. Really terrible, as always, actually. "}{"Title":"No life signs detected","Date":"7 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Plot A kidnap & ransom specialist falls in love with the wife of the man he is supposed to be rescuingAt 135 minutes in length, this thriller simply doesn't thrill; it should have been no longer than 100 minutes. The narrative is flabby and the story ponderous; the love affair between the two leads is tepid, with little spark between the lovers (despite the two actors actually having an affair at the time); and the depiction of the American characters as boorish and self-obsessed is either a cutting indictment of them (Ugly American style) or a reflection on the same qualities existing in the film's creators. Even the end, which rejects the traditional Hollywood happy ending, is over-blown and bombastic; turning a brief reflective look into a meaning-filled, half a minute long piece of soul searching. The solitary redeeming feature is the climactic battle, which rejects the excess and angst of the rest of the film in favour of a super-lean and intelligent rescue mission. It's brilliant but it isn't worth slogging through the film to get to it. Better to just watch it on YouTube. "},{"Title":"Implausibly Short Trial By Kafka's Standards And Much More Satisfying!","Date":"21 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I just saw this movie early this morning, loved it and really needed to share my personal analysis of its message. This version of The Trial by Franz Kafka was by far one of the most positive, human and smile-inducing versions I have been blessed enough to see in all of this horribly depressing year . And it isn't a parody. Kelly's Heroes is still my favorite, as it is more the journey shared after all came together to bring their separate trials to an ending that gave them all the dignity they deserved. Most people are not what I consider really thinking 'OH...Trial or Apocalyse' when they watch movies. It's a thing I do...but it's better than being scarred for life so I don't feel too abnormally plugged in to those themes out of my own misery, exactly. The film's particular take is what I find most interesting as it's always completely new! No wonder the connection usually isn't seen by normal people. I have my reasons.I really enjoyed the metamorphosis in Meg Ryan's spoiled and somewhat selfish character. The whole ordeal made her grow up and showed how much their marriage was taken for granted until they finally got some real problems to flip out over. Her gradual change from ignorant and naive bitch to grateful and emotionally invested friend to the man who, lets face it...is basically an angel in human form. The kiss, in my opinion, was less about any romance that a married woman and a man who wouldn't do such an ethically dubious thing as to TRY TO TAKE A MAN'S WOMAN WHILE SAVING HIS LIFE. His professionalism never wavered. Can a huge break in that obvious level of honesty and selflessness be seen as romantic in nature? Give me a break, people! He was going to kiss a pretty woman before he died, as the mission was certainly one that would have brought that at any time. Besides, he really did develop a love for her that was less about attraction than a shared experience full of sacrifice, intensity and real dedication to family. The French prisoner; an Oddball, yet more annoyingly optimistic in his schtick like Roberto Bergnini in Life is Beautiful. at one point when speaking to Meg about her Husband, which was weird to me in its obvious bull, seemed like a sweet attempt to give her a more saintly, detailed and less miserably hard last impression of her husband's character and great help to him. He thought for sure he might be dead, after all. This is what normally happens to prisoners in such extreme circumstances. The Foreign Legion veteran is just too genius to NOT be another angel in human form. He had that mentally gone act down so easily that I had to wonder if he wrote the book on military tactics. Brilliant person of an obviously impressive amount of experience, and here is the guy he can not only educate and befriend but make an escape a possibility. Two heads were obviously necessary to get anywhere near hope in this miserable Blood Diamond-like hell. When a whole country is drained of fear or slave labor to a Dictator/Gangster that works close enough to American Oil and other government agency interests to be equally f*cked by them completely, how is an end to it ever plausible without extra special people? This is saying just how much really is expected of all people involved here. I can't stand vain people who do nothing at all that would be considered an actual act of bravery or sacrifice, but openly and easily throw such words around (or their sycophants, friends or otherwise cover-up people) in any reference to themselves as if the act of saying it made it so. These types could be easily inserted into the QUAD/OCTONAL geometrically doubling in it's bigness pipeline for oil-interested Devils. These incredibly phoney rich folks suck more than the quality of their dinner conversation. Liars and heartless dictators bathe in more money than they know what to do with, while those that can do better wind up like our couple here.The final rescue mission is the most reminiscent of Kelly's Heroes for me, as the very level of Special Ops skills and divinely inspired badassery was this character's same skill set, minus the humor. Nevertheless, this movie doesn't wear me down with more violent and demoralizing torture or violence, leaves the focus of its ending on the actual emotional investment made by our hero in his total,unspoken promise to protect and help this family, but carried to the completion with such unwavering commitment that Meg's awe at the miracle they were given is difficult for her to verbalize. Yes, I know that to see a person do that, much less have one save your own ass is not likely for most people. Still, I needed to see it today really badly. Hope is not a thing that is easily given in my world. This movie has it. "},{"Title":"Predictable","Date":"16 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Sparks fly between Meg Ryan and Russell Crowe. Crowe has to negotiate the release of Ryan's husband who is a hostage of a South American `Marxist became Cocaine-dealer' freedom unit. The plot is  predictable and there is no way that Meg would leave at the end of the movie with her helper who is obviously smitten with his client. Entertaining but not mind blowing. (5/10) "},{"Title":"Not What I Expected, Could've Been Better.....","Date":"26 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  PROOF OF LIFE was an okay movie.  When I saw the trailer for it, I thought it was gonna be some big romance-action epic.  I was wrong.  It was just another action film.  There was no intimacy between Meg Ryan & Russell Crow's characters at all.  I heard that there was a sex scene, but it was deleted because of Hollywood politics.  Meg Ryan was having a real-life affair with her co-star, Russell Crow.  This caused problems for her marriage to her then-husband, Dennis Quaid.  I understand that this is the reason for their divorce.  I heard that the real-life affair would've been compared to the movie version (reminding viewers of her adultry), so to avoid all that, Miss Ryan put pressure on studio heads to leave the sex scene on the cutting room floor.  PROOF OF LIFE had some good action scenes, but the sex scene should've been kept in at least.  It would've showed some intimacy between the two characters which was badly needed. Hopefully, they'll come out with a Director's Cut on VHS.  Overall, okay movie. "},{"Title":"Yay, Meg Ryan. (Not.)","Date":"25 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Proof Of Life is probably the first film I have ever seen that falls nicely between the genres of `action movie' and `chick flick.'  It has the perfect blend of scenes including people drinking tea, lamenting the difficulties of the situation and scenes of people getting strafed by automatic weapons, shot into bloody meat chunks.  Definitely a decent date movie. Proof of Life is set somewhere in South America, the story of Alice Bowman (Meg Ryan) and her husband Peter Bowman (David Morse), who is kidnapped by an obscure South American political group whose sole aim in life is to kidnap people. Luckily, Terry Thorne's (Russell Crowe) sole aim in life is to negotiate the safe release of kidnapped husbands.  He shows up with his thick Australian accent and pectoral muscles carved out of marble and accomplishes very little, but the female audience members seem to love it. Have no fear guys for Alice's obnoxious and staggeringly unattractive sister-in-law Janis (Pamela Reed) shows up about twenty minutes into the movie, accomplishes nothing, then leaves.  Does this movie sound silly so far?  It is. David Caruso (YES, the guy from NYPD Blue, he is still alive.) shows up as Thorne's friend Dino, and brings a little bit of humor to some otherwise drab scenes. Thorne does a lovely job of trying to negotiate the release of Alice's husband Peter, except Peter tries to escape with the aid of a crazy German priest and messes everything up.  He is caught but the priest gets away, and tells Thorne where Peter may be found.  This is where it gets interesting. So Thorne decides to blast into the camp where Peter is being held.  There is sure to be resistance, including men with guns, bombs, and other things that can prick the skin.  So instead of donning a full Kevlar body suit like any sane man would do, he decides to venture in wearing nothing but cargo pants and a black tank top.  This, of course, offers no protection to the vast array of sharp objects that are sure to be flying through the air, but it does offer the ladies another tasteful view of his Michaelangelian pectoral muscles. So to sum up the good and bad points of the film Good Points *Helicopters *Explosions *Death Bad Points *The two hours of boring stuff that builds up to the helicopters, explosions, and death. *Too much pig poop in the camp *Meg Ryan I couldn't in good conscious label this film as good or bad, therefore I label it as an OK Flick.  "},{"Title":"Shoulda been better, coulda been shorter","Date":"19 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Starts with cool action scene that had me wondering what was all the bad buzz about? Then came almost an hour of dragging backstory that could have been covered in 5 minutes. After that there were a couple of cool scenes, yes that's right, there are a couple cool parts (mainly from Russell Crowe) in the movie. The actors did a good job, but there was too much dull and unnecessary stuff to make the good stuff worthwhile, especially at around the beginning of the movie. The idea of the movie was good - poor execution though. The other big problem was that for the kind of movie it was, there was no tension and never any doubt at any part of the movie what was going to happen next. "},{"Title":"An Exciting War Movie With a Touch of Romance","Date":"17 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is a story of a gun-for-hire who works for an insurance company that insures executives against being kidnapped for ransom.  His job is to pay the ransom and get the hostage out in one piece.  Our story surrounds an engineer who works for an oil company somewhere in South America and his wife.  He winds up being kidnapped for ransom by a guerilla movement there (fictional, I believe).  The gun-for-hire is sent in only to find that the engineer was never actually insured.The story is fast paced and exciting with maybe a few poorly motivated or awkward scenes.  The cinematography alone is worth the trip and the combat scenes are exciting and plausible to the casual viewer.  There is enough human dialogue to encourage anyone averse to Saving Private Ryan grade war violence to see this movie. "},{"Title":"GOOD BUT TOO LONG","Date":"3 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Taylor Hackford delivered another masterpiece based in South America. The only thing that i find pity is there are some unnecessary scenes that could have been deleted. It is an original story and based on realistic facts. Strong acting from Russell Crowe and Meg Ryan. This kidnapping thriller offers many twists and action. If you liked this one don´t miss COLLATERAL DAMAGE or DON'T SAY A WORD. 7/10. "},{"Title":"Doctor, no pulse!","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The problem with Proof of Life is that it's competent in parts but absolutely sloppy as a whole. The mixture of suspense and romance are embarrassing at best. When Crowe and Ryan kiss, you just think `where is this coming from?' Previously, there has been absolutely no chemistry between them. There's been more romance at the camp between Morse's character and his female guard than between his wife and Crowe! The final battle is very well done, just totally disconnected with the rest of the movie. I still have a hard time understanding what a mercenary like Crowe's character is doing in this mess. To open his own shop? Maybe, but it's a hard sell (to us!). The rhythm of the movie makes it feel that it's been taken from several different motion pictures and glued together in the editing room and voila! You have Proof of Life. Just no pulse. "},{"Title":"Gottfried John is it!","Date":"25 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  So, this is one of these movies I would never consciously choose to watch, but as it was shown on my train I decided not to turn off the screen. It was reasonable entertaining. Though, the only good acting was done by Gottfried John, I thought. Russell Crowe was ok, too, but his role sucked a little. Like his friend Dino, I never understood his motivation. Maybe with Meg Ryan it was also the role and not herself who I did not like. Anyway, the action scenes were even a little suspenseful and in the end the movie was ok. "}{"Title":"the ending barely made the movie watcheable","Date":"20 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  	Meg Ryan portrays the dutiful wife to David Morse, an engineer assigned to build a dam in some South American province.  Unfortunately the company he works for is being bought up by some multi-national oil conglomerate and people are being fired left and right. There is added tension between the two because of something that keeps being brought up concerning their time in Africa. After a particularly nasty fight, Morse's character leaves early one morning and is stopped in a traffic jam.  Suddenly gun shots are heard and men literally start running down the side of the mountain. People are being thrown out of their cars and herded hastily across a bridge.  It seems that the local revolutionary group has just kidnapped themselves a bunch of hostages.  Upon investigation they discover who Morse's parent company is and send him back up into the mountains as they feel they have a prime prize now. Back home, the parent company's insurance holder sends in their resident Kidnap and Rescue negotiator, a stalwart ex-military type, played by Russell Crowe.  Crowe begins negotiations with the revolutionaries only to have his card pulled when his company finds out that the parent company has dropped the original company and nobody will be there to pay the bills.  After a particularly harsh exchange with Ryan, Crowe leaves the scene only to have a change of heart and return to work the gig on his own.  Apparently the looks between them as he negotiated the release of her husband have perked some interest. Crowe recruits some old friends of his and they finally track down the revolutionaries.  The finale is a beautifully filmed rescue scene with some high powered action kicked in to boot. I have mixed feelings on this one.  The action sequences are great. Unfortunately they are few and far between.  Crowe did a pretty good job but Meg Ryan was horribly miscast.  She is nowhere near as tough as her character acted so some of the lines came across rather silly.  The best acting came from the husband, David Morse's character.  He conveyed brilliantly the intense desire to be free so that he could return to the only thing keeping him going, his love for his wife. Obviously there is a great deal of controversy associated with this film in that it seems to have been behind the breakup of Ryan and Dennis Quaid. Ryan and Crowe have long since broken up and it could be they discovered what the movie so aptly showed, no chemistry whatsoever.  I do have to admit that I was also a bit ticked at her somehow falling for Crowe's character at the same time they show her husband desperately struggling to stay alive for her.  Still...all in all...it's a decent enough rental 	  "},{"Title":"Meg Ryan is laughable! Or is she?","Date":"15 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Great filming in Ecuador!!! Solid directing, solid acting by David Morse and Caruso, tight action scenes -- but Meg Ryan is a joke (or is she? I'd hate to think her performance is indicative as to how a typical American woman would react in this situtation -- the treatment her husband recieves from her at the end is the most gut-wrenching part of the movie!). I don't really think of this as a role or a character -- it's simply Meg Ryan, with the fickle pouting you'd expect from her. The latinos in the film are made to look like a bunch of uneducated savages -- but let's not forget who kidnapped who here and who pays up in the end. Ryan, Pamela Reed's character and even Morse (at times) come off as whiny, pathetic Americans. Except that we're supposed to sympathize with THEM. I think that's the film's biggest mistake.  "},{"Title":"Average Movie","Date":"14 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  First off i like the movie but what could of been a great movie turns out to be just average.Ryan is the chief flaw shes far too lightweight for this and is hopelessy miscast.Pamela Reed as the sister is far closer to a real portrayal.as for david morse he must be the first ever captive to look fatter after his ordeal than before.Im sure Dennis Quaid would of been perfect in this role.On the plus side Crowe is in good form.Taylor Hackford does well he should do a bond movie.And David Caruso is a Real scene Stealer.6 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Could have been better edited","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Proof of Life comes under the heading decent timewaster.  Meg Ryan's husband, played by David Morse (who turns in his usual solid supporting performance) is kidnapped by rebels in an fictional Andean nation (Peru, Ecuador, take your pick).  After getting no help from the embassy and the oil company who had cancelled the kidnapping insurance previously, Russell Crowe arrives on the scene, an Aussie who joined the British Army and served in the SAS.  In other words he is a formidable presence who is Ryan's only hope.  Crowe is pretty good as usual.  The movie plods along slowly, and there are more than a few times when the pace calls for some serious tightening and editing.  At 2 hours and 15 minutes it's 15 minutes too long.  David Caruso does a good job as Crowe's sidekick in the special forces field, but his time on the screen is too short.  His role reminded me a bit of Willem Dafoe's role in Clear and Present Danger, but it isn't fully realized.  As for Meg and the sparks between her and Crowe, one tends to forget about the tabloid news that shadowed this film, she holds her own in a role more suited to her than the one she played in Courage Under Fire.  All in all, Proof of Life is a decent enough movie, it's the usual formula but not bad. "},{"Title":"An episode of Dr. Kildare","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Really, an allegory about HMOs.  When your husband has a brain tumor, who do you want Dr. Suarez, the neurosurgeon from the HMO, or Dr. Kildare, who's awfully expensive?  Dr. Kildare, of course.  You fall in love with him, he falls in love with you, and at the end he gives you back your husband. Beautiful scenery in the Andes. "},{"Title":"Kidnap Thriller Doesn't Meet Expectations","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"   Proof of Life is another instance where all the pre-release hype resulted in disappointment when viewing the actual film. The story involves the kidnaping by Columbian rebels of an American businessman (David Morse) in order to attract a large ransom payment. Meg Ryan is the concerned wife and Pamela Reed the overbearing sister-in-law. Russell Crowe is the professional negotiator/guerilla sent in to affect the release of the captive. The beginning and end of the film are exciting and filled with action. The middle portion which essentially deals with the long and boring negotiation process drags on much too long. An ample opportunity for Ms. Ryan and Mr. Crowe to begin a passionate affair. WRONG! Although the two stars reportedly carried on off the set, they do nothing on screen beyond a school boy kiss. In the ultimate irony, Ryan remains true to her husband. The middle portion of this film needed something to liven it up. Not so. Ryan and Crowe seem tired from their off-screen escapades and could be accused of leaning on the oars for this one. The best performance in this picture is given by the under-rated Morse as the kidnap victim. We see him undergo the constant moving from place to place, his feeling of hopelessness and the primitive conditions under which he survives. Pamela Reed is also good as Morse's sister, however she disappears from the story far too early. David Carouso is also along as another negotiator/guerilla. There also are some questions left unanswered in the story. Who for example, is financing Crowe when he returns to help Ryan? When and how did Crowe and Carouso suddenly become crack guerilla fighters and where did they get the money to buy all the expensive weaponry they use in their raid? A disappointing film.     "},{"Title":"Movie is good, Meg isn't","Date":"5 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Proof of Life is a pretty good action movie, but Meg Ryan just doesn't fit the quality of the rest of the cast.  It's like she doesn't understand what's going on.  Her husband is being held by terrorists and she is always perfectly groomed and fashionably dressed standing around like a model.  In the first half of the movie she is always holding a cigarette that she doesn't know what to do with.  She never really smokes it, but it is rarely even really lit anyway which is good because once when she puts her hand on her face the cigarette is in her hair.  Luckily she has obviously quit smoking in the last half.  Ever since Meg started getting recognition for her work she can't seem to relax and become the part she is playing.  She is self conscious unable to let go of the am I star attitude.  Relax Meg and get over yourself. "},{"Title":"A merely good movie that could have been much better","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  There's just too many different things going on in this film for it to all hold together; it felt like 2 or 3 different movies rolled into one. First you've got the fascinating and tense exploration of the third-world kidnapping market, which most people know nothing about. Coupled with that is the unsavory plight of the kidnap victim. Then there's the pseudo-romance plot. Finally, towards the end, we get the action shoot-em-up all-American rescue. It could have all worked, but a lot of it just didn't seem plausible. Russell Crowe did a top-notch job, but Meg Ryan just never worked for me, and her relationship with Crowe (on-screen, anyway) never generated any sparks. Contrasted with the unpleasant ordeal her husband was going though and the way he clung to his memory of her for hope, it made her seem unsympathetic anyway. And the mismatched tone of hubby's horrific ordeal and her big comfy love shack with the action hero was jarring, to say the least.Still, I'd say the movie's worth a go for three reasons. First, Crowe's performance--the guy's fascinating to watch on a screen; as in Gladiator, you get the sense of watching coiled spring. The scene where he kicks the local kidnap expert out of her house is mesmerizing. Second, for the mechanics of the kidnapping business that are revealed. And third, my favorite part of the film was, in fact, Crowe's friendship with the David Caruso character. I'd like to see these two do another film together--they had a chemistry, as buddies, that Crowe and Ryan never did as potential lovers.I'm looking forward to watching Crowe's career--any actor who can shine with mediocre material like this is worthy of attention, and it's good to see him getting it.  "},{"Title":"This was a good one to rent on a weeknight and chill.","Date":"6 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The South American landscape was visually appealing and the whole revolutionary-terrorist thing was authentic (the interaction between the hostages and the rebels added a lot to this movie). Decent acting, but the casting sucked...Meg just didn't fit as a hippy-chic who smokes (was so annoying how she never once took a drag off of the cigarette that was always in her hand, which she held rather awkwardly). And David Morse (the dad in Contact) was definitely a strange match as her husband (especially the mismatched sex-appeal factor)...although of course the chemistry between Meg and Russell Crowe was good (since they were all hot for each other in real life) but the relationship between their roles was highly underdeveloped. "},{"Title":"Guerrilla groups and drugs","Date":"6 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  It is true that revolucionary guerrilla groups kidnap people to finance their fight for whatever they are fighting for. It is also true that they are big into the business of drug dealing. And it is also true that the government of the united states does the very same thing (for example when Reagan financed the Contra - war in Nicaragua). That should have been mentioned in this film too. And I did not like that the leader of the guerrilla group was called Marcos - why didn't they call him George ? Overall an ordinary film, although Meg Ryan was crying too much. I like her better smiling.  "}{"Title":"not as bad as all that...","Date":"1 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  As a former Russell Crowe fan who now finds him nearly intolerable I resolved to hate Proof of Life.  Despite myself, I just couldn't.  Even the silly, aborted love story between Crowe and Ryan (which may have sizzled offscreen, but plays out as a dud within the context of the film) couldn't quite put me off from this movie. Perhaps it was the excellent location work and stunning cinematography, or the compelling and interesting subject matter.  Maybe it was David Morse, as a quintessential WASP in a WASP-less world.  Maybe I'm getting soft in my old age.  Whatever it was, I found myself enjoying the movie, even going back to watch it a second time. The script is stilted and artificial at times, but Crowe, Ryan, and co. play it out to the best of their considerable abilities and somehow it all works out in the end.  Congrats to a great crew for making a potentially crappy film watchable for a change, instead of doing things the other way around as Hollywood usually does.  "},{"Title":"Action Bookends a Pretty Lifeless Movie","Date":"30 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Proof of Life opens with an exciting action sequence told in flashback by hostage negotiator Russell Crowe and ends with and exciting rescue which makes no sense based upon the information provided just before it occurs.  However, the middle of this movie, like a real kidnapping, is frustrating and rather lifeless.  An American engineer (David Morse), in a fictional Central American country to build a dam, is kidnapped by rebel/terrorists.  His spoiled, self-centered wife (Meg Do SOMETHING with that hair! Ryan) hires Russell Crowe to negotiate with the rebels.  While the negotiations take place, Morse realizes how much he treasures his wife, and Ryan is torn between her love and loyalty for her husband, and her increasing attraction to Crowe.This story might have worked better had Morse been Ryan's older brother and Ryan and Crowe had been free to romance; or, had not so much of Morse's travails been shown.  There's very little on display here for an audience to grab on to, despite superior performances by Crowe, Ryan, Morse, David Caruso and the actor who plays Kessler. WARNING, POSSIBLE SPOILERWhy would the rebels continue to keep Morse alive if they no longer planned to negotiate his release, because he knows too much?I'd call this a chick flick, but my fiance got bored long before Idid.  She WAS glad, she stuck around for the satisfying, if bittersweet, ending. "},{"Title":"<Yawns> A not see again, definitly would not buy.","Date":"24 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie had so much potential, but I am pretty disappointed. Not since the Blair Witch Project have I looked at my watch more to see when this movie ended. It probably needed to be cut short, or more action/drama needed to be added. I do not want to see this movie again, and I will never buy the DVD, not even to watch Crowe. I'd much rather watch Gladiator than this movie, or L.A.Confidential (btw, if you haven't seen that movie, watch it. It's awesome.) 2 and a half stars out of 5, and thats just because I watched Get Carter before this movie. "},{"Title":"Great movie, except for...","Date":"23 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Proof of Life again shows us Russell Crowe's mastery of this medium we call the movies.  He says more with a glance, a tortured look, a half-smile, than some actors do with a paragraph of words.  Meg Ryan was woefully miscast in this movie (she's the except for..).  Even when she was flicking around a cigarette (she didn't seem to be able to even talk without one--what WAS the director thinking?), she didn't seem to know what she was doing--it was as if she had never had a cigarette in her hand before!   All the other actors were believeable and wonderful--David's Morse and Caruso, Pamela Reed (and yes, if my brother had been kidnapped and I could afford to, I would go to try to help).  Ryan did okay in a few scenes, but it's a bit hard to see the expression on one's face when the eyes (the windows to the soul) are covered with stringy hair.  Her best scene was when Terry Thorne kissed her--she did display a sort of an Oh my God where did that come from and what am I gonna do about this now look on her face.  And the emotion in the closing scene--anyone who does not understand that scene must not be capable of empathy and reading the human face.This movie should be seen for the wonderful photography and the great acting, as well as so that we all can grow in our understanding of different parts of the world and the torment that people go through because of drugs and corruption. "},{"Title":"Good performances, slow action.","Date":"22 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Meg Ryan & Russell Crow did a nice job, but if this is an action/thriller flick there is too much non-action and not enough thrills! It's a little too soft for a major action story, not enough focus on the intricacies involved in such a rescue operation. "},{"Title":"PROOF OF BOREDOM","Date":"21 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" There should be a Surgeon General's warning on this ironically titled disc that users will lose two hours of precious life and could even be bored to death as a side effect.  Taylor Hackford -- emphasis on hack -- directs Meg Ryan and Russel Crowe in a trite hostage rescue story that flirts heavily with the Casablanca plot and fails miserably.  The only reason I watched the DVD was in the hopes that the infamous love scene between Crowe and Ryan would be included in the deleted material. But it is not.  Hackford's insipid commentary track is a moronic description of the action on screen.  (Or maybe it's meant for the hard-of-seeing?)  He modestly admits he omitted the best love scene ... ever shot at the request of Ryan. What was he thinking?  What about us, the voyeurs?  "},{"Title":"Opposites don't attract.","Date":"21 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Oh this movie could have been so much better.  (and longer) Let me point thy ways. 1.  Meg Ryan fakes her emotion very badly. 2.  Russell Crowe is a robot.  Fun, but he's basically a piece of wood. 3.  A marriage broke up over this?  Musta affected their brains.  It's not the sexual tension the movie trailer cracks it up to be. 4.  The torture scene's are subpar. 5.  Has that rushed feeling that I absolutely hate. 6.  Delta Force did it better. 7.  Steven Seagal would have done this movie justice. 8.  David Morse was left to do all the great acting.  He's the only one that showed any true emotion in this movie.  Great to see that crazy man though.  Haven't seen him since Goldeneye.  He plays a good guy though. ) Thru all that I'd still watch it again because  1.  David Morse is that good. 2.  Russell Crowe is kewl. 3.  Kidnapping and Ransom is fun to watch. 4.  Gonna still laugh that Meg Ryan messed up her marriage over this movie.  Maybe she was so involved with poor Russell that she forgot to act.  I miss the good ol days of Top Gun & Innerspace.  We need the ol Meg back. Wasn't she involved in that The Lost Souls fiasco?6/10Quality 3/10 Entertainment  5/10 Replayable  8/10 "},{"Title":"**  Poorly done dramatic thriller","Date":"22 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Meg Ryan and Russell Crowe star in this political thriller about a woman whose life is turned upside down when her engineer husband (David Morse) is kidnapped by a revolutionary army in a fictitious South American country. Crowe plays the hostage negotiations expert who helps get her husband back after months of being held hostage. Sounds very interesting, but it's lazily directed by Taylor Hackford who doesn't raise any momentum beyond a dull thud and who constantly underestimates the talents of his actors Morse looks like he's constipated for two hours, Crowe is left with little to do but stand around and look hunky (which he does well, but still...) and Ryan's performance is rendered completely useless by a script that seems to have no idea what to do with her. Add to this the appearance of usually excellent characters like Pamela Reed and David Caruso whose performances, thanks to their trappings, are hokey and constantly uneven. The climax of the film is a battle in the jungle that tries to imitate an action movie but I found that it was too little too late, and since the characters were all so thinly drawn I wasn't all that interested in their fate anyway. This isn't helped by the fact that Ryan and Crowe have zippo chemistry between them, leaving the romance angle to fizzle helplessly on the back burner of the story without much interest. Hackford and scriptwriter Tony Gilroy, who respectively directed and wrote the stunning Dolores Claiborne, have neglected to repeat that successful union here, and shame on them for thinking that exotic locales and archetypal movie characters would overcome wooden dialogue and lackluster pacing.  "},{"Title":"could have been better","Date":"16 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I thought Proof of Life had the potential to be a lot better than it was. It wasn't a terrible movie; it was good for filling two hours on my flight from Paris to Philadelphia. But it could have done some things a bit differently. First off, for all the hype surrounding Russell Crowe and Meg Ryan during the shooting of this movie, I saw extremely little chemistry between them. Russell Crowe was much better than Meg Ryan; I could  believe his character's emotions, while she just overacted in her role. I think it is also the fault of the plot; it did not really develop the romance story line. All we got were some long glances from Crowe in Ryan's direction. When they kissed near the end, I thought, Where is that coming from?Second, what was the whole deal with the sister-in-law? Did she really need to be there? I thought that the whole family-coming-together-in-a-crisis thing was a bit old and out of place.However, I thought it gave a very realistic portrayal of what it must be like to be a hostage. Because the plot followed the husband through his captivity, I really wanted him to survive; he wasn't just a little plot device to get Crowe and Ryan together. It was also pretty suspenseful, because I wasn't really sure if he would get out or not.On the whole, I thought the action plot was very well developed, but lose the sister-in-law, and show us a little more romance! "},{"Title":"Correction","Date":"15 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Someone mentioned that this movie had great panoramas of Columbian hills.  FYI, this movie was shot in Ecuador, not Columbia, and most of the city shots were taken at the capital city of Ecuador and jungle shots were of course taken in the Ecuadorian jungles and during the movie, a map clearly shows the country's borders.The reason?  To protect Ecuador's reputation and to not mistakenly label it as a violent country, which it is not. "}{"Title":"Deliberately paced, but not slow.","Date":"6 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Much better than what I expected, after all this is the same man that directed the terrible Devil's Advocate.The Actors.Russel Crowe, again plays himself, quiet, strong, silent, sure of himself, and appears quite believable. Meg Ryan, is still beautiful, but deglamourizes herself a little, and it works. David Caruso, always a treat to see him, plays a very cool security specialist, that just becomes euphoric at the end and kind of spoils it, but, it had to be like that, otherwise the movie would be too much of a downer. David Morse, very nicely playing an engineer with a social conscience.The plot, is quite realistic, showing that the hostage negotiations take a long time (over 4 months), not like in the movies where commandos save the day in under 24 hours.Very realistic portrayal of the national negotiators that just want to take advantage of the stressed relatives of the hostage, those of us in the third world know that to be a familiar story.The romantic relationship between the leads (the worried wife and the cool negotiator), nicely underplayed (I loved it when she absently-minded drinks from his beer glass while David Caruso silently just watches it all, or when she rubs his shoulders after a hard day's work), and still, they did NOT have sex, because, quite logically, she was waiting for her husband (shocking for a Hollywood film, isn't it).In the end the husband and wife realize that they were losing their marriage over stupid things and accept that being married requires an effort.Bottom lineIf you like your entertainment real   Go see this one! If you want a Rambo flick           Avoid at all costs.*****SPOILER ALERT********No, in the end she doesn't leave her husband for the negotiator, Crowe goes home alone, sorry if it isn't Hollywood enough for some, great REALISTIC ending for me. "},{"Title":"If you haven´t seen this film, I think that you should see it!","Date":"21 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is great!It´s not that bad as everbody say...It´s a very good film.  Russell Crowe is a very good actor..actually one of the best.Many people think that this is just an ordinary action movie with lots of shooting, that´s totally wrong!It´s very nice and a good acting drama....but it also contains some war scenes with shooting, of course!   But it´s a very good film and if you haven´t seen it yet I think that you should do that, because this movie is great! "},{"Title":"Sorry Meg...","Date":"19 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  As a big Meg Ryan fan I'm not at all too happy to report that this movie didn't live up to its potential&#133; or my expectations. The problem isn't the story, though. What seems a bit phoney is the developing on-screen romance between Meg and Russell. At least Meg seems very distant and fails terribly in conveying a sense of a affection for Crowe's character. One, inevitably, wonders if the real life romance between the two actors made it difficult for them to PLAY each other's love interests. Anyway, go see the movie for yourself and make your own judgement.IMDb rating 7  "},{"Title":"More of the same","Date":"18 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of those films that could have been a romantic comedy.  Perhaps it's the presence of Meg Ryan that does it, but as an allegedly suspense filled thriller it's pretty tame and difficult to take seriously.Harmless enough all round, Crowe played his role well - if seemingly far too close to his character from the Insider even down to the meaningful looks - and the off screen relationship between the two definitely also comes across on screen also.Given Crowe's recent experiences with nutcases trying to kidnap him, this is a bit close to the bone for him I suppose.The supporting cast was competent enough, but this smelt of the Hollywood attitude of just throwing names at a film and therefore having it succeed.One for video or DVD release, I wouldn't go out of my way to see it at the cinema. "},{"Title":"Very Poor","Date":"17 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I can't say much about this movie other than it really disappoints. It spends ages setting scenes and when it builds up tension and atmosphere it simply lets it go immediately. Don't get me wrong, it does have its good points and the end battle is great, but it really lacks something. Watch it if you are bored, but don't expect miracles. 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Could have been perfect but the script let it down.","Date":"15 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Yes, Russell was fantastic.  Yes, Meg proved she can do more than comedy. Yes, the action was brilliantly directed.  So why wasn't this a smash hit? As a big fan of both action movies and romance, I found Proof fell in a big hole between the two.  The question I wanted to see answered was  What happens when you fall in love with your husband's rescuer?  The answer in this film was; not nearly enough.  ONE kiss between Russell and Meg over two hours?  Please.  And who wanted to spend so much time with lost husband in the jungle?  The real action was what was happening between Russell and Meg back at base camp.  Or what should have been happening.  The script should have built the romance to a point where Meg was genuinely torn between her husband and his rescuer.  A Casablanca-type choice at the end.  The script let the film down and that's why there was no word of mouth.  "},{"Title":"I fell asleep.","Date":"13 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I haven't fallen asleep in the cinema since I was a baby, but Proof of Life could cure even the most severe insomniac. Russell Crowe furrows his brow and flexes his muscles a lot, as is his wont, and Meg Ryan cries the whole time. This is understandable, since she's appearing in this film. Apparently, the last fifteen minutes or so are the most exciting part, but I was comatose by then. The director claimed this film bombed in the US because Russell and Meg split up following its release. Did he ever consider that it bombed because it was just crap? "},{"Title":"Sleepless in South America","Date":"11 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The title is a reference to the first requirement of the specialists who work in kidnapping and ransom, for this is a superior thriller about the attempt to recover alive American dam builder Peter Bowman (played by David Morse) following his capture by a tough Latin American guerilla group. The professional negotiator is Terry Thorne and, for once, Russell Crowe is allowed to use his natural accent as an Australian who has served with the British SAS.  In the middle of it all is Bowman's wife Alice, portrayed by the ever-watchable Meg Ryan who is sleepless in South America.Director Taylor Hackford grabs our attention from the very beginning with a tense action sequence set in Chechnya (but shot in Poland) and then, except for some scenes in good old London town, the story unfolds in an un-named Andean republic with superb photography on location in Ecuador. The finale is an exciting and realistic attack on the guerilla camp led by Crowe and an emotional and equally realistic `Casablanca'-style parting between Crowe and Ryan. In an ironic case of life imitating art, the two leads commenced a nine-month affair while filming the movie and, since its release, Crowe has been the subject of kidnap threats.Footnote When I saw the film in London, there was applause at both the opening and closing credits. Enquiries revealed the presence of a troupe from the movie's post-production company The Whitehouse cheering on a colleague. Way to go, guys!  "},{"Title":"Worth seeing","Date":"9 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is probably the best one in the last 3-4 months.  It smells of perfection and experience..  Everybody (writer, director, actor/esses) knew what they were doing.  There is nothing that deviates from the general style and/or plotline of the movie.  The actors are very consistent in their acting so is the director in his camera moves etc.  He very successfully and clearly combines action and drama together.  There are real differences in his style (action vs. drama) but he, in my opinion, intricately put his drama style into the action sequences so there is a very nice structured consistensy throughout the movie but the audience can clearly differenciate between action and drama.. I sat through the movie in the theater without being taken away from the plot even once.  I want to say this again  This movie smells of experience and perfection. Also, I didn't really like Russel Crowe until I saw this movie. However, after watching this movie, I saw that the three people in The Insider, The Gladiator and Proof of Life are completely different from each other proving Crowe is an excellent actor. Nothing much to say about Meg Ryan, she's her usual self but I was very excited to see David Morse (in the role of Peter Bowman) in this movie. If I'm not mistaken it's the first time we see him in an above the avarage part.  He was always the sympathetic backup character in his movies. (The loving father in The Contact, the good friend of Tom Hanks in the green mile, or the honorable soldier in The Rock) However, this time he's given a chance to show that he can really inject character into his role and he proves he can do it. I will have one tidybidy bad comment about the movie.  The visuals also were great but I couldn't help noticing the grainyness in some images, (especially the dark tones).  This probably comes from the anamorphic process they used.  However, it doesn't really make this movie bad, it's just one unlucky detail. So, if you want to enjoy a night with your friends/family or yourself alone, go to the movie theater and for 2.5 hours forget about the outside world and let yourself be concerned about the life of David Morse and the relationship between Terry Thorne and Alice Bowman.  DO GO SEE THE MOVIE. "},{"Title":"One of the best movies","Date":"5 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  It's good that i saw this movie after mission impossible 2, because I had lost my faith in Hollywood movie industry completely. This movie shows that there a still some movie makers working there.The acting of all 4 main characters is very, very good. Crowe should get an oscar for his role in the film.The script builds the tension up slowly but surely during the movie, keeping you interested in what happens next. Only after seeing the movie I noticed that it's duration was over 2 hours. This gives an indication that i was really taken by the story telling and lost track of time.Apart from the great acting/story the almost epic beauty of the jungle shots in the movie are also a sight to behold. The end title sequence feels like an Imax movie. (I saw 'proof of life' in a really big theatre).Only one bit of criticism  Why does every story from hollywood include the 'boy meets girl' bit ? Although it's done very nicely in this movie, it does not need it.I voted the movie a 10, So to sum it up  go see it ! "}{"Title":"alice","Date":"2 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A good story with a very good direction. Both Tery and Peter are represented well by Russell Crowe and David Morse. Peter with his never give up spirit set a very good example and also as the reason of why he was in that place. While Terry out of his commercial profession as a negotiator still has consciousness to help a poor lady named Alice (Meg Ryan)who is alone and helpless. Meg who known by her sunny, funny characters plays in a very different way here. Different in a sense of the character itself and also result. Meg is not complete or play with her maximum. Her emotion is not fully portrayed. Though she is still good, but it is not as good as what she used to be. Her emotion is not involved totally here. "},{"Title":"proof of love","Date":"25 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  forget what you read and know! this movie deserve more than just actual gossip.the truth is, the story is original and nice, and the final presentation is nicely done. this is a movie about love and war, but still holds more than just macho virtues.russel crowe proven to be interesting charming hero, and meg ryan could balance his charisma. even more surprising is david caruso's performance ans crowe's sidekick.what interest me is as always the director's approach towards more human presentation of men in uniform. although seenthat crowe's character is macho and strong, he still exposed his humanly sides which proof this movie to be a winner.ultimate movie for saturday evening.-x- "},{"Title":"Excellent Movie","Date":"12 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was the best movie I've seen of late. Action, drama, and a bit of a love story in there. Brilliant storyline, and excellent acting tie this whole thing together. Can't wait for this to hit the DVD rack. "},{"Title":"great movie!","Date":"9 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  it's a great movie,there's good chemistry between crowe and ryan.the action is really great!personally,i think that russell crowe is a great actor,maybe the best.he could play any role,he's face shows everything and he's one of those intelligent actors that could deliver very well.brilliant performance! "},{"Title":"Unbelievable Plot","Date":"1 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Well, it doesn't matter that in real life both leads were having an affair, but their on-screen romance was dead! Not to mention the unbelievably stupid sub-plot when Russell Crowe decided to help Meg Ryan in rescuing her husband.Both leads were acting badly, anyone else could have done it much better! I'm surprised that both were acting as if they were on their very first movie or something. Those years of experience just didn't show!The rescue scene was quite good though, but that's about it. "},{"Title":"Fun, but romance not needed.","Date":"12 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie surprised me.  It was a lot of fun, and worked very well as a thriller/action movie.  But there was no need for the romance--I've heard that they cut out a lot of romantic scenes but that someone made them leave some of it in.  Why?  The roughly 3 scenes that imply romance are out of place for the plot, characters, and mood of the movie.  Fortunately, these scenes only take up about 2 minutes of screen time, so they aren't really disruptive. "},{"Title":"It was good.....","Date":"5 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"    I just saw Proof of Life about two hours ago and I remain unimpressed. I guess it was good. It was enjoyable, but nothing really stood out from any other action movies. The plot was slightly unique so I didn't know exactly how it would end but I had a hunch. Anyway, see it if you want to or don't... you won't miss too much. "},{"Title":"smart, suspenseful, and beautifully acted","Date":"5 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  My fiance and I went to see this movie last night and can do nothing but say good things about it.  The two leads were phenomenal.  I mean its Russell Crowe and you should expect it but that's not always the case.  You don't always see accomplished and intelligent actors put 100% into their work and make the film their own.  Meg Ryan is not an academy award winner but she, as mentioned by other comments, stepped up for this film completely.  She went further than i've seen her go before and the result is a pleasure to watch.  The unspoken chemistry between the two of them is incredible.  It built slowly as the film went along and you could see it throughout.  Not in what they said, but what they did, how they acted around each other and the way they looked at each other.  Some armchair-actors may say that this is easy to do but its not, especially not to the effectiveness that they did it.  The film itself was beautifully directed.  I agree that it would not have its effectiveness without the two leads but it is still a very well done film.  Not original, not a new idea, but directed with such quiet finesse that you completely put yourself into it.  I sat literally on the edge of my seat throughout the entire movie.  This IS NOT something i do regularly!  I am a big fan of David Caruso as well and his part is not huge but performed very well as Crowe's friend and partner, and it should be stressed that he acted as not just one but both of those two things.  Shades of NYPD Blue came out as he portrayed a professional who was very good at what he did as well as a smart and caring friend.  I find in many movies that you do not see the two sides clearly enough. To sum great acting, beautifully directed and plenty of suspense to keep you on the edge of your seat.  Don't expect a creative, original idea, just a beautiful and intelligent application of an old one. "},{"Title":"An utterly seamless action adventure","Date":"3 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I must admit that I went to see this movie with mixed expectations.  The whole thing with Meg Ryan dumping her husband for Russell Crowe during the making of 'Proof of Life' was just a little much for me to handle.  I mean really, she had Dennis Quaid, did she really need Russell Crowe?  But enough about that.I was very pleasantly surprised with the movie.  The editing was absolutely flawless.  There was no down time anywhere, and I was mesmerized by the sheer liquid quality of the story line.  Everything flowed so beautifully.  The cinematography was great and from a compositional standpoint, the movie was amazing to watch.Character wise, I think Meg Ryan really dug into her role.  There was no 'dumb blond' stuff for which she is so famous.  It was highly reminiscent of her role in 'When A Man Loves A Woman'.  All the characters were very well drawn, sparingly drawn, but enough to give you a good look into what made them tick as people.  There are no words to describe Russell Crowe, but I will try.  I've never seen a movie of his that I didn't like, and this is no exception.  His character was perfect - the strong, silent type on whom a woman can whole-heartedly depend.  I wish they made them like that in real life.*Warning* Some comments in the following paragraph could possibly be construed as spoilers.As far as the whole steamy romance thing that hit the tabloids about this movie, I was agreeably surprised.  Because of the tremendous media interest (according to Newsweek), the director took out a good deal of the romantic scenes between Meg Ryan and Russell Crowe and I was very pleased with the result.  This is no 'Bridges of Madison County' in South America.  I don't think it lost anything because of the judicious editing.All in all, a very artistic action movie that I enjoyed from beginning to end.  What a pleasant surprise. "},{"Title":"A well made movie","Date":"3 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A well made movie that would have been much much better had they removed the love story.  They could have cut it out with little to no effect on the script.  It was pointless except for damaging the believability that Meg Ryan really wanted her husband back.  Other than that, it was another excellent performance by Russell Crowe.  In my opinion, better than his work in Gladiator.  Proof of Life was a movie worth seeing despite some of its flaws. "}{"Title":"Not even Russell Crowe and Meg Ryan can lift THIS sinker!","Date":"1 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Full of predictable dialog and mind-numbingly worn material, not even Meg Ryan and Russell Crowe could lift this sinker.  Meg Ryan is a gal in a politically unstable Latin American country whose husband works, indirectly, for a powerful oil company.  Husband takes a wrong turn to work and is kidnapped by a group of guerilla-type terrorists who ransom for profit. In walks a rough-and-tumble ransom negotiator(Russell Crowe) on an insurance company payroll. Literally, anyone else can make up the rest, especially since the trailers for this film reveal that the wife and the negotiator fall in love.   There were no surprises and even pleasantly worn material was made into a dull mass of celluloid with a bloated two-and-one-half-hour running time. Characters seemed to be droning on endlessly about points that were already made. I have seen a lot of films that would've been better with a longer running time and more character development. This film would've worked better with a couple of characters deleted, 3-4 more re-writes, and about 45 minutes left on the cutting room floor. If my best bud hadn't been there to help me laugh through this film I would've either fallen asleep or demanded my money back at the midway point.   "},{"Title":"intense with a plot","Date":"25 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I liked this movie very much because it was intense.  It had passion; when Russell Crowe and Meg Ryan had their next to last scene, you could feel it. This movie had a plot, that you could not follow completely, you couldn't just second guess what was going to happen.  I love that in a movie. Russell Crowe is completely sexy and honorable.  I thought the ending was good for Meg Ryan, however I felt sad for Russell's character. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable, but not spectacular.","Date":"20 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Russell Crowe and Meg Ryan are well known Hollywood veterans, and we obviously expect a lot from them.  Perhaps it is for this reason that this movie seems to lack something.  The talent and professionalism of both of these actors will be obvious when you see this film since the characters of Alice and Terry are both quite believable.  Where I found this movie a little disappointing was in my emotional connection to these characters. I expected to be on the edge of my seat with anticipation at the end of the picture, and instead found myself merely curious as to the outcome. Nevertheless I did have an enjoyable evening watching this show, if not a spectacular one. "},{"Title":"Bizarre love triangle","Date":"19 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Kidnapping has been one of the great subjects of film history. It's always good for gripping drama. Taylor Hackford's latest, `Proof of Life,' is no exception.The kidnapee is Peter Bowman (David Morse), an engineer building a dam in Colombia. His kidnappers are anti-government terrorists who drag him deep into the forest and hold him for ransom. His wife Alice (Meg Ryan), enlists the services of a British Kidnap and Ransom agent, Terry Thorne (Russell Crowe). When Thorne's agency discovers that the company financing Peter's dam project isn't insured for kidnapping, they pull Thorne out.   Thorne's walked away from jobs before for this same reason, but this time it's different. Without insurance, no one with his expertise is going to help Alice. Peter would most likely die in captivity, as terrorists are not known for their hospitality. Besides, Thorne's got a crush on his wife. He returns to Colombia and takes the case with no guarantee of a paycheck. All parties involved are pretty great in this movie. Crowe doesn't get to stretch his acting muscles the way he did in `Insider' and `Gladiator,' but his screen presence is vital here.But the real star here is David Morse. Who? You know, David Morse, the big prison guard in `Green Mile,' the guy who's been in every other film made. He's been known by face only for most of his career. Things should change after people see `Proof of Life.' He gets just as much, if not more, screen time than the film's `stars.' His struggle for survival is at the center of the story. Everything else just orbits it. It's a great story and a well-crafted film. Peter's ordeal makes him realize how much he really loves his wife. The thought of her is all he has to cling to. Thorne is also in love with Alice. His actions are truly heroic because he wants, first and foremost, to see her happy. The two spend months and months of traumatic time together, negotiating the ransom, keeping Peter alive with the hope of its payment. These are two bright, attractive people. Some kind of bond is inevitable. This bizarre love triangle keeps the story engaging all the way to the end.Morse steals the show. I'm glad someone finally gave this guy a large role instead of just a character role. He could even be one of those five faces under `nominees for Best Actor in a Supporting Role' come spring.Grade B  "},{"Title":"Good Chemistry, solid action","Date":"19 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film has Russell Crowe as a mercenary trying to rescue Meg Ryan's kidnapped husband from a guerilla group in some phony south American country. Strong appealing performances from the leads and attractive cinematography make this film worth watching. The players are all good, even the minor ones. Some good action scenes and the depiction of the rag tag bunch of guerilla commandos are handled well and the chemistry between the leads is obvious. GRADE B  "},{"Title":"A very solid, enjoyable movie","Date":"18 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The romance angle in the marketing of this movie is way over done.  This is a very good, very realistic  action/drama.  The romance is in the background and arises naturally out of the situation.  Russell Crowe is fabulous and believable.  Meg Ryan is competent in a role more challenging then her usual romantic comedy cute thing.  Supporting actors are very good.  The suspense is maintained throughout. "},{"Title":"Average","Date":"18 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  There is not much new in this film.  It reworks several ideas (MIA, Rambo, Uncommon Valour...) and does succeed in some areas.  Russ Crow is awesome, Meg Ryan was not as effective.  There are several flaws with her character that distracted from the movie, the most annoying of which is the cigarette prop.  What purpose did this serve?  She might have actually taken two puffs from the 20 cigarettes she fondles awkwardly through out the film.The backdrop and locations used were fantastic, and the depiction of the kidnapers/kidnapie seemed plausible, however the movie skims over much and doesn't develop any single area of the story to it full potential.  As mentioned Crow was solid, a cross between Gibson and Connery. "},{"Title":"Good Sensible Plot","Date":"18 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Instead of attracting us with over the top non-stop action, Proof of Life concentrates more on the feelings, emotions, interesting negotiating strategies along with just enough confrontation to make this movie intelligent and sensibly entertaining and worthwhile. "},{"Title":"Weak first half, Super climax","Date":"15 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Greetings again from the darkness.  I probably expected too much from this one, but it does have its moments.  I was pretty much ready to walk out in the first 10 minutes as Meg Ryan and David Morse have a spousal argument that would be more at home in Beverly Hills, 90210.  The movie picks up a little after David Morse is taken captive - as seen in the previews.  After 2+ hours you find yourself caring a little for his mostly unsympathetic character.  The scenes with Meg Ryan and Russell Crowe are mostly torturous, but better than those between Pamela Reed and Meg.  Not well written, with 2 fine actors (Crowe and Ryan) trying their best to save the picture.  Russell Crowe is truly a dominant screen presence.  Reminds me of Sean Connery in that when he is on screen, your eyes seem to afix to his.  The last 20 minutes are truly exceptional action sequences that reward the moviegoer for surviving the first part of the movie.  My tidbit on this one is make sure to stay for the credits as the photography is breahtaking and the Van Morrison song is tremendous! "},{"Title":"Above average story and excellent locations","Date":"14 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I went to this film expecting a so-so movie, but came away pleasantly surprised. The story gives the impression of being realistic, and the dialogue is understated yet within the bounds of seeming true to the characters. Don't pay too much attention to the apparent teenagers who dislike this movie for not delivering constant action and witty throwaway remarks; this film is more mature than that, and coming from Hollywood that is a real compliment. There is a steady development and the plot proceeds logically. I was very pleased with the location filming (it takes place entirely in rural Ecuador, plus a few brief shots in London and Poland), and they film makers allow the camera to sweep and linger over the lush and spectacular mountain landscape. Also, stay for the closing credits, where the viewer is treated to lots of helicopter shots of the same landscape. Beautiful! As usual Russell Crowe delivers and can be simultaneously tough and sensitive. This is the first film I can recall in which David Morse enjoys so much screen time, but he is excellent as usual. I somehow expected a bit more from Meg Ryan, but she did OK. Pamela Reed, one of the most underappreciated actresses in Hollywood, does wonderfully in her difficult, and brief, role. David Caruso nicely complements his compatriot Crowe.SPOILER!The story, in a nutshell...An American engineer in a fictional South American backwater, there to build a dam to stop deadly floods, is abducted by a band of soldiers. The soldiers were once communist revolutionaries, but have become more interested in running drugs and holding for ransom anyone they think they can get big bucks for...it's a business to them. Unfortunately, the engineer's company folds at about the same time, so the insurance company that WAS going to pay the ransom backs out, leaving the engineer's wife and sister to try and raise millions of dollars for his return, and they have no hope of making it. The insurance company's hostage return expert, after meeting those relatives, feels guilty back in England after the aborted effort, and returns to volunteer his skill; he also has a crush on the wife. Things go well as the relatives keep scraping up more money and he negotiates the soldiers to lower and lower demands. Just when the end is in sight, the soldier's agent disappears, and all looks lost. A lucky break of a relatively likely nature puts him on another course of action, where he can enlist the aid of fellow experts, and things get resolved in a satisfying way. "}{"Title":"Better than the critics said it was!","Date":"14 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie got qualified praise in our neighborhood, but I don't have a clue what the problem was.  The plot was tight, the corporate bad guys weren't overemphasized - they're merely a device, well used, and the acting quite good.  Crowe - well, you can't take your eyes off the screen when he's on. Meg Ryan was perfectly fine (though I wish she'd --just once--comb her hair and wear a sweater that doesn't cover her hands).  Everybody talks about the Crowe/Ryan chemistry, but even better was the relationship between Russell Crowe's and David Caruso's characters.  I've missed David Caruso and was glad to see him in such a good role.  All three undeplayed nicely, and said a lot without using too many words. (And yes, I liked David Morse too.  A nice, juicy part for him.)Finally, I'm picky about action scenes--in happy contrast to the confusion of Crowe's last blockbuster Gladiator, director Hackford filmed the big action scenes in this movie in a way that left the viewer very aware of just exactly what was happening and where.I really liked this movie. "},{"Title":"Very true to life with great stars and good director.","Date":"14 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Proof of Life and the adventure/kidnapping picture that it is really hits home if you are thinking of traveling to South America.  It deals with the kidnapping very realistically in true-to-life settings.  On the whole the movie gives good information, realistic emotions from several points of view which intensifies the interest in the outcome.Russell Crowe's performance is good, sincere, and I love his actual accent which he uses in this movie.Meg Ryan did much better than some of the reviews I've read, I thought.  I don't care for weepy women pictures, and that was the role she had to play, and ended up with many serious moments on screen.  Personally I thought she turned in a good performance considering the part she had to play.At no time did I really feel either Meg Ryan or Russell Crowe were really interested in each other romantically in Proof of Life.  The kiss between them seemed barely appropriate, although at the end Russell Crowe did seem to be a little broken hearted but perhaps I missed something somewhere in this regard.David Caruso really lit up the screen when he appeared and in my opinion his part should have been built up more and there should have been a better explanation of why he and Russell ended up following the mpa that David's pastor friend came out of the jungle withDavid Morse's performance is very gripping and intensified as the movie moves through his ordeal and he plays the part well and should certainly be considered for best supporting actor.At times the picture seemed almost like a documentary, but obviously the end was not.  The photography was wonderful and the settings true-to-life.Overall it was a good movie. "},{"Title":"Proof of a good movieProof of Life","Date":"14 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I was very impressed with Proof of Life because it has everything I could have asked for in a movie. From suspense to great performances Proof of Life will satisfy everyone's movie craving this holiday season.There were several underlying themes that the director put in to keep the audience guessing as to what would happen. Would the distraught wife sleep with the man who would save her husband? Would the kidnap and ransom expert make it in time to save her husband? What will be the end result? These are questions that will keep the audience on the edge of their seats.There are several reasons I was impressed with this film. First, we have two well established stars who give command performances. Russell Crowe and Meg Ryan seem to be the perfect choices to play these roles. Crowe brings intensity, character and integrity to his role as the kidnap and ransom expert. Also, the sexual chemistry and tension between these two is undeniable.In addition, there are two performances by supporting actors that are so great they nearly overshadowed the two leads. David Morse and David Caruso blew me away with their performances of the husband and mercenary, respectively. Morse matures and gets stronger with each film he is in. After box office failures such as Kiss Of Death and Jade, Caruso has comeback with a really strong performance. I hope I get the chance to see these two actors perform in future films because his talent should not be wasted.Finally, the best thing about Proof of Life was the suspense. With each passing moment of the movie, it got better because it made me want to know what would happen next.Proof Of Life will surely impress and satisfy every movie fan.  "},{"Title":"Not Bad but Not Great","Date":"13 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  While the photography was excellent and the plot was well thought out there was a lack of realism and attention to details.   The recovery action sequence with 4 or 5 lightly armed men taking on the 30 or 40 kidnappers was a stretch.  The kidnapped husband's seriously injured leg suddenly was healed in the final scenes.But my biggest concern is a trend by Hollywood to glamorize cigarette smoking again much like the 40s or 50s.  It served absolutely no purpose to have Meg and Russell puffing up a storm in this movie.  You've got to wonder how much the cigarette manufacturers paid for this not so sublimal advertisement.  "},{"Title":"Highly recommended","Date":"13 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Intense, realistic, and a great work all-in-all.  Surprisingly good.  Being a heavy Counter-Strike (video game) player, this movie brought me deep into the action.  Absolutely beautiful photography -- the credits themselves were worth the admission! "},{"Title":"Dialogues drag on just too long","Date":"12 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I can't say that the movie actually met my expectations. I was expecting the story line to be a little more complicated, with a few more twists. I was also expecting there to be more than 5 minutes of actual action.The story line is interesting since there aren't many stories about kidnapping operations out there. But, it is pretty straightforward, with a lone twist at the end. It would have been a complete waste if they had ended up together at the end.The scenery is very nice, and the director makes plenty use of it. I think the one thing that disturbed me the most about the movie was the dialogues they were too long and mostly not compelling enough. Overall, I noticed that I checked my watch four times during the movie, each time when one of the dialogues just dragged on too long. Usually people complain that action-suspense movies don't spend too much time developing characters; I think this movie errs on the other end of the spectrum, trying to develop the characters through so much dialogue was just boring...  "},{"Title":"Not bad, but too cliched","Date":"11 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  PROOF OF LIFE wants to be something it's not. It wants to be a movie about love, as well as a kidnapping thriller, and that is where it fails. The movie is obviously inspired by CASABLANCA- we have a very good man in danger, his loyal wife, and a rebel who loves the wife, and who maybe loved by the wife. The difference is, Rick and Ilsa in CASABLANCA were already in love when she reappears in his life, wheras is PROOF OF LIFE, we are asked to believe that Russell Crowe's Terry Thorn falls in love with Meg Ryan's Alice Bowden in just one meeting. It doesn't work. Ryan and Crowe are good together- they have chemistry. David Morse provides solid support as the kidnapped man and David Caruso has a good part as a buddy of Crowe's who loves danger. The film is made really well, with drained colors in the mountain camps. It just that the films central realtionship doesn't click. We need a reason to believe that Crowe would risk everything in his life for Ryan, and the film doesn't give us one. It's too bad, because much of the movie is well done. "},{"Title":"Just average","Date":"11 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I really wanted to like this film. I like Russell Crowe, I think he's a commanding presence.  But there were just too many slow parts of the film that just dragged.  It's not a bad film at all. There are some entertaining scenes. I just think that maybe Proof of Life could have used one more rewrite. As for the Ryan-Crowe on-screen chemistry, maybe it was just me, but I didn't see it.  I'm sure most people really wanted to see them get together at the end, but I just didn't care. And David Caruso, geesh, he looks like an old man. An old man who is a ghost.  Some point between NYPD Blue and this film, he lost all skin pigmintation.  I was expecting him to cast magical spells and make spoons fly through the air and then I remembered that was from the film Powder.  Michael Jackson is probably jealous of Caruso. And I just didn't buy his character.I like Taylor Hackford but I just didn't think this film was that great. It's a good second rental maybe, because then you can fast forward through the dull scenes and have a back up video in case you get too bored. But as for theater viewing naw. "},{"Title":"Who Cares?","Date":"11 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  First off, it's hard to believe the rumors Meg Ryan and Russell Crowe are a couple.  There is absolutely no chemistry between these two characters.  I do not know who is responsible for editing this film, but clearly there must by hours of decent footage on the editing room floor.  I am baffled that critics enjoyed this movie, but then I do not understand the success of Titanic.  Americans have simple needs, I suppose.  You leave this movie having seen nothing to bring these two characters together, and even less reason as to why we should care about either of them.  I can only imagine fans of Crowe are contributing to the good press and success of this film, but these are the same folks who believe TOFOG (which is a good band)puts out better music than the Rolling Stones and the Beatles once did.  Simply put, you never care about any of these characters.  You never get to know any of them.  And, it seems no one could decide what issues they want to pursue . . . the marriage is in trouble, they are hippies, they are trying to save the world, the country is corrupt, Corporate America is bad, and here's some underwriting and takeover information, too.  Hey, and by the way, Crowe's character is a bad dad.  I never thought I would one day say David Caruso was the best part of this movie.  I have liked Crowe since THE QUICK AND THE DEAD, but with the looks of the other winners on his plate, I do hope he gets help picking his next few projects before VIRTUOSITY starts looking like the cream of his crop. "},{"Title":"very entertaining","Date":"10 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This was a fun movie - quite entertaining, good story line, and suspenseful. We don't care that the pro reviewers didn't like it - too bad for them. Maybe they were counting a hotter romance between Meg and Russ, given what happened in real life.  We give it an 8.  Frank and Suzanne.  "}{"Title":"Well done","Date":"10 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Proof of Life is well done. The story, directing and acting are in the B+ range. Rambo fans may not like the fact that there is a bit more realism to the conclusion than most of this genre. It is much more like a Tom Clancy-type film. If you enjoyed Clear and Present Danger, you will probably like this film.There is no question to the chemistry between Ryan and Crowe, but there is link missing which could explain how their relationship develops into something deeper than kidnap negotiator and client.There are two very awkward kisses that cannot be explained by the story. One, Crowe plants on Ryan before leaving for the rescue attempt. Was this love? It seemed more like Hey, you look pretty sexy without a bra.The second kiss was the one Crowe plants on the cheek of Ryan's sister-in-law as she returns to the U.S. to get money for the ransom. Go see the film and report back to me why ANYONE would want to kiss this b----.The film builds well to the exciting rescue attempt. You'll find yourself squirming in your seat as the small platoon  inches closer into the enemy nest. This is not a typical million-bullet shoot-a-thon.It's easily worth $10 if the popcorn is hot. "},{"Title":"Camaraderie, great scenery, believable characters","Date":"10 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Now, here's a movie that takes you somewhere you haven't been before. The Kidnap & Ransom (K&R) business is generally unknown, but very common. I'm sure you've heard the plot, so I won't go into that here.Although it's been published otherwise, I felt that Terry Thorne (Russell Crowe) had a conscience from the beginning. It was very becoming for this enigmatic actor.There's believable rapport between Alice (Meg Ryan) and Terry, but surely not a feeling of romance or a pending affair. The movie would have done much better without a hint of this.David Caruso is Terry's longtime K&R buddy, Dino. They have some great exchanges which make you want to see Mr. Caruso more. Their scenes bring camaraderie and humor to the film.David Morse really brings the kidnapped husband to life. You're rooting for him all along, as he faces up to his kidnappers at the risk of being shot.The scenery is fantastic. Make sure you stay through the credits, as there's some great footage of the Ecuadorian mountains and towns at the end.  "},{"Title":"a 50 page script dragged over 130 minutes","Date":"10 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of those movies where the story is already known. But, the audience goes to watch it in order to see some good action and an interesting/impossible love triangle. However, the wished gunshots, machine guns, and bombs going off, were staring for only 15 minutes, and they were lame.  A love story? What love story? A kiss, maybe, but no forbidden relationship like it was promissed. The film just does not have anything in common with the audience that goes to watch it.  Waste of time. "},{"Title":"It's Not Gladiator But Russell Crowe Satisfies Again!","Date":"10 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I admit it. I went to see this movie because I have been a Russell Crowe fan since L.A. Confidential. He is a brilliant actor, a rare combining of looks, raw sex appeal, and talent. And whether in his Oscar nominated turn in The Insider, or his star making role as Maximus in Gladiator, Crowe always delivers. He does so again in Proof of Life which is definitely his movie alone. Despite the off-screen romance with Meg Ryan, there is no sex in this film, but Crowe has the appeal pure and simple. From the action-packed opening, the audience is hooked by his character, Terry Thorne, who could be a worthy modern-day successor to Bond or Indiana Jones. His is a multi-layered character with brilliant negotiating skills, yet he longs for a closer relationship with his teen-aged son. David Morse is quite good as the kidnapped engineer and husband of Ryan. By continuing to keep him in the audience's mind with scenes showing his captivity, we watch him hang on to his last shred of dignity. Even David Caruso's career may finally take an upswing as Crowe's compatriot. It is Ryan who drags this movie down. Never a favorite of mine, she's whiny to the point of you wanting to slap her to make you and everyone else feel better. I don't see her suited for this role. She and Crowe have a slight on-screen chemistry, but in order to keep both sympathetic, any sex scenes which once existed are now gone. But something still remains, if only a glance between them, and when he leaves to rescue her husband, the kiss Thorne gives her is enough to make any red-blooded woman melt in her seat. But this is Crowe's movie. While it has none of the stunning beauty, craftsmanship, or raw emotion of the great Gladiator, Crowe lifts the movie above the ordinary action flick of Stallone proportions. That's his doing because of who he is and what talent he possesses. I would love to see him do Thorne again, but this is doubtful. I could see a whole series built around the character, but only with Crowe in the role. The movie should satisfy action fans, Crowe fans, and romance fans alike, and I fit all 3 categories. Besides, in how many action flicks can you see someone like Terry Thorne wax poetic and intelligently discuss a matter; wipe out the bad guys; and flex biceps that just won't stop! "},{"Title":"Good Drama From Taylor Hackford","Date":"10 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  	The inherent dangers of living in a country in which political agendas have been compromised, and where wealth takes precedent over integrity, are made brutally clear to an American engineer who takes a job in South America, only to become the victim of a kidnapping for ransom in `Proof Of Life,' directed by Taylor Hackford and starring Russell Crowe and Meg Ryan.  Peter Bowman (David Morse) is hired by an oil company to build a dam that will facilitate the construction of a pipeline, but is kidnapped at random by a band of guerrillas whose political agenda has long since given way to the more lucrative business of terrorism purely for the sake of capital gains.  When it happens, the London based insurance company whose business it is to underwrite conglomerates around the world to cover this particular kind of situation sends in it's `K&R' (Kidnap and ransom) man, Terry Thorne (Crowe), to negotiate the release of Bowman.  And it quickly becomes a game in which most of the participants, including Bowman's wife, Alice (Ryan), would rather not participate; the catch is, you play the game, or one of the principles involved-- in this case Peter Bowman-- dies. 	Hackford's drama examines what it is like to face the reality of a situation over which you have neither experience nor control, and looks at it from the perspective of the victim, as well as that of those dealing with it on the other end.  How does one respond to the kind of circumstances previously known only from news reports and movies, the things that only happen to others, but never to you.  What would it be like to have to put your life, or the life of a loved one (as in this case), in the hands of a total stranger?  It's thought provoking, sobering material that drives home the rather tentative state of the world in which we live. 	Crowe turns in a dynamic performance here as Thorne, the professional negotiator who of necessity forms a strong bond with the wife of the man whose freedom he is attempting to secure, and he very subtly keeps the conflict within him apparent, while maintaining the integrity of the character on the surface.  A terrifically expressive actor, Crowe credibly conveys the complexity of his situation while exhibiting a stoic exterior strength, and it's his ability to give depth (aided in no small part by his magnetic screen presence) to what could easily have been a one-dimensional character that makes him believable, and makes Thorne memorable.  Meg Ryan lends emotional depth to Alice, though it's not a part that realizes nor utilizes the best of her abilities as an actress.  She does manage to bring some insight to the character, mainly through allusions to recent events in her life, though because of the story she is necessarily kept in the present and concerned with the immediate situation.  The relationship between Thorne and Alice is handled delicately and quite skillfully; that there would be a mutual attraction between them is believable, given the lack of intimacy in Thorne's life (which is succinctly established) and the emotional needs of Alice's current condition.  The impropriety of any possible relationship at this juncture is never verbalized but is entirely understood; and that Hackford never gives in to the temptation of sensationalizing their feelings for one another is significant, in that it ultimately heightens the emotional impact of the climax.   	David Morse gives an accomplished performance as Peter Bowman, with his emotional development over the length of his captivity especially well expressed and realized, and he is responsible for many of the very `real' moments throughout the film.  His reactions during the kidnapping sequence, for instance, give it an added intensity that make it all the more believable.  In a smaller role, David Caruso (Dino) gives a passable performance, but can do little more than create a character that is, in essence, a shallow imitation of Thorne (which makes you appreciate Crowe's performance all the more).   	Hackford has an eye for detail and tells his story with a very deliberate pace and includes some stunningly expansive visual shots, but allows the overall intensity to wane a bit, which somewhat mitigates the emotional involvement of the audience, though the drama remains intact.  In the end, however,  `Proof Of Life' is tightly wound and delivered and will hold your interest while bringing you face to face with just how fragile life can be; powerful food for thought that refuses to let you off the hook even as you leave the theater or click off the video.  I rate this one 7/10.                   	      "},{"Title":"Very good movie, especially when Meg Ryan isn't in it.","Date":"10 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Why do directors try to make an actress do more than they can?  Meg Ryan is great in comedies and love stories. She is not a serious actress. Her last attempt was Courage Under Fire and she was terrible in that. Her vapid, mouth open expression is the only serious one she has. She almost ruined a very good movie in Proof of Life.On the other hand Russell Crowe, David Caruso, and especially David Morse played their parts perfectly. The script was a good one, and the scenes of Ecuador were exquisite.A word about the other female in the movie. Pamela Reed showed you what a good serious actress can do in a movie like this. Ryan should give her a percent of her paycheck.About the marketing of the movie, the real life affair that Ryan and Crowe are having should not have been the main thrust of the marketing campaign. The movie is not about their relationship. It is about many other things that are happening in the world today, but not about a lust story.Had the producers chosen another, better actress, Michelle Pfeiffer comes to mind, the movie would have been more realistic. "},{"Title":"Wow...amazing.","Date":"9 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I think this will tie or even beat Gladiator and L.A. Confidential as my favorite Crowe movie ever.  Ordinarily, I despise Meg Ryan with a passion, but she did an admirable job of acting in this movie and even managed to not annoy me.  I almost rooted for her.  But the thing that makes this movie great is that what the characters do is RIGHT...as opposed to your ordinary movie, where they just do what they want.  The characters (with the exceptions of the terrorists, of course) are all good people in a bad time. 10 out of 10 from me. "},{"Title":"Opening night review - good specops movie","Date":"9 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  OK, all you old special ops guys, this is a good one.Speaking as a former Airborne Ranger and Vietnam vet (infantry, non-remf), I'll say that this director had some professional advice and he was smart enough to follow it.  The result is a good deal better than expected. You'll see they exposed themselves too much and moved way too fast on final approach, but that's movie-making, isn't it?  The action is well presented and realistic.  It actually took me back for a while.You'll like it.  Good action, good tension, good plot.And the ARMORER for this movie was the legendary THELL REED!  One of the fastest and most accurate pistoleros who ever lived.  He used to walk through rattlesnake dens wearing a pair of holstered SAA's and shoot snakes as they approached him, with either hand, drawing out of the leather, and using solids, not snake shot.  He never missed.  I haven't heard anything of Thell in years and years.Oh, and the whole audience laughed rather derisively when Russell Crowe and Meg Ryan finally smooched. "},{"Title":"A very enjoyable escape from the horror going on in Florida!","Date":"9 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Being totally fed up with the @!&# going on in Florida, I looked forward to an escape from the lawyers for a few hours. I found it in Proof of Life - a great movie to just enjoy.I checked my local reviewer and he gave it a C.  That was a sure sign to me that I was not going to be accosted by morality or something different.  He consistently rates just fun movies low and message movies high. He was true to form.I thoroughly enjoyed this film.  The photography was outstanding (a must see on the big screen) especially the cuts between essentially two parallel stories that only come together at the end. As someone said in another review here, don't go expecting a lot of love scenes between Ryan & Crowe - they are not there.  But at least for me the movie was a whole lot better knowing that the movie is just good fiction, and that Crowe and Ryan come together big time in real life.  I can't ever get that out of my mind. But then I like all the where the stars really met movies like DOA, Swing Shift, Days of Thunder, Smoky and the Bandit, etc.One piece of advice - DO NOT leave until ALL the credits at the end are run. Instead of the routine fade to black, the closing credits are discretely run on top of some of the most beautiful air footage (of Ecuador) I have seen, along with a fantastic sound track! "},{"Title":"It's worth watching","Date":"8 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Enjoyed watching the movie especially when I heard it was being filmed in Ecuador.  The Andes Mountains were beautiful to look at.  I strongly believe that the storyline should have said that the hostage takeover was taking place in Ecuador instead of making it seem it was taking place somewhere in Tacali? Meg and Russell do a good job in their roles but David Caruso and David Morse are outstanding.  When Morse is captured you can feel the tension and fear he is going through.  Surprised to see Caruso give a great performance. I strongly recommend the movie to my friends. "}{"Title":"*** out of ****...Stylish Dramatic Thriller","Date":"5 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Stylish dramatic thriller with more highs than lows. The film's material in most of the film is dull, sometimes, however. Some significant thrilling scenes are thrown in but don't do much. Nevertheless, Taylor Hackford's Proof of Life is a fine thriller with Russell Crowe as a K&R (Kidnap & Ransom) operative for a London-based organization. He is called in to help Meg Ryan's husband (played by David Morse) get rescued from the ELT (Liberation Army of Tecala). The movie is a good popcorn flick that would fill up any Saturday night exceptionally. It does have a long running time (almost two and a half hours), but it's all worth it in the end. The last action scene is a rousing and exciting finale. The film is a mix between an action thriller and a drama, all mixed in with some romance that is strictly professional (another plus).  "},{"Title":"Proof of Ineptitude","Date":"5 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  If the point was to make a realistic hostage movie, then the director succeeded. I would imagine these negotiations take time, often moving along at a snail's pace. That pace was perfectly captured in the first three quarters of this movie. Watching Russell Crowe talk on the phone for hours at a time is not as exciting as it sounds. Meg Ryan's face looked as if she were constipated throughout the movie (What, no fruits and vegetables in third world countries?). But when she walked, she had a bounce in her step. I guess she was upset that her husband, David Morse, was kidnapped (hence the constipated look) but excited about hanging out with hottie Russell Crowe (bouncy walk). A multi-tiered performance from America's sweetheart. If you're expecting a big hot scene between Russell and Meg (like I was), forget it. They kiss once! Once! I read that the director chose to take out a sexy scene between his two stars. Big mistake. I rate this movie LBM (long boring movie). By the way, David Caruso, fantastic!!! He should get cast in more movies.  "},{"Title":"Good performances by all in an intelligent action thriller","Date":"4 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I really enjoyed this film. The acting was right on, the scenery breathtaking and there were some thrilling rescue sequences. The action explodes on the screen and there were often gasps from the audience during some of the stunts. It's an updated version of the more intelligent thrillers from the past decades but the criminals are not the Soviet or Arab stereotypes but people who kidnap for profit, terror or misplaced ideals.Russell Crowe as Terry Thorne, the K&R (kidnap and ransom) specialist for an international insurance company, may wear a suit through most of this movie but rest assured the warrior is there waiting to be unleashed. An early scene shows his credentials as an action hero but his character is a man of quiet intelligence and dogged determination to restore the victims to their families. He is equally capable of extreme violence, thoughtful tenderness and wry humor, an amazing range.Meg Ryan (Alice Bowman) really surprised me with her dramatic portrayal of a wife in a terrifying and unfamiliar situation. She showed all the right nuances of a complex character. The chemistry between the two stars was palpable and in their quiet moments together you could have heard a pin drop in the theater.David Morse (Peter Bowman) was wonderful as the kidnapped husband and both he and Ms. Ryan grow in their roles as the ordeal plays out. They are not the same people they were when the film opens.David Caruso (Dino) has a smaller but important part and injects a lot of energy into his role as Thorne's K&R sidekick. They share an easy camaraderie that truly makes you believe they are longtime friends.There is also an actor who is outstanding as a kidnapped missionary who befriends Morse's character.If you go make sure you stay for the closing credits because there are some unforgettable shots of Ecuador that are in the background. The country is as much a character in the film as the actors are. "},{"Title":"Emotionally remote, strangely unsatisfying","Date":"4 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Something is wrong with this movie, but I can't put my finger on it. Perhaps the real-life chemistry between Ryan and Crowe did not carry over onto the screen, but if another character hadn't commented on the nature of their relationship, I wouldn't have felt it at all.  The situation with Peter Bowman does not tug at our heartstrings or play an emotional chord at all.  I felt strangely distant from the moviegoing experience.  I had no feeling at all for why the characters behaved in the way they did.For me, the second half of the movie, especially the climactic scene, was much better than the first half. "},{"Title":"Hackford's 'Proof of Life' a fine effort","Date":"2 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I attended an early preview of the new film by Taylor Hackford (Officer and a Gentleman, Dolores Claiborne) called Proof of Life and truly enjoyed this film.This romantic thriller is set in a fictional South American country where corporate executives are being regularly kidnapped for large ransoms by Marxist guerrillas.  The cast is top notch - Russell Crowe, Meg Ryan, David Morse and David Caruso among others.I could poke a few holes in the narrative (my guess that missing scenes will appear on the DVD release), but I really liked the characters, and believed the emotional and physical agony of the characters. Proof of Life was photographed beautifully, using the melancholy of misty forests and overcast days in the Andes as a backdrop.If you liked Peter Weir's The Year of Living Dangerously then you might like this movie.  Kudos to Russell Crowe (L.A. Confidential, The Insider, Romper Stomper) who has yet to disappoint me on screen. "},{"Title":"Suspense, suspense, Russell Crowe excellent and mesmerizing, Meg","Date":"12 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  An extremely suspenseful film, edge of the seat, never stopped reaching the tension it was looking for.  Epic in scope, and settings, beautiful chemistry on screen between Crowe and Ryan.  Acting elevates the script to higher levels.  Russell Crowe again proves he can do anything and everything perfectly, better than superb if that is possible performance again, and mesmerizing, subtle, physical and vulnerable at the same time. He is the master of understatement in films. He commands the screen, such a presence has not been seen in years.   Ryan, beautiful, emotional, stretched in this role to greater heights of dramatic acting.  Felt every ounce of her performance as exhausting as her role was.     Perfect flow between them on screen, something magical, and comes across beautifully.  Morse's performance is powerful, and exciting.  No cheap shots in this film, Crowe is doing it all himself, and Ryan is the wife torn asunder, Morse is the victim you learn to feel for.  Excellent film, same Hackford tension, and screen chemistry.  Well, it's Russell Crowe, the most charismatic actor alive, and Meg Ryan, one of the purest personas on the screen.  Excellent film.  "},{"Title":"Proof Of..........Inadequacy ...........","Date":"7 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is one of those movies that simply...does not work. The three principle actors lack any intensity in what is a life and death situation. Russell Crowe tries hard to be cooler than cool...he finally looks like a live zombie. (far, far away). Meg Ryan looks very happy ...even after her husband has been kidnapped for many months. I do know this is the movie where Meg and the Crowe started there love affair...perhaps its true what they say about the Crowe. (anyway Meg sure looks happy). David Morse as Megs husband is never convincing in his role. The jumpy direction certainly does not help....and the continual instant changing of locations is not good. Its a movie with high ambitions ..it is also a bomb "},{"Title":"The life's value","Date":"1 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Proof of life is a fascinating movie, directed by Taylor Hackford in 2000. It's an action film set in a city of South America. The cast is Meg Ryan, Russel Crowe and David Morse. The story is about engineer Peter Bowman, married with Alice. They haven't lived well, since the death of their daughter. They live in a city in South America e he works for Oil Company, when he is kidnapped by guerrilla fighters. The company contracts the man, Terry Thorne, who will negotiate the life of her husband. During the film, they fall in love, but he does everything to save the engineer. Meg Ryan is weak in this movie, perhaps because she got accustomed doing comedy films. She keeps hippie appearance in all movies that I've seen. The time to change the aspect has already came.Russel Crowe incarnated a negotiator and in scenes at jungle, he and the character of the David Caruso were very well. David Morse transformed his appearance in accordance with the duration of his kidnapping and his suffering. He does these changes very well. The movie is tense and it makes us think about the life's value. How much does life cost? It will change the way that you see the value of life I recommend it. "},{"Title":"A kidnapping, Then a love story","Date":"9 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I found this movie to be very good, the scenery and action mixed well and the acting was great. Most reviewers did not like the love story, but i felt it was perfect. It did not make the characters very popular but who cares. I felt the ending was a little off as most viewers. Did not like the reception she gave her husband, but it worked for me. I feel so many viewers missed what the ending meant, disliking the characters and not understanding what took place which was he basically said go to your husband because he knew he was a good man for his humanitarian work. and understood that what took place was wrong. The husband was a good guy and the affair would have in my opinion caught up with them after she realized he did not deserve to loose his wife after what he went through Plus she was the one having problems he could not do much about. So the rescuer pushed her back where she belonged and brought her head out of the clouds. The husband had figured something was up anyway and waited for her to walk back to him. At that moment I felt they would be OK. The movie would have not worked if they had gotten together with what the husband had went thru. Good fast paced action and David Coruso and David Morse were very good. I recommend this movie since you now have a different ending interpretation "},{"Title":"Worths the watch. Typical example of early 2000's commercial cinema.","Date":"7 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I watched this movie on theaters and I remember having a good time mainly because it's not a complex movie on the plot device.It has interesting plot elements such as kidnapping, guerrilla, the fear of losing someone you love, a badass negotiator, romance, etc. But in a new millennium fashion.The acting is the solid aspect of the movie because Meg Ryan and Russel Crowe deliver solid performances that deal with drama most of the time, but some light romantic situations.I liked the tense relationship between Crowe and Ryan because it added a special vibe to the film.The locations are beautiful and even with the guerrilla situations the atmosphere is splendid.The narcotraffic sub-plot also delivers great expectations and is treated very well. I praise the director and producer for making a brave criticizing for the political and war situation.This is the typical movie to show on local t.v. "}{"Title":"Interesting Story of Hostage Negotiations.","Date":"6 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" David Morse is an engineer captured and held hostage for ransom by a corrupt group of revolutionaries in the fictional South American country of Tecada or Tecate or San Placebo or someplace. Morse is taken to a remote camp where a few other captives are being held for the same purpose. Man, are these revolutionaries a bunch of barbaric slobs. They lock Morse up in a hut made of reeds and give him a rubber boot saying, Here ees your toilet. They use the most foul language. They booze it up and smoke dope, and if they take a dislike to you they give you a taste of the old bastinado. On top of that, the weather on this mountaintop is lousy -- cold and wet. After a while it all began to remind me of my marriage.Back at the ranch, Morse's anguished wife, Meg Ryan, is at a loss for what to do. There is a call for ransom and, after a few skirmishes with the local negotiating team, which seems about as corrupt as the revolutionaries, there appears a business-like and knowledgeable professional hostage rescuer in the form of Russell Crowe, he of the mighty latissimus dorsi, along with half a dozen of his buddies led by David Caruso. They're a sensitive but macho bunch. They address each other as ladies in the local saloons.Interesting and convincing material on negotiating with bandits follows. It's a little like a course in Hostage Negotiations 101. While the movie stays on this course, it's informative and pretty good.The months pass by as Crowe and the rebels haggle over the price for Morse's life. Many viewers might find this aggravating, especially Americans. We are a can do nation, not a can wait nation. If you're gonna do it, then do it now. Mercifully, and to their commercial advantage, the writers scarcely have Morse penned up in that airy hut before there's a cut to a title DAY 44. See, that way you don't have to wait. Let Meg Ryan do the waiting.In the end, it develops that Morse already knows too much about the coca crops and the organization of the bandidos and all that, so there's no way they're going to let him out alive. The money no longer matters. This precipitates a raid by Crowe and Caruso and their half dozen compañeros. They follow the usual routine, dressing in camos and greasing up their faces with black and olive drab paint that doesn't do a THING for them. And there is the ritual laying out of weapons, two smoke grenades, two stun grenades, and two HE. The assault by helicopter.Now, these half dozen highly trained pros are up against a hundred well armed and slightly insane dudes. But what's that to Crowe and his gang? All it means is a higher body count. (Cf., the raid on the camp in Predator.) The climax is a guignol scene in which none of our guys misses and all the bad guys do nothing BUT miss. None of the rescuers dies, the hostages are rescued, Morse goes back to his wife, their marriage renewed, and Crowe leaves her behind in a gentlemanly way although he's fallen for her. And who wouldn't? She's cute as hell. She looks like the girl in your high school class that all the boys dreamed about before they went to sleep. Not the sultry slut but the virginal cheerleader. Her troublingly blue eyes have circumferences of black. The actors playing the rebels put in as good a performance as anyone else in the film. There's an unexploited pool of talent for you. They have actors, we have Keanu Reeves.I kind of enjoyed it. The location photography is magnificent and the characterizations convincing. The confrontation between Crowe and the local team of corrupt negotiators is as tense as any other scene in the movie. It was also a good idea to individuate the bandidos. They're not all scuzz bags. There's a more or less helpless young woman who scolds the men for their rudeness, and there's a younger rebel who isn't entirely unfeeling. "},{"Title":"David Morse is the reason to see this movie","Date":"4 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The publicity about Meg Ryan and Russell Crowe having an affair during the filming overshadowed this movie, and many people -- who went to see Crowe and Ryan -- were disappointed by their total lack of chemistry on screen. Meanwhile, the real heart of the movie was ignored by reviewers.The real hero of this movie is the kidnapped husband who never gives up and who is the engineer of his own fate. David Morse, who is one of the most under-appreciated actors around, makes this man's struggle to stay alive and escape poignant and real. Don't waste your attention on the relationship between the wife and the negotiator; it isn't what this movie is about. "},{"Title":"Good idea badly carried out","Date":"13 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This film had the potential and the cast to be an interesting and decent film. However, the direction was appalling and the cast where given the lines iv heard in a long time. Pamela Reed's character was one of the most annoying characters iv ever seen in the film and her acting was equally as bad as her character was annoying. Even a great actor like Crowe didn't manage to shine with this horrible script. I was surprised with the its relatively high rating on IMDb and suppose it must be because the scenery was OK and the idea was potentially good. 4 out of 10 and I'm being generous but its just about worth watching just because its an interesting idea "},{"Title":"Coherent cut n paste of a matinée action thriller","Date":"12 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Not to be confused with Proof, an early (and rather good) Russell Crowe number, with considerably less action. Press reviews warn that this film doesn't really come off. I'd agree but by the end my glass had been at least half full to the critical half empty. Everything about the film is quite convincing &#150; story, settings, peripheral characters. Only David Caruso's compadre to Crowe disappointed me with overacting (and some of the studio scenes are a bit plastic).Being a serious studio project, the leads need to rock. Meg Ryan is classic matinée stock &#150; she only does a small range of things on screen, but they work very well. David Morse (her husband, Bowman) has similar attributes. Crowe was as watchable as ever. His emerging Fach is a more serious mix of Mel Gibson and George Clooney at their blockbuster best masculine, charismatic but damaged enough to necessitate the grout of a good woman.All in all a good way to fill Saturday night, although some of director Taylor Hackford's ideas for the middle third amounted to, well, simply filling a Saturday night. If only he could have wrung more out of the Casablancaesque narrative at the denouement. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Fast paced, tight action, good story.","Date":"3 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The difference between this and other run of the mill rescued by ex-military Rambo type movies is this film's premise. P of L is clearly believable.Russell Crowe (Terry Thorne) is convincing as a corporate insurance company hostage negotiator in a three piece suit. Although the opening sequence shows Thorne giving a post operation report on his last job with visuals of a Balkans combat rescue scenario, we get the feeling that his company much prefers negotiation and price bidding for hostage release vs. violence.This corporate approach is what we expect, and get, for the first part of the movie (which sets us up nicely for the main event later). Alice Bowman's husband Peter is kidnapped in a South American country (ala Colombia) and held for ransom. Terry Thorne shows up as the designated rep for the insurance company and starts a rather routine and boring hostage negotiation using acronyms and buzzwords that show the rescue is nothing more than a scientific business to him.Then three things raise this film above standard fare.First is the interesting plot twist. The routine negotiation falls through when it is discovered that Peter Bowman's company has gone bankrupt and there is no longer any insurance to pay for Thorne's services. As such, he has to disengage himself from the entire project. This leaves Alice with no hope; unless she can convince Thorne to save her husband on his own which will get him nothing, Nada.Second, somewhere between his first meeting with Alice and leaving her standing at the airport when he departs, Terry falls in love with her.Third, a superb cast of supporting actors arrive to add suspense and emotion to the story. Anthony Heald plays Terry Feld, the oil company exec who tries to convince Alice how sincere he is about helping recover her husband, even though he could care less now that his company and job are defunct. He is the perfect heel. Pamela Reed's character arrives from the States and plays the exasperated sister-in-law to the hilt. Mario Sanchez is excellent as Arturo, the local hostage negotiator who does all the wrong things Terry Thorne warns Alice against. Arturo is out only for a quick buck. Things look bleak for Alice until the final and best character shows up, David Caruso as Dino, another negotiator for hire. Except we know Dino is more action oriented. The only thing keeping Caruso from being leading man in this film is that Crowe has more screen time. But between them they make a powerful team. The scene where Thorne arrives back at the Bowman home, ostensibly to discuss taking the case as a private pro-bono venture, is dynamic as Thorne and Dino (with Dino's Panama Crew as back-up) physically take over the case from Arturo's thugs by disarming them all in a lightning fast display of gunman-ship. Thorne and Dino are truly professionals at this game.From this point on the pace is fast and the film is all adventure, with a few twists thrown in to keep us guessing until the end. Of course in the end Thorne does what's right and altruistic; he rescues Peter Bowman and walks away. All he needed was a horse to ride into the sunset on.This is a great flick in the tradition of Saturday morning thrillers at the Bijou. "},{"Title":"Well-directed film with a good storyline","Date":"14 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This was a well directed film with a good storyline. It was slow to unfold and lacked acting quality. Better could have been expected from the principal players. Meg Ryan's performance was very much below standard. The location was excellent giving the film some realism and  the action was well done although during the rescue of the captives sometimes difficult to follow.  In view of their long captivity and deprivation the prisoners looked very fit when rescued.   Make-up artists need some training, also nobody can fight vigorously after being half-starved. For me the end was just not right, but I guess the love element  was cut out which may explain the end.  "},{"Title":"Great FILM with Great Acting!","Date":"23 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"               Greatly enjoyed this film from beginning to end and enjoyed the great acting of Meg Ryan,(Alice Bowman),In the Cut,'03, who showed her great acting talents. Alice showed how deeply she was falling in love with Russell Crowe,(Terry Thorne),A Beautiful Mind,'01, who was helping her husband and you could see in their eyes the great attraction for each other and a very explosive kiss during the film.  David Morse,(Peter Bowman),Hack TV Series,'02 played a great acting role and also provided great acting talents to this film. Peter at the beginning of the picture was having trouble with his marriage to Alice and almost lost her in more ways than none.  David Caruso,(Dino),Session 9,'01, helped his friend Terry and acted like a real COMBAT SOLDIER and even gave orders and advice just like his former role in NYPDBLUE!   Lots of action and even room for a few sexy looks between wife and ADMIRER! "},{"Title":"Watch only for the landscapes","Date":"4 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Well I have to admit, as an ecuadorian girl I was excited to see my country on the big screen, and very proud as well.Well now let's get to the movie... THIS MOVIE SUCKS!!!! OMG it is incredibly boring and it is impressing how this great cast have a really hard time convincing us with their roles, especially Meg Ryan, which is a shame b/c she is indeed in my list of favorite actresses.Russel Crowe was pretty descent, but I hate him with passion, even if he is a superstar he has no right to insult my country (he did in our local newspaper) or whatsoever.  He said something like Ecuador has no technology to support the production of a film like this one and a joke like and their beer sucks well ha-freakin'-ha Mr Crowe, very funny!!!Anyways this movie stinks, just watch it b/c the landscapes are awesome. "},{"Title":"It was cool","Date":"28 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Got some spoilers please forgive.This movie was fairly entertaining about a troubled American married couple living in Mexico. The husband gets kidnapped for ransom. The wife is stranded and helpless and very gullable in this fabulous house cursed with scorpions as she is about to give some ransom money to some sleezy guys only to be saved by you name it, Russell Crowe. He's the negotiator or the middle man who negotiates a reasonable ransom for Meg Ryan's husband. Excuse me but I don't remember character names.The setup was interesting and the story line was loosely based on some reporter guys who had been kidnapped and had to deal with the harsh weather conditions among other incredulous misgivings. Then again don't quote me on that. The cinematography and the shots were real and beautiful. I liked seeing my boy Caruso play Crowe's friend and reality check.Now during the course of these two working to save her husband, romantic tensions arise, but they kill me acting like there ain't nothing between them. But the thing that I really appreciated was the kiss. That was the high light of the movie. And after that kiss, it just went down hill from there. I mean I'm being immoral here but, she could have given him some or had a secret affair with Crowe. Men who give there lives and heart don't come very often. And he could have done right by her. He looked so pitiful watching the car drive away with Meg and her husband.  "},{"Title":"Boring, Watch the color bar channel instead","Date":"4 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The movie is boring. The chemistry between Meg Ryan and Russel Crowe is wretched. I like Ryan and Crowe, but this film just stinks. The seqeuence of events is implausible and ridiculous. As you watch the film, you really don't care what happens to the characters. Its running time is way too long. Definitely one of the worst movies of year. The ending is comparable to Jurassic Park 3. Horrid. Grade D "}{"Title":"* * *1/2 out of 4. Number 5 film of 2000!","Date":"4 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Sensational effort from master director Taylor Hackford about a ransom expert (Russell Crowe) who helps a nearly broke wife (Meg Ryan) recover her husband after he is kidnaped by terrorists. AS Crowe and Ryan's relationship grows closer and the more they learn about each other, the more they begin to fall in love with each other. Crowe turns in a commanding performance that shows him to be strong one moment, yet vunerable the next. He pulls this balance off perfectly throughout the movie. Meg Ryan is totally credible and turns in one of the best performances of her career. The rest of the cast is unusually good and Ryan and Crowe have some smoldering chemistry on screen. Hackford keeps the action moving along nicely and never allows things to drag or get boring. Tightly done and well crafted throughout.Rated R; Violence and Profanity. "},{"Title":"With the great actors, it could've been so much better.","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I was so disappointed in this movie.  Russell Crowe is one of my favorite actors, but the movie had so many holes in it.  For me, it just sagged and flopped. What a shame, considering the cast and the location.  Kinda boring, sorry guys! "},{"Title":"So where's the chemistry?  (Spoiler)","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I kept waiting to give a darn.David Morse as the husband is the most sympathetic (and best developed) character, miles ahead of the 2 box-office draws.  Meg Ryan and the Australian play their parts by the numbers with no sexual or emotional tension at all.There's one kiss, which comes out of nowhere, and we're to believe he's in love with her.  Coulda fooled me.  The dialogue has to tell us he's head-over-heels, and Russell Crowe's character isn't even the one who says it.  David Caruso, showing his age, but still likable and powerful in a quirky way acts like a translator, letting the audience into the subtext.There is no subtext.  Just David Morse playing a stolid good guy (which is, by the way, the tipoff).  He has to come out; David Morse as a good guy cannot die, and you know why?  Because nobody would believe the two box office biggies would know what to do if they were left alone.  Two very empty characterizations, a cynical taste of Hollywood plugging pre-sold personae and hoping the audience will believe it.   "},{"Title":"Dire","Date":"9 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Sorry folks, but I found this film almost unbearably bad. I think it's the worst I have seen of Meg Ryan and although I have to admit that I am not a great fan of Russell Crowe, just how more wooden can an actor be. The whole film really is a bit stupid and I cannot recommend it. "},{"Title":"A film for both guys and gals","Date":"26 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Meg Ryan and Russell Crowe have a chemistry in this film that may have carried over from their personal relationship. Their expressions and demeanors reflected their feelings. This is a movie that's easy to understand and doesn't make you cringe when it's all over. SPOILER AHEAD I particularly liked the fact that none of the good guys got killed and the pig man did. This was definitely a movie that both guys and gals would like. "},{"Title":"The scenery itself alone is worth watching this movie in theaters","Date":"26 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Why o why some people underrate this movie.. I don't know. But I can tell you, the performances of both Meg Ryan and Russell Crowe in this one are top-notch. Add to that an awesome scenery of Columbian bush-lands, excellent camera work, a good solid script to give it that extra flavour. And finally some suspense as a finishing topping. You don't hear me complain. I'm sure I'm not hearing you either... "},{"Title":"South American kidnap thriller/action.","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Terry Thorne (played by Russell Crowe-Gladiator) is an ex-SAS soldier who now earns a living as a hostage negotiator in the dangerous world of kidnap and rescue insurance. Peter (David Morse-12 Monkeys) and Alice Bowman (Meg Ryan) have been living in a politically unstable part of South America for five months, when Peter is kidnapped by rebels. Thorne is flown in to negotiate, but decides to go it alone when his company orders him away from the assignment.Great suspense thriller, with gripping action and strong performances from Crowe, Ryan and Morse. Well worth a watch. "},{"Title":"Saved by Russell & Morse..","Date":"4 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" ...and almost ruined by Meg Ryan and Pamela Reed.Movie is a hit-and-miss excurison into 'Midnight Express'/'Missing' territory, with Meg Ryan as the not-distraught-enough wife of a kidnapped oil exec (Morse) who has an annoying sister (Reed) and a company not exactly breaking their backs to see to it that he is recovered.Russell Crowe is a career negotiator/rescuer/expert on kidnapping who ultimately rescues Morse with the help of David Caruso.At time the dialogue is very plastic and the drama is worse.  At times its very intense, too.  With the current situation in Pakistan (a Wall Street Journal being held), it made me think about what might be going on with that case.  So, unfortunately, the subject is very timely. The 'romance' between the characters played by Ryan and Crowe lasts exactly ten seconds, then is only referred to.  They didn't have any chemistry anyway, so it actually makes sense that they do not end up together.  "},{"Title":"Much better than I expected","Date":"6 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  After hearing how badly this had bombed at the box-office I was expecting it to be pretty bad. But when a friend brought it around to watch I ended up pleasantly surprised. Now its no big grabber, but the story is interesting, the acting creditable, and the dialogue fine. I think Crowe was rather wooden - but when isn't he? In the end this movie is not nearly as bad as expected and, in fact, quite enjoyable. My vote 7/10 "},{"Title":"ARTURRRRRRRROOOOOO..........","Date":"24 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  That was the scene that bagged it for me! David Caruso stole every scene he was in! Crowe, Ryan, and Morse, as well as Pam Reed all made this movie enjoyable, but it was good to see that Caruso hasn't lost the edge we all loved in his John Kelly character on NYPD Blue (which incidentally has stayed around for a season too many).Insofar as the stability of most South American governments is concerned, Costa Rica is the ONLY government that seems to take the welfare of its people seriously.  The gap between rich and poor in most of the other countries, with the exception of Chile as of late, is so wide that it is almost criminal.Anyway, I recommend this movie wholeheartedly.  "}{"Title":"Background is a common cliche","Date":"25 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  When is Hollywood going to learn that there are educated, intelligent human beings existing in South America?  Ecuador allowed this film group in and gave them assistance in finding the beautiful filming sites that are used (the background footage of both the Andes and Quito are the best parts of the film), and yet not one South American of an unnamed country was depicted as being good, intelligent, and/or educated.  This only perpetuates commonly held perceptions of people who have not traveled to S.A. or do not personally know any people from that continent. If you choose to watch the film, be sure to watch all of the credits.  The background footage taken from helicopters is outstanding.For a more realistic view of the problems facing Latin America and a display of educated, caring citizens trying to problem solve see Men With Guns.  "},{"Title":"Proof of nothing","Date":"10 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Palid and tiresome actioner with two great names in the cast for nothing. The movie is just a boring story of kidnaping and rescue which takes place in a South American nation. The movie, besides weak and undistinguished,gives a vision full of old and unfair American prejudice concerning the nations and the people of South America. However, David Morse is good as the sensitive engineer. I give this a 4 (four).  "},{"Title":"i liked this one","Date":"10 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film features great chemistry between Russell Crowe and Meg Ryan. Ryan's husband (played by David Morse) is kidnapped by guerrillas, and she hires Crowe to track him down. You will be cheering for everyone involved, and you will feel for Morse.*** out of **** "},{"Title":"check the audience for proof of life","Date":"28 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  When a filmmaker like Taylor Hackford (`Devil's Advocate') forces an audience to sit through 2+ hours of Meg Ryan whining, we can only come away asking one question why isn't Russell Crowe at least naked in this movie?  The best we get is Crowe in a tank top and one kiss with Ryan that looks like it could single-handedly explain her breakup with Dennis Quaid, but that's it for consolation.  So if you want to see Crowe, and I mean SEE Crowe, go rent something else.`Proof of Life' begins in South America, where Alice Bowman's (Ryan) husband Peter (David Morse) works as a contractor for a local dam.  They ambiguously act as if they matter to one another, and they also fight about the past using cryptic yet strained dialogue`I don't want this to be another Africa!  I don't want to go through that again!' `Africa?  Africa?!  Don't even bring up AFRICA!  I thought we'd been through AFRICA already, I thought we agreed!  AFRICA!  God, I can't believe you brought up AFRICA!'  And so on.  They both could have died right there and it wouldn't have mattered to me.Ryan's husband then gets kidnapped by rebel terrorists on the way to work one day (yay!), apparently because they're sick of hearing about Africa.  No, actually they think Peter works for a big oil company that is ruining the ecosystem or something.  Initially, Alice tries to use Peter's corporate terrorist person, but it turns out they don't have kidnapping insurance so she has to try the private sector.  And so enters Terry Thorne (Crowe), an ex-SAS operative (the British special forces) who now works for one of those firms that rescues people from other people who have big guns and accents.  Thorne seems to know what he's doing.  He's tough on the phone negotiating with the bad guys and even tougher pistol-whipping them in person, of course acting cool the entire time.  Oh, and he's hot.During two of the longest hours of my life, the rebels and Thorne banter about cost and something called `proof of life,' which demonstrates that the kidnapped person is still alive and worth paying for.  At no point did I ever feel like Peter was worth paying for, even before his whimpering self was taken hostage.  I'd rather leave Peter in the rebel camp so he could learn another language and maybe get over that whole Africa thing.Also featured is a bewildering editing technique whereby the scenes are cut just when they become interesting.  Sometimes we even crossfade between two scenes featuring Alice and Peter, meant to force a connection that was quite possibly the least exciting part of the entire movie.After what seems like an eternity, the deal goes sour and Thorne and his SAS buddies (including the hilarious David Caruso) decide to just go in and get Peter from the rebel camp.  Gee, that would have been a good idea back at the beginning of this movie, huh?  Actually, this sequence blew my mind compared to the rest of this boring piece of celluloid.  Crowe looks incredible in fatigues and the action of the scene was flawless.  The codenames tended to get a bit confusing and longwinded, though`Downtown 1, this is Downtown 3.  I see two armed bogies headed for Downtown 2.  Possible cargo in the storeroom.  Downtown 1 do you read?'`This is Downtown 1, Downdown 3.  I copy Downtown 1.  10-4 Downtown 2.'`Downtown 1, this is Downtown 2.  I never asked you if you copied.  But Downtown 3 and I are going downtown to check out a new club tonight. You in, Downtown 1?'There isn't much to this movie except the reconnaissance scenes at the beginning and the end.  The rest is fluffy terrorist lingo and Alice crying or whining but not really acting like she cares if Peter comes home.  What killed the film for me was Peter holding onto Alice like an airline seat cushion during a water landing, while she seemed comparatively blasé about the whole thing.In the back of my head, in the `I hope' section, I thought maybe she'd ask Thorne to kill Peter, but that would be too deeply emotional or something like that.  Or maybe she could say something to Thorne like, `Oh, that's too much ransom money&#133; oh, well!  So, you want to go get a cup of coffee sometime?'  I also hoped for a lurid sex scene (cut out of the final film -- WHY?).  But, instead we're left only with memories of a fleeting romance of two people who met at the wrong time in their lives and who spent most of that time staring at one another.  Oh, and we're also left with a cheesy song over the closing credits.At least they weren't looking for proof of life in the theater audience&#133;My grade for `Proof of Life' B- "},{"Title":"This movie kicks ass!","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Awesome story about a hostage negotiator (Russell Crowe) who goes to Mexico to help negotiate a ransom for Meg Ryan's husband. Great scenes, superb acting, good writing. This movie even managed to make David Caruso look good! "},{"Title":"I hate this movie!!","Date":"8 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This movie must be one of the worst and cheesiest things I have ever seen!  Why this movie received so much hype is beyond belief.  Meg Ryan does an okay job but has no supporting actors and actresses that I would consider marginal.  This movie I thought was okay in the beginning, but just became boring.  In certain scenes, they would spend just way too long on 1 thing that was not part of the central theme. For example, when Meg is speaking to her husband in the kitchen and she is on the phone.  The scene seemed so boring and you could tell they were running out of ideas and streching scenes just way too long. I hope this movie is never shown again!  "},{"Title":"Meg Ryan Was Awful","Date":"2 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Meg Ryan was awful.  She presented a flat and totally unsympathetic character.  No wonder her husband spent all his time in the jungle.  Her emotional range consisted almost entirely of bitter whining and child-like whimpering. Forget about subtlety. Why the Crowe character would be drawn to her is a mystery that was not solved in this film. Was the director asleep, not really a director, or did he just give up on a hopeless case? Stick to romantic comedy Meg.  "},{"Title":"Keep Sappiness out of Action Films","Date":"30 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I enjoyed watching the movie Proof of Life but the entire room fell into fits of laughter viewing the last scene when Terry (Russell Crowe) observes Alice (Meg Ryan) driving away with her husband.  The country sob song playing in the background just added to the laughter.  The director should have decided what type of movie he wanted to make ... a romance or an action flick.   "},{"Title":"Pass on this feature","Date":"5 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A very shoddy script keeps this from being a first rate thriller.  Two of the three scenes with the Bowmans show them arguing.  I would not have been surprised if Alice had told the kidnapers to keep Peter with her blessing. The rest of the script is transparently predictable.  Not even the considerable acting skills of Meg Ryan, Russell Crowe, and David Morse could save this film.The only real surprise here is Gottfried John as Kessler.  At least his performance is fun to watch.The actors here deserve better material.  So does the audience. "},{"Title":"What a Rip Off","Date":"11 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was dull as anything I have seen in a long time. The background of Ryan and Morse was weak and sketchy. Ryan and Crowe's love interest shows the usual Hollywood disrespect for marriage. Plus to top it all off it was not even a good action flick. Most of the action consisted of shooting native teenagers in South American. Overall I found this movie to be a complete waste of time. I rated it a two only because I managed to stay awake through it. "}{"Title":"too many cliches and poor dialogue","Date":"11 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Well done camerawork, good actions scenes, but the dialogue was so poor and poorly written that even such great actors as Mr. Crowe appear staged and not convincing.  A negative mark for Mr. Crowe, who has had a much better streak in his other recent movies. "},{"Title":"SHANE in the 21st century...","Date":"8 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Great action flick substituting helicopters for horses, automatic weapons for six-guns and terrorists instead of greedy ranchers.  Gritty realism and excellent performances from ALL the actors and beautiful locations in Ecuador. "},{"Title":"Don't believe the hype! This is a classic, yet intelligent action movie.","Date":"3 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is an action movie. Don't believe the hype about it also trying to be some complex love story. It is much more subtle than that, and doesn't take away from the solid acting & lavish cinematography that elevates what could have a been a flat script. This movie definitely has wide appeal, but should not be be so easily dismissed.Although it reminded me of The Negotiator, (action sequence in the beginning, action sequence in the end, negotiation in the middle, interlaced with bit of action) it still manages to stand apart from your typical action fair. Meg Ryan is able to tone herself down and really focus. Russell Crowe is classic alpha-male, intense Russell Crowe. I hope David Morse will finally be recognized for being much more than just another character actor. And it is good to see David Caruso back as the wise cracking friend of RC.Yes, this is worth going to see.  "},{"Title":"Excellent Film on a Subject All of Us Should Know About","Date":"18 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Proof of Life, another wonderful film by Taylor Hackford, has something special in it this time -- Russell Crowe!  This man says more on the screen with less acting than anyone working in the cinema today.  He is Terry Thorne, and his charisma on the screen overwhelms everyone else when he is on the screen with them.  Literally, other actors pale against him, but that does not diminish the excellent acting in this film by David Morse, and Meg Ryan.  She has never been this good, perhaps it is who she is holding the screen with, Russell makes anyone look great on film.  As he captured the entire screen in Gladiator, he does it again in Proof of Life.  The film is beautifully shot in a setting that overwhelms you with its scope and space. The tension in the movie is never-ending, and you feel as if you are going through the kidnapping along with the principal actors.  Ryan does a solid job as the wife lost in emotional turmoil, and David Morse an excellent job as the kidnap victim who changes his focus in life. I have to say the powerful subject matter, that most of us have no knowledge on, of ransom and kidnapping in a third world country, is the real star of the film -- besides Russell Crowe.  It is a subject matter that is beautifully written, thanks to Gilroy, and acted expertly as the hostage negotiator, by Russell Crowe, and the kidnap victim by David Morse.  A solid, tension-filled movie, with literally something for everyone, action, drama, suspense, and for those who adore great acting -- there's Crowe and Morse. For the audience with less cerebral tastes, it is a strong action flick, that doesn't leave you much room to breathe, and for the ladies -- well, of course, there's Russell Crowe!  If extraordinary acting is not enough, with Crowe you get both, to enjoy the most manly actor on the screen today, along with the best actor, who can change persona like a chameleon can change colors. The brutality in the film is an eye-opener, and this movie should be seen by people who are not aware of occurrences like this being a daily problem in the world.  Is it worth the price of admission? YES. You will be sorry around the water cooler if you haven't seen it.  Guys will have missed a great action flick, woman would have missed Russell, and for film buffs, you will be sorry you didn't see this one on the big screen for its vast settings, and extraordinary performances by Crowe, Morse and Ryan.  "},{"Title":"This definitely has Proof Crow flys like an Eagle","Date":"24 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" From the onset, Russell Crow is 'on' he is in war-torn Chechznia negotiating the release of a hostage and picking the man up in the middle of a heavy hitting battle between Chechans and Russians! It shows the world according to those who terrorize for a living. They make their money off the back of others, robbing and kidnapping taking the hostage. Fair-game for income. Crow,(Terry Throne) along with a 'roll' that I don't remember Meg playing before. There has been the proceeding great performances like 'The Presidio' with Connery and Harmon & Warden 'Courage Under Fire' (1996)But this for me was a real different feeling emotionally. This is her husband, with whom she has been through a lot, who is over taken by troubles, not from his own doing, like other character 'rolls' 'The Doors' They live in another country, where there is a 'force' that is not even government and is so barbaric and ruthless, that negotiating at times, doesn't even matter. But she and Russell, (who I saw several different actors in him as he went through the story a delightful surprise, for me). And along with 'Dino' the dynamic (David Caruso) coming through the back door, unannounced, (with a pistol-grip shotgun-no less) the back-up for Thorne. Taking and causing the 'head of security negotiator' Senior' Fernandez, to have to negotiate for a clean pair of underwear!!! I loved that scene. Dino, simply says 'Arturo' in a whimsical, just under a whispered tone. He didn't even raise his voice. In which Fernandez replies 'Dino?' and Dino answers the shell shocked B.S.negociator with a simple Well, yeah. As in Dino's back and damn -it that really scared Fernandez and he's now getting in the way of the Senior making some conned away-money in the process. They all show their good-mettle in this story. Going after the evil side but with honor and cold-calculating skill. One of the best aspects of the story is the 'Rescue' mission that they put together, to go in and take out, their clients from harms way. It was done with striking perfect execution. They went into the enemy camp with 'Special Forces'that they worked with int taking the other side out and retrieving the hostages. What a spectacular rescue. It was the dynamite, that set the story apart from anything like it!! On the back side the behind the scenes story, they went through a lot of hard circumstances and physical tests just to make this film. They had to dig out a road to get to one of the spots that they were set to shoot. They also dealt with tremendous cold weather that had more than a couple of the actors and crew frostbitten. They went the distance to make this film work...and it does, this one delivers, action, adventure, dangerous territory, strength, guts, love and redemption, all within the stories's parameters. This one shouldn't be missed, if you enjoy these great actors. I rated this one a 'ten' on the satisfaction of a great film scale. Some may disagree, and if they do, I say, here's a challenge, go out and get a crew and make a better picture along this storyline. Recommended highly. This one is should have a higher rating by the movie critics .(*****) "},{"Title":"you missed the point","Date":"10 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I originally saw this film while being robbed on a bus ride through Ecuador - which happens to be the filming location as well. I missed the beginning of the movie, but was soon engrossed with the story, thinking that it was maybe a docu-drama or some kind of movie version of a true story. That thinking was based on my experience living in Ecuador and a minor understanding of the 'political upheaval' that is South America.I realize that this was a big budget film and most people don't watch it to learn more about what's going on in the world... but they should. Artistic license is definitely used, but open your eyes and see in this movie just a little bit of what the rest of the world lives like. All but one Latin country has had to endure some kind of dictatorship and terrorization by government, paramilitary and rebel forces. Several countries are still very much living this reality, and you can thank your own government for helping put them in that situation. Ecuador and the rest of Latin America is beautiful country, but it is home to some of the most horrific human rights violations you'll ever learn about. In Argentina people who voiced opinions about their government were thrown, alive, into the Atlantic ocean from military airplanes. In Guatemala teenagers who have been tortured by ripping their fingernails and souls of their feet off were paraded in front of their families and entire villages before being publicly tortured even more and then killed while their mothers looked on. If a mother tried to interfere, she was later killed as well - considered a supporter of the 'terrorists'. In Colombia women and men are killed nearly every day for speaking out against the pollution of their land, air and water and the destruction of wildlife and rural communities by multinational oil companies. And our own military planes spray family farms and market crops with powerful herbicides which are known to cause cancer and other chronic diseases in an effort to curb cocaine production while huge coca plantations are left unsprayed. We are both poisoning and starving these people. All of these dictatorships have had some kind of support from the United States, be it military or monetary. Your tax money is doing these things.I find it appalling that there is time to critique these actors' performance and tear the plot apart - but not time to get the picture! "},{"Title":"what the hell was I thinking to sit through that?","Date":"5 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  this movie was so bad, I still remember it, even now. It left an indelible mark on my brain - the bad acting, the overwhelming length that almost drew me to tears. How did I sit through this movie??? Oh yeah, my friend who really really wanted to see it, convinced me to stay...  Was there any redeeming feature to this film for me? The landscape. That was about the only thing that gave the movie any substance at all.Morse and Crowe were wooden, Meg sucks as a serious actress, the plot laughable, the script beyond bad. No wonder Crowe when doing the press junkets for the flick didn't seem to gung-ho about the whole thing. It was awful. Definitely one of the worst of 2000 if you ask me. It rates right up there on the ick factor right along with Moulin Rouge.  "},{"Title":"Worst film of 2000","Date":"10 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The only good actors in Proof Of Life were Russell Crowe and David Caruso. Meg Ryan was horrible and David Morse was okay, but he was boring. But there are worse film in the world like Saving Silverman and Freddy Got Fingered. Taylor Hackford is an abominable director and should be banned from Hollywood.  Don't by the DVD. I don't recommend this film to anyone. I give Proof Of Life a 2 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"The movie reminded a lot of those movies about Vietnam.","Date":"8 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I honestly don't get it! When Proof of Life was released there were rumors that there was excessive kissing between Meg Ryan and Russell Crowe and people were walking out of the theater because of it. If anybody did that they did not understand the story. The relationship between Alice Meg Ryan (You Got Mail) and the Oscar winner Russell Crowe ( Gladiator) Terry Thorne is incidental to the story. Perhaps people were transferring the non-ending news about Meg's personal life to the screen.Even one  of my favorite directors and producers Rob Reiner (When Harry Met Sally) was stating that Meg lit up a cigarette. I am not in favor of cigarettes either, but if you pay attention to the movie she holds the cigarette all of the time. I don't think she smokes it! She is just trying to live her life!!!!!!!!!!! This is a suspenseful movie that Meg and Russell were the hook to bring the audience in. Without Meg and Russell in the movie, the movie wold probably be a non-chick movie about the guerillas in South America, which as a matter of fact, reminded a lot of those movies about Vietnam.  Meg was the one who draw me to watch the movie because I like her.  I could care less about a movie about kidnaping and the guerillas in South America. Now when Meg is in a movie I think I just wonder how cute she is on this one? She was just as lovely as in any other movie. A good suspenseful movie, which I recommend, but don't rent it thinking that it is about an adulterous relationship between Alice and Terry as the press made out to be BECAUSE IT IS NOT!. It is a story about a man who got kidnaped because of the friction between multinationals and the local government, that when push turns to shove he is left in a foreign country, without help; without any support from the very same company that had hired her him, nor any help from the U.S. government to rescue her kidnaped husband. Terry is the hero who does all those neat man like things to rescue the kidnaped man!We have lived overseas ourselves and because of those type of circumstances I would rather stay in the U.S. and live a simple life.  "},{"Title":"Must see","Date":"9 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"    This is a very good film, Russel Crowe probably practices method acting, like Robert De Nero.  Crowe played the part of a mercinary to the tee.  He walked, talked, and behaved, as one would.  This film is neither politically correct, or Hollywoodish ie Rambo phoneyish.  If this film followed a book, the script is very close to the true story.   The strong part of this film is its realism, it conveys a message where you understand the difficulty, hardness, and ruthlessness of the situation.  We do not live in a black and white world of politically correctness or Hollywoodism, but a complex one which is grey, not black and white.  The answers to questions somtime can not be yes or no, and Crowe realizes this and plays a realist, with a few plot twist or breaks, puts information together for a great conclusion.   This former S.A.S soldier, does a job is the best description for this film. P.S Caruso plays the role of the other mercenary perfectly this could restart his carrier. "}{"Title":"Good action and quite an interesting story","Date":"11 October 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Proof of Life, directed by Taylor Hackford and starred by Russell Crowe and David Morse, centers on a couple and a Special Ops team that are suddenly turned around when the husband of the couple is kidnapped. I thought this movie was well directed and had some interesting moments. There was some boring parts in this film but it still went fluidly. Russell Crowe and David Morse acted well but Meg Ryan, the whole way through the movie, she was was unitersting and seemed like acting wasn't for her anymore. This was a good movie with some holes but really was interesting and the prisoner scenes were great.Hedeen's outlook 7/10 **+ C+  "},{"Title":"Not very good.","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this on an airplane today, and while I understand this isn't thebest way to view a film, it didn't really work for me. The plot isfairly straight forward stuff, nothing surprising there- although theredid seem to be some missed opportunities, especially when you look at asuperb film like Missing- so much more could have been made of thepolitics involved, which would have ratcheted up the tension a mite. Theacting was okay, but unlike the other reviewers here I thought the bestactor in it was David Morse. I believed every single thing he did, andhe had a lot of tough stuff to do. He's a very good actor. Russell Croweseemed to be acting tough, which he does fine, but I found nothingspecial in it. The big disappointment for me was Meg Ryan. Shot asthough she was Barbra Streisand, as if through numerous filters, hermake up was perfect in every single scene. And her face- well, let'sjust say she's looking more and more like Michelle Pfeiffer or GoldieHawn. Some may say that's not such a bad thing, and it isn't, but Iliked the Meg of old, she was far more expressive and free and alive.Now she seems to want to be 'aging well' or something, and it's limitingand dull. Of course, it doesn't help that she had such winning lines asWhy are you doing this? - the script is indeed weak. To say nothing ofthe fact that she is the helpless and occasionally dangerously stupidweak female of the piece, just waiting for big strong Russell to 'takecharge' (like a real man always does) and save the poor weepy female.The movie starts out great, then fades into your average forgettablefilm. "},{"Title":"Photographic Proofs","Date":"19 December 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  One of the first decisions a director must make is what stance the camera will have. Then, I suppose in most cases comes the invention of tone, the look, then the style. Plot and character are secondary, which differs from the case of live theater. The existence of the camera transforms all because it can play all sorts of roles, or be bent into several different narrative stances.Here, the camera is used in an unusual way. One must credit the director, who seems to be intelligent, rather than the cinematographer, whose history is unremarkable. The device is use the camera in exclusive super closeup when dealing with characters, especially the main character. And to contrast that with lush open scenery when filming contrasting action.It's a gamble, because American filmgoers don't like monologues, and unless one is exploiting a Julia smile or a Mel wink, consider it boring. I suppose they thought that Crowe could carry this experiment. And he does! Crowe is something to watch; he just went from an effort (`Gladiator') where he had to project his dramatic space into large areas. A whole stadium, in fact. Here, his given only few inches in which to work, and the ability to adapt shows a remarkable awareness of the process.The same cannot be said for poor Meg. Thin talent cannot be hidden by cute perkiness with this camera! And in any case, the story doesn't accommodate the one persona she knows. So watch for how Crowe works the camera, and how this director moves characters as well in and out of his face.All else is tolerable, except for the score. I recently saw a film (`The Kid') which did with the score roughly what this one does with the camera. Masterful. But here, the score is inept. Danny Elfman has juice, so I suppose communication between director and composer broke down. We know that the director understands open music because as the film ends, he brings on a recent Van Morrison piece. Morrison has a stance with his listener similar to that of the camera here collaboratively intimate.Contrast this whole thing with another ransom film with another Aussie, Mel Gibson in `Ransom.' How ordinary and unfulfilling that was. "},{"Title":"Not without its faults but I liked this","Date":"22 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I really liked this, not without it's faults but a good story and I enjoyed the entire cast, the location, the action scenes and watching (a surprisingly hunky) Russell Crowe struggle with unrequited love for another mans wife. He plays an Australian and keeps his accent, which I'm not sure he's used recently, very nice.Meg Ryan,(keeping fantastic hair throughout) plays the wife of an engineer -the always good David Morse who is working in south America. When he's kidnapped by terrorists, she retains the services of hostage negotiator Terry Thorne (Russell Crowe) and the two (sort of) fall for each other.I liked how the story kept flipping back and forth between 'Alice' and her negotiating ransom demands to free her husband and the hell 'Peter' is going through via a dated timeline after being kidnapped by South American rebels. David Caruso was a surprise here too, I actually enjoyed his character- never been able to say that before.The final action scene/rescue is excellent, as is that smouldering goodbye kiss Crowe lays on Ryan. Sigh. 3/14/14 "},{"Title":"Kidnapped in South America","Date":"11 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The opening scenes introduce us to protagonist Terry Thorne as he briefs his employers in London about a mission to free a hostage in Chechnya; Terry is an ex-SAS soldier who now works as a hostage negotiator. We are then introduced to the other protagonists; Alice and Peter Bowman; they are in South America where Peter is involved in the construction of a dam; although it looks like that may come to an end when the company he works for is taken over. The loss of the project is the least of their worries though; as Peter drives to work he is grabbed by rebels who take him to the mountains and demand a large ransom. Terry is called in to be the negotiator but not long after he arrives he learns that the Bowman's kidnap insurance isn't up to date and his new employer doesn't want to get involved. Luckily for Alice Terry decides to do the job anyway and he is soon negotiating with a representative of the rebels. Peter meanwhile is moved on to a camp in the jungle where he befriends a German hostage. Day, weeks and months pass as the negotiations slowly proceed; then the two hostages escape&#x85; the German gets away but Peter is seriously injured and recaptured. To make matters worse the negotiations stall; Terry, his friend Dino and a small group will have to go into the jungle and extract him.This was an interesting story which avoided several clichés; it didn't take place over the space of a few short days and violence was the last rather than the first resort of those seeking to free the hostage. The relatively slow pace of the negotiations gave us a chance to get to know the characters and gradually raise the tension. The scenes of Peter's captivity were believable and at times gruelling. When the action comes it is short and sharp without excessive explosions and an unbelievable number of bad guys to kill. The cast did a solid job although I wasn't sure about the supposed romantic subplot between Alice, played by Meg Ryan, and Terry, Russell Crowe&#x85; it seemed both superfluous and low key&#x85; almost as though somebody told the director to add a subplot he wasn't interested in. The remote Ecuadorian scenery looks fantastic without it feeling as though the tourist board had selected the locations; they also add to the feeling of isolation for Peter. Overall this is a pretty good film; I was surprised I hadn't come across it till I found the DVD in a charity shop bargain bin! It is certainly worth a watch. "},{"Title":"We don't need proof","Date":"11 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I am a big fan of Taylor Hackfords overall work. But I don't think this matches some of his other movies (unfortunately). One of my favorites of all time (actually my number one movie) is Blood in Blood out aka as Bound by Honor, which makes it sound less like a horror movie. Of course it is a drama, but I guess people might be confused by the title. This movie right here has a great cast (Russell Crowe starring), but lacks the emotion I got of some of his earlier work.It's unfortunate, but while not a bad movie, I don't think this matches what he has done before and the question could be if he lost his touch. I haven't seen any of his more recent films since then, but the success of Ray alone might be a disprove of that theory. So if you're a fan of his, do not be too harsh on this movie if you can. If you don't care about directors in general or this one in particular, do not expect too much from the movie "},{"Title":"Edited for Dullness?","Date":"4 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Taylor Hackford's Proof of Life is a hopelessly uneven, dull- as-dishwater, slap-dash chunk of topical hokum to begin with. I don't know which character I cared about the least, except a pre-CSI David Caruso, showing some sort of talent for acting(?). Meg Ryan and Russell Crowe are stolidly unpleasant. One can only hope they were more interesting for and to each other when they had their fling in real life. On screen, they're wholly unappetizing. Once again, the benefit of watching this gunk on the Sunday afternoon movie is that you don't have to pay for it. You'd be better off puttering about in your garage. "},{"Title":"Proof of Life- We've Seen It.. But Life is Worth Living ***","Date":"31 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This picture has the familiar story line of the 1955 Clark Gable, Susan Hayward, Gene Barry film Soldier of Fortune. Remember how Gable is hired by Hayward to rescue her husband from Communist China?Similarly, in this film, Meg Ryan's husband gets kidnapped by a group whose purpose is really in drug dealing. The film realistically brings out the ineffectiveness of local leaders as well as their corruption in dealing with the situation.Enter Russell Crowe and his group, real pros in a very difficult event. Surprisingly, the romance between Ryan and Crowe does not really start until the picture's end. The ending is different from Soldier of Fortune. "},{"Title":"A little uneven, but mostly good.","Date":"18 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Meg Ryan and Russell Crowe both give standout performances in this thriller filled with action, suspense and romance. Ryan stars as Alice Bowman, a housewife to an engineer (David Morse) who is kidnapped for ransom. In comes Terry Thorne (Russell Crowe), a professional hostage negotiator who knows just the right moves to get her husband back. But to do it properly for the least amount of money, he needs time. So thus embarks the process of Terry trying to negotiate the release of Peter, with Alice by his side every step of the way. Naturally in a situation as tense and terrifying as this, Alice needs consoling and Terry is the only one to give her it.The film bounces between the growing romance between Terry and Alice, which is portrayed with incredibly believable chemistry by Crowe and Ryan, as they try to free Peter and Peter's situation of being a hostage. The latter is where the film is pulled down, for me. It's nothing beyond your standard hostage formula; he's mistreated and there's the one guy who he really hates and has a vendetta against which he gets his revenge for at the end and the one person who's very nice to him. There's an escape attempt and another guy who has been there much longer than he has but somehow manages to be perfectly fine and able to go on this escape attempt with him. All of the predictability makes this aspect of the film incredibly dry, and the exploration of the war between the army and the group of rebels there is extremely dull and feels very unnecessary until the ending.Ultimately the film is a little unbalanced. The scenes with Morse are incredibly dull and clichéd, but the scenes with Crowe and Ryan are incredibly engaging and romantic. The chemistry between them is perfect and almost painful to watch knowing that they can never truly be together. Regardless they're both a lot of fun to watch on screen and this chemistry makes their scenes together both romantic and incredibly tense. You're waiting for them to make a mistake and become too emotionally attached to each other, but hoping that they do. The ending could have gone over the top and been unbelievable, but it sticked to what was probably the most realistic end to the story and I admire that. "},{"Title":"The proof is in the padding","Date":"30 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Hmm! The good guy is too good, I'm not too sure why every entry has to repeat the story but I won't since I'm sure you've read it many times already. Actually when I come here I have read many comments from others and forgive me for it, do take a lot out of these comments to help me writing my own. I usually have feelings about a movies but have problem to express it in intelligent language! Like some I wish Terry stuck to his job as a professional rather than sink into emotional involvement that did not help the the plot for me. As David Caruso's performance, I was so glad he managed what it did without tilting his head as he does in his CSI role. At home we refer to him as 45 degrees, quite unkind, especially when we do enjoy the show! Meg Ryan was OK to me but yes she's nobody else but Meg Ryan. If she's going to be used in other movies she should simply be called Meg Ryan in each of them, as this is what we get anyway and I'm not complaining! Yes it is nice when you see a movie and manage to forget who's the actor because you are overwhelmed with the character. The location is gorgeously filmed, I keep seeing this helicopter against the background of a deep Ecuadorian waterfall. Some found the rescue very realistic I'm not so sure about this but I have not much experience in such action. Some also found it a little long, well try to see it on an ever hungrier commercial television station, It started at 2030 and finished at 2320! Still no regrets for me and You might enjoy it more than I did, give it a go. "}{"Title":"Some wasted potential.","Date":"14 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" In its core the movie had some more potential. It shows that the movie had potential to begin with because it has Russell Crowe in it. This guy had accepted every role he wanted after his Gladiator role and picked this movie as his next project. No doubt that he'd later regretted this, though it didn't harmed his future career. And he of course got to be with Meg Ryan for a while. They fell in love during the making of the movie and Ryan left long-time partner and husband Dennis Quaid for Crowe. The romance eventually didn't lasted long however. The romance between the two main leads had always overshadowed this actually movie, in terms of publicity. Guess this also harmed the movie and was one of the reasons bombed at the box-office and didn't really received any raving critiques. People of course also expected more from the next Russell Crowe movie and were eager to see him act with Meg Ryan. But they might had fallen in love in real-life but this really didn't show on the screen. There wasn't any chemistry between them, which made the romance in the movie seemed all the more ridicules and redundant.This is the sort of movie that tries to be more and more layered than just another average action flick. To simplify things; It tried to be he Michael Mann type of realistic and political orientated action movies (perhaps also a reason why Russell Crowe decided to be in this movie?). The sort of movies that are being made in abundance these days, with The Kingdom, not as the best but most recent example. So yes maybe this movie was made a couple of years too early but that still changes nothing about the lacking quality and storytelling of the movie.It's not just the storytelling that makes the actual story come across as bad and poorly done but it also is the actual story itself. It begins slow, than it turns into a more romantic kind of flick and then it suddenly ends in a pure hard action movie way. Yes, they even managed to put in a love-story in the movie. Why, oh why? This rarely ever works out in these sort of movies. As a matter of fact having a female lead rarely ever works out in these sort of movies. The cutting back and forward between the hostage taken husband (David Morse) and the wife (Meg Ryan) who is negotiating his release at home really doesn't work out, since the two things really don't seem to be occurring in the same time-line. It's lacking some good continuity and maybe also pace at time.Despite it's good intentions, the movie is lacking in basically everything. It certainly is not clever or original enough to consider this a good realistic type of movie and it's lacking too much in action to consider this purely a action-flick. The dialog is overlong and it often takes too long before something good or interesting is occurring on the screen again. Not that this movie and all of it in it is that bad but it's just lacking on basically all levels to consider this a successful attempt from director Taylor Hackford and other involved.Still it are the actors that still make this movie worthwhile. Russell Crowe is solid as always and also Meg Ryan did a good job. It further more featured David Morse in a rather big role (for his standards), from the period when he still seemed to be appearing in basically every new big movie. Surprisingly the movie further more also features some fine actors such as David Caruso, Pamela Reed, Anthony Heald, Alun Armstrong and Michael Kitchen, among others. Again, I think this shows that the movie showed more potential to begin with, or else there would had been no way that so many fine and respected popular actors agreed to be in this movie.Maybe worth watching just once but even so, the movie still remains a very forgettable and unsuccessful-, understandably failed attempt.6/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Jungle Love and Corporate Death","Date":"9 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Peter Bowman (David Morse) and wife, Alice (Meg Ryan) are a couple whose marriage suffers from lack of attention by both partners who are career do-gooders, always living in emerging countries where Peter's engineering skills and Alice's hippie humanitarian care giving are corporate assets for Quad Carbon, a failing multi-national corporation who need to appear concerned with human welfare in an eco-sensitive global economy. Of course, this is a ruse for the behind the scene nefarious acts of the corporation seeking to profit by accessing the country's natural resources via the efforts of Bowman's idealistic engineering project. Kidnapped by Marxist revolutionaries turned terrorists, whose activities are a front for their cocaine mountain farms, Bowman becomes a pawn in the stand off between corporate greed and rural peasants turned gunslingers. Assigned to extricate Bowman for the insurance company hired by the corporation is Terry (Russell Crowe), a divorced, former special forces agent whose job is to negotiate the client release for the least money and bring closure by bringing back clients, preferably alive using whatever means is necessary including force, invasion, and military tactics. Terry is all macho competence, unemotional, and an adrenaline junkie with his cronies. When the insurance company pulls Terry from the case because of corporate buyouts and budget cutbacks by suits in London and New York, Terry must abandon Alice to the amateur negotiators whom he first warned her to avoid. Misguided, confused, and at the mercy of the men in charge at every turn, everyone seems to want to sweep Peter Bowman's kidnapping under the carpet or take Alice's family money and run at the first chance. Alice, like Peter and Terry, is also a victim of the kidnappers and the organizational sharks with whom her husband and Terry had been employed. In each situation, the lives of the three is of little concern for those in power, and the proof of life becomes a sign that they must negotiate for their own sanity and survival. Russell Crow is a wonderful actor in this alpha male role, with his sensitive side slowly revealed through his growing familiarity and close contact with Ryan's Alice, a casting against type from her usual comedic blondie roles. In the years since their brief affair became public, each actor has gone on to better films, but the chemistry is visible and credible as Terry and Alice clash, soften and become stronger. David Morse is thoroughly credible and holds his own as the central character in the second half of the film's storyline that only becomes resolved in the final 10 minutes as the actual rescue operation unites Terry, Alice, and Peter, in an unlikely menage a trois.Filmed in the South American jungle, this is a beautiful visual cinematic thriller. Taut, explosive, and grounded in believable anti-terrorist and anti-corporation story lines, Proof of Life unfortunately was never successful because of the Crow-Ryan publicity. Good supporting roles by David Caruso and Pamela Reed add to a cast of character actors turned leading roles. It is a good film, worthy of attention if only to see Crow give an all-out guts and glory performance before his ego took over and Ryan step out of her goodie two-shoes roles and become a woman under Crow's attention. "},{"Title":"Vastly underrated, this excellent film explores many touchy subjects while delivering suspense and romance","Date":"28 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Alice (Meg Ryan) and her husband, Peter (David Morse) are living in a South American country. As both of them are your basic idealists, the idea of helping others less fortunate in the same hemisphere is of utmost importance to them. One day, however, Peter is kidnapped by terrorists. Alice does not know what to do, as she detests violence and aspires to treating everyone as valuable humans. The government puts Terry (Russell Crowe) in charge of the case. He is a well-trained agent who goes all over the globe, securing the release of hostages, even if by force. At first, Alice dislikes him very much. But, over time, she not only realizes that Terry may be her only hope of seeing her husband again, but that she has acquired strong feelings for him personally. Is this another case of the problems of three little people not meaning much in the combative ways of the world? This is a great film, on many levels. It is a lovely love story, for those who yearn for romance, but one that sets limits on the expression of that love. Next, it is a suspense-laden movie, as trying to secure the release of a hidden captive requires heroic risks and action. Finally, it is an exploration of pacifism and its role in a world where there is always evil at every turn. Ryan and Crowe are excellent as the couple, ideologically opposed, who learn to appreciate the ways of the other. Morse is also outstanding as the high-minded man caught in a web of destruction. The scenery is off the charts, as the South American setting is beautiful and even more beautiful the next minute. Costumes and production values are also first rate. If you decided to skip this film because of the off camera controversy generated by the movie, please think it over once more. To pass over this film is to miss a truly fine work in the annals of outstanding movies of the nineties. Period. "},{"Title":"Would have been stronger if it had concentrated more on its interesting themes and less on its big-name stars","Date":"30 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Peter Bowman, an engineer working for an oil company, is kidnapped in Tecala, a fictitious South American country seemingly based on Ecuador, and held to ransom by a guerrilla group known as the ELT, or Tecala Liberation Army. His employers hire Terry Thorne, a professional kidnap and ransom negotiator, to try and arrange his release, but the company is taken over by a larger group and the money to pay Terry runs out. Terry initially walks away, but later suffers a crisis of conscience and returns to offer his services to Peter's wife Alice for free. The situation is complicated by the fact that Alice does not see eye to eye with her husband's only other relative, his sister Janis, and by a romance that grows up between Alice and Terry.Other reviewers have complained that the two lead actors in this film were miscast, but I am not sure that that is a fair assessment. Ever since When Harry Met Sally, Meg Ryan has largely been associated with playing the fluffy-haired heroines of feelgood romantic comedies like Sleepless in Seattle, IQ and You've Got Mail. She has, however, made valiant attempts to escape from this typecasting by taking roles in more serious dramas, most notably her fine performance as the female Army captain in Courage under Fire, and Proof of Life is clearly another such attempt. Russell Crowe is a practised hand at action films, so he was hardly miscast here.The problem is not so much miscasting as the fact that neither of the two is at their best. Ryan's performance is very muted compared with the much better Courage under Fire. Crowe seems to be an actor who needs a challenging script to bring out his best, and Proof of Life does not stretch him in the same way as some of his other action films such as Gladiator or Master and Commander or, for that matter, a more reflective film such as A Beautiful Mind. It was widely reported that Ryan and Crowe had begun a real-life romance while working together on this film, but little of their passion comes across in their performances. There seems, in fact, to have been an attempt by the film-makers to keep the romance between Terry and Alice low-key, possibly because they felt that it would make Alice look unsympathetic if she were too obviously committing adultery while her husband was in the hands of the kidnappers.Peter sees himself as an idealist; he is working on a new dam, which he believes will improve life for the ordinary people of Tecala by giving them access to power and drinking water. He believes that he and the guerrillas are essentially on the same side, and cannot understand why they should have kidnapped him. The dam project, however, is being paid for by an oil company with rather dubious ethics. They simply regard the dam as a sweetener which will persuade the Tecalan government to give its approval to a controversial new pipeline. The guerrillas, moreover, have abandoned their own idealism. They were originally a Marxist group fighting a right-wing government, but since the end of the Cold War they have become little more than a criminal organisation out to make money from kidnapping and drugs.For me, the best performance is from David Morse as Peter, and the most interesting scenes are those which show him in the hands of the kidnappers and chart his changing relationship with his captors, some of whom are crazily violent, others more rational. I felt, however, that the film would have been stronger if it had concentrated more on these elements, and on the underlying theme of the clash between idealism and pragmatism, and less on the two big-name stars and on the Alice-Terry story. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Negotiations With Kidnappers","Date":"2 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Proof of Life is a Drama Adventure. There is Action and gun fire at the end for those who need that, but the story is about a woman Alice Bowman (played by Meg Ryan) and the person, Terry Thorn (played by Russell Crowe) who comes to help her negotiate for the release of her husband (played by David Morse) In the beginning Crowe shows up as a representative of an insurance company who covers company's in case of kidnappings of their employees in countries where insurgents make money by kidnapping people. When Crowe finds out that the company has not paid the insurance premium for this group of employees, he is told to leave.He returns on his own to help Ryan's character. The drama consists of interactions between the two main characters. There is another negotiator that has had a person kidnapped (David Caruso) and Crowe and Caruso join forces to go and free the kidnapped victims.The movie is set in South America. Proof of Life is a good movie and it is worth the watch. This movie is not appropriate for small children. "},{"Title":"Morse is the Proof","Date":"13 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This, in my opinion, is a good film that could have been a very good film. I don't agree with the pundits who say it is too slow. The negotiation part of the film, was an integral part of the film. We needed this, to understand the mentality of the hostage takers. Where I think it could have been improved, was to have had the leader of the guerrillas portrayed as a stronger Castro type of character, possibly discussing the rights and wrongs of his actions with Bowman, who seemed to be an altruistic type person. I loved the scenes in the Colombian jungle / mountain areas. Every time the film cut to these scenes, I felt as though I was there. The interaction of Bowman and his captors was riveting. Even the interaction of the captors and their leaders was great. I loved the indiscipline of the captors, especially the scene where the main captor went crazy after a night on the cocoa, and shot his own man in the leg. He didn't face a court martial, but an instant decision, downgraded to look after the pigs. Great stuff. David Morse's performance as Peter Bowman, an every day guy stuck in the midst of this hostage game was brilliant. The way he was transformed into a mud spattered , beard growing wreck, trying to keep his sanity, by remembering his wife and lost child, knowing that he was just a pawn in the game, who could be shot at any time. I think that he, more than Crowe is the reason that this is a good film. Like most good films it establishes the character of the protagonists early in the film. We see how good Terry Thorn (Crowe) is at his job of hostage negotiator, with the ability to turn into a Jim McClain Character. Bowman is being **** on from a great height by his employers, and his wife (Meg Ryan) is feeling the strain of being dragged around the world to follow her husband's job, possibly more than just her husband. I can't understand why the director / writers didn't allow Thorn and Alice to get it together. After all he was a red blooded male, who didn't appear to be getting much prior to their meeting. She was a frustrated wife who's husband had been neglecting her for his job. They were thrown together for a very long time. This might have established the fact that Thorn wasn't the perfect English gentleman, and allowed us to think he might have second thoughts about bringing Bowman back. The final Rambo type scenes are done really well, with all the discipline of an S.A.S raid. Not a great film but a good almost very good film. I don't know why Alun Armstrong was in this film. Meg looked gorgeous in this film. "},{"Title":"great movie","Date":"16 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I liked this movie a lot. Usually, I prefer watching romantic chick-flicks. this movie however, changed a bit of my perception. Meg Ryan has acted superbly. The same goes for Russell Crowe. The chemistry the two of them share is great. I liked the ending of the movie as it was not predictable and added a good suspense on the future of the negotiator and the victim's wife. Meg Ryan has proved that she's not incapable of acting in thrillers...and she's awesome. Russell Crowe looks smart and Meg Ryan's sister-in-law in the movie has done complete justice to her complex character. The relationship between Meg Ryan's character and her sister-in-law has been carved out very well. David Morse has done an excellent job and should be given such meaningful and intense roles more often. The characters have been well thought of and their weaknesses and strengths have been showed articulately. Overall, a good movie for someone who likes Russell Crowe, Meg Ryan or movies with a good script. "},{"Title":"One performance worth seeing","Date":"10 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Unfortunately overshadowed by the tawdry headlines about Russell Crowe and Meg Foster, there is one excellent performance in this movie, that of David Morse as the kidnapping victim. The whole story was so inverted; it was Peter Bowan's refusal to give up, and his own cleverness which made his rescue possible. David Morse, who makes his character quite unlikable and self-centered early in the movie really develops him into a man of indomitable spirit who draws on his love for his wife to stay sane and unbroken during his captivity. Unfortunately, the movie focuses on Foster and Crowe who, for people having an off-screen affair, have literally *no* chemistry on film.Proof of Life is the Cleopatra of it's day a second-rate movie remembered because of the off-screen hijinks of it's stars. David Morse and his performance deserve better than that.  "},{"Title":"Serviceable for Crowe/Ryan/Caruso","Date":"29 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" PROOF OF LIFE (2000) *** Russell Crowe, Meg Ryan, David Morse, Pamela Reed, David Caruso. Absorbing drama about an American (Morse) abroad kidnapped in a South American country that leads to his wife (Ryan) resorting to an elite operative organization represented by ex-soldier/negotiator Crowe coming in to rescue him. Smartly paced with enough tension, solid lead performances and believable chemistry between Ryan and Crowe. Nice to see Caruso making a much-deserved comeback as Crowe's comrade in arms. (Dir Taylor Hackford) "},{"Title":"An awesome film with two of the hottest stars","Date":"10 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Proof of Life impressed me a great deal since it had everything I look for in a movie. From suspense to great performances Proof of Life will satisfy everyone's movie craving.There were several underlying themes that the director put in to keep the audience guessing as to what would happen. Would the distraught wife sleep with the man who would save her husband? Would the kidnap and ransom expert make it in time to save her husband? What will be the end result? These are questions that kept me on the edge of my seat.Two reasons Proof Of Life succeeds it stars two well established stars who give command performances. Russell Crowe and Meg Ryan seem to be the perfect choices to play these roles. Crowe brings intensity, character and integrity to his role as the kidnap and ransom expert. Also, the sexual chemistry and tension between these two is undeniable.In addition, there are two performances by supporting actors that are so great they nearly overshadowed the two leads. David Morse and David Caruso blew me away with their performances of the husband and mercenary, respectively. Morse matures and gets stronger with each film he is in. After box office failures such as Kiss Of Death and Jade, Caruso has comeback with a really strong performance. I hope I get the chance to see these two actors perform in future films because his talent should not be wasted.Finally, the best thing about Proof of Life was the suspense. With each passing moment of the movie, it got better because it made me want to know what would happen next.Proof Of Life will surely impress and satisfy every movie fan. "}{"Title":"Good Work","Date":"27 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Had I saw this movie in a theatre, I would have been more than happy to have spent the money on it.The movie flows very well, with small bits of action leading to the climax action scenes that are, for all intensive purposes, the ending to the movie.  A well-done film that, while following a pattern that almost every average movie ever released has followed, was simply executed very well leading to a polished product in the end.A few plotholes almost drop this movie's rating to a 7, but I enjoyed it, so what else matters? "},{"Title":"Clever story about love hidden behind political facade","Date":"15 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  What's so good about Proof of Life is that the screenwriter use thebackdrop of political intrigue and the machinations of big business totell a tale about love, loyalty and promises made and broken. All thestuff about dams being built and anti-government rebels in the mountainjungles of South American mean nothing when compared to the personaldilemas faced by Meg Ryan's and Russel Crowe's characters. In fact, withthe exception of David Caruso, the film is most alive when Crowe andRyan are looking into each other's eyes and not speaking. Russel Croweis probably the most sensitive of Hollywood's hunks while Meg Ryan seemsto have have easy access to every emotion imaginable. It's amazing howsomone can be so pretty and funny in one film and so tortured, fierceand fragile in anoth "},{"Title":"Solid Western","Date":"29 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Beyond the critiques that this film lacks emotion and is boring to tears, that's life as it is.  This not the kind of film made today just to avoid the aforementioned visceral reaction of said critiques.Proof of Life is a solid Western, an engineer, David Morse, is kidnapped by 'evil' Marxist/Narco-Terrorists and his wife, Meg Ryan, must get him back after a battle of corporate intrigue sending Russell Crowe initially on his way.  And so the expected thing happens and he returns to Ecuador(Tecala) and works out the details with the kidnappers.  The Rebels and Government forces drift into a 'hot' war complicating matters and speeding up the film to the climactic resue at the end.Much like any John Wayne or Audie Murphy film, it ends favorably in some regards and meloncholy in others.  This film is a modern Western if one ignores the much publicized relationship between Meg Ryan and Russell Crowe, though it would add more to the film that there was once love between them.10/10 "},{"Title":"Another great movie for my collection","Date":"10 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I somehow missed this movie when it came out on DVD. I first saw it when Sky started to show it. I bought it right away on DVD. It's another great movie for my collection. It is one of those few movies I love to watch again and again. The story is nicely developed, never drags and always keeps enough suspense, so it never becomes boring. The main characters, Terry Thorne (Russell Crowe), Peter Bowman (David Morse) and Alice Bowman (Meg Ryan) are totally believable, which makes you feel for them. Besides the few action scenes, which are very well done, there are enough pleasant scenes to savor and well written, sometimes facetious dialogues to enjoy. I watch movies to relax and to have fun. That's it why I enjoy watching this movie so much. It might not be an Oscar-worthy piece, but it has all I look for in a pleasantly entertaining movie. Russell Crows gives a brilliant performance and so does Meg Ryan and David Morse. I also liked David Caruso a lot in his role as Dino. The rest of the cast is very well chosen throughout. There is a lot of great scenery too. I was really surprised to read so many negative comments on this movie. Anyway, I give it a 9/10.  "},{"Title":"Intelligent Action Film","Date":"18 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is a great, intelligent action film. While the beginning seems to drag as the premise is set-up, it picks up later to keep the viewer hooked. However, the movie falls short when it looks into the emotions of the characters. The film may have been much better had it developed the emotional side more or completely cut it out, creating a strict action genre.Our story has Peter and Alice Bowman (David Morse and Meg Ryan). Peter is an engineer who has traveled to exotic places around the globe in pursuit of his dreams to help others create a better life. Throughout his travels, he has brought his hippie wife along and they are happy in a rich, fulfilling, globetrotting life. Their current project is to build a dam in Tecala (a thinly disguised Columbia) to stop the regular flooding, but Alice is feeling world weary. She wants to go home and start a family with Peter. She is equally unhappy about the fact that the money for dam project is coming from an oil company, that wants to get goodwill with the gov't to build a pipeline.The story takes off when Peter is caught in an ambush along with many other people on a major roadway by a guerrilla group. We soon learn that the group, once communist, is now only interested in the cashflow. The incoming cashflow comes from foreigner ransoms and cocaine. The oil pipeline threatens their cocaine operations, so when the group learns of Peter's affiliation with oil company he is not set free but kept for ransom.Enter Terry Thorne (Russell Crowe). He is an extremely professional negotiator, dealing with foreign hostage situations by terrorist groups. Alice is immediately comforted by his apparent understanding and knowledge of these situations.So the movie progresses along two story lines. 1. We see Peter's experience as a hostage. 2. We see Terry and Alice working on the other end to free Peter. Both story lines are clearly and intelligently written. Peter's character is fleshed out much more, as a kind, sensitive man, very much in love with his wife. We also see Terry's ironically successful attempts at negotiating.What works The intelligent story line of the negotiating process, based on the true stories of kidnappings in South America. Also Peter's life as a hostage is an intriguing dual story line to deal with. This story would have worked very well had Peter not been seen at all throughout the experience, but Peter would have remained one-dimensional and not given any richness to the story.What didn't work The emotions. Terry's backstory seemed all fluff and no substance. The movie may have been better if Terry had no story prior to entering the picture in regards to his family. Also, I almost had trouble seeing any romantic feeling between Terry and Alice. I only saw a true respect for each other in the on-going crisis. I think the film should have either 1. Pushed the attraction of Terry and Alice much more. or 2. Completely cleared it. I felt like going half-half did not succeed. Another problem I had with the story was Terry himself. I was quite impressed with Terry's negotiating skills and brains. Later, he dons camo and becomes super-soldier. He seemed to be too super-heroish and almost became unreal.  "},{"Title":"Over all,quite a good movie","Date":"2 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Proof of life is about a woman named Alice Bowman who is unwillingly living in South America because of her husbands work(Peter Bowman played by David Morse).One morning Alice wakes up to find that her husband has been kidnapped by anti-government guerrillas and they want a hefty fee for his ransom.Alice then hires Terry Thorne(Russell Crowe at his finest),an ex-soldier and negotiator.Terry's company collapses so Terry and his friend have to work together with Alice to save Peter and time is running out.There are alot of twists and turns in Proof of Life which is the best thing about this movie.It also has alot of great and not-over-the-top special effects.The start of the movie is very explosive with Terry saving another kidnapped victim.The reason why i gave this film a 7/10 is because of the acting,story(which stays very entertaining and never becomes too slow and boring) and the special effects and guns!(come on they were cool).Proof of Life didn't get any higher than 7/10(which is still a good rating) because of Meg Ryan and some lame dialogue.Meg Ryan and her sister-in-law in this movie are too over the top and annoying. Ryan should just keep on doing what she does best,which is romantic comedies(lol).She's only OK in this movie.Russell Crowe is just great in this movie.His character and storyline are very interesting.Lame and boring dialogue is another problem in Proof of Life(Alice-Things don't happen for a reason...they just happen).What crap.So overall,Proof of Life is quite a good movie and I would advise almost everyboDy to see this movie "},{"Title":"unexpectedly decent","Date":"30 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  this film wasn't bad at all - interesting subject matter - that of the kidnap and ransom industry. david morse does well as the kidnapped peter bowman andrussell crowe and meg ryan have a great yearning chemistry. the actionsequences are realistic and exciting. it's a pity this film didnt do well considering its not typical hollywood formulaic fare "},{"Title":"Crowe in action","Date":"30 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  David Morse plays an engineer who is kidnapped by guerillas in a fictional South American country. A K&R operative (kidnap and rescue, played by Crowe) is drafted in to assist negotiate his release, but he finds himself getting a little too close with his distraught wife (Ryan)That's pretty much it. There are a couple of sub-stories, such as Morse not being insured (which means that Crowe ends up working unpaid) and Morse being imprisoned with others who are also being held for ransom but the plot revolves very heavily around Crowe's negotiationsWhat starts slowly (but never dully) turns into a fine action finale as Crowe (and friends) decide to attack the camp where Morse and the others are held and effect their release. It's a little bit Rambo-esque and Crowe throws himself into the action man role with gusto but it's not OTT, despite being a little predictable "},{"Title":"Really enjoyed it!","Date":"3 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I was particularly interested to see Russell Crowe. He impressed me as an actor in Gladiator, and I know of his high esteem in Hollywood. Frankly, I was a littel disappointed. He seemed to be the same person in Proof of Life as he was in Gladiator, but in a different time, place and clothes. This, however, does not detract from the film itself - just brings the question to my mind how able RC is to portray varying characters.The film itself was a joy to watch. Colour, sound and direction were great. The scenery was breathtaking. The Director did not even fall into the trap of resorting to gratuitous sex and/or violence when dealing with subject matters which could easily have veered that way. The greatest compliment one could pay a film is that it could have been a bit longer. I felt that way when it ended.  "},{"Title":"Good performances, exciting end","Date":"26 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Proof of life may not be the greatest movie of Taylor Hackford (at least I think The Devil's advocate is even better than this) but it sure as hell is one of his best projects. It's also naturally not the most memorable film of Russell Crowe but he's still bloody wonderful. Meg Ryan is superb too but she's got a big problem if you ask me she's too cute, way, way too cute. Proof of life contains good roles from David's (both Morse and Caruso) but the nicest surprise was without a moment of doubt Gottfried John's spectacular performance as Mr. Kessler. He played the excellent villain in Goldeneye and he gave the face to César in Astérix et Obélix contre César but this time he really exceeded himself. All and all I have to say that Proof of life is truly a great film and after the slow start it grows up to be an extremely entertaining one. Especially the end is splendidly exciting. I say you should watch this one. "}{"Title":"Lots of action, yet disappointing in several areas","Date":"21 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Proof Of Life~ How else to completely describe it - Good AND Bad.  I feel that David Morse, cast as Peter Bowman, did a superb job in his character. He was able to bring that stern/silent way about him, out and break free into anger at times.  Meg Ryan was definitely not cast correctly in the character of Alice Bowman.  Her lustful affair with the Negotiator Terry Thorne (Russell Crowe) was unbelievable (although it lasted a whole 10 seconds).  I cannot imagine being so worried about the life of a kidnaped family member, and being sexually interested in the person trying to save their life.  The ending of this movie was also heart-wrenching, once Peter was rescued.  The ending could have been better... a more heartfelt greeting of her husband or something...Overall a good movie, but it could have been plotted a bit tighter.  "},{"Title":"I am surprised this film was not better received.","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I thought it was a good film.  I've watched it 3 times and like it more each time.  The love story between Meg Ryan and Russell Crowe's characters was very bittersweet- a wistful longing between two persons who come together by unexpected and difficult circumstances. Meg's character needs Russell Crowe, but he needs her too. He has a loneliness from his lifestyle or has created the lifestyle to avoid dealing with his loneliness. He tries to hold his feelings in check but struggles to do so.  And there was action, suspense and some humor as well.  "},{"Title":"I liked this film. Others hated it...that's the way life goes I suppose...","Date":"17 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is not Russell Crowe's best film by far, but he does well in what is a by the numbers film. Meg Ryan...can this woman get any wetter? she's just impossibly crap all the way through!! Her transition from loving wife to slight two-timer is just not believable...don't know if it's the script or just her acting!The real good reason to watch this film is Peter Bowman. He has the confidence in all his scenes that people would sell their soul for. He commands attention, and as the film progresses, he does actually strike a chord of sympathy with me, 'cause I know that Crowe is snogging his wife!!The pace is all over the place, and when Crowe and his army buds go to get Bowman, well, that's the only real decent part, and of course the ending is one hell of an anti-climax!I'm not gonna bitch and moan, but even though it doesn't read like a supportive review, trust me, I do like this film, I just wanted to highlight the many cons - Meg 'wet' Ryan.Crowe, Bowman, and the rescue operation sequence are the only things this film has to really keep it two notches above average - therefore, a 7/10 for this film.Enjoy! "},{"Title":"Great movie that explores ransom situations with more detail.","Date":"4 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Well-done acting from all cast.  More of a unique story.  Spoiled a little by Meg Ryan's wardrobe.  What on earth were they thinking?  I would suspect someone in her character's position wouldn't be thinking of being a fashion show. "},{"Title":"What was the big whoop?","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The furor over Russell Crowe and Meg Ryan's affair during the making of this film was much more interesting than watching it. As David Caruso's character says to Crowe, What do you think is going to happen here? After all, Meg Ryan can't very well run off with Russell while her poor husband David Morse is captured by Colombian rebels. The alleged ins and outs of the Kidnap & Rescue team are interesting, but not 2+ hours' worth. "},{"Title":"A nice way to spend 2 hours but nothing really special.","Date":"7 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Proof of life is a nice film with great actors. There are many positive things in the film. The actors are, in my opinion, great. Russell Crowe has already proven to be a great actor in such films as L.A. Confidential, The Insider and Gladiator. His deep voice and charismatic way of talking and being are awesome to watch. In this film his job is once again brilliant. In Proof of Life he plays Terry Thorne, Australian ex-SAS soldier who is now specialised in dealing with kidnapping & ransom- situations. What I kind of missed in his acting was a little more emotional depth but I guess it's due to the fact that his character is a soldier that there are no great emotions.We all know Meg Ryan from such films as When Harry met Sally or Sleepless in Seattle. Her role in this film is much different from those. She plays the wife of the kidnapped man. Although she does ok, I think that in my mind I have labled her as this romantic girl, so there was a part of me that thought she didn't quite fit into her role.All in all the story is ok but I thought it would have been better with some psychological side. The hostage camp would have been an ideal set for something like that but now it remained quite superficial. Nevertheless I think it's quite ok and if you like these kinds of movies then you should go and rent it. (8/10)  "},{"Title":"Undemanding rental","Date":"4 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The cast apparently grumbled at Hackford's obsession with authenticity, but I think his gamble pays off with some atmospheric location work. It's pretty right wing, though. An American is kidnapped by a Latin American militia and taken into the jungle. He is disgusted by the lack of mod-cons, mobile phone, DVD player etc. Don't they realise he's there to help them lead better lives? The ungrateful wretches! It's time for some serious over acting. Being an American of course, he is totally fearless and challenges their authority at every opportunity. How lucky he is to be given this opportunity to see poverty stricken peasants for the venal scum they truly are. They have bad manners as well. Literacy? Forget it. Where are all those junta death squads when you need them, eh? No soap AND he's expected to raise the village to the ground himself, the indignity. One particularly pathetic adversary of the poor put upon American is demoted to cleaning the pigs and vows revenge against the most important man in the universe. Hackford sets up his come-uppance with glee and obviously hopes the audience will stand and cheer when the American finally pulls the trigger on the unwashed vermin. Goodbye, pigfarmer, hello, unfeasibly large swimming pool? You'll have to see.Caruso makes a welcome return but you start to twiddle your thumbs before the 'big' climax. At the end of the day this is not dissimilar to one of those straight to video Dolph Lundgren flicks. I can see why Russel Crowe is such a ladies man, though. When he flashes that smile at the film's close, I rather felt like kidnapping him myself. "},{"Title":"captivating, worth a serious look","Date":"28 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I first saw this film on video just a few months ago.  I was surprised that it was as good as it was. I had heard so much negative about it that I decided it was time to form my own opinion.  It was a very well made film. The film was so interesting in its story line that it had me hooked from the first moment.Proof of Life is an interesting portrait of a woman on the brink of falling apart when her husband is kidnapped but shows incredible strength of character even in the worst of situations.  I was on the edge of my seat and totally impressed with Russell Crowe.  I had not seen him before, and prior to this film, didn't even know who he was.  I have seen most of his American films since then and I can honestly say he has to be one of the best actors to come down the pike in the past 10 years, what a incredible talent he is. Meg Ryan, as always, was superb she puts her personal best into every film, no matter what the role. David Morse was absolutely perfect, I remember him from his Dr. days on St. Elsewhere with another yet to be discovered talent, Denzel Washington.  I am glad I did not let all the hype influence me into not seeing this film.  "},{"Title":"English or Spanish film ?","Date":"28 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I rented the german VHS-video version the other day but assume the same comment applies to the original version.Half the film is in spanish and the keyscenes are in spanish. There were no subtitles and when you cannot speak spanish just forget this film. "},{"Title":"proof of love","Date":"27 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Call it cheap, call it stupid, call it standard, the movie stood stilland the plot goes untouched. Forget about the tabloid gossips, put aside any news and triviaand goofs, the movie is already prejudiced since the beginning.Taylor Hackford's proof of life goes beyond standard love stories.It's a story of belonging. An epic of dignity and decisions. And it'sworth thinking over.As Russel Crowe comforts us with his steady presence and acts,Meg Ryan's split decisions put us into a through tunnel ofresponsibility and love. Here we are, faced with an continuoushope of love from David Morse, and an obligation of love from MegRyan.On the other side, the soldiers try hard to stand on their own rulesof life, no love, no games, more money. David Caruso fits into thiscast, as Russel Crowe pose as a modern gladiator helps us tojustify all his reasons and acts. including the strange reasonwhich makes him eager to help solving this hostage case.The action and drama are presented equally, the adventure andromance plotted side by side. But the honour comes in the closingacts, as dignity and manhood puts all to it's conclusion.After all, masculinity are not always about war and muscle, butalso responsibility and dignity, and love means believing that theones you love is in true happiness and not simply by ownership.That's the true proof of love.An all-time entertainment... "}{"Title":"Good acting, poor directing","Date":"23 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Russel Crowe´s follow-up to Gladiator is marketed as an action-movie, but turns out to be a rather slow kidnaping-drama, with some action in the end. This way, Proof of Life loses valuable points from me from the very beginning.The story circulates around three people, Terry Thorne (an expert with kidnaping-situations), Peter Bowman (an engineer who is kidnaped by the guerilla while visiting South Africa) and Alice Bowman (Peter´s wife, she hires Thorne to save her kidnaped husband). And while Peter is sitting high up in the mountains waiting to be rescued, Terry and Alicia falls in love...The problem with Proof of Life is that there are only some parts of it that are interesting, and those are up in the beautiful mountains when Peter is being moved from place to place by the terrorists, and in the last ten minutes, when Terry and his team are going to save him. But all the other stuff is slow and uninteresting. The love story is tasteless and silly and should have been skipped from the beginning. The movie has three very talented actors in the leading roles, but one of them (Meg Ryan) is just being irritating and not very helpful at all. But David Morse (Peter) and Russel Crowe (Terry) are excellent. David Morse proves why he is being considered as one of the best supporting actors Hollywood has to offer, and Russel Crowe is totally believable as the negotiator. The man, simply, is a star. But an actiondrama that doesn´t please neither the action-fans or those who enjoy dramas, doesn´t feel that appealing. An okay film to watch at home when it´s raining outside, but it was NOT fun to see it at the cinema, like I did. * * ½  "},{"Title":"rubbish","Date":"1 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  with this film taking over 2 hours and meg ryan in it meant that this film already had the axe on it. it started well with the war scene in russia but once meg ryan & her moaning arrived i pressed the fast forward button. David morse looked like he was uncomfortable around ryan which was to be expected because she never shut up crying around him. The money negiotations in the middle of the film were lame & went nowhere in the end. The only good point about the film was David caruso who always looks mean & cranky. The ambush scene at the end was excellent made even better that meg ryan didn't appear. the script though was patchy & for the first 30 minutes could have sent anyone asleep and it did the trick for me. a rating for this   4 "},{"Title":"Faltering credibility detracts from workable plot.","Date":"29 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  There are some merits to the story. For instance, it is commendable to produce a yarn revolving around a frequent enough movie occurrence (a hostage  situation) leaving 3-4 main line options open for plot development at a late stage. However, you would assume that the script or director would possess some faint awareness of how people basically and inevitably react in unexpected situations involving for instance the reported but unconfimed loss of somebody near and dear.  Acceptance of death of your recently very much unseen spouse, when claimed on a basis of circumstantial evidence is extremely far less probable than the ever common absolute denial in the face of even  obvious alternative disaster. Incidentally would you pursue an expensive and obviously parasuicidal FOC charge to save the stranger husband of your recently established object of love for no clearly implied reason? Particularly so if and when this requires you to forget about what might yet be salvaged regarding your clearly stated cherished relation to your own son... Overall this is the kind of film that will have to rely upon execution speedy enough to make (psycho-)logical flaws unnoticeable. It did not quite succeed this time. Still, we are left with decent entertainment including a slightly new angle to the (main) subject. We may well choose to enjoy this as an actionish movie with humanitarian overtones. Given the appropriate mood, I figure this may provide us with some escapist (and hence worthwhile) qualities as some proof of life. "},{"Title":"Kiss me Russ","Date":"16 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I liked this movie a lot. It definitely held my interest. I thought Meg Ryan was her usual good self, but she looks a little roadhard. Looks like her personal life is catching up with her. Someone advise her to have a nap or something. Russell Crowe was deliciously good in his role. The more I see him the more I like him. He is really starting to turn my head. Rent this for yourself.  "},{"Title":"Russell - excellent; Meg - could do better","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  After all the hype when the movie was released about the affair between Russell and Meg, the tizzy that Taylor Hackford apparently got into over it and the 'hot' scene that only made it to the cutting room, floor, now we can have a properly dispassionate look.As always Russell is excellent, the thinking woman's Sylvester Stallone as someone put it not untruthfully although for diehard fans like me it was hard to have to wait till two-thirds of the way through for him to get his shirt off and show us those gorgeous hunky shoulders.No I'm afraid Meg isn't going to make it as a 'serious' actress - apparently what she wants to do - if this is anything to go by. By the time she had re-applied her pink lipgloss for the hundredth time and wrung her little hands yet again, I wanted to yell Stick to being Doris Day for the modern generation! because that is where her particular talents lie I'm afraid.The story is gripping, the direction taut and David Morse was sympathetic as the kidnap victim. Glorious scenery. See it. "},{"Title":"Impressed me more than I thought!","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  When this movie first came out I was reluctant to see it because of all the negative publicity regarding Meg and Russel's relationship.But seeing it in the video store, I made a grab for it and was impressed.Hearing Russell Crowe back in his Australian accent was a huge thrill for one, and his small jokes ie What does a British general's daughter do to get back at Daddy? Marry an Australian were served with a natural self-depreciating humourI found Meg Ryan's performance a bit sketchy, but as I'm not a true fan of her's I don't pretend to say it didn't measure up to any of her other works.Peter Morse seemed quite convincing to me, although the way he provoked his kidnappers at some times seemed a bit weird.Australian by birth, it was a nice change to hear several different accents over the movie instead of the standard all-American or all-British, and the fact that this movie was designed and cast to handle this was refreshing.Probably one of the best 'real' movies I've seen. Well done to the cast and crew, especially those who had to work so hard up in the forest. "},{"Title":"Crowe can't save this ponderous screenplay","Date":"12 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Any action adventure film starring Russell Crowe has a head start coming out of the gate.  Unfortunately the film is hamstrung by a weak screenplay, vapid dialogue and mediocre performances by the some of the cast.Director Taylor Hackford (`Officer and a Gentleman', `Devil's Advocate') has difficulty keeping the story interesting, and other than Crowe and Caruso, he is unable to get the cast revved.  We are not given enough reason to care about Peter Bowman's (David Morse) rescue for two reasons Bowman is not a particularly attractive character and Alice Bowman (Meg Ryan) seems to clearly dislike her husband.  This leaves the viewer with the hope that Bowman gets shredded for being a smart aleck so Terry (Russell Crowe) can run off with Alice.  Of course, that would leave Crowe without a search and rescue mission and there isn't much point having him in the film without the commando scenes.  So the story just limps along without much verve, toward an ending that is predestined to be unfulfilling due to the screenplay's flawed design.Hackford is successful at creating some very effective suspense, but digresses into useless character development of the terrorists (who everyone knows will be bullet magnets by the end of the film).  Many of the scenes with Bowman and the terrorists are laughable.  I couldn't count the times that he provoked them to the point that any reasonable terrorist would have riddled him with bullets and moved on to another ransom deal.The acting falls into two categories, excellent and mediocre.  In the excellent category we have Crowe and Caruso.  Russell Crowe keeps getting better at playing the tough guy with a heart.  He single handedly keeps this film from imploding under the weight of the ponderous script.  He comes across as smart, tough and sympathetic, which is a tricky combination to pull off.  David Caruso delivers the hard as nails character for which he is famous, which is exactly perfect for his role in this film.And then there is Meg Ryan.  Ryan is really out of her element playing a straight dramatic role like this.  She doesn't seem to take her character seriously.  She plays her cavalierly, more like a spoiled brat than a woman buckling under the pressure of a six month hostage ordeal.  It is hard to believe that she actually dated Russell Crowe given the complete lack of chemistry they display on the screen.  Ryan is a fabulous actor in the right role, namely romantic comedy.  She is naturally breezy and lovable, characteristics that impede her from succeeding in more serious roles.  She is miscast here, pure and simple.David Morse gives an uneven performance as Bowman, which is powerful at times and wooden at others.  Morse is good in the tough guy scenes, but falters in scenes that require any depth or range outside that type.  His acting is one dimensional and his character needs more complexity than he is able to deliver.  Pamela Reed is abrasive and obnoxious as Bowman's sister.  Her part is superfluous to begin with and Reed makes the film seem longer every time she has a line.Overall, this film is a disappointment except as a showcase for Crowe, whose stock keeps rising with each new film.  I rated it a 6/10.  It's not a total waste, but it could have been much better. "},{"Title":"Lame","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  That's the word for it. This movie plods along at a slug's pace for almost two hours. Then in the dramatic conclusion we are treated to a commando raid that doesn't even measure up to Predator.The rest of the movie was just as much a let down as the finale. Meg was flat & lifeless. And although I like David Morse he had little if anything to work with. David Caruso always plays the same character. And as for Russell, well I haven't liked him since The Quick & the Dead so no comment.What did I see on the main details page? 6.6 out of 10? Generous indeed.Even my girlfriend walked out on this one and she loves Russell. A waste. "},{"Title":"Don't expect so much and you will enjoy this","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I am a bit puzzled by the severity of the negative criticism this film has drawn.  Hey, it wasn't meant to be Hamlet, or even Gladiator.  It has its drawbacks --I'll weigh in with mine in a minute-- but I think maybe some fans were expecting something that the movie never pretended to deliver.  As for my views, OK, here goes I found the kidnap part ot the plot very believable.  I first got interested in K & R from a Dick Francis thriller The Danger and read up on it after that.  There was nothing unbelievable here. I though Crowe was just fine -- he gave as good a reading of Terry's lines as you're apt to get, and his considerable magnetism and presence were just what the take-charge role demanded. I confess to being disappointed in Meg Ryan, whom I greatly admire, because she was so splendid in When a Man Loves... and she is certainly capable of rising to the demands of a dramatic role.  Maybe the lines just weren't there, or maybe she was poorly directed. I think the supporting roles played by David Morse, David Caruso, and Pamela Reed in the thankless role of the sister were as fine as I've seen in the same film in a long time. My quibbles?  In Meg's place I would have been hysterical with grief, whereas Meg was mostly querulous and/or sarcastic. Her hair was a joke.  Messy and tousled is OK when you wake up in the morning, but why was it so carefully arranged in precisely the same hair un-do in every scene. POSSIBLE SPOILER Why was there so little enthusiasm in the final reconciliation scene?  The script has built us up to expect thatat least Morse can scarcely living without Meg.  So, his lines are basically Well, we made it.  That' inconsistent with earlier dialog. Last, that horrible song at the end was too jarring for words, did not match the mood, and ruined the last moments.  The singersounded like a singer in great pain who has just been goosed. But I still found it to be a diverting and entertaining flick. Why was there so little enthusiasm in the reconciliation scene  "},{"Title":"correction","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Message to yoursay.imbd I just submitted a comment that I was unable to correct.  My back button would not take me back to my comment, so I had to submit it as it was.  Could you please delete the repetitious phrase that appears disjointedly at the very end?  Thanks "}{"Title":"Enough of Russ for my wife but not enough Meg for me.","Date":"5 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Weak plot line between Russ and Meg and I couldn't help but think that I was watching a modern-day Maximus in action.  Average action but not very good plot development of the story line.  This was a disappointment though the evening wasn't a total loss as it was moderately entertaining. "},{"Title":"I Truly Loved This Movie!","Date":"27 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I am truly very late seeing this wonderful movie. I am hooked on Meg Ryan from a long time ago, but Russell Crowe(wow!) is truly starting to grow on me!  He is just so believable in this movie.  He is so charismatic, and being allowed to speak in his own native tongue Australian just added so much more flavor to this movie.  What a wonderful chemistry the both of them had in this movie! I am truly sorry that this movie did not do better at the theater, however it is coming to pay per view very soon, and the dvd and vhs will I am sure do  very well. The director of this film did wonderful things with this movie. I hope to see Russell Crowe and Meg Ryan again in another movie, as I am certain they will be together again. I await the sale of the vhs, as I am going to buy it as soon as it becomes available. I am not into the personal lives of actors and actresses, but I am a movie buff and this one I just could see again, and again!Peace to all Sandy "},{"Title":"Top Notch Thriller.","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Good thrillers seem to be too few and far between but Proof Of Life is more than a good Thriller it is brilliant. Meg Ryan and Russel Crow star in this very entertaining film which i find impossible to critisise. The story is exciting, the acting is high class (i dont normally like Meg Ryan but she is great in this) and it is filmed superbly. Although over two hours long this film flies by because of the gripping storyline and constant action.  Without a doubt one of the best thrillers i have seen in a long while. Dont miss it!! 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"russell crowe; perfect...meg ryan; less than","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"    I went into this movie with very low expectations. I was pleasantly surprised by the performance of russell crowe....he is  ridiculously perfect considering what he had to work with here; a pretty lame and transparent script in addition to david caruso's compulsive over acting in a feeble  attempt to steal every scene. I was not surprised by the mediocrity displayed by meg ryan. I felt like she could have phoned in her lines and they would have been more believable.  Anyway, over all a very entertaining film and some awesome scenery. Also, Russel Crowe gets extra points for pretty cool kiss toward the end. B+ "},{"Title":"It's not that bad.","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Proof Of Life has been pretty coldly received, but it really is a pretty cool movie. An action movie at its core, it moves slowly between the fighting scenes so that a plot can be developed, and it does this without being boring.The acting is well-done by all of the major characters. Particularly by Crowe who plays a low-key hostage negotiator named Terry Thorne. Thorne is a great action hero, quiet and confident(basically an Australian version of James Bond). I must admit Meg Ryan did a great job as the wife of the kidnapped Peter Bowman, but it's just hard to see her in anything but a romantic comedy. Also worth mentioning is Thorne's fellow hostage rescuer Dino, played by David Caruso, who adds a lot to the sweet ending finale fight.Proof Of Life has in it one of the coolist action scenes I've seen in a long time. If only it lasted longer...and had more of them. Although a lot of people didn't like the ending, I thought it was great. There's nothing wrong with realism... This would make a great series, bring in a new hot chick every time, I can see it! (Catherine Zeta Jones anyone?) "},{"Title":"Good Suspenseful Movie!","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Good Suspenseful Movie! This is a suspenseful movie that Meg and Russell were the hook to bring the audience in. Without Meg and Russell in the movie, the movie wold probably be a guy type of movie about the guerillas in South America, which as a matter of fact, reminded a lot of those movies about Vietnam.  Meg was the one who draw me to watch the movie because I like her.  I could care less about a movie about kidnaping and the guerillas in South America. A good suspenseful movie, which I recommend, but don't rent it thinking that it is about an adulterous relationship between Alice and Terry. It is a story about a man who got kidnaped because of the friction between  multinationals and the local government, that when push turns to shove he is left in a foreign country, without help; without any support from the very same company that had hired her him, nor any help from the U.S. government to rescue her kidnaped husband. Terry is the hero who does all those neat man like things to rescue the kidnaped man!  "},{"Title":"Domination culture = good guys, bad guys, death and pain for all","Date":"6 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Our entertainment reflects our consciousness.  What is Proof of Life about?  It's about how a culture based on the value of domination results in nothing buy needless pain and death.  Domination creates rich and poor, good and bad.  Domination uses violence and fear as its main means of wielding power.  It shuns partnership and nurturing.  Domination also creates the image of man as warrior and woman as sensitive crier.  It creates these gender roles and then makes people believe they are in-born, biological.  In Proof of Life, we get another Hollywood gem supporting this whole damaging domination paradigm.  Russell Crowe is the good guy cowboy warrior man and Meg Ryan is the sensitive crying girly-voiced woman.  The anti-government rebels and rich oil men are the bad guys.  The European Anglos and those who work with them are the good guys.  Violence and pain are used to accomplish everything.  Violence and pain fuel the plot foward, just like they fuel real life forward in our world which is still based on these patriarchal values.  Proof is Life is proof that domination culture is still very much of a part of our consciousness.  If we can go beyond that paradigm films like this will just disappear into the wind.   "},{"Title":"Lots of suspense and action","Date":"4 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A good tough guy movie. I liked it because I think Crow makes out to be the next tough guy on the block in the movies. You get sick of Sly and Arnold all the time. His accent also adds to his character. This movie  had suspense all the way through it. This is a must for Crow supporters. "},{"Title":"It's Still The Same Old Story -- Great Play it again, Sam movie!","Date":"1 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is a thriller and somewhat of a horror movie (war horrors) but most of all it is a great LOVE STORY! Very good discretion! Good acting throughout. Keeps you on a limb for a while. The ending -- I don't want to give it away, but those who remember the 40's will chuckle and smile. There are the 2 men, the friend, the airport, the woman. Only the song is missing. Worth a re-watch! "},{"Title":"Suspenseful, intriguing, and inspiring","Date":"30 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I wasn't quite sure what my opinion of this movie was until I watched it all the way through, but after taking it in I was quite impressed.  It seemed to have been given far less credit than deserved...Russell Crowe, as always, is excellent, as is Meg Ryan.  The story is, in most places, fast-paced and unpredictable (I'm sure some people will disagree).  I was also very impressed with the explication of Russell Crowe's character; it's nice to see a film where a character acts simply out of caring for someone else without any selfish motivations.  Hats off to this one. "}{"Title":"What the detractors said!","Date":"27 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I apologize to those who admired this film, but the detractors have much the stronger case. I agree that Meg Ryan was mediocre, in part because she was given too little to do besides smoke. I agree that the love story that was supposed to be at the center of the film never gelled. I agree that the Ecuadorian scenery and cinematography were terrific. Indeed, I enjoyed the closing credits and Van Morrison most of all the cassette.I found myself ticking off elements of the story that I'd seen done better The Negotiator was more taut; Someone to Watch Over Me was a modest film with a better love story; The Bodyguard was about as predictable and stale; Commando and Predator had comparable action; I think I even liked Ransom better.The situation was intriguing. I wanted to learn more about kidnapping and ransom negotiation. The characters themselves -- with the singular exception of Peter (David Morse) -- were of no interest to me.Sorry. "},{"Title":"Proof that GOOD movies still exist!","Date":"22 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I dont know what no brainer action flick was playing at the time this intelligent, well directed and well written movie was released, but sadly this didnt do good at the box office..and there is no reason for it. Once again, Director Taylor Hackford has crafted a suspenseful film; this time based on hostages & negotiation. This movie will hold your interest til the end. Russell Crowe is great and so is Meg Ryan. Id suggest (strongly) not to listen to the negatives that others post...This one is a definate purchase on DVD! "},{"Title":"surprisingly good","Date":"22 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  OK, this is hardly destined for classic status, but it's a far better film than I expected when I picked it up on home video out of curiosity, drawn by the stars and the story line. I am fussy and hard to please, and I was surprised to find an engrossing and fast-paced adventure story with decent acting, a good plot line, brisk pacing and some good action scenes. I am starting to become a fan of Russel Crowe; David Caruso also puts in a good bit. This isn't The Thomas Crown Affair (i.e., the original) but altogether it's a decent evening's entertainment. "},{"Title":"A good movie - great acting","Date":"12 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Good actors - especially Russell Crowe. Good suspense. Interesting change of pace during the various parts of the movie - including the war movie part in the end. Certainly worth seeing a cut above most new movies in the last 6 months. A fair sense of reality and it could happen to you. "},{"Title":"Great Idea, Great Movie, Typical Ending","Date":"29 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I saw Proof of Life on an airplane, so I saw an edited version. But I still say it was a very good movie. I love the idea of what happened in the movie, and I love how they did it. The only strange part was the ending, it was very typical and what you expected, but the last scene was very strange. I still say it was a very good movie, and you should see it. "},{"Title":"Better than average","Date":"18 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Not very revolutionary, but still very good action-drama with some really great performances by all three leads - but especially Meg Ryan pulling off what must be one of her best achievements ever. The story is fairly new, the basics are not - but it still manages to not only keep afloat but actually grows to something of a calm, believable and very natural action flick. Most characters are so real they seem picked straight from reality - and considering the inspirational sources for the film, they just might be. Apart from Meg Ryan and David Morse, Russel Crowe is something of a haunting presence on the screen. Calm and very, very down-to-earth, he is one of the most impressive heros I've ever seen.What this movie lacks in meaning it makes up for with great characters, great performances, a very good story and some nailbiting sequences. It's a good action-drama yarn, no more, no less. Better than the average film. "},{"Title":"Great Movie. Definatly worth seeing!","Date":"14 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this movie on a flight from Newark to Gatwick, and really enjoyed it. At first, I wasn't going to watch it, as I had no idea what it was about. I watched it on the second showing of the flight, and wished that I had seen it sooner. It is absolutely brilliant!. Russell Crowe is superb as Terry Thorne, an ex-SAS soldier who now works for K&R (Kidnap & Ransom), and what can I say about Meg Ryan? She was brilliant as usual!. The rescue scenes are well done, and Crowe is believable as the hero. It is a routine thriller, but well worth seeing. It is going to be added to my DVD collection when it is released! 10/10 "},{"Title":"GREAT MOVIE!!!","Date":"11 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I really think that this is a great movie, I can´t believe how people didn´t like it as I did. I believe that Crowe is a fantastic actor and Ryan is a great actress.  The only thing that I didn´t like it is that Crowe didn´t get the girl, but I think it was a realistic ending of the movie and Crowe performance was AMAZING!!.  PLEASE WATCH THIS MOVIE IT¨S AWERSOME!!!. "},{"Title":"a nice twist on the run-of-the-mill kidnap movie","Date":"8 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I thought that this was a nice interpretation of the run-of-the-mill kidnap movie.  As a viewer, I was not left smiling and feeling warm and fuzzy inside at the end of the movie.  I was left still thinking about the characters and what the future would hold for them.  I have not seen _Gladiator_ - just rented it on the way home from watching _Proof of Life_ Maybe we have another Russell Crowe fan in the making??? "},{"Title":"much better than I thought","Date":"30 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  That's an in a pleasant way old-fashioned Hollywood-movie.The only thing I didn't like - there's nothing about the obscure role the U.S.-government plays by financing the so called 'Plan Colombia' that is supposed to fight the cocain-production, and has severe outcomes of which especially the bordering Ecuador (where the film is shot) is suffering from (refugees, invasion of 'narcotraficantes' and criminals, economical breakdown, and a bunch of related problems).  "}{"Title":"Action, romance... everything that a good movie needs!","Date":"24 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I saw Proof of life with my friend and I can say that we really liked it. One of the best parts was the end. I couldn't decide was the end sad or happy... on the other hand it was happy but on the other... Maybe everyone can decide themselves. I really recommend! "},{"Title":"Slow moving thriller","Date":"21 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  STAR RATING*****Unmissable****Very Good***Okay**You Could Go Out For A Meal Instead*Avoid At All CostsMan-of-the-moment Russell Crowe carries on from the excellent,award nominated Gladiator with this disappointing new action film,a term that's kind of used loosely.For this film consists more thouroughly of lots of slumbering talk and motionless direction from Taylor Hackford,who directed the Stephen King adaptation Dolores Claiborne which says a lot.The film is painfully slow moving in it's conveyance,drifting off without any coherent structure.Meg Ryan gets kind of dirty using explicit swear words in parts,but from this,it's blatently apparant her place remains in romantic comedy films.Her performance here is of a shrilly,over-worked nature.On the plus side,the photography and visual scope are invigorating,Crowe remains a top ranking star,and the action powerfully heats up at the end,but overall ,it's a pretty life-less experience.** "},{"Title":"Views are fine, acting OK but story is too stereotypical.","Date":"10 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I live in Ecuador and am aware of the regional reality, involving Colombia, Peru...Also, more and more people travel to this part of the world and are familiar with the reality.The scenes describing the guerrilla were too caricatural and reductionist. Guerrilla movements in Latin America are products of the countries' centuries of social injustice. Many guerrilleros are well educated people and do not necessarily curse all day long. They do not all have Indian features as opposed to the non guerrilleros living in the city.The film contains action and no message at all. It would have been more interesting to take some distance from the banana republic myth, which was meaningful 30 years ago, and to explore some of the more sophisticated and realistic parts of the guerrilleros, away from the simplistic good and evil scheme. As it stands, the film has little impact and lost a golden opportunity to address through the fiction  important aspects of today's reality in some developing countries.  "},{"Title":"Just don't see this film. Please...","Date":"6 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I'm one for artistic films, and films that are different. Pictures that others in my age group (18-25) may find boring and at odds with, I love. But Proof Of Life really is a dull, someone-shoot-me-in-the-head, drawn out feature. And to those who don't know me will assume that I'm saying that because I'm a product of American cinema looking for sex, nudity, and drugs.I went into the film blind, not knowing any more than Russell Crowe and Meg Ryan were top billing. Sure, I realize hostage negotiating is a drawn out ordeal, but the movie took it to the tenth degree. It clocks in at two hours and fifteen minutes. I don't mind long films. But there has to be enough story to carry it for that long! Proof Of Life didn't have it. A hostage negotiator comes in, negotiates, then gives everything up to take the hostage using force. Simple as that. Crowe drives here and drives there, and talks with this person and that person. A big waste of time. It all could have been done in ninety minutes.And Meg Ryan might as well have been replaced with a hatstand. She played a weak, often braless, wife that had nothing to do with the main plot of hostage negotiating. She got top billing for that? Meg Ryan is, loosely speaking, a good actress, and her talents were basically wasted here.During the last half hour, I could not stop laughing, because of the amounts of film they could have chopped out and still had a watchable movie. The only good thing I could take solace in, is that we were at a cheap-o theater, and only paid $2.50CAD to see it. Let's put it this way, the film took so much out of my viewing companion and I that we had no patience to go and see Vertical Limit showing immediately after.Whether that's a blessing in disguise or not is a different story.Bottom line here is one of boredom. Proof Of Life seemed to get lost in the Christmas Movie Rush of '00. And a good thing too. Saved quite a few people from getting mighty angry. Looks  like for once the masses picked which ones would float, and which would sink. And Proof Of Life was rightfully deep-sixed! "},{"Title":"CASABLANCA IN THE JUNGLE","Date":"21 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  If you like Casablanca, see this movie.  If you like Russell Crowe (the man is a GOD) , see this movie.  If you like Meg Ryan's romantic comedies, don't bother, because a romantic comedy this ain't.  As a matter of fact, I normally despise Meg Ryan and everything she's been in, but I liked her in this movie.  I thought that she did a realistic job as a wife on the verge of separation who suddenly finds out her husband could be killed at any time.  I also loved Russell Crowe as the man who realizes his conscience is more important than money, and that sometimes you just have to give up certain things.  10 out of 10! "},{"Title":"Forced romantic sub-plot, mis-casting kills Life","Date":"3 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** Why does every movie have to have a romantic sub-plot?  Can't some writers/directors concede to the fact that some stories work perfectly well on their own without having to force an awkward first kiss between the two leads?  Lately, it doesn't seem that way.  The Grinch would be an example, as well as Taylor Hackford's latest thriller, Proof Of Life, a sometimes compelling story with two of the biggest actors working today, one mis-cast, the other right at home.Proof starts off with Terry Thorne (Russell Crowe) describing his methods for freeing a man from hostages, as we watch it happen.  Meanwhile, in Latin America, Peter Bowman (David Morse), an engineer, gets kidnapped by anti-government terrorists.  His wife, Alice (Meg Ryan), and his sister, Janis (the annoying Pamela Reed), tries to enlist the help of a hostage negotiator.  Terry Thorne arrives, but since he works as a freelancer, the insurance will not cover it.Terry, not one to give up on a case due to a technicality, returns to find Alice has crackpot negotiators trying to convince her to pay over $600,000 to the terrorists.  Thorne and his team (one of them played by David Caruso) chase the bad-guy negotiators out and proceed to do in their way.  But first, they tell Janis to go home to her husband and kids, so as not to get in the way of the movie's plot.Morse's scenes as a kidnapping victim has little going for it on the originality scale.  He tries to get one of the kidnapper's relatives to help him, but to no avail.  He meets another victim who has been in their clutches for over nine months.  They try and help each other out by making escape attempts, but they don't quite go according to plan. I liked the scenes involving Morse's kidnapping and torture, not so much for the mostly-subtitled and stilted dialogue, but for the atmosphere.  The fields and mountains look ugly, muddy and grim, making an interesting contrast to the same location in a beautiful picture-postcard wide shot.The first problem with the film has to do with the casting of Meg Ryan. Over the years we have grown used to her as Nora Ephron's romantic-comedy voice-box.  Occasionally, Ryan turns up in a dramatic role that does suit her (When A Man Loves A Woman, Courage Under Fire), but here I just didn't buy it.  This may seem shallow, but I think a lot of it has to do with the fact that she has not changed her look since 1995's French Kiss.  Imagine Harrison Ford playing his role in The Mosquito Coast while still wearing the Indiana Jones get-up.  She just didn't convince me, but that also has a lot to do with Hackford's direction.  What does Meg Ryan do the night her husband has been kidnapped?  She makes a salad!Russell Crowe, on the other hand, does okay.  He plays it cool, but without being smarmy.  His character has been doing this job for years at the expense of his wife and kids.  He tries to keep an emotional distance, but finds it difficult since most of the job entails human suffering on both sides of the spectrum.  Even in the film's Rambo-esque 3rd act, Crowe keeps his character balanced, almost stoic.  In another movie, he would make a perfect strong-silent-type/romantic lead.I would like to have seen a complete scene in which Crowe demonstrates his ability to haggle with the terrorists.  Instead, Hackford uses two or three montage sequences, in which we watch Crowe babble into a microphone while Ryan watches admirably.  We only get glimpses of how good a job this guy does, but we get very little as to why Ryan falls for him, and vice versa for Crowe's affections toward her.I also liked the film's ending, however forced its build-up had been. In the end, the guy does not get the girl since, obviously, Ryan and Morse have been waiting two months to embrace each other.  I like it only because too many movies these days feel it necessary to complicate these matters even further in order to arrive at a `satisfactory' ending.  I also like it because we only have Crowe's contemplating facial expressions to bring the movie home, rather than a few lines of superfluous dialogue.Much has been said about the real-life relationship between Ryan and Crowe, and whether or not their off-screen chemistry will resonate on screen.  I have to say it does not.  The main problem with the film has to do with the relationship between these two characters.  It would be much more convincing had the writers built up to a deep friendship, as well as letting the scenes between the two linger a bit longer.  Many of the scenes feel rushed. At the screening I attended, one could feel the collective sense of O-Puh-lease! amongst the audience when they finally did kiss. Writers/directors will hopefully take that as hint to leave romance to the romantics.  "},{"Title":"No Sign of Life in the Russell Crowe & Meg Ryan Romance","Date":"28 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Hostage retrieval expert Russell Crowe (as Terry Thorne) is recruited to retrieve the South American businessman husband of Meg Ryan (as Alice Bowman). The Marxist rebel kidnapping coke-heads want an impossible to obtain $3,000,000 for the safe return of K&R (it means Kidnap and Ransom) victim David Morse (as Peter Bowman). The Proof of Life title refers to a picture taken of the victim; with a currently dated newspaper, it proves he is alive when ransom is demanded.For some reason, Ms. Ryan pretends to smoke cigarettes; either it's an attempt to convey her character's frayed nerves, or Ryan is trying to send kiss me smoke signals to Mr. Crowe. In one scene, supporting actor David Caruso (as Dino) acts well enough to let the viewer know something is going on between the Crowe and Ryan, who underplay their romantic attraction to the point of lethargy. Some of the location scenery is very beautiful, but the film is disappointingly dull.**** Proof of Life (2000) Taylor Hackford ~ Russell Crowe, Meg Ryan, David Morse "},{"Title":"I'll need more proof...","Date":"28 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  In this movie, Russell Crowe is a crackerjack hostage negotiator and Meg Ryan's the typical victimized female. Before I saw this movie, I had visions of Meg Ryan, America's Sweetheart, being kidnapped by terrorists bent on depriving the world of primo coffee. Sadly, though, Meg's not kidnapped. That honor goes to her onscreen hubby, Peter (David Morse), who's working on building a dam (under the direction of the usual Evil Oil Company) somewhere in South America. Local rebels blockade a road and pick up David, and after learning he works for a rich American company, take him hostage.Crowe's Terry is called in to talk to the bad guys. He's had a lot of practice doing this, just as Crowe's had a lot of practice playing steely, stoic guys who Do the Right Thing all the time. And just as Ryan's had a lot of practice playing cutie pies. During filming of this movie the two stars had an affair. Remember? I was on the edge of my seat for several minutes as I waited for the next engrossing episode of Meg n' Russ. But I digress.While Peter's held captive, he's tortured a little. He's deprived of food, water, etc. Oh, and he's mocked incessantly in Spanish by the Number One Bad Guy. I almost expected the Number One Bad Guy to reveal his evil plans, but I was disappointed on that front. But the torture Peter suffers is nothing compared to the endurance required for the viewer to watch Crowe and Ryan attempt to act. Movies like this only prove that Meg Ryan is incapable of acting in movies that do not showcase her cute image. Put her in Sleepless in Seattle, and the country falls in love with her. Put her in a movie with a more serious plot, and she's just ballast.Added to Ryan's incapabilities was the one-note performance by Pamela Reed as Peter's sister. I can't blame Reed entirely for her abrasive performance, however; like that of Lorraine Bracco in Medicine Man, the annoying aspect of the character comes at least as much from the screenwriters as it does from the rather constipated performance.Back in the early 1980s, the movie Missing covered some of the same territory, although without a negotiator. In it, Jack Lemmon and Sissy Spacek search for their son and husband (respectively) who is feared to be kidnapped. The characters have never liked each other, being polar opposites on many issues. Yes, their characters found a way to work together to reach the same goal, but it wasn't a clean, perfect working relationship, either. The characters grew during the course of the film. That's good writing. Here, the predictable happens, some of it terribly ludicrous. Here are some facts Peter is in captivity for over 120 days (as evidenced by messages of 120 days and such on screen). Ryan's Alice tries any way possible to get him back (her husband's company won't help, with no kidnapping insurance!), and eventually settles for Crowe (why is it that the hero is always The Last Hope?). But even though Alice wants Peter back.... Well, I won't give anything away, but let's say her actions are not congruent with that logic at all.While Terry is stoic and an all-around get-the-job-done kind of guy, he's not terribly exciting, either. Sure, you argue, but he doesn't have to be. He's so cool that he can just sit back and think things through. But hey, this guy never even raises his voice, let alone lose his temper. Which is great if you're looking for a methodical accountant, but an action hero? And don't tell me he's not supposed to be an action hero - stuff gets blown up. That not only screams action movie to me, it wears an action movie hat with a t-shirt that says Kiss me, I'm an action movie. Let's not pussyfoot around here, folks. This is an action movie with a librarian as its hero.Oh, you say, but it's ok. He just looks so damn fine! I don't care about his actions, I just wanna see that smouldering hunka hunka burning love! Oh, he smoulders, all right. But you know those forest fires that burn below the ground, where you only see smoke coming from the earth? He's like that. And you know what? I'll look at those fires on The Weather Channel, then quickly pass on by. Smoke is smoke, but flames are an interesting thing to watch.This is a junky film. But I will say this - David Caruso, late of NYPD Blue and a failed movie career, is aces as Terry's comrade in arms, Dino. Way to go, David! But everyone else? Ick. Hope they don't need to put this on a resume.  "},{"Title":"The worst movie of recent memory","Date":"3 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I paid money for this movie and by the end my friends were checking me for proof of life. I couldn't believe what I was watching. Crowe is a really good actor and why he chose to star in this terrible film is beyond me.Anyone who knows ANYTHING about professional soliders knows that they do not jump around and clap and the end of a firefight like Caruso did at the end of the film. Men were dead, real soliders take this very seriously. Not only that, whoever this crew used for a military advisor doesn't know the first thing about tactics. If you are making a film about professionals, they should fight like them.The love triangle did not work at all. I read that they were trying to duplicate the love triangle from Casablanca. Well, they failed completely. No chemistry existed between Crowe and Ryan. The shots looked thrown together and they did not gel well at all.One good thing about this film was the locations that they shot the film in. The scenery was beautiful. It is too bad that the rest of film didn't come close to landscape around it.At the end of this trash I not only wanted my money back, I wanted the two hours of my life back I wasted watching it. "},{"Title":"Trite.","Date":"6 December 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie pulls out all the Hollywood stops explosions, crying women, men in fatigues. I was bored. After 40 some South Americans got shot in order to save the life of one (white) American, I was disgusted. So Meg Ryan and Russell Crowe had chemistry. They needed a much different script to make it worth seeing. "}{"Title":"Hostile thriller with everyone pushing, shoving, sniping...","Date":"22 July 2006","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Russell Crowe walks through this role as an international hostage negotiator (via Australia!) who attempts to help a married woman and her sister-in-law find the woman's husband, an innocent oil company liaison who was kidnapped while working in a fictional Latin American country; Crowe is taken off the assignment when the missing man's company can't back the rescue up with finance, but Crowe has inexplicably taken a shine to the victim's wife, who bites his head off whenever she has the chance, and takes on the mission with aid from his pals. An unattractive star vehicle/political wallow about anti-government guerrillas actually gets off to a good start (Crowe tangling with nefarious Russkies), though the characters never merit much interest and there is little chemistry between Russell and Meg Ryan (which probably did not help the flick at the box-office). *1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Ryan Ruins Yet Another Film","Date":"3 May 2007","Score":"9 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I like most of the movies that Russell Crowe has made and I dislike about every movie Meg Ryan has been it.....so who prevails? Well, in here Ryan prevails again, with yet another unattractive role and movie.Ryan's Alice Bowman was too profane and unlikable; her sister, Janis (Pamela Reed) was just plain annoying and so were most of the characters in here including the kidnap victim played by David Morse. Did Crowe play a decent character, as he usually does? Yes. I like David Caruso, too, but overall this film had bad vibes and too few people to care about.Kudos to the cinematographer, however. This is a beautifully shot movie. With a little nicer characters and less usage of the Lord's name in vain and I might have liked this film because the story is very intriguing. Maybe another viewing some time in the future will change my mind about this. I also had high expectations off reviews I had read, so I expected a lot more than what I got. "},{"Title":"What is the price tag on life?","Date":"14 June 2003","Score":"9 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Taylor Hackford directs this action drama that falls short of the pre-release hype. Off screen romance of the two lead stars generated much interest; but this movie is tense, slow and too long. A mercenary(Russell Crowe)is hired to negotiate the release of an engineer(David Morse), who has been kidnapped in South America. A problem arises when the negotiator falls in love with the man's wife(Meg Ryan). Also in the cast are David Caruso, Gottfried John, Anthony Heald and watching Pamela Reed alone will make you a nervous wreck. With all of the promo hype I expected this movie to bust the screen open and sizzle. Not this time.  "},{"Title":"Russell & Meg sizzle","Date":"5 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Proof of Life impressed me a great deal since it had everything I look for in a movie. From suspense to great performances Proof of Life will satisfy everyone's movie craving.There were several underlying themes that the director put in to keep the audience guessing as to what would happen. Would the distraught wife sleep with the man who would save her husband? Would the kidnap and ransom expert make it in time to save her husband? What will be the end result? These are questions that kept me on the edge of my seat.Two reasons Proof Of Life succeeds it stars two well established stars who give command performances. Russell Crowe and Meg Ryan seem to be the perfect choices to play these roles. Crowe brings intensity, character and integrity to his role as the kidnap and ransom expert. Also, the sexual chemistry and tension between these two is undeniable.In addition, there are two performances by supporting actors that are so great they nearly overshadowed the two leads. David Morse and David Caruso blew me away with their performances of the husband and mercenary, respectively. Morse matures and gets stronger with each film he is in. After box office failures such as Kiss Of Death and Jade, Caruso has comeback with a really strong performance. I hope I get the chance to see these two actors perform in future films because his talent should not be wasted.Finally, the best thing about Proof of Life was the suspense. With each passing moment of the movie, it got better because it made me want to know what would happen next.Proof Of Life will surely impress and satisfy every movie fan.  "},{"Title":"Boring as the reality","Date":"28 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film is boring, but a remarkable film as it portraits reality. I am familiar with the K&R business, although my expertise is family reunions, or getting kidnapped children back, sometime by snatching like the forced solution to the K&R-operation in Proof of life.What pulls this film down, is the impossible to relate to psychological dilemma, were we want the kidnapped guy to return home to his wife and the conflict that arise when we want the Terry-character to have her as well. That destroys the emotional connection to this film and then there is little left as there is no emotional final.What this film do in a great way is to show the boring reality of this kind of work (the waiting, the negotiations and again the waiting) and the relations of the ones that do this kind of work, displayed in a beautiful way by the snatch. This film is a classic within the business of Special Para-Military Operations. To me it is a must have.  "},{"Title":"Could have been so much better","Date":"12 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This could have been a great film. David Morse, Russell Crowe, David Caruso and even Meg Ryan are very good actors. The theme is very suspenseful (see the much better Ransom with Mel Gibson, Delroy Lindo,  Renee Russo, and Gary Sinise), and the locations do seem interesting.So what turned this high potential movie in a xenophobic, unlikely mess? Well, for starters, no one seems to be able to do anything right, except superman Crowe. Ryan keeps going on about how she never wants to give birth in another third world country again (as if there are no hospitals in Africa). The local police officer who is assigned to their case _of course_ is on the take and just there to scam them out of money. The wiley locals are easily outmanoeuvred by Crowe and Caruso. And then there is the jerky, overacting Pamela Reed who finally robs this movie of any sense of realism. And oh yeah, of course the locals can only bite the hand that feed them by abducting the well meaning civil engineer Morse (who goes through some stunts that in the real world would have immediately gotten him killed, just to show that he's really still in charge, even though he's miles from home and trussed up). And his captors are incompetent teenage dopesmoking halfwit rebels. But that's ok. The final blow comes as the rebels (who seem number about a company strong) are misled and killed off by the 4 (repeat four) mercenaries. With some intelligent script writing, this could have been a great movie. Instead, the insurmountable odds are just too easily surmounted, Superman style. ** out of ***** "},{"Title":"Well...","Date":"3 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  One could go either way on a film like this. I enjoyed it more or less while I was watching it, but realized after it was over that I had been had. This was a formulaic thriller, and not a particularly good one at that. I am a big David Morse fan, even though it was not really his movie. Crowe is for the birds in this one, pun intended, and Ryan turns in a one-note, lackluster performance. Go watch SALVADOR instead. Hell, even RANSOM is better. "},{"Title":"The Usual Crap!","Date":"29 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Well this is your usual film I might say. Everybody did their jobs, though not splendidly, but just like they are supposed to, with a couple of not so good things thrown into the mix (high level of predictability) that kind of screws it up a little bit. All in all I'll have to say that this film is nothing (really NOTHING) but the usual crap, but at least it is well executed!7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Drama/Action flick with poor drama and okay action.","Date":"21 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A person or group is kidnapped by rebels in a third world country and held for ransom...money, release of political prisoners, etc. In comes some ex-SEAL or ex-Special Forces mercenary to save the day. Sound familiar? Well, that's the stuff of a score of action flicks of which Proof of Life is no better. The difference with PofL is the mercenary is a kidnap negotiator/soldier (Crowe) who wears a sport coat in the first 2/3 of the flick and camy fatigues in the last 1/3 which serves to make this hackneyed plot just more boring.PofL doesn't work at most of what it tries to do but does manage some decent guerrilla warfare action in the end. Not worth the big budget, big stars, hype, etc., this decent but sub-par flick should be held back for surfin' time on tv. "},{"Title":"Simple propaganda","Date":"18 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The interesting thing about this movie is not the mediocre surface, but the propaganda message addressed to the soft-hearted US citizens.In Colombia, the US Government is sponsoring a big anti-insurgency plan, supporting the most repressive Latin American government of today. Since government-sponsored death squads are killing several thousands of political actvists a year, people in especially the rural areas have been forced to organize in gerilla forces to defend themselves. To evade the worst criticism for this new Vietnam war, the US Government tries to paint over reality with a picture of savage narcoguerillas. This movie is a part in that project.Clearly adressing soft-hearted US women, we get a love story between woman trying to save the world and a tough, handsome and yet really empathic soldier. Adding credibility for the liberal audience, he, his mercenary friends and the US Gov are the only good guys in an otherwise greedy world.A piece of advice have a look at the situation in Colombia by visiting zmag.org before you see the movie. You'll get a couple of extra laughs.SPOILER Adding to the semi-racist characteristics of this movie, we are supposed to accept the killing of a dozen young guerillas in order to save two white anglo-saxian schmucks. "}{"Title":"Hey, just because your a movie star, doesn't make your garbage great!","Date":"13 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  First off, why would anyone be interested in K&R investment negotiators? I think two people got frisky and in their bed of lust decided to do the first movie that popped up, and boy were they screwed. Crowe I'm the best K&R hostage-investment-banker-negotiator this side of the legendary Josh Hopkins form The Netherlands, and If you choose anyone else to negotiate for your husband's freedom, I and God Pity you Griffith/Ryan (Which one was in the movie, I'm always confused on this matter) Well hot damn, You're soooooooooo hotttt!!!! I'll bet you are the best K&R guy, because obviously, a balding girthy Hispanic man can do the job of a hunky Aussie like you!!! It's a shame that your the best, because my hubby gets rescued and we can't do it all over the Scorpion Mansion!! "},{"Title":"Another film that tries to push its audience to the exit...","Date":"13 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  =====Rating System ***** Must see **** Very good *** I liked it, but you might hate it ** I hated it, but you might like it * Avoid====                                                                                                                                                 ...and it succeeds admirably. My motive for visiting the cinema is pretty simple I just want to be entertained. Maybe I'm being too demanding here, but to me this movie failed on every conceivable level. You see, this is, or it tries to be a romantic action-thriller. And, you guessed it, there is no romance, no action and absolutely no thrills to be found. Meg Ryan and Russell Crowe are great actors, but this movie shows them at their weakest. Crowe is undeniably boring, Ryan is, frankly, as affectionate as a block of cheese, and David Morse as the brave love of Ryan's life is the biggest joke of the whole movie. There is just nothing (good or bad) more to say about this failure, at least the first 90 minutes of it, 'cause that's exactly how long I could stand it. If you want to waste money, this is the right vehicle to do it on. Have a bad day.              * "},{"Title":"This movie was garbage.","Date":"12 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I have to say that this was one of the worst movies I've seen in a long time.  Terrible acting from head to toe, and Meg Ryan is constantly holding a cigarette and never smoking it.  An impossible romance (although I wouldn't call a guy taking advantage of a woman who's husband's been kidnapped romantic), bad action in all of the scenes where action takes place, terrible editing (they seem to think they need to convince us that the husband's in the mountains...we know he's there!), and a bad story in general.  By far Meg Ryan's worst outing that I've seen, Russell Crowe is a boring and emotionless character, and the husband is just an idiot.  The story could easily have been told in ten minutes, and I could have directed it better.  As a wise man once said, I've seen better film on teeth.  If you're looking to waste 5 bucks on a rental, go with this one, because it would certainly be a waste.  "},{"Title":"My brain was numb after this one","Date":"18 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Kill yourself before watching this film and save yourself from 2 hours of torture. Bad from begining to end !! By the way I reckon Meg Ryan has enough money to afford some acting classes because she desperately needs them. She is unable to transmit some grieve for her husband after he was kidnaped, instead she looks like all she wants is to go to bed with  Terry Thorne. Russell Crowe was good, nothing extraordinary as well as David Morse but under the circumstances they did the best they could trying to save this Titanic but the iceberg of stupidity was too much. "},{"Title":"Huh...","Date":"23 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie seemed to have everything going for it. Great cast. Great director. Great story-line. But they couldn't execute it. I don't know if it was the editing or the person responsible for telling the story trying to please his advisors rather than trying to please his audience but it was slow and confusing and alot of talent and alot of money were wasted here. Spare yourself and don't waste your time with this one. "},{"Title":"Proof That Taylor Hackford Is A Hack Who Makes Crap.","Date":"30 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I doubt something like this would be made nowadays with the state of the world (and the fact that so many Americans have been captured, held hostage, and murdered). However, this was released a year before it all started on September 11th, 2001 -- and chances are we'll never see a movie like this again for quite some time.Which is a shame, since this isn't a fond farewell to the sub-genre. First of all the film's plot -- about the husband of a woman (Meg Ryan) being captured by terrorists, held hostage, hopeless, attempted to be saved by a professional something-or-other (Russell Crowe) -- isn't very interesting. It's filmed in that modern grain filter that was once unique when Ridley Scott implemented it but is now quickly becoming tiring after a million films have used it (take note of this Steven Soderbergh) in an effort to make their hand-held-recorded shaky prints seem realistic and gritty. It just causes migraines after a while.The acting is sub-par, all considered (Ryan seems drowsy and Crowe is annoying and one-dimensional as always), and the movie's main fault is that it's just helplessly, endlessly boring. I wasn't interested and had to literally pry my eyelids open to stay awake.How it ever got an average rating of 6.3 is beyond me...personally I'd give it 2/5. Poorly directed, poorly acted, poorly written -- poor all over, basically. "}]