[{"Title":"Precious Like Some Rare Wine!","Date":"2 September 2003","Score":"42 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Dinner Rush has not been released in Germany --- which usually indicates a not very successful B-movie... In this case, it is a B-movie (shot in only 21 days!), but, uuhhh baby, it is one of the best B-movies ever made.Elegant camera movements, a superb ensemble cast (Danny Aiello, John Corbett, Edoardo Ballerini, Vivian Wu, Sandra Bernhard, Mark Margolis, and beautiful Summer Phoenix), an intriguing story, marvelously directed ... they usually don't make movies like that anymore. Bob Giraldi did an excellent job with his actors, and production designer Andrew Bernard created a stunning atmosphere.Dinner Rush ranks among my all-time favorite films. It might be not suitable for everyone, but then, what movie is? It's an entertaining, witty, thoughtful portrayal of New York of the millennium --- enchanting! "},{"Title":"Tasty-looking food steals the show","Date":"12 January 2005","Score":"30 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" The film is about a trendy family restaurant in New York. As one character says...It's a joint with a buzz! It's an apt expression, for the film surely buzzes non-stop as the characters crowd into this very popular restaurant noted for its delicious food. Down below the restaurant is the kitchen where the meals are prepared. This is the most stunning part of the film. Absolutely believable. Perfect cinema. Among the steaming saucepans and oiled fry pans there is the clatter of white plates on which the chefs and kitchen staff arrange the most surprising little temptations at lightning speed. The hand of the director is most noticeable here with superb choreographed movement of the actors in the confined space. There is clatter and chatter, laughter and fisticuffs.The mood is different at the dining tables. Idle gossip among the clients and smart remarks to the staff about the appropriateness of hanging oil paintings in a restaurant. Then there is the presence of the food writers ready to criticize and gangster types insisting on a partnership with the management. It's all go...go...go...as the camera follows the dishes to the tables. There is a perpetual air of excitement.The cameras constantly switch from dining room to kitchen and kitchen to dining room maintaining a lively feeling of urgency as the trays are carried up the stairs. The dialogue is fast too and I find it sometimes difficult to follow. The large cast requires some sorting out as well.The ending comes unexpectedly with a surprising twist.This film is really about revenge. Like some food preparations, revenge can simmer for a long time. One thing is made clear to me however. Revenge as a dish is best served cold. "},{"Title":"A masterpiece in execution","Date":"23 January 2003","Score":"34 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Fan a fresh deck of cards with the spots up and the coherence is immediately apparent. Shuffle the deck and coherence is lost...the purpose of the shuffle. In Dinner Rush, Giraldi and company manage to shuffle a deck of plots, personal issues, and cuisine with the controlled chaos of a restaurant during the dinner rush while never losing coherence, building characters and stories, and wrapping everything up with a bow in just over 1.5 hours. Masterfully crafted, Dinner Rush has a story to tell, offers solid performances, works well in claustrophobic conditions, sports a cosmopolitan cast, and is imbued with gourmet cooking and an ever present taste of the Big Apple. Not for everyone, this flick will appeal most to those who can appreciate a film as much for its execution and style as for its story. (B+) "},{"Title":"Dinner Rush goes straight into my all-time Top 10","Date":"4 October 2002","Score":"30 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I didn't think they made movies like this anymore.The only thing wrong with this movie is the lack of marketing.  Otherwise, it's superb on so many levels, and the ending (even though I knew what was coming) was a happy surprise.Every single performance is good, with most of them actually great.  The script is faultless, as is the plot, the pacing, and the directing.  Even though it's a less-flashy style than in 99% or the movies these days, it's wonderful to be able to appreciate really good camerawork, clear dialogue, perfect editing..I don't want to go into great detail, because the movie is such a pleasure to watch.  I just hope this may convince you to see Dinner Rush, because it's quite possibly the best film of the year.  I am now going to pester friends & colleagues to rent it, until I can actually buy it and then force them to watch.  "},{"Title":"Danny Aiello Hits Again","Date":"17 June 2005","Score":"23 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I found this gem in the bargain bin at Wal Mart. How it got there, I don't know. The film stars Danny Aiello (Do The Right Thing), Mike McGlone (The Brothers McMullen) and John Corbett (Sex and the City). Set in the fast paced New York Italian restaurant Gigino, we follow a restaurant owner (Aiello) and his son, the head chef, on a busy Friday night. The film is comprised of witty banter from different tables in the restaurant, following a uptight art critic, a mafiosi from Queens, a food critic and a real mystery man in Corbett's character. The staff has to deal with a power outage, whiny tables and a line chef who is into a bookie 35 grand. The film carries itself with panache every second, and no matter how often I see this picture, be it on DVD or on IFC, I just can't get enough. Check it out! "},{"Title":"I absolutely love this film.......","Date":"18 July 2005","Score":"19 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is one the rare gems of independent cinema.I wish more people had seen this when it came out. It is a beautifully shot film about the life of a restaurant on a busy night. But there is so much more to this film. It combines a fascinating mob element that you don't fully understand until the end with the delicate flair of a master chef combining ingredients in a meal. The ending is immensely surprising and gratifying. All the performances are believable, especially Corbett who is in his best film. It is the dynamic of a trendy restaurant dealing with a record-breaking night, however that makes this film superb. It takes so many lives and elements and brings them together with aplomb. This is one of the best films in recent years. "},{"Title":"Brilliant and charming, a bit like a fine restaurant","Date":"2 August 2005","Score":"16 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is really a hidden gem that should have had a major impact at the cinemas everywhere. It truly is a loss to anyone who misses it.The characters are charming, obnoxious, familiar, unexpected and with a great many stereotypes this offers a fascinating mix played out at a weird and wonderful pace that switches easily between relaxed and frantic. The character gallery on its own is reason to see this film but the various tracks of the story offers added value not seen as comfortably intertwined in other films for many years. The stories are steered by an amazing screenplay based on non-stop dialogue that places you right at the centre of affairs, or indeed inside the restaurant where 90% of the film is set.If you enjoy the witty repartee of Smoke or Clerks (although nowhere near as vulgar) then you must see this film.Danny Aiello is brilliant, so are the majority of the not so well known cast and the supporting role of John Corbett offers a new perspective on an otherwise strong stereotype, almost worth the ticket price itself. "},{"Title":"I LOVED this movie!!","Date":"8 July 2003","Score":"17 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Excellent filmmaking and acting meshed so fine. Great character study of people too. Danny Aiello is wonderful as usual. Eduardo Ballerini (Udo), slammed such as impression on me! And Summer Phoenix is AMAZING as the patient but put upon waitress Marti. And I loved/hated the art critic jerk. Sandra Bernhardt as usual, a fun to watch bi*ch. I applauded John Corbett's character.As for the chefs' domain, the pace and stress in the kitchen's so palpable. (As someone who once got canned after 2 days in a nursing home kitchen of all places, I so appreciate the stress they endure!) Screw any mobster's presence, if I lived in NY, I'd wanna go down right now to a Tribeca restaurant like this after seeing Dinner Rush!  "},{"Title":"A brilliant film!","Date":"4 July 2007","Score":"12 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film crackles with authenticity. Danny Aiello is great in the lead role as the owner of this eatery, rushed off its feet in the evening rush after the day leading to it. He plays ironically opposite to his oft gangster roles. Well structured with an interesting mix of characters, showing their chemistry with each other, the boss, the son, the dish hands, the restaraunts patrons, and food critic, the lust, and the great character John Corbett plays.Dinner Rush is well worth a look. I am sure you won't be disappointed if you like films that simmer at a medium temperature so it becomes cooked nicely at the end with a good surprise in the end how it turned out. "},{"Title":"Delicious Slice of One Night of NY Restaurant Life","Date":"28 October 2005","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Dinner Rush will inevitably be compared to Big Night, and other food preparation/restaurant movies, but I think it holds its own as a delicious slice of one night of New York life. As one character plotzes When did eating out become theater? The wonderful, winsome multi-ethnic ensemble of mostly New York actors --many born in Brooklyn according to the IMDb--who have done a lot of TV work are clearly enjoying making a movie as a coordinated team. Danny Aiello has his best, and somewhat similar, role since City Hall. Many of the references may go over the heads of those West of the Hudson or East of the East River, whether to Tribeca (as a newly trendy neighborhood) or Danny Meyer (restaurant entrepreneur). Or even the digs at Queens as the home of mobsters, which were greeted by silence by the Queens audience I saw it with.The upstairs/downstairs of the kitchen scrambles vs. the dining pleasures and everyone's personal spices are lots of fun. The actors playing obnoxious customers, like Sandra Bernhard, do so with relish but not overplayed.Keep your palate clear by not looking at the ad campaign or reading the reviews, as I think they give the plot away and I was totally surprised by the ending, er, the dessert.(originally written 9/29/2001) "}{"Title":"A Great Film Nobody Heard Of","Date":"5 December 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Great acting, slice-of-restaurant-life, kind of like THE SOPRANOS OPEN A RESTAURANT MEETS THE FOOD CHANNEL. Excellent acting by Danny Aiella and some little-known actors and the filming must have been done in a real restaurant. It reminded me of a really great Italian restaurant in Clifton, New Jersey and another in Monterey, California. It also made me miss the Italian neighborhood I grew up in in Jersey. And you will definitely NOT guess the ending, I promise you. It will also give you a different and new perspective on people who work on Wall Street. Evidently, they're not all dorks with accounting degrees. But he really SHOULD burn that tie! "},{"Title":"A real feast","Date":"1 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Well, this movie certainly gives you an appetite. For that, and for many other reasons, it reminds me of Stanley Tucci's `Bight Night', another culinary gem put on the big screen. Not only do both movies show a great deal of food making and food eating but most importantly both do it beautifully. Both stories also happen in one night. But although `Big Night' features a failing Italian restaurant whose owners (two Italian-American brothers) are trying to revive with one special night, `Dinner Rush' transports us to an already successful and very trendy New York eatery (Italian as well, which confirms that Italian food can be a great inspiration for movie making). The food in `Dinner Rush' is more sophisticated (nouvelle cuisine, Italian style) than the traditional cuisine of `Big Night', and so is the movie itself compared with the simplicity of the cinematography in Stanley Tucci's film, `Dinner Rush' opens with unfocused shots, saturated colors, unsteady camera work. It all looks very contrived at first and you wish for a more demure and simple atmosphere, the same way Louis Cropa (played by Danny Aiello) disapproved of his son's fussy cuisine, asking for something more nourishing, something that simply smells and tastes good. And that's exactly what you could ask from Bob Giraldi, the director of `Dinner Rush'. But once you get inside Cropa's restaurant, you're drawn to the warmth of the place, the rush of the night, the relationships among the staff and the show that some of the patrons put on (Sandra Bernhard is extremely funny as a wig-wearing food critic and the actor who plays the obnoxious art manager is hysterical). You become fond of characters such as Marti the waitress/artist (great performance by Summer Phoenix), Duncan, the sous-chef/chronic gambler, the English barman with whose cultural knowledge the customers bet and loose their money on, but most of all Louis Croppa, alias Gigi, the owner of the restaurants who's thinking of quitting both the restaurant and his bookmaking business. Danny Aiello is an amazing and under-used actor and with this performance he really hits the mark. He's cool, subtle, wise, tough and gentle. It's simply impossible no to succumb to the charm of this unpretentious film and all you want to do when you leave the cinema is fly to New York and have a true Italian dinner experience in lower Manhattan. "},{"Title":"A table just for you","Date":"7 January 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" The only negative comment I could make about this superbly crafted (and casted) movie gem would be the movie's title DINNER RUSH. If I was the producer I would have re-titled the picture A TABLE JUST FOR YOU. Why this title name change? Because I actually felt like I was sitting in the New York Tribeca area restaurant named Gigino's. What a fantastic job by Director Bob Giraldi to make everyone feel as if they were actually having a meal at this fine Italian eatery. (Apparently Bob Giraldi actually owns the restaurant where the film was shot.) So what makes this movie rate a 9 out of 10? Heck, I would have given it a 10 but the only thing Giraldi could not pull off was to provide me with just one of the hundreds of beautiful meals prepared throughout the movie. I could almost smell and taste the authenticity of the food all the cooks were preparing in the kitchen. mmmmmmmmAs for the acting I can't say enough about this all star cast. Danny Aiello, a personal thank you for bringing the character of Louis Cropa to life. As the owner of Gigino's, Louis Cropa loses his business partner early in the movie as a result of a cold blooded murder. Thus setting the stage for the criminal element to demand a table at Gigino's with the intent to extort a big piece of the ownership away from Louis Cropa the sole survivor owner.Also wonderfully cast as Louis's son and his head chef Udo, is Edoardo Ballerini. Controversy and tension between father and son plays out due to the head chef's menu choices. Udo prefers to wow his dinner guests with flare and presentation whereas Udo's father Louis recognizes the traditional fare of tomato sauce and meatballs which made his restaurant a mainstay in the Tribeca area. Also coming between Udo and his father Louis, is the Sous Chef named Duncan, who is a habitual gambler, played to perfection by Kirk Acevedo. His performance stands out because of the challenges he faces between mentoring some of the new chefs, preparing the fabulous meals he is known for, his relationship with the hostess who he loves, and the demons that keep him gambling well above his means to pay his debt to the gangsters who are sitting upstairs waiting to devour more than just their freebie nine course dinner.There are so many great characters in this film, too many to mention. The ending of the film is one of the best I have seen. I would hate it if someone spoiled it for me so suffice to say the ending is a dessert best served cold. This movie rates a 9 out of 10, but if Giraldi brings me a meal, I will give it a 10. Bon appetite! Enjoy! "},{"Title":"If you liked 'The Pope of Greenwich Village' go for this one","Date":"4 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Wait a minute... Isn't that the Wall Street guy who I just decided was a fuzzy little teddy bear just a few scenes ago? This is a brilliant and very well executed (pun) piece of writing. I came across it accidentally on the late night movie channels and decided even before it was over that it was one of the best movies I never heard of. I love those kinds of surprises. The character development is strong and authentic. You will love the good ones, hate the bad ones and roll your eyes at the obnoxious ones. I care far less about the subject matter of a film than whether it puts me there. I WAS there and enjoyed every minute of it. But most enjoyable of all, if I'm not revealing too much about my vindictive nature, was the retribution. After a well crafted buildup of hatred for this slimy bag of garbage and his brother in law the whole problem is taken care of in a most efficient and totally unexpected manner. And by - of all people... well you'll just have to see it. "},{"Title":"A Gem on all fronts, couldn't fault this film!","Date":"2 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film rates right up there with my all time greats, wonderfully acted and a twist ending that unlike most 'hollywood' films, one doesn't see coming! The attention to detail (my pet peeve) was perfect and Danny Aeilo is in perfect form. I would thoroughly recommend this film to anybody.Not that it's in this film but as a 'by the way'- how on earth do directors film car scenes with the driver looking at the passenger for more than 3 seconds and leave it unedited - are they insane?? totally spoils a movie for me no matter how good the rest of it may be...Apologies for digressing - WATCH DINNER RUSH! "},{"Title":"Food, sex, mystery, fun, and surprises","Date":"15 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Did you like John Corbett in My Big Fat Greek Wedding? as Chris in Northern Exposure?  He has a significant and charming supporting roll in this sleeper.Why wasn't this movie promoted?  Better than Big Night.  Great portrait of a restaurant kitchen.This movie is the most accurate portrayal of the type of  Italian community where I grew up and the kind of men I knew.Four out of five stars.  See this. "},{"Title":"Make sure you eat first or you will be starving by the end!","Date":"19 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The more I watched this film, the more I enjoyed it.  I thought the acting was terrific and the films timing was done at an even pace.  The story itself was not so complex that you were ever lost.  Simple and direct. I'm all Italian myself as well as a theatre owner who showed this film for weeks.  People are still asking to see it. I'm proud to have added it to my line up of 2001.  How about another Bob? "},{"Title":"Terrific family story, with garlic and basil","Date":"8 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one fine little movie, unexpectedly kicked into gear by a killing, then settling into a busy night at a coveted Tribeca trattoria.It's got everything the sensory allure of the food; constant menace; a father and his two very different sons; the striving, wannabe diners; the restaurant staff scrambling to cook and serve, sitting in judgment of the whole thing--and possibly a surprise. Mangia! Beve! "},{"Title":"Refreshing, touching, beautiful film in all aspects","Date":"1 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This wonderful movie was a breath of fresh air in the midst of the formulaic, generic junk that gets put out in theaters these days.  The movie is uncomplicated, dynamic, and beautifully filmed in a hip, Tribeca restaurant, where the entire film takes place.  It has a Sopranos-like modern day Mafia backdrop.  The film runs along seamlessly and captivates your attention artistically and emotionally the whole way.  I don't want to say anymore other than the fact that this is EASILY the best movie I have seen this year and definitely one of the best I have seen over the last couple years.  Just go watch it...believe me, you won't regret it. "},{"Title":"Very well done","Date":"25 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A great movie, told from the interesting perspective of a restaurant kitchen.  The acting is superb, the writing is great, and the picture is tight.  Surprisingly good. "}{"Title":"My Favorite Film","Date":"26 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Last November at the 2000 Savannah Film & Video Festival I had the opportunity to see Dinner Rush.  To this day when I am asked what my number one favorite film is I say Dinner Rush.  I would love to see the film get distributed.  But most of all I would like to have it on DVD.  I think that I would enjoy watching it over, and over again.  Plus all of my friends that didn't get to see it would finally get to.  I can't believe a distributor has not picked this film up. "},{"Title":"Deserves distribution!","Date":"12 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this film at the Santa Barbara Film Festival yesterday, and was blown away.  Danny Aiello was as good as he's ever been, which is saying something.  I haven't had this positive a reaction to a film in a long time. Great story, wonderful acting, delicious ending.  A brilliant piece of filmmaking, with the edge and turn-over-the-rock-and-expose-the-worst-in-trendoids that we expect from Independents.  Yet it isn't mean-spirited at all. Brilliant. "},{"Title":"A Wonderful Tale of Revenge","Date":"17 December 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Luigi Cropa (Danny Aiello) is a retiring bookmaker and restauranteur in New York, owner of a stylish restaurant, the Gigino Tratoria. He has two sons, the fashionable chief Udo Cropa (Edoardo Ballerini) and the gambler addicted sub chief Duncan Cropa (Kirk Acevedo) working in his legitimate business. His partner and old friend has just been killed by two Queen's mobster. Luigi invites the two mobsters and a New Yorker detective to have courtesy dinner in the full restaurant, having critics and famous persons among his clients, including a young man called Ken (John Corbett). The night has a surprising end. Dinner Rush is one of the most original low budget movies I have recently seen. The story is slowly developed practically inside a restaurant and its kitchen along one evening. The viewer feels like he (or she) is participating of a night in a famous restaurant, sharing the conversation of the clients and the work of the staff. This is the type of movie when the work of figurant is worthwhile, eating those delicious meals and deserts. The back cover of the DVD, showing John Corbett, is a kind of spoiler, because it is almost impossible to associate his participation along the plot if his picture with a gun. As mentioned in the final line, revenge is a dish best served cold. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil) Uma Receita Para a Máfia (A Food Procedure for the Mafia) "},{"Title":"A saucy visual","Date":"29 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Bob Giraldi has give the world a feast of entertainment.  The fast paced movement of the film and the superb acting hits the mark.  The delicious performances are offered by the likes of Danny Aiello, Edoardo Ballerini, Kirk Acevedo, Mike McGlone, Vivian Wu, John Corbett, Polly Draper, Summer Phoenix, Ajay Naidu, Jamie Harris, Sandra Bernhard and Mark Margolis.  Most of the story is set in Giginos a family owned, if you get my drift, trendy, New York, Italian eatery.  Aiello is the owner and is ending his reign in the other family business, bookmaking.  The food preparation scene of the critics meal(Bernhard)is alone worth the cost to get into the film.  If you have a chance to see it on the big screen it is pure eye candy and even on the small screen you will consume it with delight.  If you don't walk away from this film wanting to eat, even with the violence, you have missed out on this tasty morsel.   "},{"Title":"Excellent look at New York City restaurant life","Date":"6 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Dinner Rush is a 2000 film starring Danny Aiello, Edoardo Ballerini, John Corbett, Polly Draper, Kirk Acevedo, and Sandra Bernhard, directed by Bob Giraldi, and written by Rick Shaughnessy and Brian Kalata.The story concerns a very trendy Soho restaurant owned by Louis Cropa; his son Udo (Ballerini) is the popular chef, who makes nouvelle cuisine with an Italian slant. The place is packed to the rafters every night, though Louis doesn't really approve of these dishes, which are not straight down the line Italian. Udo wants to take over the restaurant but so far, his father is resistant.We learn the history of the place early on -- Louis and his partner were low-level bookies using the restaurant as a front, and when some thugs from Queens wanted a partnership in the restaurant, Louis' partner refused them and is later killed on the street. Louis no longer takes bets and has turned legitimate. However, he can't control Duncan (Acevedo), who works at the restaurant and is a compulsive gambler, now into these same guys for $13,000. On this particular night, the queens thugs come into the restaurant on the invitation of Louis; but he has also invited a police detective (Walt MacPherson) and his wife to be his guests for dinner.What makes this film is the atmosphere, a very typical one for an upscale restaurant with repeat, high profile clientèle. The wait staff is incredibly gracious to some very demanding customers, and there are many perks if you had to wait too long in line or if the boss knows you.The kitchen, however, is like the wild west, with all kinds of screaming and throwing things, and Udo losing his temper. It's all absolutely perfect and really makes you feel as if you're there.The performances are excellent, from Aiello's underplayed, honest performance, to John Corbett relaxing at the bar and talking to a woman there to meet someone who doesn't show, to Ballerini's intense, artistic Udo, proud of his accomplishments, and finally to Aceveda's messed up Duncan, working and trying to listen to a race at the same time, realizing it's another bad bet, and meeting his girlfriend for stolen moments on the fire escape.The end of the film, though I expected some of it, changes the atmosphere drastically in seconds.Truly fantastic film that took me through something I experienced many times while living in New York. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"When Do We Eat!","Date":"5 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" (Some Spoilers) The film Dinner Rush comes across like a combination of the Food Channel's Guy Fieri Diners Drive-ins & Dives and the Sopranos. We have successful Tribeca restaurateur Louis Carpo, Danney Aiello, being hassled by these two mobsters from Queens Carmen & Paolo, Mike McGlone & Alex Corrado, who are trying to muscle their way into Louis' five star Italian Restaurant The Trattoria which has been in the Carpo family for some three generations. These two murderous thugs go so far as offing in a mob hit Louis' good friend and partner in the Trattoria Enrico Coventie, Fran Borgiorno, just to show him that they mean business. The business that they want is to become part owners of the eatery even though they, despite stuffing their faces with fine Italian food and wines, know nothing at all about the restaurant business!The two mobster have an ace up their sleeves in getting Louis to go along with their efforts to get part, and later all, of his business by having his compulsive gambler son and second or #2 chef at the Trattoria Ducan, Kirk Acevedo, in their hip pockets for $13,000.00 in gambling debts. By Paolo & Carmen using Ducan's gambling as a way to get to Louis has them feel he'll pay them off in making them partners in his eating establishment. This all backfires on them with Louis taking the 13 grand out of the till and paying them off in order to get the two mobsters off his and Duncan's back.It's obvious right from the start that Poalo & Carmen only want to get hold of Louis' restaurant which is knocking them, the customers, dead with the mind boggling dishes put out by Louis' #1 son and top chef in the joint Udo, Edwardo Ballerini, a man who loves cooking his dishes as much as Paolo and Carmen love eating them. Running the kitchen like a hard as nails US Marine Drill Sergeant Udo won't tolerate the slightest infraction of the Culinary Code of Ethics! We see earlier in the movie Udo can one of his cooks on the spot in him dicing , a major violation of the Code, instead of chopping chives. Udo for his part feels that he's being short changed by his dad in not being made a partner in the restaurant, which both Paolo & Carmen want to be, even though his dad thinks that his dishes are just out of this world and are filling the place to capacity every night!***MAJOR SPOILERS*** Louis being the man of peace, and having superhuman self restraint, that he is was more then willing to give up his bookie operation to Paolo & Carmen in order to keep them out of his life and restaurant but when they hit his best friend Enrico and then shook down #2 son Duncon that's when they went too far much too far with him. And that's when Louis decided to pay them off big time using his beloved restaurant The Trattoria as a trap in luring those two rats to their deaths!Very probably the very best of the many Mafia restaurant mob hit-jobs movies that's a lot like the real hit on gangster Dutch The Dutchman Schultz back in October 1935 in a Newark New Jersey spaghetti joint. Louis Carpo at first tries to reason with the smug and arrogant Queens thugs who seemed to have greatly underestimated him in his non violent attitude towards them. All Louis wanted was to talk things over and come to some reasonable decision with Paolo and Carmen but the two thought that they had him boxed into a corner. They didn't realize that he set them up right from the start and in the process had them stuff themselves, like a last meal for a convict about to be executed, before he had the boom lowered on them! "},{"Title":"I Love This Little Film!!!","Date":"21 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" It's subtle and overt, and captures today's culture of cuisine amazingly, especially of old americanized Italian restaurants in and around NYC, and their metamorphosis into nouveau eateries and rock star chefs in today's urban scene. But for all its big town bravura and urbane snobbery, it's amazingly sweet, and when I see the father/son chat near the end of the film I simply fall out for its quiet gentleness and regard. The performances of every single actor in this film are understated, real, and flawless. I hope the writers/producers/crew/actors know what a gem they've made - it touched and moved me greatly... Thank you for this wonderful film... "},{"Title":"A film about people who love to dream, talk, eat and kill","Date":"15 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" There's something about this film that made me fall in love with it from the moment I gazed at its delicious looking poster and up until the very last frame. It's a mob film with a few drops of revenge and an overdose of family relationships &#150; but much more important &#150; it's a film about a gourmet Italian restaurant, and about people who love to dream, talk, eat and kill over its ingredients. Someone in Dinner Rush's production unit sure knows his way around the kitchen, and director Bob Giraldi delivers this passion and emotion throughout the happenings of a long, cold lonely night at this New York placed restaurant. John Corbett, previously known from My Big Fat Greek Wedding and Sex and the City fame delivers a dark and disturbing performance that winds up well on this tasty home-made thriller. Bon appetite! "},{"Title":"It helps to be a New Yawkher","Date":"3 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I am a hedonist and believe a film should entertain though I would not necessarily dis a film that only educated. Dinner Rush entertains but I suspect it would especially appeal to those of us who enjoyed the NYC restaurant scene of the eighties and nineties and did not take its pretensions too seriously. The flick maybe be limited in its appeal to, dare I say, NYC yuppies with a sense of humor. Within its context, though, it works very well. So you can give it an 8 or a 3 depending on where you come from. The flick's characters' behavior is not to far from what I knew and appreciated back then. The movie captures a slice of life from a time and place in our recent past. Personally I highly recommend it with the caveats stated above. "},{"Title":"Great movie; cooking and killing people LOL","Date":"27 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I think this is one of the excellent films of independent cinema. I really like on how they mixed the pleasantness of cooking and the violence of killing people in the same place. the restaurant. The actors are great too.It made me wanna learn how to cook like that, but not kill like that...awesome movie. I can watch it over and over again. I never expected John Corbett's character to be like that towards the end....it was great, i loved it.It's like the food network meets sopranos. just picture it. Good food, being made, and getting wasted! "}{"Title":"The city is the star of enjoyable independent.","Date":"9 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" New York City, and Greenwich Village in particular, is really the star of this modern more light-hearted update of the gritty city films in which Richard Conte used to specialize. John Corbett has one of his best film roles to-date as a customer at the bar. Danny Aiello is magnificent as the restaurant patriarch.Overall, the plot takes a back seat to the Italian food and the Itazlian neighborhood atmosphere that is New-York-in-its-glory through-and-through. It is a movie that invites you to sample it as if you were eating one of its luscious Italian dishes. First, one delicious morsel, than another. Now, stop to digest. Have a sip of wine, eat a piece of homemade bread, sop up the gravy (real Italian-Americans in that section of NY never say sauce.), then return to the main dish, and sample some more. This movie is a real treat. Watch it on a Saturday afternoon on DVD, then head down to Little Italy and enjoy a delicious meal! "},{"Title":"what a gem!","Date":"31 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is one of those undiscovered movies that are such a delight to stumble across.Solid script and expert direction along with a top-notch cast make this film about an Italian restaurant in New York a real joy to watch.Danny Aiello reminds us of why he became a star in this nuanced performance, and Summer Phoenix shows us why she should be in her supporting role. And the rest of the cast is firecracker sharp.Looking at the video box, it seemed to be about mobsters, but it's so much more than that. Yes, mobsters are part of the plot, but it's more like a Robert Altman film. Several intertwining stories combine in one night, and the mobsters are just part of that. So don't be put off by the video box, which suggests a pure mob movie.If you're a fan of smartly done films with depth and humor, see this! "},{"Title":"Very Enjoyable especially if you are New Yorker","Date":"9 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This unusual but creatively enriched movie gives you a flavor of a cocktail of Italian Mob life and a fascinating New York night life. From the beginning to the end, every frame of the movie offers a different flavor quite akin to the menu of the protagonist, the restaurant. The way the typical art critique behaves with the waitress to the food critique's affinity to the Chef offer a satire to the upper class New York. It dealt craftily with the four major aspect of New York on which this great city is often identified. Art, Finance, Food and Law & Order. While the persisting enjoyment keeps you glued to your seat, it also makes you wonder about the ending and when it comes, just one word come out of your mouth Wow!. "},{"Title":"Tribeca 1 -- Queens 0","Date":"19 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The timeout movie guide called this a movie of small wonders of observation -- and I must agree. I lived in this part of NY -- but grew up out on Long Island, and I can tell you it is extremely accurate, but not in a studied way. It's accurate in a way in noticing things you'd have to have grown up in, lived there for years ...and then moved away, and back again -- to notice as being unique to lower Manhattan. It gets the details right in all the ways that Moonstruck (set in NY, but filmed in ...Canada?!?) gets it wrong. The way people park half on the sidewalk in the snow, the way you look up at the rest of the city through the bare trees on West Broadway, the narrow stairwell to the basement ladies room, the college ball game broadcast on the transistor radio in the kitchen, the way everything seems to move -- peoples minds, their speech, their walk their manner -- at at least triple speed. Many movies try to get NY just right, but this one has thousands of just effortless offhand details that, quite frankly, blows even Woody Allen movies out of the water in this regard. The one that amazed me the most was the running gag about the two thugs trying to make the lead an offer he can't refuse being from Queens. The contempt implicit in Danny's advice to them Go back to Queens, guys, and the fact that they don't quite get the fact that it's a put-down (they really are from Queens, after all) highlights the real cultural differences between old lower Manhattan and the outer boroughs. It could have been worse -- he could have said Go back to New Jersey. Ha! I missed some of the dialog explaining to my husband (a Brit) what the whole cultural signifier of them being from queens was about -- so I'm off to go watch it again. Great movie.  "},{"Title":"Witty restaurant scenes can't help non-plot","Date":"7 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The good of this movie is the generally fine acting from a large ensemble cast coupled with the realistic portrayal of life inside a fine-dining restaurant.  On the latter, the witty quick-dialog scenes were often hilarious and we were wishing we had it on dvd to catch some stuff that flew by too quickly.  The pompous art critic's table is hilarious, the kitchen scenes are terrific, the old world / new world clashes with Danny Aiello are fine, etc.The bad of this movie is that the plot is incoherent; as the second half progresses we kept looking at each other, asking why is this happening?. And then it lapses into ludicrous sentimentalism to end the hip, quick indie dialog worked great, the gee pop I love you s*** at the end was just risible.Probably worth a 6/10, not a bad rental if you're out of ideas but don't go out of your way to see it.  People who've worked the fine dining restaurant biz may get a kick out of it, but my sister's comment was god I feel like I'm at work!.PS Someone asked about the title a rush at a store means a lot of business, so dinner rush is what was going on that night.  The place was slammed. "},{"Title":"Your average whodunnit this is not; much more, much better.","Date":"10 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Spoilers! Spoilers! Spoilers!Dinner Rush is very different from popular whodunnits such as Agatha Chrisite's Murder on the Orient Express or Ten Little Indians. It's also different from the more recent Gosford Park and Eight Women, although each of these three shines in its own unique style. I see four things that set Dinner Rush apart the theme, the relationships, the restaurant and the characters.Clear the smoke screens away, the revenge theme is all too clear. The killing at the beginning is echoed by the killing at the end, completing the integrity of the film. While red herring all over would have us believe that Louis the restaurant owner is a helpless victim with a couple of goons at his doorstep wanting to gobble up his restaurant, there are subtle hints to the contrary. One can't help but sense his full control over the entire matter, from the calm and confidence oozing from him. The revenge of his partner's death has been planned to the most meticulous detail, right from the very beginning.Dinner Rush is a film about many relationships, which simmer as it goes along, finally coming out deliciously. First and formost is father and son, which starts out in confrontation. But just like the revenge, Louis has everything nicely planned all along. The mildly touching embrace at the turning over of the restaurant to son and chef Udo is perfectly flavoured. The amorous relationship between sous chef Duncan and charming host Nicole also simmers from something that looks quite superficial to something that's deeper. The cleverness in handling this is in rounding it up not in a scene between the lovers themselves, but in Louis bidding Nicole to take some time off to take care of Duncan. Woven into this is also the relationship between the forgiving employer and the bright, able employee who unfortunately is an implusive gambler. And then, there is a slightly more complex and quite suggestive relationship between Louis and he murdered partner's daughter. Here, we're not told everything, but enough to take particular delight in the chocolate desert he specially ordered to take to her apartment.The restaurant itself is one of the key characters. I understand that this is a real restaurant in Tribeca. Right from the witty opening scene with the waiters struggling with Italian pronunciation of the evening's sepcials, we know we're in for a lot of fun. Here, comparison with Mostly Martha is inevitable, but it may not even be warranted. In Martha, the restaurant serves only to provide a background for the stroy and characters to develop and a different business may also do. In Dinner Rush, the restaurant is right up in the forefront. This is not just a story that happens to take place in a restaurant. It is just as much a story OF the restaurant. The title Dinner Rush proclaims as much. Through the blizzard style of a director who boasts of over a thousand successful commercials, we take the front seat of a roller-coaster through the rush hour in the restaurant, both inside and outside the kitchen. What a treat!Finally, on the characters (and there are well over 20 to mention), what this kaleidoscope offers is something that goes just a little beneath the surface, to the extent allowed, considering the obvious limitation of time available to each.There are actuallt three categories of characters, the first of which is the key roles that carry the story. As mentioned Louis is the centre of almost everything and has been playing God in the entire affair, as the audience eventually discovers. Also mentioned is son Udo, as well as sous chef Duncan and hostess Nicloe, who are almost just like family. Also belonging in this category is the baby-face (quoting Marti the waitress) gangster and his gluttonous side kick who are, when we get down to the bottom of things, the focus of the entire story. Finally, there is the daughter of the murdered man, as well as her own daughter.What I consider the second category are people who have nothing to do with the main story but, because of their interesting persona, their presence contribute much to enriching the film, as recognized by the time alloted to them. There is the irritating Fitzergarald, with his two guests, the friendly chap from Greece at his left and the cool woman at his right. There is the most caricaturised food critic and her seductive companion, whose presence not only provide some interesting antidotes, but also an occasion for a brilliant display by Udo of his culinary art. Marti the waitress cum artist also gets significant exposure.The third category comprises characters that have been alloted minimal exposure, but still leave vivid impressions in the audience's mind. The charismatic bartender tops this list. There's also the detective and his wife, the other waitress, the woman at the bar (a Julia Roberts look alike?)and the receptionist who first receives the gansters at the door, showing controlled defiance.No, I have not forgotten two vital people. It's just that they don't fit into the above categories. The killing pair, Gary and Ken, is quite unique. Gary is almost invisible at first but emerges more and more with the subtle expression on his face. It was therefore not a big surprise to see him blocking the stairs at the end. Ken, the so called Wall Street guy, is obviously there for a purpose. That he is actually the executioner is a bit of a nice surprise. "},{"Title":"A Hidden Gem","Date":"4 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a film which was recommended by a friend. I don't think it was on general release where I live, hence it's showing 2 years after it's production in a local cinematheque.To cut to the chase, the film is about a successful Italian restaurant which has been on the go for 25 years. It combines as a book-making business, this side is run by Louis Cropa (Danny aiello). His son Udo (Edoardo Ballerini) is the self-important head-chef (but amiable all the same!) who's looking to take-over the business from his dad. Local gangsters are trying to muscle in on the money, but Louis is reluctant to share the restaurant side of the business with anyone, let alone these gangsters.Dinner Rush is very much a character-based movie. The actors and the script are what make this movie so good. In particular, the European food critic, Fitzgerald (Mark Margolis), is a fine example of how sarcasm doesn't always have to be the lowest form of wit. If used correctly, it can be extremely funny as he shows in this short exchangeWaitress Hi, my name's Natalie and I'll be your waitress for tonight.Fitzgerald My name's Fitzgerald and I'll be your customer for tonight.Funny indeed. There's also the charismatic barman who entertains his customers with his vast general knowledge, taking bets from his customers as to whether he knows the answers to their questions. (How he knew the circumstances surrounding the dog becoming man's best friend, I'll never know!)Then there's the compulsive gambler kitchen porter, Duncan (Kirk Acevedo), who just happens to be in debt to the same gangsters who are trying to muscle in on Louis's restaurant business. All these contrasting character-traits help make what is an excellent piece of film-making, and a must-see movie. A true hidden gem. "},{"Title":"Must be one of the underrated films of all time","Date":"25 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is one of my all-time faves.Interesting how a film like this didn't quite have the legs one thinks it ought to have had.  It's an engaging story, has excellent characters and acting, with a plot composed of well-integrated substories that work like a superb chess match, that is, without coming off like they're held together with duct tape.For me, there's an added hurdle this movie had to get over, and it did, handily  It's very hard to get me to dig gangster flicks, or generally any movie where the hero is a criminal element of some kind.  So, this movie tries to palm off Louis Cropa as a soon ex-gangster with a heart of gold. Does it work?  Amazingly, and perhaps monumentally, yes.  In some ways, it's almost spooky.  I mean, I wound up seeing the hit man at the end (not giving away who that is) as a really nice guy, whom I'd like to get to know personally.  There's a bit of last-minute business he conducts in a car with his contractor, and by that time one has been brought to a place where you can believe you're actually seeing the honor among thieves we've all heard so much about; it does indeed look and feel very cozy and honorable.  This is the power this film has, and (to me) typifies the challenge endemic to the genre that so many entrants fail to meet and, in that failure, fail in the product.Finally, I should mention the fact that the substories are very charged with lots of steamy, sultry, savory character.  They're all given top creative flavor by the actors, no doubt with the loving guidance and coaching of the director.  Not to mention bits which, while having nothing to do with the denouement, are priceless in their own right (e.g., the artsy-fartsy table).  In this regard, it's reminiscent of Babette's Feast which also, while delivering a dynamite moral, also gave you lots of great food, attitudes, emotions, and so much of the richness of life.If crime flicks are of interest to you, and you enjoy a complex character study, see this film.  "},{"Title":"Love to eat or eat to love","Date":"2 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  How many succulent films with food as a central theme can you remember? Since I can't remember what I had for dinner yesterday, I won't be much help. So I will start my list with this one, and now to look for a good bistro.To really appreciate this delicacy, miss a meal before you view it. You might feel like leaping into the screen to join the patrons, but hunger will enhance the experience.How did they assemble this wonderful ensemble of characters? This menu was filled with gourmet performances from the well- to the un-seasoned but they all go together from soup to nuts. Louis (Danny Aiello) portrays a wonderful restaurateur/ex-bookmaker who longs for his late wife's traditional meatballs. Udo( Edoardo Ballerini), the son and star chef barks commands and pitches woo to Nicole (Vivian Wu) while Ken (John Corbett) engages the cast and the audience while setting us up all along. More than just food, this film is about relationships father-son, partners, lovers, antagonists, friendship, employment and family are all carefully selected ingredients in the screenplay. And important elements like thoughtful preparation, careful handling, patience, timing ambience and love are illustrated in the kitchen, the dining room and between the performers.In the dialog, the question, When did eating become a Broadway show? indicates the perceptiveness of these two talented writers, Rick Schaugnessy and Brian Kalatta.  They have captured the mood and the voice of the power eatery. Alex Lasarenko provides much of the original music as a fine complement to this film. The cinematographer, Tim Ives, sets the frenetic pace that could set us up for a serious case of indigestion. But it won't.If cooking for someone is an intimate act, this is a passion play. Go early, but you can't beat the Dinner Rush.  "},{"Title":"Great food movie, fine NYC movie, fun mob movie","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Danny Aiello as an aging bookie watches his talented son turn the family restaurant from traditional Italian to the hottest new thing in lower Manhattan. Great performances, wonderful scenes of the actual work of a restaurant, characters you care about and bad guys who deserve what they get.  The main cast is accompanied by a stream of NYC-esque characters who pass through the restaurant during a busy evening.Great performances by all, and all the fine ambience of a restaurant who want to keep returning to. "}{"Title":"I NEVER want to work in a restaurant!","Date":"30 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What a fascinating insider view of the NY restaurant scene. I read that the actual eatery used belongs to the director so I know there's a lot of truth there. Great characters all around and a lot of new faces to be on the watch for in the future. Udo, the son and chef, was particularly interesting. Though I didn't have my hunger worked up as much as after BIG NIGHT, it is in the same general category. Fabulous food all around. I want to try that lobster dish!!! "},{"Title":"Near Perfect","Date":"15 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  There is so much great about this film.  Compelling story, perfect acting, visually beautiful, interesting characters, excellent recreation of superstar restaurant.  I am seeking out where the movie was made and going to New York to experience it. "},{"Title":"A dish that should be tasted to be believed","Date":"10 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a really good film that really captures the atmosphere of a kitchen. Maybe because my parents comes from the catering business, or maybe I just have a thing for good food.The story mixes the emotions of the stress of running a restaurant, to a chef who is also a addicted gambler, the owner fending off the Mob and a killer waiting for his prey.The actors are really good and gives the story a real edge to it. Stories within stories with good character building. It's pure delight watching them unfold.I've seen this twice and it gets better after every viewing. "},{"Title":"Yum yum","Date":"31 July 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've had to add my comments, mainly to underline the concencus; this film has been woefully underexposed considering its quality.This is a tight piece of work. There are clear but useful metaphors such as the rush between plots and stories being reflected by the rush of the service counter. There are some accurate truths about restaurants such as the fights and the sweat in the kitchen being distilled into glorious amuse bouche. There is an intimacy between the characters compounded by the packed tables and the candlelight.I have been that barman btw. Everyone's my friend, I am the oracle. Excellent.All in all, a splendid and tasty platter, highly recommended. It must also have been done on a budget of under $4-5 million too, so hats off.The only thing I could have done with would have been more of the sexy black lass Ken chats up at the bar. Still, this film knows a lot about making one's mouth water. "},{"Title":"A small movie that plays big","Date":"25 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I happened upon this movie purely by accident Staying at a friend's friend's house, I found the DVD on the TV. I'd never heard of it, but I thought the cast looked promising...and as soon as Udo (Ballerini) fired the assistant and gave his no misfits speech, I was hooked. (He's my new hero.) The cast is more than promising--it's top notch. Danny Aiello is solid and dependable, and John Corbett (whom I can either take or leave) was really in his element here. The standout performer, though, is Edoardo Ballerini. The man has presence. I'd love to see him in something that really lets him show his range.Conclusion? See it. But be sure to eat first, because all those lovingly filmed kitchen scenes will make you hungry.  "},{"Title":"Great underground movie.","Date":"9 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I see this came out in 2000. I have no recollection of this being in the theater. Just happen to catch in on cable on some crazy channel and I loved it. Great acting from a list of great actors. Really no complaints about anything besides a minor one brought up in one of the forums about the opening credits and the red lettering being used. Movie just rushes along, with its various subplots. I really was surprised by Corbetts character. That came out of nowhere. Though its mainly a drama, I found myself laughing at allot of scenes. Like Fitzgeralds constant rich drunken rants. Funny stuff. Though at times i wanted to strangle Duncan for his stupid gambling problem, it all works out well. I saw the location of this restaurant on here. I must of walked by it a 100 times without any thought back in the day. I'll have to check it out the next time i'm in lower Manhattan. "},{"Title":"This movie was for people who like some grit mixed with art.","Date":"26 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was a very good film. I thought it was visually rich. The performances were solid, with each character making you believe in their authenticity and value in the story line. Very little waste in story telling at all. The leaps you are asked to make in terms of casting are manageable as the story and craftmanship takes over. Another boost If you're a suburbanite and you yearn for some urban culture, this one one is your pill. "},{"Title":"Food, Gohmbas and Guns - Fagettaboutit.","Date":"22 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Director Bob Giraldi had an unexplained thirteen year hiatus from filmmaking before he delivered this frentic look at the world of High Art food in a trendy Tribeca Italian eatery.  From the look and feel of this film it looks like he might have spent his time either working in or owning a similar restaurant.  Lensed from a script by first time screenwriters Rick Shaughnessy and Brian S. Kalata this is look inside the frantic, neurotic, `food as a Broadway Show' atmosphere of a restaurant which might be just one bad review away from ordinary.Danny Aiello (Louis Cropa) is the old world patriarch reluctant to let go of the restaurant he opened for his wife, oh so many years ago.  He looks around at the new restaurant his Chef son Udo has fashioned and does not recognize what has been his home and base of less than legitimate operation for decades.  Aiello has made his reputation playing these sorts of Italian men of honor, perfecting the mannerisms so well he could well have phoned this role in, but surprises us with his ease and grace.  He is the older Italian gentleman that you could believe learned his craft at the feet of the old Mustache Petes like Carlo Gambino, et al.  Completely his opposite is his overbearing, perfectionist and general pain in the ass son Udo.  In a performance which just pushes a little past insufferable Edoardo Bailerini is watchable, but only slightly likeable.  He will live and die by the next food review and must constantly push the food envelope to be bigger, better and more flashy than he was yesterday.  In a way, you know that this is a sucker's game that he will someday lose.During one Dinner Rush in the Tribeca tratitoria we meet the chic set food and happening addicts who crave the next `thing' crawling from one new place to another.  Epitomized in DINNER RUSH by the Art Critic played expertly by the veteran character actor Mark Margolis.  As Fitzgerald he whines, cajoles, hisses insults and generally ends up making a monumental ass out of himself.  He is so deliciously bitchy and so damn much fun.  In a lesser role, Sandra Bernhard is the hip, slick Jennifer Freeley who's uncertain claim to fame allows her a table, but not the best table in the house.  If you've seen Bernhard before you've seen this character.  I only find her mildly amusing most times and less so now.  She is what she is and not much more.  Come on Sandra, I know that you can do better than rehash every other performance you've ever given, or maybe not.Against the backdrop of the restaurant the film spins the usual gangster sub plot, except to Giraldi's credit he takes a very different spin on the finale.  He caught me by complete surprise and I was extremely delighted. Bravo for playing it so close to the vest till the big payoff finale.In total this is a hip, slick look inside the guts of that restaurant you can never get a table at.  Once you get past the obligatory mob trash at the start this is an enjoyable watch, but I had a real problem with the cinematography.  Though I realize that this was Tim Ives first project as a Director of Photography did Giraldi look at the dailies? What may have seen a great idea on location with the use of ultra focus out to portray a violent act just came off as amateur and lame.  The kitchen sequences, shot under green cast flourescent did nothing to showcase a central character of this film, which is the food.  Who wants to look at green food unless you're Dr. Suess? Although I applaud Ives's moving camera he really missed the mark more than he hit it.  In some places, the lighting was too dark to set the tone effectively and in others it was just plain off and I'm not referring to the blackout shots which looked better than the rest of the film.  Unless he's gotten much better in his later films he might consider going back to focus puller or camera operator under a master DP at least until he learns the basics.Overall, save this one for those weekends when you've seen everything out and are looking for something a bit different.  "},{"Title":"Where is this place? Tribeca??","Date":"23 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Picked this dvd up to round out my 3 for deal at the video store, didn't have any great expectations for it, but was I surprised. Never a real Danny Aiello fan.think his performances are a little stilted, overdone, overacted. In any event, I think this is the best thing he's ever done, Moonstruck notwithstanding.  He's extremely believable, as is the rest of the cast. welll written, well directed & well worth your time.I give it an 8.5 outof 10. "},{"Title":"Solid","Date":"3 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I found this movie very enjoyable.  I thought the dialogue was witty and precise, the script very tight as a whole.  I give great credit to the writers - they hit the nail on the head in terms of their portrayal of NYC restaurant life.  As someone who worked at a busy New York eatery, I thought that the characters in the movie were frightenly similar to those you come across in real New York restaurants.  I'm surprised the movie hasn't seen any significant publicity (that I know of) and especially surprised that this was the first effort by this talented writing duo. "}{"Title":"Real Restaurant mixed with Hollywood Flair","Date":"25 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  As a former restaurant owner and manager, I found Dinner Rush to be very satisfying.  The characters, including the staff and the guests, were so true-to-life of those you find in any dining establishment.   From the starving artist server, to the egotistical Chef, mouthy gambling Sous Chef, and obnoxious critic guest, these were all identifiable characters to me - somewhat over the top, but that is exactly how all of these characters ARE in reality.   Of course, the Hollywood flair that was added to make it more `entertaining' was nothing that I have personally experienced, but it all worked well within the film's setting.  Overall, an enjoyable, tasty tidbit that I would highly recommend, especially to anyone who has worked in the business (of restaurants - not crime families, that is!).  8 of 10 "},{"Title":"REVENGE WITH A TWIST","Date":"6 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have just watched a film that i did not want to end, It woz great the acting the story and the twist at the end, I hired this film because there woz nothing else in i had not heard about it or seen a trailer for it but i have now watched it twice and cannot stop telling my friends about it and will buy it when its released on DVD, At the end of the film it is dedicated to the SILVER FOX can someone please let me know who this is?. MIKE. "},{"Title":"For NYers who are hungry for a good flick","Date":"22 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Highly recommend!!!If you are a *New Yorker *Fan of good food *Not in the mood to read at the movies *Tired of Big budget/ Big Ego moviesYou should go see this movie Dinner Rush, B. Giraldi Direction (yes, of Michael Jackson fame, but pls don't let that stop you)Watching it was like spending an evening (not just a quick meal, mind you but a good 3course evening) at family style italian restuarant that just on the cusp of becoming a  NY discovery.Dinner Rush stars, hey what do you care!? You're tired of Big Budgest and Big ego's anyway (but don't blink or you'll miss the uncredited Dinero cameo!!)  "},{"Title":"Amiable performances, good nature, and well crafted drama mixed to a nice blend of a movie","Date":"29 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  That somewhat corny statement aside, Dinner Rush is a good movie.  Not great, but certainly something to go to when you may feel tired of movies that leave a bad taste in your mouth (if at all, this film might encourage you to go to a fancy Italian restaurant).  Anywho, the film weaves interconnecting plots involving a aging ex-mobster type (Danny Aiello in one of his better performances) who wants to get out of the numbers and restaurant businesses for good, a chef (Edoallero Ballerini) who wants to take over sed restaurant, and many other characters revolving on one night in the restaurant leading up to a surprising climax.  Some flaws keep this from being a direct hit (Sandra Bernhard for one thing), but it is a pleasant enough dramedy to fulfil most people's entertainment values.  B+ "},{"Title":"Dinner Rush (2003) is a great color film noir movie packed with atmosphere, ECU's, and great food up close","Date":"30 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Dinner Rush (2003) is a great color film noir movie packed with atmosphere, ECU's, and great food up close.It is a stylish movie about a single evening behind the scenes at a trendy New York City restaurant (in Tribeca which was a Manhattan warehouse district in the west 20's only a few decades ago) successful because it is stylish....a restaurant run by a father and son Italian-American team which makes more than $250,000 on the night depicted, which is besieged by gangsters who demand to take it over, and have already murdered one of its two elderly owners.The movie keeps our attention from start to finish. The acting and writing is superb, and we like all the people portrayed, even the villains (always the mark of a great movie).In common with other great Italian restaurant movies (Goodfellas comes to mind), the closeup camera shots of wonderful food and wine served in large portions and goblets is one reason the movie is great.It's about good food served in a good restaurant where both the kitchen staff and the food service staff are all artists of high accomplishment.....performing artists providing a compelling and satisfying show for the lucky audience....the customers.Seeing Dinner Rush (2003) is like making an actual visit to a great, stylish NYC upscale Italian restaurant (which in the movie refuses to serve traditional meatballs and spaghetti type Italian food in favor of ultra-gourmet food of the sort trendy NYC food and restaurant reviewers live to write about).The entire movie is an experience in a cramped, close quarters space, which is always true of New York City restaurants. Spacious places no longer exist, especially if they only recently became prominent.The kitchen is tiny and crowded, and customer area is an elbow-to-elbow experience, and the frequent shots of wine, wine, wine (and occasional non-wine cocktail drinks) fit right in.Going to this incredible, memorable restaurant requires pain control, which is why the booze is not optional.....it's a requirement.This is a night-time (film noir) movie in which highlight scenes take place in small, dark spaces, with the climax scene at the end of the movie set in the downstairs men's toilet (where the two menacing gangsters are dispatched to their maker by a very unlikely hit man).The movie is packed with Extreme Closeups (ECU's) where the entire screen is taken up with the faces of key actors, and sometimes background actors.I have never seen a movie this good with as many facial closeup shots as in this movie. A movie shot like that can only work if the actors are wonderful, and so is the script. Both actors and script are indeed wonderful in Dinner Rush (2000).This movie is a true work of cinematic art and genius.I first learned about it when I had just left the Algonquin Hotel restaurant on 44th St. in NYC and walked past the Harvard (University alumni) Club a few doors down. A sign in the window about 8 inches square quietly advised that Dinner Rush (2003) would be screened for members as part of the club's special film program.I never saw other publicity about the movie (which, it is true, I didn't learn about until 3 years after it was made), and thank my lucky stars the NYC Harvard Club's film enthusiasts put that sign in the club's front window for passers by like me to see.Great, great food and restaurant movie good in every way.-------- Written by Tex (David) Allen, SAG Actor.Email Tex Allen at TexAllen@Rocketmail.Com.Visit WWW.IMDb.Me/TexAllen for movie credits and biography. "},{"Title":"Dessert is a dish best written patiently.","Date":"17 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Imagine sitting in one of New York's up and coming Italian restaurants, sipping an espresso with some cracking jazz music playing, and watching a pretty damned interesting story unfold. At the main table sits Louis Cropa (Danny Aiello) with his personal assistant. Louis owns the joint and is being intimidated by Black and Blue, two highly contrasting gangsters (despite their names) who want a piece of this highly lucrative business, which is only making this much money in the first place because of Udo, Louis' son, played by Edoardo Ballerini, a super-talented fame hungry chef who is waiting to be given ownership by his father. Not only this, but the souschef chef, Duncan (Louis' favourite chef) is a gambler who owes Black and Blue money, lots of it. AND there's a strange guy at the bar who is watching all of this unfold.We float around the restauraunt and share in each of the main characters' plights and observing some spectacular looking food being made by tense and lightening fast cooks. We watch through medium shots as if we are at a number of tables around the place, talking with the waitresses and laughing with the bartender as he plays some fun general knowledge games with punters. In fact, the waitresses' night is just as interesting as the main protagonists'. They get hassle galore from pretentious customers who treat them as second class citizens, one customer actually says 'Doesn't it bother you when they (waitresses) tell you their names?' in full earshot of a waitresses name that now escapes me. Nice. Still, it makes for compelling viewing. And of course, amidst and around all of this we still have Louis and Udo, Black and Blue and Duncan getting through the night in various ways. It is this toing and froing between the main plot and the waitresses' subplot that keeps this film vibrant and interesting. We don't mind being pulled away from the main action as it unfolds and are happy to be patient in waiting for the finale.The end, where a man is shot in the basement toilets makes and nearly breaks the film. It is gratifying and yet badly planned. Considering that it is a professional hit, you would think that they would wait until the mark had left the place and then kill them in an alleyway or something. This does not kill the film by any stretch, but it does leave the end up in the air in more than one way. Still, don't let that stop you from finding out who dies and how and what for; it's a dessert worth waiting for.Not bad for 21 days' filming! "},{"Title":"Eat Drink Man Woman, Drei Sterne, Como aqua para chocolate...","Date":"30 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Who can resist the temptation of food?  Remember Adam and Eve fell because of one bite of apple.  It's a sin to be tempted by food.Food, so important to life.  Food melts the iceberg of Martha (Drei Sterne - Mostly Martha), food gives courage (Eat Drink Man Woman) and food helps to perservere (Como aqua para chocolate).  And food, an immortal theme to make movies about, The Cook the Thief His Wife & Her Lover...Good, good that we have made eating like a Hollywood show sex, gang, bullet and of course murder here.  Which one is more delicious... ah, Dinner Rush is too rushing for me... just like the American lifestyle.  Well, I still stick to the slow eating style.  It's so rushing that my stomach just cannot digest.  Yet, good job, especially like the surprising killing at toilet and the weird food writer, her wig is just amazingly comical.By the way, is Gigino three year solid booked now?  Wondering, I have to find it out.  Buon appetito! "},{"Title":"Shame that this film was in limited theatrical release","Date":"26 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film was very enjoyable.  Great cast, great script, great ending...what more do you need ?  Well, a great setting like New York City.I really don't want to give much away.  But I'll say this  This is a film to see, no question about that.It was worth the wait to see this on DVD, although I would rather have seen this film in the theatre. "},{"Title":"Intelligent comedy","Date":"11 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The people of New York have been ridiculed before; especially the intellectuals and most of all the art critics, going to flashy restaurants, being mean to everyone. This film is one of the nastiest attacks on these kind of people, but it's also an attack of the other New York clichées such as the Irish police captains, Queens' mobsters, chic waitresses and chefs de la cuisine, who are serving their poor guests unbelieveable (an probably uneatable) dishes, in the hope of getting mentioned by the most famous restaurant critics.This is a New York to be laughed at, but the plot is interesting, intelligent and rather surprising in the end. What one remembers is the satire. It's not the first time you watch that, but definitely one of the most clever ones.     "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"19 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have just returned after being at the first European showing of this film at the Bergen International Film Festival. What can I say? This is one the best films I have seen in a long time. It's great. It mixes a tribute to Italian cooking with a mafia storyline. Brilliant. A must see! "}{"Title":"great film, but probably better on DVD","Date":"4 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Great dialogue. Great mish-mash of personalities and characters you would normally find in new york city. Although some were just caricatures, they worked in this film. Danny Aiello did a great job pulling off the mobster/godfather role without looking like a clown, like the thugs who were harrassing him. However, the restaurant host, played by Vivian Wu, was quite annoying. What kind of accent was she trying to pull off??? But despite her annoying presence, the film flowed through the end and completed with a great plot twist. Like its geographic setting, the film is fast-paced and moves along smoothly, without a slow or dull moment. Any scene that involved food and/or the preparation of food was wonderful. The frenetic shots of thekitchen puts you right there, so you can almost smell the food. But in the end, it's probably a better movie on DVD than seen in theaters.  "},{"Title":"Boring, boring film including lots of cursing and a stereotypic mafioso.","Date":"26 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" When I red the summary of this film I thought I'd see a nice piece of elegance and smoky atmosphere.The elegance I did not find, and the atmosphere was smoky in a way that rots your brain.Everyone curses like it would be banned tomorrow. I wonder how only one percent of people in a popular fancy―that's what you'd think by opening scenes, but then see men without ties let in, and female waiters wearing some nipple-licking shirts!―restaurant seem civilized.The camera work is awful and makes me feel dizzy with all the close-ups. Sometimes it gets just laughable, when they put jazzy music and show the most bad-looking crab meal being made. And that meal everyone thinks looks the best ever.They also get corny also with 'sad' scenes. Yes, some chef that I'd kick out from my own fictional restaurant in ten seconds for not working loses $30.000 betting for football, violin music starts playing, restaurant owner thinks back how his life wasn't life at all sometime in the past, some stupidos have sex clothes on crying the same time... and I am checking the clock once again.After over a hour of waiting something exciting, interesting or even decent to happen I see a mafia double-kill, some overacting towards it, some implausible pieces of TV- news about the kills and finally the ending credits, relieving me from the hands of of overwhelming boredom.I really should'we stopped watching after 30 minutes. "},{"Title":"I Had To Wait 90 Minutes!","Date":"11 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" And I still feel hungry after chewing on this film. It gives you a great look at the feel and the frantic pace of an up and coming restaurant in NY. However--If you are not really into this it may not be worth it.Its crew have all the problems and pressures that constitute the usual I may have to work here the rest of my life fear. Enter the drama, and reckless and crazy behavior that goes along with these insecurities.It does a good job of mixing different characters, and their stories that are mildly interesting. But I will have to give the final pay off a small tip.Phil M "},{"Title":"Just happened by this one and WOW...","Date":"6 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  So beautiful to look at. Danny Aiello is always a pleasure to watch. His character wasn't so cliché' as some of the others.Sandra Bernhard....I would have paid extra to have that whole scene deleted. Worthless and painful to watch.Great story about a family run restaurant, and the problems that spring from it.You will be very hungry watching as well. The food looks amazing.As in real life so many people to grate on you but I would say, check this one out indeed.  "},{"Title":"Delicious!","Date":"12 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was one of those unexpected finds for me.  It's also one that I've been recommending like mad to everyone I know.  I'm a complete foodie, so I loved the look into the hectic world of a restaurant. It reminded me of an Altman film with the way it had one core storyline surrounded by several satellite storylines. One of my favorites was the storyline with Marti the artist/waitress and the Fitzgerald the gallery owner.  Her determination to not let such an obnoxious patron ruffle her feathers, and his attempts to ruffle them as part of dinner time entertainment. I found the ending to be a complete surprise, and I'm not easily surprised. Very unexpected.  It shed a whole new light on the character of Louis that I felt required a second viewing.  On the second viewing, all I could think was, That Louis, he's a pretty cool cat. All of the actors were wonderful and did a first rate job.  "},{"Title":"One of the best mob movies ever","Date":"24 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This films has everything! It has a real look inside of a old mob meets new mob life, with real characters who you feel you know and love.and the actors...you couldn't of picked a better cast yourself! I just love this film. "},{"Title":"Food for thought","Date":"16 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The first thing that came into my mind when i saw Danny Aiello on the DVD cover of this great movie was I wonder if this is a clever cinema link to Leon (Luc Besson). In Leon Danny Aiello unforgettably plays the restaurant owner Tony who acts as crooked mentor and employer to Leon the hitman. It's very good casting because i think many fans of Leon will make this connection and see Dinner Rush out of the same curiosity to know what Tony's story was... and in a strange way the film can serve as an offshoot. It's a satisfactory meal for the mind as the film is set almost entirley in the restaurant and played by a fine cast helped by a good script. It's a good little low budget peice with snappy dialogue that leaves you guessing what will happen next...If you liked Leon - you'll like this for different reasons but watch it all the same. "},{"Title":"My take on this movie (contains spoiler)","Date":"14 April 2009","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I usually don't write reviews or comments. But I felt like commenting about this movie, mainly because I'm seeing all good comments about it.I thought, this movie was absolutely terrible, and boring. Please hear me out and don't think I'm a troll...this was just my honest opinion on the movie.I watched it for the first time tonight from beginning to end. The entire 1 hour and 40 minutes was basically just talking talking talking talking....no drama or anything. Don't get me wrong, I love good dialogue in movies, but this movie just did not interest me in the least.It basically just follows from one table to the next as people carry on conversations and then ends with two guys getting whacked. You have an old guy who all movie, all he does is talk about paintings. Then you have a smart-ass cook who doesn't care about anybody and he listens to his basketball games on the radio. You've got the guy at the bar who sits there all movie (until the end) talking and drinking. You've got the bartender who takes bets on if he knows the answers to questions or not.At about 50 minutes in the movie comes the very first bit of drama. The chef Duncan decides to poison the mobsters food. After 50 minutes of being bored, my interest perked up a bit. So he puts rat poison in their food...gives it to a waitress and tells her to give it to the mobsters. Then as she's walking up the stairs he changes his mind, grabs the plate from her and throws it away and then tells the other cook to cook the same food up again, this time with no poison. I was like are you kidding I understand people have different opinions and interests but I just can't believe this movie was rated so high (7.3) I rated it a 1. Because it did not interest me at all, I thought it was boring, I thought most of the acting was bad and the story went absolutely no where.Now I understand most people who liked the movie will call me a troll, and I admit my review is a bit harsh, but this is just how I feel. "},{"Title":"Microcosm of Mob Ties and Father-Son Struggles in a Trendy Eatery","Date":"17 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" If you like to flip the channel dexterously between The Sopranos and the Food Network, this 2000 movie may be for you. Directed by Bob Giraldi, who is still probably most famous for directing a pre-surgery Michael Jackson in his Beat It video, the story is set in one evening almost entirely within the confines of a trendy downtown Manhattan restaurant in the trendy TriBeCa neighborhood. Giraldi succeeds in developing and maintaining a sense of combustible energy when it comes to an upscale restaurant's inner workings. He should know since he is part-owner of several such restaurants of which the one featured, Gigino Trattoria, is one. By comparison, the film feels less assured when it comes to the cross currents of its multiple dramatic elements.Although the movie has an omnibus feel about it, the plot primarily focuses on the inevitable conflicts between Louis, the old-school owner and Udo, his ambitious, hotshot chef son. It helps that Danny Aiello plays Louis in such an economical fashion as he can make his character's melodramatic situation convincing - quitting a bookmaking side-business that got his partner killed and handing over the reigns of the eatery to his son. Screenwriters Rick Shaughnessy and Brian Kalata have crafted a tight script, though there is a cursory feel to the film that gives us a Robert Altman-like hodgepodge of eccentric characters. Their lives are shuffled between courses with some odd casting choices that somehow work, for example, Sandra Bernhard as a harpy food critic in a bad wig and John Corbett as a deceptively casual bar regular.Edoardo Ballerini is not particularly interesting as Udo, but Kirk Acevedo provides jumpy energy to Duncan, the sous-chef whose gambling debt has a domino effect on the rest of the characters. The mob angle is played up with stock characters embodied by Mike McGlone and Alex Corrado as two obvious hoods, and there is even a pretentious dinner party headed by a pompous art gallery owner portrayed with obnoxious languor by Mark Margolis. However, it is the hustle of the food preparation in the kitchen when the film really takes off, in particular, when Udo creates a sensational-looking, customized lobster tower for Bernhard's character. It's surprising that Giraldi has not made more films, but at least he sticks with his obvious passion and comes up with an often-interesting dish that I have to believe Anthony Bourdain would love. "},{"Title":"Average Restaurant Drama","Date":"6 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  'Dinner Rush' (can someone explain me the title?) belongs to a genre that had some remarkable successes in the last few years - the restaurant drama. Yes, there is such a genre, and it had a few highs - especially in the Japanese and Taiwanese cinema. This one is located in Manhattan, in an expensive Italian restaurant. Almost all the action happens in one evening, which may be the result of an adaptation of a play (just guessing). A Mafia story, and a multitude of interesting and generally well articulated characters interfere. However, the whole story is never interesting and compelling enough, and while enjoying the good acting I was left with a feeling of lack of consistency. The action was not interesting enough, the directing was not stylish enough, and even the food did not seem tasty enough to justify an evening to this movie. 7/10 on my personal scale. "}{"Title":"Another gambling debt gone wrong movie","Date":"27 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Although this film has a terrific cast and assured directing, it's just another take on the Italian mob life which we've seen ad nauseum. I wish they all had been given something better to work with. And you're left on your own to figure out the characters' motivations - which isn't difficult, since we're all too familiar with not only the story, but the characters, too. "},{"Title":"Too stereotypical","Date":"2 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Why does every ethnic movie have to be so stereotypical? You have the tough, old, street-wise, Italian restaurant owner who's paid his dues, the young, hard-nosed restaurant chef who thinks he is nothing short of god, the insulting restaurant customer who demands special treatment because he's waited 45 minutes, the young mob thugs who only know how to eat, curse and threaten, the bartender who knows every bit of trivia on the planet, the handsome guy sitting at the bar, the young gay maitre'de, the young waiters/waitresses with insecurity issues, etc. Nothing much going on in this movie, just the workings one night in a restaurant. Camera goes back and forth to the owner, the kitchen, the irate customer, the restaurant critic, the mob thugs, the bartender and back again and again without a great deal happening the director is trying to create the feeling in the restaurant by clogging your head. We get the point. I thought something good was going to happen when a restaurant critic (Sandra Bernhardt) walked in and sat down and the chef had to shift into high gear, but Sandra just sat there and slopped her food up and didn't say much. One of the chefs is a gambler and has to listen to the game as he cooks. Right away you can see what is going to happen. He loses all his money and flips out. Original. There are some attempts to create tension and suspense but they fall short. One of the cooks sneaks outside for a break with one of the girl tablesitters and they decide to have sex with their clothes on up against a wall in sub-freezing temperatures. Boring. Nothing in this movie will grab you. Albeit, Danny Aiello is one of my favorite actors and he does a good job here. "},{"Title":"A mess","Date":"3 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It was an unusual film about the things that happened in a busy Italian restaurant in America in just one night. Things that happened include some cocky customers criticising the decoration of the restaurant; one of the cook being a pathological gambler and lost a lot of money; the chief chef wanted a share of the restaurant from the owner; a food commentator coming to the restaurant for food; a guy that earned money by answering difficult questions; the restaurant suddenly lost the power supply and finally, the murder of two gangsters.Although the pacing of this film was not slow and the scenes were colourful, I did not like this film. I thought that the film was unusual in the sense that it only talked about the events in one night, more like a cross-sectional profile of the restaurant, instead of a longitudinal profile of the restaurant as other *normal* films would do. However, the result of this film was a mess. The film talked about events happening at this table and then suddenly talked about unrelated events at another table. The result was that the film was a bunch of unrelated footage being joined together for no reason. I found it hard to understand why anyone would make a film like this. The story was fragmented and incoherent. The acting was mediocre. The worst of all is that there were so little attention paid to the beauty of cookery. There was only one scene when we know that the chief chef was interested in cooking. In the other scenes he only bothered about when he would become the owner. The only beneficial thing I had in watching this film was that I learned some trivial general knowledge in the scenes when the man who knew everything answers the questions that the customers challenged him.In short, I would not recommend anyone to see this film. Even though it was innovative to make a cross sectional film, the result was a mess. I found this film bad and senseless.  "}]