[{"Title":"A new genre for Disney that actually works","Date":"3 February 2002","Score":"64 out of 85 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Disney, the film name that once stood for all things innocent and suitable for all ages, has finally started to realise that to survive it needs to become more diverse. Such diversity has been very apparent in the last couple of years. Films like Tarzan and The Emperor's New Groove have made an attempt to move away from the traditional song-driven routine of Disney's past and into new, uncharted territory. Atlantis is the boldest step yet, but we have to remember This is STILL Disney. The first ever serious film to come out of Disney's animation studio is a major achievement for them - in fact it's so serious it makes it into PG territory. Perhaps why a lot of families were scared off from seeing it this past summer.But despite the more mature subject matter, this is still a film that Disney wanted to draw in the families with, not just mature audiences, so the plot had to be kept simple enough for children to understand, but interesting enough to take it away from the realms of The Little Mermaid et al.So what we get is actually a potentially detailed plot, unfortunately suffering the blow of being condensed into a 96-minute movie. Ultimately, this is an action film about Atlantis, not about the exposition preceding it, so we are whisked through the first half hour with as many sequences bombarding the screen as is possible without losing coherency. Suspend your disbelief of how the characters get from point A to point B so quickly, you're unlikely to find an animated film that detailed coming out of Hollywood! If you want epic levels of detail in the plot, turn to James Cameron's Titanic. Both films feature a boat in some manner.And let's talk about love, shall we? Yes, as with a lot of films, the lead male (one Milo Thatch, a bumbling archaeologist) and lead female (Kida, the clichéd Atlantian princess) are set to fall in love with each other. But what I found was not as clichéd as I was expecting. By film's end, for once, the characters touching/feeling/kissing sequence was far more subdued. There's various points in the film where the attraction grows, but it's just not in the ballpark of, say, The Little Mermaid (A good thing).You may have grasped that this is a rather clichéd film. Correct. You have your leading hero and heroine, backed up by more than half a dozen crew members who go on the expedition, all being given their moments during the film. Numerous other characters appear, take up the few minutes of screentime, then disappear. It doesn't take a genius to do the maths &#150; a 96-minute film with a focus on action and visuals, and with a considerable cast, has very little time to expand the characters to any major extent. So what does it rely on? Clichés, and lots of them. Every character emulates something that has been done a thousand times before. You have the bumbling scientist, the attractive princess, the square-jawed colonel, the rich eccentric, the maniacal sleazebag, the Russian femme fatale &#150; need I go on?I don't know why this got to anyone &#150; I found the tongue-in-cheek nature of this film quite amusing. Alright, this is meant to be a serious flick, but do you really expect Disney to give up every single trait of their history? At least the writers have tried to come up with consistently witty dialogue, and sometimes it even is a little inspired.But in the end it's those big stunning visuals that put the icing on this cake. The CGI animation is truly amazing in places, and doesn't dwarf the characters, which was a flaw that let the recent Titan A.E. down. Speaking of characters, Disney hired an outside comics industry artist to create the designs, bringing an anime style to the film. Infact the visual presentation of the film as a whole owes a lot to anime, much more so than any previous Disney outing. This resulted in a conflict with fans of the Japanese anime, Nadia, for the film's overall similarities with said cartoon series. Having not seen this anime, I can't comment.With picture, there is sound. Gary Rydstrom heads up the sound team, and what a soundtrack! From the opening shot the sound stage is alive and is a treat. James Newton Howard treats us to a dynamic musical score, which compliments the film in every way, never sounding out of place and always helping to build the tension or subdue it.Perhaps I missed the point of what the creators intended. To me, the film conveys that it's an adventure thrill ride, albeit with a more serious tone than any Disney film before it. If you don't like the clichéd tongue-in-cheek attitude, then perhaps the effort that has been poured into the visuals will delight. Heck, at least the mythology is far more correct than can be said about other Disney efforts (*cough*Hercules*cough*).This is a positive, 10 out of 10 review, from someone who was blown away by this film. I always suspend my disbelief with any animated film &#150; after all, the laws of the real world are more than frequently broken in the cartoon medium. So sit back, enjoy the ride, and perhaps everyone can find something to enjoy about this film. "},{"Title":"Amazing movie!","Date":"9 October 2006","Score":"43 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I thought this movie was very well put together. The voice-overs were also great. I liked how they all overcame their conflicts and reached their goals. I would recommend this movie to anyone. It was definitely worth the time and money to watch it. Atlantis has some comic scenes that made me laugh. Other scenes made me sad. And others made me glad. It is a movie any age can enjoy. From the moment Milo is the crazy profesor or until he gathers the crew up for the fantastic voyage under the sea. After I watched the movie, I read the book. It was good as well, but the movie puts better pictures in your mind. It is just like the book. But go ahead and watch this movie! "},{"Title":"Sweet!","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"36 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie was great!  It was an excellent rendition of an ancient myth. The animation was somewhat odd, but nothing new from Disney.  It was definitely better than expected for a Disney movie with no singing.The background animation was magical.  It was a different level of work for the Disney people.  Some of the characters were a little boxy, but it was more than made up for with the beauty and lushness of the scenery.  The music was largely instrumental but that was perfect for the movie.  This was definitely not a film that needed the characters to bust into song.Perfect.  10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Well, I liked it!","Date":"14 February 2002","Score":"36 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Here's what I knew about Atlantis before watching it* - It's officially Disney's first animated sci-fi adventure.  I'm not sure how accurate that is (I like to nitpick) but it made me curious first time I heard it described.* - The preview looked, for the most part, damn cool.  Evidently, it was also too cryptic according to some critics after the fact.* - It apparently did SO badly that Disney said, Screw it, let's re-release 'Spy Kids'.So, with all that said, how is the movie?Hella-cool.I'm a sucker for animated fantasy that involves stirring music and rampant special effects anyway, but Atlantis goes all out.  It's a throwback to all the CGI eye-candy shots in Beauty and the Beast and Aladdin, so much so that it's almost an effects animator's Best-Of Show.  The characters maybe aren't that memorable (except, perhaps, for the ship's medical officer), and the plot's a little dull, but this isn't a movie you watch for the plot.Here's a controversy that bothers me.  The failure (as in, it only took in, like, five-hundred-million or something; I know animators who'd kill to see fifteen bucks of that) of this movie compared to the popularity of Shrek and Monsters Inc. has been seen as evidence of the death of traditional animation.  I don't think that's true.  How do you account for the South Park movie?  What about Final Fantasy?  Really, the story and the artistry is everything, not the method.  I don't know what Disney's comeback movie will be like, but I don't think they're out of the picture yet. "},{"Title":"Why are there so many negative reviews?","Date":"9 February 2003","Score":"23 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I thought that this film was very enjoyable. I watched this film with my wife BEFORE I had my first child.  Therefore, I was not watching it as simply family entertainment and I still thoroughly enjoyed it.  It seems as though many of the reviews are pointing out that this movie is not earth shattering, there were no unexpected plot changes and that the movie was predictable and boring.  If these people were watching this movie expecting to have a religious experience doing so, then they were obviously going to be disappointed.   This is simply an animated movie; nothing more.  If you want to see this movie simply to sit back and let yourself be entertained, you will not be disappointed.  In closing, this is definitely not the best movie Disney has made, but it IS entertaining and I do not understand the bad reputation it has received. "},{"Title":"Atlantis The Lost Classic","Date":"29 March 2014","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I am absolutely astounded at the negative reviews for this film, both from IMDb and from the critics.I grew up watching this film as a child, and I remember loving just about every second of it. Seeing it again at an older age, it holds up just as well if not better than I remember it. Some Disney films I feel are given too harsh of treatment from critics and I feel should be held in higher regard (The Lion King II Simba's Pride for example), but if I had to pick the absolute most underrated film (animated or not) to ever come from them, I would have to choose Atlantis The Lost Empire as one of my top picks.To begin with, the animation is some of the best I've ever seen from Disney to date. The visuals feel so incredibly huge, they look realistic, they move fluently, the textures are amazingly detailed One could be completely blown away by this just from the visuals alone. The scenes in the Crystal Chamber, the submarine, the fight/action sequences, they're incredible. The designs are something I can commend too. The look and feel of the city of Atlantis is very creative and awesome to look at, and I always got the sense that this was a real lost, living and breathing culture with a coherent society.Something I feel this film gets especially right is the characters Good lord, every single one of them is memorable. Milo, Kida, Sweet, Cookie, Mr. Whitmore, the King, Audrey, I could go on for a while. Each and every one of them have their own personality traits and all have their individual moments, plus no two are alike. Each and every one of them are likable and I found myself satisfied with each and every one of them. The demolition guy I especially enjoyed. Almost every line he said was hilarious, and his personality is hugely enjoyable too.Speaking of that, that's another thing about this film Its humor. I can't even begin to count how many moments and lines made me laugh. The writing for the humor is some of the funniest I've seen or heard, and almost every one of the protagonists has a funny line or two at some point. I think the most humorous scene for me were the ones with the demolition guy and Mole. Dear lord are they hysterical both together and on their own.But on the opposite end of the spectrum, I absolutely love the drama that's conveyed throughout the movie. The story is very well written and it held my attention through to the end. It's definitely one of the most serious animated Disney films to date, and the first of its kind to not have any musical songs. Personally, I loved this touch. While I absolutely adore the songs in many other animated films, here I think it was more appropriate not to have any. The actions scenes are spectacular, especially with the final one that takes place. The violence and the gritty realism of everything makes the physics of its world seem closer to that of the real world (Or live action if you will), and I like things like that in animated films. Many characters die (I won't dare say who or why), a lot of depression sinks in for them, they use real guns, the violence is rather high, and I think it's great. (I'm not one of those people who always drool over action and special effects like with Michael Bay films, but I digress). The physics feel real and nothing is particularly cartoony in it, so I'm very glad Disney knows that kids can still handle serious drama like that.And one other thing The musical score by James Newton Howard is absolutely nothing short of fantastic. It could be because I'm a total sucker for chorus and choir music in movies, but the score here felt completely appropriate for the Atlantian setting. It has quite an Indonesian feel to it at times, while at other moments it has more of a Lord of the Rings influence to it, like when there's the loud choir going off in one of the major sequences. Every track has something to it, and it is one of the many Disney soundtracks I dearly wish I could buy to enjoy its full glory.In conclusion, Atlantis The Lost Empire is hands down for me the second most underrated animated film to ever come from Walt Disney Animation Studios (Coming in VERY closely behind The Lion King II Simba's Pride). To reiterate what I said before, I am flabbergasted at the negative critic reviews for it, plus the rating here of 6.7 when that's more than a whole point lower than it should be. Atlantis The Lost Empire is an absolute gem in the Disney lineup easily comparable to that of The Lion King, Beauty and the Beast, Aladdin, and so forth. It's always one of the first films I think of when I hear someone say they should revive 2D animation for all of these reasons and more.This truly is a lost classic. "},{"Title":"Better than reviewers give credit for","Date":"9 September 2007","Score":"16 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Atlantis is a new and right step for a Disney feature. It's a good choice to make a film by such a mysterious legend like Atlantis. I didn't have any expectations for this film, but after watching it, I don't quite understand why this film got so bad reviews. Even in my country the reviewers weren't positive.Atlantis is not a perfect movie, but still one of Disney's greatest, even I doubt that this film ever will get Disney classic reputation. Well, that's another case. It's funny to think that this sci-fi movie was directed by the same directors as Beauty and the Beast and Hunchback (so Kirk Wise and Gary Trousdale are trying to get away from their monster movies reputation, he he, I'm just kidding).Well, enough nonsense. Atlantis is a watchable, exiting and very enjoyable film. Even this film it's a PG-rated action-feature, it's also suitable for kids, in my opinion (parents who mean the opposite, don't kill me for writing this, he he).The story is a little predictable, but it doesn't ruin the movie. The comic book-inspired animation it's suitable for the film and set's a departure from the usual Disney-style. It's colorful, dark and detailed. The Deep Canvas sequences are pretty impressive. The film is also funny sometimes, even I more giggled than laugh through the movie. (SPOILERS) The characters of this film are also very likable, but unfortunately there isn't enough screen time to get to know everybody, so some characters are left behind (SPOILERS).The score of James Newton Howard is absolutely great. It's daring and exotic. (SPOILER) The most impressive about this film is how they're making the Atlantean language sound very natural, ethnic and authentic. It's really awesome (SPOILERS OVER)The script is tight and well-written, but still the there are some questions left unanswered in the story. But luckily there are not so much of them.So do you're self a favor, don't listen to the reviewers and watch Atlantis, cause it's waiting for you... "},{"Title":"Magical journey to our most famous lost city.","Date":"28 October 2003","Score":"14 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" It is written in stone that Disney animations simply ~must~ be musicals. Right? Where? Show me. Because I found this attempt to be much more enjoyable for ~not~ containing the hokey made-for-five-year-old standard Disney musical fare. While the story was not as enthralling as it could have been, it was still quite good, enjoyable, and adventurous. I had hoped for a bit more, yes, considering the subject matter, but this movie is ~not~ the bitter disappointment or utter failure it has been billed to be. The animation quality is average, but the dialog is quite compelling, as is the story line, plot, sub-plot, and amazing creativity I found within this production. I will refrain from outlining the plot, as it has been done and done, but this movie is well worth a view if you are a fan of fantasy.This is, in my opinion, THE BEST Disney Animated Feature Length Film.It rates a 9.4/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Great potential, but it winds up wasted in this middling sci-fi adventure.","Date":"29 July 2006","Score":"22 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Rating ** out of **** If anyone still remembers, the early 2000s featured a glut of big-studio animated attempts at science-fiction adventures, with the likes of Titan A.E., Heavy Metal 2000, Final Fantasy The Spirits Within, and Treasure Planet all tapped heavily for box office or home video success. In hindsight, the studios were apparently capitalizing on a nonexistent trend, seeing as all these films were box office disappointments. Of the bunch, the only one that could qualify as a mild financial success would be Disney's Atlantis, which is baffling considering it's probably the weakest film of the bunch.After dispensing with a spectacle of a prologue in which the titular city is flooded by massive tidal waves, the film skips to the year 1914, where linguist and generally nerdy scientist Milo Thatch (voiced by Michael J. Fox) is once again unsuccessful in securing funds for an expedition to the fabled lost city. But he's given a second chance by a rich recluse (voiced by John Mahoney) who's put together a large team to search for Atlantis, led by a military commander (James Garner) who may have ulterior motives.Traveling by submarine, the expedition finds themselves depleted of manpower and resources after an encounter with a robotic sea creature. Making their way through a system of underground caverns, the team eventually finds Atlantis and its native inhabitants, who greet them with an equal mix of suspicion and enthusiasm. The Atlanteans are apparently all centuries old but have forgotten how to read and write their own language. Problems arise when the commander reveals his true intentions to steal Atlantis' power source, putting Milo into action hero mode when he decides it's up to him to save the city and its princess.Despite a potentially exciting premise, Atlantis virtually derails itself in its early scenes when it introduces its colorful cast of characters. Right off the bat, almost everyone is too quirky, be it in personality or in the manner in which they've been artistically rendered (characters' hands are drawn way too large). The worst offender has to be the horribly misguided Mole character, whose one-note schtick, that being his obsession with digging, is milked for all its worth for its humor, which is to say, not much at all, making almost every attempt at comic relief fall flat. The other supporting characters, whether it's the deadpan old lady or the sarcastic Italian explosives expert, aren't much better, but at least they're not as annoying.As the film's hero, Milo Thatch is made fairly personable by the likable Michael J. Fox, but he's too awkward and gangly to be bought as an action hero even by animated standards. About the only characters who consistently work, either through their visual rendition or their personalities, are Helga and Princess Kida, the former oozing with sultry sex appeal and the latter quite charming and winning.For such minor to moderate successes, it's unfortunate the most detrimental flaw of all is that the film just isn't that exciting. The first half of the picture, which details the crew's journey to Atlantis, should have been fraught with excitement and wondrous discovery, but these scenes are rushed through too quickly to sustain any sort of momentum. The second half is admittedly more successful, thanks to some surprisingly solid and charming romantic chemistry between Milo and Kida. Though the plot turns absolutely cliché at this point (what are the chances Milo's quirky buddies won't help him out?), the climactic battle delivers its share of visceral thrills, and the main villain is dispatched in a convincingly unpleasant fashion. It's not quite enough to win me over, but it does keep this film somewhat firmly above the level of subpar entertainment.The story borrows quite liberally from Stargate, which itself stole from quite a few other films, making Atlantis feel almost like a second generation rip-off. Despite having been marketed to the teenage audience, I see this film being most enjoyed by younger children who have the higher tolerance for the quirky characters, the rushed pace, and the by-the-numbers plotting.Even though the film didn't work for me, I am nonetheless quite glad the movie had even been made in the first place. American studios don't usually market their big-screen animated productions to the sci-fi and action/adventure crowd, so part of me still gets a thrill or two that Disney actually gave it a shot. They'd try again a year later with Treasure Planet, and though that film was unquestionably a financial disaster, it was a massive improvement upon Atlantis in every conceivable manner. "},{"Title":"A departure from classic Disney","Date":"5 January 2005","Score":"15 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" That hits a few speed bumps and shows it, but is well worth watching. Atlantis - The Lost Empire is an imaginative and engaging film about an unfunded linguist who seeks to find the lost city of Atlantis. He is turned down by conventional establishments (i.e. the stuffy museum where he works in the boiler room) and is given his chance by eccentric millionaire Preston Whitmore and a team of explorers. It suffices to say that Milo and company, after much adventure and mishap, discover Atlantis, which is vastly different from anything they expected, and Milo gets more than he expected out of his adventure. I would give this film 6 out of 10 stars - its not great Disney, but it's certainly better than some of the other crap out there. I watch it whenever it comes on TV, which is a good indication of an enjoyable film, I think. It isn't really a film for children. The plot is often hard to follow, and the action may be too intense for very little ones. There is a very sweet romance which grows out of a friendship, so there isn't any kissy kissy to make blech faces at. The characters are human and funny, and there are some pretty good one liners in here. Worth the time, if you like adventure and comedy. "}{"Title":"One of the better animated films ever made","Date":"15 June 2001","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Atlantis is an experiment for Disney, but it is one of they're most successful ones.  By excluding often dumb songs (though some of them in the past weren't horrible like in The Lion King and the Jungle Book) and even dumber animal sidekicks, Disney for one of they're few times taken an interesting type of story and given it good dialogue that will appeal to adults more than kids.  And while I know kids are the prime target here, I reccomend the animation for them, which takes it's cues this time heavily from the pulp comic book tradition (which is a good thing) and the anime style of quickness and seriousness in characters (which is even better).Michael J. Fox stars (in possibly his last role due to his claim that he will not act due to Perkinsens) as a jibberish decipherer who can decipher most lost languages, and believes in the fantasy of Atlantis, and soon a billionaire gives him a chance, and a crew, to find Atlantis.  What follows is a energetic and flowing adventure of the journey, discovery, and fight of Antlantis, filled with spectacular animation (the crystal rise up scene and finale Atlantis scene are awesome animation feats) and characters that older kids and adults can like as much as, or even more than kids.  And once again for you parents reading this, if your worries your kids won't like this, just remember what chum is coming up in a few weeks Cats and Dogs.  See this movie is only to avoid that.  Varney's last voice-over and movie role (unless Daddy and Them gets released).  A "},{"Title":"Good for Adventure lovers..","Date":"11 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Definitely a very good idea,screenplay was just OK.Could have been better,The positives are that it doesn't bore you if you're an adventure lover,A new idea about the lost world of Atlantis.Negatives are that I personally feel that this idea had so much more potential than this.They should've ended up with a better adventure than this.It wasn't bad at all but it would have been much better with some more runtime.Enjoyed it a lot though,Cant say that it was boring or wasn't good..A good one for the people who like adventure animations like Sindbad,like The road to el Dorado.This movie is also recommended for people looking for a nice little adventure with a very nice happy ending. "},{"Title":"Atlantis The Lost Movie -- as hollow as they come","Date":"5 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Spoilers ahead.  The funniest thing about this mess is the fact that it was written by six separate people!!  It actually took that many hacks to rip-off the much better `The Road to El Dorado' (animated fare from Dreamworks), then paste it haphazardly to a plot lifted from a video-game - `Indiana Jones and The Fate of Atlantis'! In `The Road to El Dorado,' a pair of money-hungry frauds journey to a mythic city for a friendly bit of embezzlement, but end up revitalizing its people and learning an important lesson.  On the other hand, in `Indiana Jones and The Fate of Atlantis,' the player assumes the role of Jones, who chases down a wild theory about Atlantis, supposedly substantiated by the 'lost' dialogues of Plato and authenticated by a female archaeologist who's been channeling special forces through an Atlantean necklace.  Oh, and there are Nazis after the power-source, who hope to take it to Germany and utilize it as energy.  Disney, who are privy to pillaging Grimm's Fairy Tales and fables the world over, should be ashamed for their lack of originality (though I'm certainly not surprised)!  This just in another critic has just pointed out that Atlantis lifts the entire storyline from a Japanese anime film called `Nadia the Secret of Blue Water,' and I've since been thinking of Tobe Hooper's `Lifeforce' (now on DVD) and the animated `Heavy Metal' since seeing this drivel! To its credit, Disney doesn't fill the movie up with song-and-dance numbers and cute animal sidekicks, but instead serves up a pulpy film-noir adventure of old-timey proportions, akin to `The People That Time Forgot,' `Journey to the Center of the Earth' and `20,000 League Under the Sea.'  But Jules Verne and Edgar Rise Burroughs would both still be wondering who left the plot in Davey Jones' locker!  Outside of that, the characters are all OK, ready-made for action-figure aisles everywhere and ripped directly from the manly pages of Mike Nomad and Doc Savage.  And I really dig Princess Kida (Cree Summer) - Atlantean chicks rule! But back to the lack of plot. The film starts with a Howard Hughs-like millionaire offering to finance an expedition in search of Atlantis.  He summons nerdy linguist Milo Thatch (voice of Michael J. Fox, body of Ichabod Crane), the grandson of his closest friend, and entrusts him with an ancient Atlantean journal full of secrets (hmmm... no record of Atlantis, but a book full of its secrets written in an Atlantean language - sounds fishy - bad pun, sorry).  Truly, the film would have been much more rewarding had Milo been handed the `Book of the Dead' from Bruce Campbell!  Anyway, there's a robotic sea leviathan and a corny ending with some huge Galactus-looking sentries - all of which cheapen the film that much more. I was bored; my daughter was bored; `Atlantis' rang hollow.  Yet, somehow, Disney has again managed to dazzle some of the best critics in the country with their sleight of hand (if I ever have to sit through `Pocahontas' again.).  Hey, Walt - here's a little Francis Bacon for you They are ill discoverers that think there is no land, when they can see nothing but sea.' Stick that in your blowhole!  "},{"Title":"Such a rip off","Date":"5 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This was a good movie, but it was better the first time. In a Japanese mini-series called Nadia Secret of Blue Water, pretty much the exact same thing happened. The original was made in 1990, and the characters look exactly the same, they save the city by using the pendant around Nadia's neck to save the city. "},{"Title":"Great for all ages","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I went in thinking just another Disney movie but, coming out i was really glad i went to see it. Great special efects for a Disney movie ,and not as kiddie as last summers Dinosaur. IT IS A GREAT MOVIE  Michael J. Fox comes to life as Milo Thatch .4 stars Go see it with the whole family. "},{"Title":"A summary for 26 episodes of Nadia","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  From this movie that you can tell Disney is start to running out the ideas. This movies shows that Disney is treating its viewer as an idiot. For whoever find this is a good movie, here's a little suggestiongo to some video store with Japanese animation and rent the whole 26 Nadia series. I believe you will change your opinion about this movie totally.One more thing is that this animation was made about 10 years ago, but you can still tell that the original is still better than the so-called new one. "},{"Title":"If you want to see something original watch something else...","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Like most of the recent US films it's a mix of ideas stolen from other films. Basicly it's a rip-off of a Japanese animation series called Nadia from which they borrowed the story and all the characters, but it also has elements of some other films as well. It's not the first time Disney ripped off an anime. Lion King has also heavily borrowed from a classic series called 'Kimba, The White Lion'. It's very sad to see how the once great American film industry sinks deeper and deeper... "},{"Title":"Hugely Disappointing and Quite Dull","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Atlantis is beautifully animated.  The colors and compositions are lush and elegant; it's as handsome looking as anything to come from Disney.  But looks are everything and Atlantis is sorely lacking in story and character.  Actually, it's dull and formulaic.  The characters are totally conventional.  When we finally do arrive in Atlantis you'd think it would look amazing, perhaps awe inspiring!  Instead, you get a somewhat psychedelic Mayan/Aztec inspired jungle ruins and a brief battle on scooters.  I could go on and on... why bother?  A wasted opportunity.    "},{"Title":"more eye candy from Disney","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  `Atlantis' has no doubt been in the works for a long time. The last time Gary Trousdale and Kirk Wise teamed up, they were making the under-appreciated `Hunchback of Notre Dame' and before that, `Beauty and the Beast.' Only this time, instead of the big song and dance, it's pure adrenaline-pumping action. So, after working on it for this long, how did these guys do at their first non-musical? Well, `Atlantis' is no less visually stunning than any Disney ani-feature. In fact, the artwork and images overpower everything else about it. The story itself, while inventive, original, and basically sound, can't compete with the eye candy Disney's artists create. True, many of the ideas and story elements are borrowed from other places. But this material is presented in a visually inventive and interesting manner, you'd hesitate to accuse anyone of stealing. This alone earns this film the benefit of the doubt.  The story barrels forward so fast you barely have time to guess what might happen next.  With any animated movie, parents are going to think &#145;take the kids,' so `Atlantis' keeps the action coming, giving you something interesting to look at at least once a minute. This film is most definitely built for this, the age of the short attention span. From first frame to last, `Atlantis' is lightning in a bottle. As for characters, there's a whole lot of them. Most seem to be there only to provide comic relief. No other North American movie studio has figured out how to beat Disney at their own game. The formula that the Mouse House applies to each animation spectacle they release still works but is definitely showing some rust.  `Atlantis' is a bit disappointing in that it doesn't jump up and bite you like some Disney works of the past. The studio raised the animation bar so high with the `Toy Story' films (thanks to Pixar), it's going to have difficulty living up to its own standards. In fact, `Atlantis' isn't as good as `Dinosaur' or even 1999's `Tarzan.' It's not a `masterpiece' (shame on all of you bandwagoners who have said that it is), it won't shake the foundations of the animation world, but it's still worth a look.Grade B-    "},{"Title":"Not for Kids and a little Boring","Date":"15 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Well, in all honesty I think that Disney is headed for older audiences because I felt that Atlantis was not a kid's movie. I think that the movie was a very graphic and not really Disney like... I hope that Disney gets a clue and go back to what it usually does--- where's the magic? I like the semi- love story--- but the bad guys surely prove to little kids that some people may seem nice... but they aren't well... you be the judge--- i give this movie a 2 out of a 10 "}{"Title":"A Really Great Movie!","Date":"22 July 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I read quite a few of the reviews of Atlantis The Lost Empire prior to writing my own. I have to say that there are pros and cons I can completely understand. I absolutely love this movie. To date, it is my all time favorite Disney flick. Admittedly, I am a huge fan of Atlantis folklore, so I suppose I am partially biased, however I felt Disney really did the legend credit with this film. I thought the animation was well done, albeit very different than what Disney has done previously. Some reviews compare it to Japanese anime which I can definitely see. This does not take away from the film in the slightest though, considering the sweeping landscape views are incredible. I will admit that many of the characters are predictable and cliché. Although,considering the serious overtone's of this film, the characters add a certain level of humor that truly keeps it rooted in Disney fashion.There are a couple of issues I take with Atlantis, the first being that they turned the legend into something of a magical story. Now, this is not uncommon with Disney movies. Many of the tales that Disney has retold are done with a certain level of creative license. I completely understand this method, since the story has to be entertaining. If the Atlantean Empire really existed, I don't think anyone would expect that the citizens would still be alive thousands of years later. This does add to the appeal of the film. However, I do take issue with some plot elements that went completely unexplained, i.e. the Shepard's Journal. Where did it come from?! How did the tales within it become known?! I am perfectly fine with the existence of the journal, but I really would like to know more of the background. Another issue I take is the fact that Disney wrote the Atlantean's as having a tropical, almost rain forest aspect. I have studied the Atlantis legend for years, and there has never been an indication that the people of Atlantis were a jungle dwelling people. The legend is based in the Mediterranean world, with the possibility of extending into the Atlantic Ocean. Certainly not a tropical environment. Couple that with the fact that Disney asserts the lost city's location is near Iceland, which makes the tropical idea even more absurd. The final issue I take is the idea that Disney created a magical power source for Atlantis. I understand this works for the premise that SOMETHING needed to keep these people alive. However, (and again I refer back to the writings of the legend) there has never been any indication that Atlantis was so technologically advanced even our own modern inventions would be dwarfed. Advanced for their time? Absolutely. Advanced as far as civilization is concerned? Not in the slightest. Overall, I thought the movie was very well put together. The problems I have are minor and really don't take anything away from the story that Disney is trying to tell with this film. Perhaps it's slightly inaccurate, but most Disney films are for the sake of the audience. I consistently watch this movie over and over because I think they really did a great job. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good!","Date":"20 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Although I have said that Tarzan is the last great Disney movie, there have been some surprisingly good films like Lilo and Stitch and Fantasia 2000, though the best of the post-Tarzan Disney movies is Emperor's New Groove. On the other hand, some of the direct to video sequels are saved by some excellent voice overs and moments of cuteness, but overall they are cheap parodies of their originals, Patch's London Adventure sadly being the worst. Atlantis The Lost Empire belongs to the surprisingly good side of the film spectrum, with excellent visuals, particularly of Atlantis itself. The music was beautiful and sounded epic, and the voice cast was great, the standouts being Michael J.Fox and James Garner as Milo and Rourke respectively. John Mahoney and Cree Summer offer fine support as Whitmore and Kida, who is so sexy. I only have two criticisms of this movie. One is that while the idea of the story is fantastic, it is a little too fast for my liking. My second criticism is that while the script is very good on the most part, I don't think it is as funny as a film like Emperor's New Groove, though Vinny was hilarious, so I just worry that younger viewers mightn't find it as engaging as their parents. Overall, very pleasing to the eye, and a very good film overall. 8/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Disappointing and sloppy","Date":"17 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" In the end, ATLANTIS is a specimen form the awkward middle period between the wonderful animated Disney musicals such as The Little Mermaid, Beauty and the Beast, and the modern Pixar films.On a story level, Atlantis is just plain sloppy. There are tons of anachronisms in the movie. They set the film in 1914, but almost immediately they create characters who look and talk like present day characters (does a wisecracking teenage latina mechanic sound like someone you'd meet in 1914?!).Atlantis is too easy to find -- the explorers show neither smarts nor courage, and yet they are able to find the lost city where thousands of others have failed.Finally, it's quite amusing how the filmmakers felt the need to stop the action in the middle of the movie to give these long, awkward detailed back-stories to the supporting characters. It is done in such a ham-handed way you really have to wonder what they were thinking.The design of the characters is equally all over the map, with some of them (Milo, Kida) looking very middle-of-the-road, vanilla Disney characters and others (Mole) looking like something out of the Triplets of Belleville.The subject matter is certainly interesting but overall it was a disappointing effort. "},{"Title":"Copy of Nadia","Date":"18 February 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I am a huge anime fan, and when the kid i babysat popped this movie in, I thought Ya! instantly I regretted it, as I saw the story Nadia The Secret of Blue Water. Everything is related to Nadia. I personally also thought that the characters where underdeveloped, there was a plot, but the plot didn't hold too well. I think that the best way to make this a great movie, for it not to be even a movie. Make it was TV series like Nadia, and it would do alright. I often felt like the story was dragging, oh wait, it was. To me this story was an insult to us anime fans, and a futile attempt to take Hideaki Anno's second greatest masterpiece. This movie is not worth your time, since I wasted a total of 90 minutes watching crap, when I could have been writing. So, do not see this horrible, insulting, movie. "},{"Title":"A Treasure-Filled Adventure!","Date":"28 September 2008","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Atlantis The Lost Empire is a better movie than I thought. I never thought this movie would lead to my expectations. True, this movie started slow, but as the movie wore on it became more to my liking. The story takes place in 1914 and is about a guy named Milo. Milo believes in the fabled Atlantis. Along with friends of his grandfather, he embarks on an amazing adventure of his own. Along the way, he must endear friendship, betrayal, trust, and more. The voice cast is great. They surely know how to carry movies with only their voice talent. The music is nothing special but likable anyway. The animation is not the best, but it is still good enough. Overall, this is a good family movie for all ages. I rate this movie 9/10. "},{"Title":"More deaths than a Rambo movie.....","Date":"25 September 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Gone are the days of completely harmless animations such as Bambi or Snow White. Today's Disney churns out movies like this (which I admit I found enjoyable enough) but which, in my humble opinion, are a far cry from the kid-friendly, don't-need-to-vet-it, it's-a-Disney, movies of yesteryear.It was my partner who pointed out that there were rather a lot of people dying in this film for a Disney. I hadn't noticed up to then, being absorbed by trying to decide if the animation was actually very good, or very bad. But she was right. People die all over the place here. Not just casual, in-the-distance deaths either. People get drowned, are trapped and die in water-tight compartments, are even set on fire, for goodness sake! It's like the entire Disney team were hyped up on a caffeine overdose when they made this.Whilst the movie is harmless enough entertainment for us adults, is this what we want our kids to watch? I can remember a similar incident with Disney's Dinosaur movie. All the mothers and toddlers trooping in to watch it, then a number coming out horrified after ten minutes once the meteor scene arrives, kids crying at all the little monkeys getting killed.What this all says about what we let our kids watch these days is, I'm sure, a debate that will continue indefinitely. I think its OK for kids to be scared by movies. But I think the way we accomplish that needs to be given some attention. But enough sermonizing..As for the film. The story is simple, along with the animation, for the most part. It's not a movie you'll watch again anytime soon, but it is quite entertaining for a one-off view. I was particularly pleased with the voice cast. It's nice to see old faves like James Garner getting to do their thing again, and Claudia Christian shows she can do this sort of thing quite well.As I say, not one to be watched again and again. But harmless enough for a one-off visit....at least for us adults. Not for very small kids. "},{"Title":"One of the strongest from Disney's experimental era","Date":"24 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Whether you love or hate this film, no one can deny the hard work put into it. For starters, it inspired a new language - Atlantean. The animation is also very good (and one of Disney's last to be animated in its classic form before the horrible Chicken Little came along).The characters certainly are easy to engage with, especially the main protagonist Milo who is adorkable and a hard worker. Atlantis TLE is also one of the most original story lines Disney has ever come up with for a while too. It's also very much action-packed and has some humour to.A couple of criticisms I have is that I felt a little bit bored at times so I guess the plot isn't completely solid and the comedy side of it came off as quite gimmicky sometimes (mostly derived by Mole's character). Overall, Atlantis is not the greatest Disney film ever but it certainly is worth a watch and greatly under appreciated. "},{"Title":"A Well-Paced, Enjoyable Disney Movie that's Darker than the Rest","Date":"29 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I loved this movie as a kid, and I remembered almost none of it. Watching it again I realize that it was a pretty good movie still. It follows a man who believes that Atlantis exists and goes searching for it. The plot of Atlantis The Lost Empire is interesting. It doesn't waste any time getting right into the adventure, which wasn't surprising. It wasn't really a good thing either though. Other than that, the movie is well-paced and entertaining throughout. The history of Atlantis is one that I haven't seen before though, and it's quite interesting. Other than that it's not horribly original, but like I said, it's still enjoyable for sure. The characters aren't anything special. We get some brief back stories that don't really do much for the characters, but some of them work well enough. Still, they're rushed. Again, it's not like I'm surprised or anything, but it just limits the amount of people who will be able to fully enjoy this movie. The visuals are very good. The art style is very cool, and the character designs are great too. It doesn't stick right out in your face, but it's there, and I loved it. Overall Atlantis The Lost Empire is a solid adventure movie. While it's ideas aren't particularly unique, it's well-paced and presented well enough. The characters and beginning are rushed, but the visuals are great and it's just all around a really enjoyable movie. In the end I would recommend this movie. "},{"Title":"Convoluted and littered with unneeded characters, but otherwise a decent pulp adventure","Date":"29 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This film credits eight people for its screenplay and story, one of them Joss Whedon. And yeah, it shows. In the worst way possible.So what's the story? Milo Thatch is a linguist and cartographer, living in 1914, who believes he has cracked the case of Atlantis, believing the answers to its disappearance and lost location lie in an ancient Icelandic book written by a man who has lived on the island. After the university rejects his proposal for being ill-though and far too unlikely to produce results - not undeservedly so, I must admit - he is approached by a mysterious benefactor, who was a friend of his grandfather, the first Thatch to seek the lost Atlantis. All the classical elements for a great pulp adventure are here and this opening act is easily the strongest segment in the film story-wise. The characters are instantly identifiable, have great designs, the dialogues are interesting and funny, and as a whole the film evokes the feel of the era and style beautifully.The animation also has a style of its own and it is a gorgeous movie in every visual way possible. Especially the scenes in Atlantis are simply majestic, with amazing colours, designs and depth of field.But alas, the bad stuff. First of all, there are too many characters, which is the fault where I can see Whedon's influence the most. This is a cast for a TV series about the finding of Atlantis, not a cast for a movie only hour and a half long. They're all introduced properly and given good, funny characters, but then the film has to drop them to move the plot along. The expedition crew alone has nine members, including Milo. The movie needs Milo plus a crew of three plus the people in Atlantis. Milo plus a crew of two, if you want to be skimpy, but three wouldn't have felt crowded at all.The plot itself also has some minor problems, most notably a few gaping plot holes that could have been fixed without the story being in any way different. Usually I don't mind all that much, but the script draws attention to them and tries to handwave them away through some linguistic mumbo jumbo that's in no way believable. These holes don't ruin the film but they, combined with the general feel of rush caused by the cast overpopulation, make the film feel like it would have been significantly better with one more re-write or perhaps with a slightly longer running time.All in all the film is definitely worth a watch if you're a fan of Disney or pulp adventures. It has a distinct style, fun characters, phenomenal visuals and a story which, while flawed, still delivers good entertainment. "},{"Title":"A great and one of a kind classic","Date":"5 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Atlantis The Lost Empire is one of those gems I ran into while browsing Netflix. I remember watching it when I was younger but not appreciating it the way I do now. The movie is about Milo, a linguist who hopes to finish his grandfathers work and find the lost city of Atlantis.The film is fun for kids but personally I think it's even more entreating for ages 10+. There's diversity and more action then you would see in a regular Disney animated film. And yes I did say that right, it's a Disney film. You won't hear one song in this movie but you don't need to with all of the beautiful work thats put on screen. The way the makers of this movie create the city of Atlantis is unique and beautiful to look at and you will be glued to the screen to learn more about this lost city. I would like to say that if you've watched this film in the past and you're debating on if you should have a re-watch, do it. Because for me this film was more enjoyable once I became an adult and the same can go for you. Lastly, this film is great for kids. It shows them a strong female lead and can really enrich their imagination. Don't miss out on this great and one of a kind movie. 10/10 "}{"Title":"Excellent Disney animated adventure.","Date":"1 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Wow, I've not seen Disney go out on a limb like this since the original TRON or The Black Cauldron, both from many years back, and both of which really breached convention in traditional Disney offerings.Atlantis is no different, and, true to Disney, offers a unique take on an old tale, only here we actually don't have any tale upon which Disney is basing its new film, just some off handed mythology as described by Plato to many a disciple. We do not have a Perseus, nor an Odysseus, nor an Icarus with son Daedalus, nor any Greek gods nor demigods, just a loose and embellished description of a physical place that allegedly had some miraculous technological achievements. Disney takes Milo (voiced by Michael J. Fox) with an all star cast of characters to the much mythologized lost continent after a wealthy patron decides to fund his best friend's son's research.Disney Studios mixes in a bit of Pocahontas, a bit of Treasure Island, a bit of Star Wars (before it bought the product) and one or two other films or classic stories to bring the tale of a band of turn of the century adventurers to a lost realm of mystery.There's action, there's adventure, there's romance, there's young love, there's traditional animation mixed in with CGI, there's submarines, and even a cute kitten. The one thing this film doesn't have is the myth origin of Atlantis as told by Plato, but that's nitpicking.The DVD has a cut Viking intro sequence, has some audio explanations as to what Plato said, but, at the time both film and DVD were released, the latest research regarding how Atlantis might have been referencing Troy or Carthage hadn't made the popular history circuit.All in all it's a fine adventure film, and one of the few Disney films that I actually just like having on in the background. Oh sure, I love the super-majority of Disney films, but when I put a Disney film into my player of choice, it's usually an event where I have to sit and actually watch the film with some snack in hand. For some reason, for me at least, Disney's take on Atlantis hearkens back to classic George Pal fare, where on a Saturday or Sunday afternoon, on some UHF channel in the 1970s or early 1980s, one might see one of Pal's films like Atlantis or The Time Machine or First Men in the Moon or one of his other fantasy extravaganzas. But Atlantis has more than just an off handed nostalgia reference quality to it, it also is a high budgeted adventure film with a top name cast, including the late James Garner playing the heavy in the film. Marry that to other well noted actors, and with Disney's top notch production values in terms of both visuals and music, and you have one excellent film.See it by yourself, with a date, or even with the family. You will not be disappointed.An excellent film. Enjoy. "},{"Title":"Plot lost in Atlantis.","Date":"30 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Disney's 41st full-length animated feature film is a story about a young adventurer named Milo Thatch, who joins a group of explorers to find the lost continent of Atlantis.This movie brings back Beauty and the Beast directors Gary Trousdale and Kirk Wise, who gave us quite an adventurous movie full of sci-fi action and drama. Being a film set in 1914, the character dialog didn't sound too slapstick or modern, which fits the story better. The animation wasn't as colorful or vibrant as in earlier animated pieces in the Disney canon, but it is serviceable. The visual effects, particularly for the action and magic scenes, were done well and mesmerizing.However, there was very little storyline to the movie due to its predictable moments, lack of interesting characters and character development and limited intrigue. Nothing really sticks out or captures my attention and there is room for plot holes to fill, as much of the magic roots of Atlantis (like the electrical flying cars and how the Atlantis people survived for so long) were never really explained.Overall, the Atlantis concept of the story is interesting, but the it's not one of the better Disney movies out there.Grade C- "},{"Title":"like the visual but not much else","Date":"29 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" In 1914 Washington, Milo James Thatch works without notice in the boiler room of a museum. He has a theory that Atlantis had an advanced power source and lies in the ocean off of Iceland. Nobody believes him and they refuse to fund his expedition. He's approached by Helga Sinclair and brought to wealthy Preston Whitmore who was a friend of Milo's grandfather. Whitmore gives him the mysterious Shepherd's Journal from his grandfather and finances an expedition. There's a large ship, an impressive submarine and an expert crew.The animation work is pretty good with good CGI for its era. It's got some action that also works well as CGI. The visual style looks good. The story and the characters are another matter. I'm not thrilled with Milo but the other characters are worst. Milo needs a comedic sidekick. I didn't like or trust the other character. It turns out that it's for a very good reason. There just isn't any thought to make a fun group to root for. As for the story, there isn't much other than the fun fight against a giant lobster. I don't know how the Atlantean suddenly learn to speak English and yet they couldn't figure out how to fly the fishplanes in all those years. The whole thing feels like it needs a few more rewrites. "},{"Title":"What? Wow","Date":"1 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Like so many, I listened to the critics and gave this film a miss. Yesterday, after seeing some clips from it, I streamed it. It has a plot, it has well written, strong, well defined characters. It's not only good, it's fantastic! I couldn't believe how good it was. I kept thinking, This can't be Disney, it's far too good. (And that era of Disney was a bit weak). I started looking at our crew, Milo, a lanky, tousle-haired, braces wearing leader, who isn't a leader, but, is. We have a tough guy mercenary with a questionable moral compass, there's a young female mechanic, who knows more about engines than other people have forgotten. We have a kindly, super intelligent doctor (who is black). We have a female warrior type who brooks no nonsense and could easily (and happily) tie you in knots. They have a nicely steam-punk looking transport. And it is just....amazing. Then, as the closing credits started to run, I saw the name of one of the writers. Joss Whedon. Well. That explains a lot. It's basically Firefly, underwater...slightly for children. Brilliant. Well worth a watch, I watched two minutes and ordered a copy. "},{"Title":"Pacy and fun adventure that plays respectful homage to Verne's classics  and Indiana Jones","Date":"5 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This is a fast paced and very enjoyable fun adventure for the family. Some of the humour, mood and atmosphere is aimed as much at older children and even adults (albeit very subtle) and there are some scenes of suspense that are, for this sort of film, quite exciting. This is a surprise and relief bearing in mind the large number of credited writers normally being a sign of potential story problems. The film's story is entertaining and zips along at a terrific pace, albeit this prerogative is to keep the very young viewers interested. Credit has to be to co-directors Gary Trousdale and Kirk Wise for this. There is definitely clear homages made to Verne's classics of '10000 Leagues under the Sea' and 'Journey to the Centre of the Earth'. Also the exciting action set pieces have a 'Indiana Jones' vibe to them. However this does not impact on the interesting and sometime more complex that they at first seem characters. The characters are given individual, quirky, and amusing traits to help you remember them at that works well as they all have the smaller or larger roles in the overall story.All the performers give good value, though for me most plaudits go to Michael J Fox, James Garner and Claudia Christian for bring that little bit extra to their roles. The project is also helped by suitable rousing and exciting score by James Newton Howard. In summary a fast paced, rousing and entertaining adventure. "},{"Title":"I Loved This Movie!","Date":"16 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I loved this movie! I am and have always been a very big fan of Disney (at least of their animated movies, I'm not such a big fan of a lot of their TV shows both animated or especially live action, or of their live action movies, or straight to DVD stuff). Of all the Disney movies that were animated and which were actually in theaters though Atlantis The Lost Empire is probably my favorite of all time. I give it 10 out of 10.I know it is not the most popular choice, Beauty and the Beast and Lion King and older ones like Cinderella and Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs are, but of my personal picks it is number one even though it's not as popular.It's a great story, a great adventure with a lot of good humor and interest for adults as well, and the voices are all top notch. I love Jim Varney! "},{"Title":"Love it!!","Date":"10 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I love this movie it is one of my all time favorites and I watch it over and over again it is one of the best I have seen at the top of my favorite movie list I recommend all to watch it, it's filled with adventure, comedy, action, and romance and if you don't watch it you are missing it big time and I enjoyed watching it because it can entertain me for hours on end from all the action and new thing that I could learn and I also enjoyed it because of the characters stories about their past kept it interesting also so it was hard not to stop watching it. I wish they would make a third movie because then I can have a whole other adventure to explore. "},{"Title":"Disney's messy attempt to be more mature","Date":"6 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" The way I see it, this movie was Disney's answer to the successes of Dreamworks and Japanese anime in the beginning of the century. It was heavily action-oriented, has countless deaths (some was even pretty gruesome), and no singing scenes. The animation style was also drastically changed, resulted in something that look a lot more like Dreamworks' than Disney's. Kudos to them for trying, but it seems like they didn't really know what they wanted.First and foremost, the characters are very cliché, and just not fleshed out enough. Most of them have very little screen time. The movie tries to give them some back-stories but those are all pretty ordinary, and provide nothing to the characters. The worst of them is, sadly, the main character himself. The guy started off as a clumsy and weak nerd, who couldn't even drive a truck, but somehow by the third act, he's already become an awesome fighting leader who bosses professional mercenaries around. There's no real character development. All of their conflicts are quickly solved with a few lines. The story is even worse. It's predictable and confusing at the same time. By the first look, you'll already know which characters are going to be the villains, and which are going to turn to the main character's side. The movie also pays zero interest in actual science. Atlantis with Asian architecture? Atlanteans speaking modern French and English? Submarine with steam engine? And worst of all, the mythology of the movie is never fully explained and seems to contradict itself a lot. It seems like the writers just couldn't decide what this movie was. One moment it was all goofy with wacky characters, and the next it was all serious with deaths and explosions everywhere. Then right after those deaths, it turns back to childish slapstick humor like nothing happened. As a result, the movie seriously lacks emotions and motivations.Had this been an usual children-friendly movie from Disney, I may have led it slides, but as an attempt to be more mature, this movie failed horribly. The only positive thing I can say about it is that it has pretty awesome visual style. If you want to see a mature and action-oriented Disney animated movie, I'd recommend Treasure Planet instead of this. "},{"Title":"Not a bad Disney movie from the Disney canon.","Date":"3 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I haven't seen this movie in over 14 years,so I got it on DVD during the Christmas season. The film is about a professor named Milo Thatch(voiced by Micheal J Fox from Stuart Little) who is out on a mission with a group of highly trained people to search for Atlantis as Milo's dad passed away and wasn't able to finish the search for Atlantis. We of course are introduced to a commander named Rockie(voiced by the late James Garner from The Notebook who I thought was Tommy Lee Jones first going off)and later we meet Kida(voiced by Cree Summer).When Milo and the gang finally find Atlantis they discover that the people who live there wear necklaces as this is some sort of youth thing as Kida is over 200 years old and she has magical powers(like Elsa from Frozen and Rapunzel from Tangled who were the next heroines to have superhuman powers like Kida)and Rockie(ends up being the bad guy or the villain I should say) as he wants to destroy Atlantis and kidnap Kida.So what did I think of the movie.....well it was a better than average cartoon and the animation was great and the pacing was great.The story however you can't really explain it right as its a sort of movie you have to watch numerous times before getting the hang of it.The voice acting was great even though the only two I knew was James Garner and Micheal J Fox.The rest I had NO idea what other films they were in.Overall if you liked Treasure Planet which would be the next film after Lilo & Stitch as Atlantis was Disney's 40th then check it out. Parts of it reminded me of James Cameron's Avatar for some strange reason as the commander was a bit like the villain in Avatar.Overall check it out.6.2/10C+ "},{"Title":"Not that bad, actually pretty good!","Date":"30 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This film has a bad reputation. I know it didn't make a huge profit, people and critics didn't really like it- can I ask one question?WHY?This film is good! No, really, it's good! If you went to a Disney movie expecting it to change your life, then you shall be very disappointed. But if you just want entertainment, then- great. Let's do it.Good stuff The lead characters are slight clichés, but they are acted well! The crew on the Ulysses are really well designed and acted. Also stereotypes, but they are sidekicks/supporting characters in a Disney film! What do you expect? I really like how they are all really distinctive in design, they all have their own personality and you get to hear a few life stories too. You get to hear some of their goals, and that's why the twist in the middle is not as bad as people say. It could have been done better, it wasn't pulled off amazingly, but contrary to popular belief, I say that it is not god-awful! It's fine! For example, you understand why some of them want the money from the crystal!Also, Helga Sinclair. I like the blurred morality she's given. Is she a heroine at the end? Or is she still a villain? What about when she shoots Rourke down at the end? Does that make her a heroine? Or is she still a villain, because she didn't do it for anyone else's good, she just did it to get revenge on Rourke. So.... I've been fighting with myself about it.And, this movie is really well animated. It's sort of comic-bookish, and it's different to the normal Disney animation. It's detailed, bold, beautiful, and in my opinion some of Disney's best.Now for the bad stuff Introduction is a bit long. Would have liked to hear more from the Atlanteans. The whole twist, while not awful, isn't good. Though I liked the supporting crew, there were a few too many and they could have left out at least two of them to have a more focused aspect on the remaining ones. A few annoying plot holes.Basically, I'm not calling this a forgotten masterpiece. It isn't. But it does not deserve the scorn put upon it by critics and people. Because it's actually pretty good, the stakes are high, and you will be entertained. "}{"Title":"My Favorite Animated Movie EVER","Date":"20 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" THIS MOVIE WAS A MIRACLE! Back then, Dinosaur was my favorite Disney movie until. Treasure Planet was my next favorite Disney movie until Atlantis called back to me in 2005. I don't know why but this movie seems to get attention a lot especially with the giant rusty Lambda that shows up on posters and some previews where it gets struck by lightning in the middle of the ocean during raging weather, and when it's on a rusty gate with writings on the wall, and water ripple lightings along with it's mysterious and deep dark ambiance. It's weird how I'm the only one who still notices the big Lambda.The idea of the seastorms and thunder sfx are really cool especially on the poster,viking prologue, and the beginning of the movie.The lightning mechanics were well done in the movie. The character development for Milo Thatch was GENIUS. Michael J. Fox did outstanding with his voice. It suited his personality traits so well.I can never get enough of him. Milo and Kida are my favorite Disney couples PERIOD. Blue is my favorite color and this happens to have a lot of blue on it. The fact that this movie was the very first Disney animated sci-fi movie to come out on June 15th a very interesting day to release a movie, made me wanna try and see it. And yet i'm really happy I did. Atlantis may not be may favorite Disney score but James Newton Howard made the music fit so well with the movie itself. Turning it normal life/epic Treasure Planet like music into Deuter like soundscapes music.I love Disney movies without songs. It's really interesting how they relate other B.C cultures and history to Atlantis and also when they used Plato's quote. I like it's action violence and also it's references like 2012, Day After Tomorrow, Avatar, Battleship, and Tron. 2012 and Day After Tomorrow because the natural disasters in the beginning. Avatar because of it's plot, Battleship because of the sci-fi technology and the leviathan scene, and Tron because of it's crystalized circuits on the statues and artistic cracks especially the stone effigies chanting around the Heart of Atlantis. Atlantis was a great Disney movie and it really deserves a lot of recognition, love, and gratitude. All thanks to the stupid box-office intake, Atlantis remains a *LOST*, underrated Disney movie along with the other Disney flops. .The world may not see it's true beauty, but I ON THE OTHER HAND DO! I never ever wanna hear or read the reviews because it's always raining on my parade. But I'm really happy that this movie was even created and I'm happy that I, my friends on deviantART, some of my subscriptions on YouTube, and other random fans can see the good in it to this very day on 2014. Don Hahn, Gary Trousdale, Kirk Wise, and James Newton Howard, you have made this awesome animated sci-fi movie possible for the first time I give this 10 out of 10. IF I COULD I'D GIVE THIS MOVIE A RATING OF GOLD. It's all thanks to Dinosaur VHS 2000. Even if the world was disappointed with this film including the box-office, technicality you guys have done a bang-up job and I'am very very proud that this film was even made. Long Live Λ T L Λ N T I S.;-D "},{"Title":"Underrated Disney Movie , that got better characters are less singing,but still not Little Mermaid","Date":"8 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This has got to be one of the most underrated Disney films ever released. The film's got excellent voice work, from the lead, Michael J. Fox, excellent character development, and animation. The films very entertaining and contains a great script, not so full of laughs but still. The film definitely isn't any Beauty and the Beast or Little Mermaid, but it's still classic Disney, just not so musical, which is good, as I feel Disney forgets plot for singing nowadays. Just gotta give the film a chance. And I know i'm not the only one who looked up 'Tommy Lee Jones' to see if he voiced the soldier guy who is the main villain at the end. It sounds just like Tommy Lee Jones. B "},{"Title":"One of my all-time favorite animated Disney features","Date":"25 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" In Atlantis The Lost World, historian Milo Thatch leads a crew of the world's greatest archaeologists and explorers in a search for the lost city of Atlantis. They travel through the depths of the dangerous sea aboard the submarine Ulysses. Only expecting to unearth ruins and artifacts, the team is astonished to find the ancient city still thriving with life.This is one of my all-time favorite animated Disney features. It's a masterful blend of Jules Verne's 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea and Journey to the Center of the Earth. Atlantis The Lost Empire is an adventure tale mixed with everything you could ever want in a fantasy film. There are elements of science fiction, mythology, and mystery all combined to form a highly exciting and entertaining tale.Steampunk fans will find something to enjoy in the film, as well. All sorts of interesting advanced mechanical technology appear that shouldn't exist in the early 1900s. It has a League of Extraordinary Gentlemen vibe to it as well, which isn't surprising since comic book artist Mike Mignola was one of the production designers for the movie.Any fan of hand-drawn animation and Jules Verne will love the blend of science fiction, action, and fantasy you'll get from Atlantis The Lost Empire. "},{"Title":"An underrated, entertaining adventure story","Date":"19 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This pastiche of turn of the century adventure stories (specifically inspired by Jules Verne, apparently) has been mostly forgotten over the years, and overall doesn't seem to have a fantastic reputation. I would argue that this is not deserved. That doesn't mean this film is some kind of hidden gem. It is relatively formulaic (though that's to be expected, somewhat, considering what it's trying to do) and doesn't feature much depth of character. But I can forgive that in an adolescent adventure story if there is wit, pace, ambiance, humour, and spirit - which this film has in droves...and which is what I think the 12 year old boys this movie was obviously marketed to are really looking for.I certainly was when I first saw it (at that age), and at that time it didn't disappoint. Viewing it through that lens, it still doesn't today. There is great imagination behind the portrayal of the Atlantean culture, some really comic characters (somewhat surprisingly, I thought all of them were unique and interesting to some degree - with the possible exception of the somewhat bland love interest, the antagonists, and the clichéd king of Atlantis), and a pace that never lets up.If the film were too meandering or bloated, it would have fallen apart, but an awareness of what it wants to be (a straightforward adventure story) helps it succeed. The basic beats of the story are competent to prevent it from losing momentum, and since it never imagines it is a great work of cinematic art, it never bothers bogging us down in poorly thought out character development (a not- uncommon flaw in bloated special effects movies, whose pretentiousness sometimes keeps them from being what would have been a decently entertaining action film...at half the length).The visuals, however, are probably the shining star of this movie. Reportedly there was a lot of work put into developing the Atlantean culture; a whole language was even constructed (courtesy of Mark Okrand, who is famous for inventing the Klingon language used in the Star Trek universe), and the work shows. A lot of the appeal of fantasy movies is their ambiance, and this film gets that.Sure, the film is no masterpiece, but that was less because of what it did wrong than the fact it didn't really go the extra mile character wise. The movie is competent, and has genuinely entertaining elements beyond the basic spine of the story, and for that I award it 7 stars out of ten. "},{"Title":"An underrated adventure epic despite it's predictable story!","Date":"5 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I think I remembered watching this in theaters when I was seven years old and I was usually blown away by it. A few years later, I watched this again and still loved it as ever. The premise really intrigued me. It was like Indiana Jones meets 20000 Leagues under the Sea and it works really well. There are two flaws that I really hate about this movie. First, there's the villain. James Garner voiced him really well, but Rourke is by far the worst Disney villain I have ever seen. He wants to find the Heart of Atlantis so he could use it to gain fame and fortune. Come on! It's the same villain Governor Ratcliffe from Pocahontas. The same thing happened to Clayton when he wants to find Gorillas in Tarzan and look how well that turned out. Second is the story. It has an original concept, but the story itself is too predictable for my tastes.Flaws aside, everything turned out great. Aside from the main villain, the main character Milo voiced by Michael J. Fox is likable as the brainiac nerd we've seen in most movies and his romance between him and Kida voiced by Cree Summer is romantic and enjoyable to watch. The side characters, although undeveloped, are good comic-relief pals that made me laugh right through the very end especially Mole who almost steals every scene. In fact, the voice acting for the characters is excellent. The action is pretty intense and enjoyable to watch especially the final battle which is my favorite part of the movie. The dialog is also smart and witty at the same time and the script is pretty clever. The music from James Newton Howard is beautiful and epic, but the strongest aspect goes to the animation. The visuals are lovely to look at it gives the movie an epic sweep to it and the character animation is nice to look at.Overall, Atlantis The Lost Empire may not be a masterpiece, but I don't understand the hate it had when it was first released because this is a completely underrated film that should be watched over & over again. Go watch it to those who have not seen it! It's that good! "},{"Title":"Jules Verne unleashed from his cage via splendid Disney animation","Date":"1 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Disney is at its best when it is busy unshackling classic stories or mythologies with arresting animation, visual and musical pizazz, and perhaps most importantly well-crafted characters.'Atlantis' is Disney at its best, with its sights squarely on the mythos of Jules Verne's classics of high adventure--especially '10,000 Leagues Under the Sea' and 'Journey to the Center of the Earth'. The art and swashbuckling soundtrack allows his visions to truly stretch their wings and conjure up the 'sense of wonder' that made his stories so spell-binding to the people of his time.Disney took a few subtle risks in the movie's other departments. The humor, the drama and the main themes are weightier, more complex and overall more adult than usual; however, the quick-draw wit with references designed for older viewers is coupled with enough well-executed lowball humor to tickle younger funny bones. And it doesn't hurt that the movie packs enough tasteful rip-roaring action to engage anyone who loves the adrenaline kick of 'Raiders of the Lost Ark' or other white-knuckle classics.Luckily a lot of these strengths carry through on the shoulders of the characters, who are rounded and three-dimensional despite being quite numerous and imbued with the standard ostentatious multiculturalism a tough-as-nails Latina with a heart of gold; an African-American doctor with a decorated military history; an Italian with a vaguely Russian accent busted out of a Turkish prison who wants to both open a flower shop and indulge his passion to just blow things up; a tall, broad-shouldered, stiff-jawed American military officer/mercenary-for-hire who values wealth above all else; a blonde femme fatale ripped from classic US noir; a wrinkled, white-haired, disgruntled, chain-smoking and hilariously blunt radio operator who seems to have been recruited from Boston; and our hero, a lanky, awkward but courageous academic who mysteriously grows more buff as he approaches the inevitable encounter with his love interest, a classic Disney princess; the idea such a crew could co-exist with ease in 1914 is...well, quite unlikely without the 'Disney magic'.In the end, all these elements come together to make a Disney classic that, approached with an open mind, ranks high on the list of the studio's animated feats and finally does justice to the vibrant imaginary of Verne and the classic science fictional adventures which he both wrote and inspired. "},{"Title":"One of Disney's Best","Date":"22 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This film is all out fun. The direction, the voice acting, the superb design work, and thrilling script make this one of Diseny's best.This is one I took my oldest son to the theater to see and now watch it with my youngest.One of the great things about the film is how end action keeps building, introducing new and dangerous elements instead of wrapping it up quick and dirty. That is what good screen writing is about.I love period pieces and in animation, the possibilities are endless. This team took that opportunity and ran with it. My hats off to them!I'll save a more detailed review about the sequel for that film's page, but to make it fast, that too was very, very enjoyable.Would love to have seen another film this series! "},{"Title":"Very well done, wasn't expecting the ending!","Date":"24 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" The movie starts out showing a professor talking to a group of people in a meeting of some sort. It isn't until he get's a phone call at one point and then apologies while turning on the lights (that made the stage bright and the audience dark) that you realize the group of people is really just a bunch of lamps and other random objects that happen to look like hats or heads and such! I literately said wow out loud because of how amused I was.Then the movies goes on and coming to the climax of the movie when it was revealed one of his helpers was in fact evil caught me a little off guard. I hadn't seen any other original films based off of this nor do I read books, but the way that the film went was very fascinating and clever.I thus rate this 7/10. "},{"Title":"The Disney film that could've","Date":"19 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Atlantis The Lost Empire could very well be Disney's most ambitious animated feature to date. It features intense, merciless scenes of battle and peril, depicted in some of the most stunning and fresh animation of the 2000's decade. The bravery and the thought process behind the film was nonetheless detailed, involved, and intricate, yet its payoff was pretty sour.We'll discuss that later. The film centers around Milo Thatch (voiced by Michael J. Fox), a brainy cartographer and linguist who works for the Smithsonian Institution studying the language and the environment that existed in the lost continent of Atlantis. He believes he possesses directions to the underwater world of Atlantis, in a book called The Shepherd's Journal. After getting shut down by the museum board to pursue the costly adventure, Milo conveniently meets Preston B. Whitmore (Mahoney), a millionaire who offers to send Milo and an already organized crew down to the depths of the oceans to search for Atlantis, all expenses paid.Milo accepts and goes on to meet his band of misfits. They are gentle giant Dr. Sweet (Morris), explosives expert Vinny (Novello), teenage mechanic Audrey (Obradors), crabby Mrs. Packard (Stanley), chef Cookie (the late Jim Varney), and quirky Mole (Burton), whom are all lead by Commander Rourke (Garner). Together, they plumb the depths to search for the continent of Atlantis, and get more than they bargained for along the way.The film's animation is lively, bright, and visually intelligent. It almost looks like scattered scenes from a comic book, that have come to life. The film was released in 2001, and unfortunately, found itself caught in the awkward time where animation was beginning to change drastically. Just one month before the release of Atlantis, came Shrek, a runaway hit shooting Dreamworks' popularity up to the stars. Not to mention, just a few years before that, we had A Bug's Life, Toy Story, and its sequel - all CGI animated features. Hand drawn animation was quickly decimating, and kids and parents blamelessly began looking elsewhere. That elsewhere was the brighter, more sophisticated color scheme of CGI; a method that would eventually transform animation forever.Atlantis The Lost Empire was victim of poor timing and unfair judgement, when in reality, it's a breathtaking adventure. It's not perfect, but it's a great leap from traditional Disney clichés such as soft music, cheery characters, and sing-a-longs. That might also be the reason why many parents were turned off as well. The film is very swashbuckling and adventurous. Some of the scenes of peril are frightening, intense, and very, very serious. The PG-rating is the not the thing you're used to seeing on a Disney film, and because of that, this found itself a bit blacklisted.Because of all the uncertainty of where a project like this go, Atlantis's gross was a modest one, especially for animated films, and failed to drum up a significant amount of revenue. Because of this failure, a sequel, titled Shards of Chaos, a spin off series titled Team Atlantis, and a water-ride at Disneyland were all canceled. Disney was clearly anticipating a breakthrough success, but sadly, it all vanished before their eyes, and Atlantis The Lost Empire would bring one word to people's minds; underwhelming.Despite a few things lacking, like credible character development of Milo's crew, Atlantis is a wonderful adventure. It almost reminds me of a more attractive, animated Pirates of the Caribbean before the films even came out. The risk of releasing the film was high, but Disney took the chance, and as a result, created an attractive animated film with style, wit, and action galore. How many failed risks can one say that about? Voiced by Michael J. Fox, Jim Varney, Cree Summer, Claudia Christian, James Garner, Corey Burton, John Mahoney, Phil Morris, Leonard Nimoy, Don Novello, Jacqueline Obradors, and Florence Stanley. Directed by Gary Trousdale and Kirk Wise. "},{"Title":"&#x85;such an undervalued film","Date":"15 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" The style and animation is amazing, and the characters and development is probably one of Disney's best. I even liked the villains, very realistic. One of the reasons it was devalued is probably because it was one of those Disney movies that wasn't really for kids. Like The HunchBack of Notre Dam and Pocahontas. The other reason being it was fairly long for a Disney movie. (1 hour and 35 minutes!) A lot of things could go past kids, the same thing could happen for the movie nine. Even if it was still G/PG rated.I wish Disney would make more cartoon films like this for an older crowd. Even knowing it wouldn't be as profitable, it would be very much appreciated. Even if you are a cash cow Disney, you are still loved and respected by many. And everyone still wants to wish upon a star. Thanks ♥ "}{"Title":"Disney is one of the GREATS!","Date":"6 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Atlantis The Lost Empire is ASTONISHING! From the directors and creators of Beauty And The Beast & The Hunchback Of Notre Dame comes this exciting sci-fi adventure. It's about a likable and humble linguist and cartographer, Milo James Thatch(voiced by Michael J. Fox)who joins a crew of funny professionals(feisty Audrey, laid back Vinny, funny Moliere etc) to find the lost sunken city of Atlantis and discovers friendship, discovery and teamwork along the way.I think this Disney flick is visually breathtaking, has good animation, excellent actors, has funny comic scenes and the plot is good. I recommend it for those who love Disney and it's a family treat for all ages. "},{"Title":"Action Packed Disney Flick","Date":"9 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" From the early 90s to the beginning of the 21rst century, Disney has made some pretty spectacular animated films. Many of them have been some strong box office hits. Well here's another film that'll blow your socks off. Atlantis the Lost Empire is visually a sight to behold. Why? Mostly because of its action sequences. There are so many different action sequences that'll keep the viewer staring at the screen because everything is done differently from Disney's previous films.Note for any Disney fan, this movie contains a good amount of action/violence. If you check out the MPAA rating, you will see why. It is actually pretty violent for a Disney movie. That's just an FYI for any viewer. Going back to what I was saying though, the action scenes are quite interesting because some scenes look like they're close to 3D. Of course they don't look 3D to the point of coming out of the screen but the way the pictures flow is so smooth and well developed that it looks 3D.The story revolves around a wimp named Milo Thatch, played by Michael J. Fox looks to find the lost city of Atlantis. Fox was the perfect pick for Milo Thatch because his voice does not sound that authoritative. It is not until Preston Whitmore voiced by John Mahoney, tells him how he lost a bet to Thatch's grandfather where he must fund the exploration of Atlantis.From here this sets up an introduction to a whole list of voice actors that do a magnificent job in making their characters come to life. To name a couple; James Garner, Leonard Nemoy, Don Novello and Claudia Christian all play characters that resemble them in some way. This is another strong feature to this movie. The voice characterizations are done perfectly. I have to say that my favorite character from this movie was Vincenzo Santorini (Don Novello). Novello uses his voice from Father Guido Sarducci to make this character work, and I will say that he is what makes up most of the comedic parts in this movie. For example Milo Thatch is showing some civilians how to start a carp shaped vehicle of some sort. Novello's character then asks, Hey Milo, you got something sporty? You know, like a tuna. I couldn't stop laughing after that moment for about 5 minutes.Although it is one of Disney's more violent renditions, it pleases with eye opening visuals and fantastic voice-overs. With this at hand, Disney has yet again created another fun piece of film work. "},{"Title":"Indifferent","Date":"24 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" With the best will in the world, I can't give Disney's Atlantis a huge vote of support.Don't get me wrong - I love animation, I love Disney Studios' output over the years, the animation here is terrific and the voice casting spectacular.But - and it is a huge But (OK, get the sniggering out of the way, Beavis) - I bought the DVD and watched it and now, two or three years later, a) I have never watched it again nor had the slightest urge to, and b) I couldn't tell you what it was about other than that a group of people go looking for Atlantis (heaven only knows where) and find it.A film where you can remember nothing about it after a relatively short time isn't necessarily a bad film, but it certainly isn't a good one. I expect better of Disney. "},{"Title":"Underrated","Date":"28 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Am I the only one who thinks that this one is way to underrated? It was without doubt the best Disney film ever! Excellent character chemistry, Incredible characters! The Explosion guy was just awesome, Mole made me laugh out loud, and the cook was so cool! The ONLY negative point about this film was the fact that the road to Atlantis should've been much longer. It was all rushed, with scenes immediately dissolving away. Correct me if I'm wrong, but I believe that the main focus of the film should be the expedition, not the events AFTER reaching the lost empire.The team itself, with the cook, doctor, the machinist, the explosion specialist, the crazy geologist and the ultimately sarcastic announcer was just remarkable and great, I don't think I'll ever forget them.Summary Thank you Disney (For the first time!) "},{"Title":"it's been about 9 years...","Date":"7 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" well...it touched me then and I'm fascinated how many things I remember and.I learned a great deal of English from it...considering I saw it before pubertythe film is great, inspiring with loads of awesome visual effects and humor witch I have to say...i deeply appreciate now after I've watched a considerable amount of moviessure...the plot kind of skips but the point of the film is to be enjoyable and that it does.oh...innocence...8-> "},{"Title":"This film opened up a new genre for Walt Disney films","Date":"18 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This movie revolves around Milo Thatch who is a cartographer and a linguist. He has spent his whole life learning about the lost city of Atlantis. With some help, he gets to join a group of explorers who are also dead-set on finding Atlantis.Overall, this was a very interesting film. I couldn't stop watching it. It was engaging and kept me glued to my seat. It had tons of adventure and a tad bit of romance. But it mostly concentrated on adventure and boy, was it good. It's not Disney's usual type of film, but it worked and it worked good!People say that Atlantis The Lost Empire has many similarities to James Cameron's Avatar. That's true. But it doesn't make either movie less good than what it really is. Aside from Avatar, I also felt a sort of Final Fantasy The Spirits Within vibe, especially during the last battle scene, which actually gave me chills!I don't think this movie was perfect. And judging from other reviewers, I'm not the only one who thinks so. It lacks something. But I'm not sure what that 'something' is. I mean, this animated film has everything! It has quirky, yet lovable characters. It has good and light-hearted humor. The villains are interesting people themselves. And this movie doesn't only target to children- I feel like even adults will enjoy this one. So I don't get why I can't just give this a perfect 10 without feeling uneasy. Maybe because the whole crystal talk was a bit shaky. That's my only complaint. It could have been more expounded on. Oh and I wanted more battle scenes. The effects were amazing!Disney should concentrate on making more films like these instead of making crappy sequels to great movies. I know I won't be watching Atlantis Milo's Return.Viewed on April 18, 2011 "},{"Title":"Disney's first Sci-Fi animated film is great","Date":"6 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Disney has made ton's of classic's like, The Little Mermaid, Beauty and the Beast, Aladdin, and The Lion King. But in 2001, they released their first Sci-Fi animated film, Atlantis The Lost Empire.The thing's I liked about this film is that the animation was great, the action scene's were good, and the voice acting was good. Michael J. Fox does a good job as the nerdy Linguist, Milo. James Garner does a good job as the villain, Rourke.The thing's I didn't like about this film is that it has a problem with character development. We only see the side character's as comic-relief character's and we see them at the end of the movie. Also, their wasn't that much plot. It's just about a group of explorers finding the lost city of Atlantis.Overall, Atlantis The Lost Empire, is a fun, Sci-Fi animated film that's worth watching. It may not be as perfect as, Titan A.E., but it's still a great movie. "},{"Title":"A Bit Rough Around the Edges, But Ambitious","Date":"20 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" When the 90s ended, Disney seemed to be getting out of their formula. The mid-to-late 90s Disney films after The Lion King were the same old story Big adventure, big epic battle at the end, show stopping musical numbers and borderline-annoying sidekicks. Granted, some films were great (The Hunchback of Notre Dame and Tarzan), others weren't all that great.After the disappointing Fantasia/2000 and the disastrous Dinosaur, Disney put out the cheap but great The Emperor's New Groove, and decided to cut down costs for the next couple of films. You can easily see this in Atlantis The Lost Empire, a film that Disney finally got off the ground. In the 1950s, Walt Disney had looked at the Atlantis legends and considered working on it, but it was one of those projects that never made it. So how did the modern Disney do it? Atlantis The Lost Empire at finest is a mess with a lot of redeeming qualities. For starters, this film was very ambitious. Disney went into a more action-packed territory (previously seen in Tarzan) and the film was decidedly a little more violent than most other Disney films. It was actually the first one to get a PG rating since 1985's The Black Cauldron. Also, Atlantis is a visual effects showcase. For 2001, these effects were great. Lots of computer animation throughout.The action scenes deliver. The Leviathan scene is a thrill, and various fight scenes and battle scenes were great. This was also a Disney film without songs. Not a bad thing, but it was nice to see do their first non-musical film since The Rescuers Down Under. So what didn't work? The story is a bit of a muddle. The first act is rushed. The way a majority of the film was edited seems a bit jarring. The characters were alright for the most part. While Milo was a great lead (played brilliantly by Michael J. Fox) and Rourke was pretty good villain, the other characters were a mixed bag. The other characters either blurted sarcastic humor (Vinny, Packard) or were completely odd (Mole, Cookie).Still, I like the fact that Disney tried to do something a little more action-oriented (although it could've been a lot more epic) and a little more violent. But what brings the film down is the often-weak story and narrative, along with the not-so-stellar screenplay. If this film had been very successful, Disney would've been heading in a different direction. This, Lilo & Stitch and Treasure Planet prove it. Disney was starting to get into the more action-science fiction style, but what they needed for this film was a better story and screenplay. Perhaps it was too many cooks who did the writing for this film. It's also a bit disappointing to see Kirk Wise and Gary Trousdale go from Beauty and the Beast to The Hunchback of Notre Dame to this.Anyway, Atlantis The Lost Empire is not stellar, but it's ambitious and tried to be something a little different. But the story, screenplay and other flaws hold it back from being great. An 8.2 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Good adventure yarn","Date":"4 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I love movies like this. Movies that explore new places with new ideas, people, and images. The excitement of finding a long lost city is salivating to me, and Atlantis The Lost Empire attempts, and adequately succeeds, to create this adventurous spirit.Milo Thatch (Michael J. Fox) is a wannabe adventurer who is stuck in a job fixing the boiler at a museum. He thinks he knows how to find the lost city of Atlantis, but is scoffed at by the museum curators. Then he is contacted by Preston Whitmore (John Mahoney) who offers him to lead a fully funded expedition to find the lost city.The voice talents are solid. I don't think there was any other choice for the role of Milo than Michael J. Fox. Fox's breaking voice and his ability to portray geeky eagerness and absolute shock are perfect for the character. James Garner is also effective as Rourke, the head muscle of the expedition. Rourke is a genial guy, but his motives may not be what they appear to be. Special mention has to go to Claudia Christian, who is excellent as the dangerously beautiful Helga, Rourke's right hand.This film was directed by Gary Trousdale and Kirk Wise, and produced by Don Hahn. These three were behind the production of Beauty and the Beast, the first animated film to be nominated for the Best Picture Oscar. Although this is a good film and I definitely recommend it, it's something of a let down. The problem isn't the story or the characters, it's the animation. It's so crude that it's almost an insult to call it a Disney movie. For Saturday morning cartoons, it would be acceptable. But for a full-length theatrically released movie, it's shocking. Audiences who paid good money to see this in the theater and who are expecting something along the lines of The Lion King, or even Hercules, deserve better.Nevertheless, this is a fun movie for the whole family. Maybe not the little ones because there is some violence and action, but for those in grade school, it should be a great time. "},{"Title":"Loved it","Date":"8 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I have to say I enjoyed this movie all the way through. The acting is good, the script well done, the animation is classic and the production values what we come to expect from Disney.Thank the Powers that Be that they didn't have to sing any songs in this movie. I've really gotten tired of that old shtick, and thankfully Disney does without it this time.First class actors in this movie do a great job with their characters.The story rolls along as a group of explorers set about finding Atlantis. They manage it but it turns out most of them are after Atlantis' wealth before anything else, including worrying about the paltry lives of the Atlantians.Our hero (played by Michael J Fox) must convince as many of the crew as he can to change sides and help him save Atlantis.So, it's not too deep of a story, but it's a fun movie with a few laughs and the story moves right along. I sure enjoyed watching it, and I'm also sure any animation lovers out there will enjoy it just as much. The kids will love it.Go see it right now. "}{"Title":"Impressive","Date":"23 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Atlantis The Lost Empire has some of the best, smoothest animation and cleverly written dialogue of any Disney movie I've seen. And I was convinced of that in the first 15 minutes. I especially love Don Novello's voice work on Vincenzo Santorini and Phil Morris as Joshua Strongbear Sweet. Too bad the whole film seems to move at about double the pace that would be appropriate - at least in the first act. One important aspect of any Disney movie is a satisfying antagonist - which Atlantis doesn't provide. He's average at best. Halfway through the movie there's a mediocre twist. That's all. It's a great movie nevertheless. Everyone should check it out. "},{"Title":"Grand adventure","Date":"21 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Grand action adventure from Disney concerns the search for the lost continent of Atlantis. Atypical from most animated films from the Mouse House made around the time in that there is nary a song anywhere to be found. Instead its simply great adventure as Milo (voiced by Michael J Fox)leads a team in a submarine into the depths and into the center of the earth. Its a rip roaring film thats high on adventure. I think this is one of the best films that Disney put out, but I'm skewed toward the non musicals with the much maligned Rescuers Down Under being another one of my favorites. Think of it as a film in the grand tradition of Gunga Din or Journey to the Center of the Earth or even King Solomons Mines. Its a boys own adventure (though girls will like it) and a great deal of fun for those looking for adventure and not too much goofy kids stuff. "},{"Title":"One of Disney's best films","Date":"30 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I love this movie! I first saw it when it premiered on ABC's Wonderful World of Disney in 2003 and from the opening scene to its unbelievable edge of your seat climactic battle, I was hooked and I knew this was one I must add to my movie collection. It is one of my favorite animated movies for the following reasons has a great plot, amazing action(enough to give it a PG rating), fantastic scenery, and a compelling music score(the best since The Lion King) that takes you through the story. I recommend this movie to anyone who is a fan of Disney, looking for a movie to watch with the whole family, or just looking for a good adventure flick. This was my first movie review and I will be reviewing more Disney films very soon. My rating for AtlantisThe Lost Empire 9/10! "},{"Title":"Wonderful animation movie","Date":"6 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I thought Atlantis The Lost Empire was a wonderful animated movie. I was just totally blown away with it when I saw it in theaters back in 2001. In the movie Milo Thatch(Michael J. Fox) wants to find the lost content of Atlantis. After he quits his job at the Museum Milo goes to Preston B. Whitmore(John Mahoney) and gets an expedidition to find Atlantis led by Commander Rourke(academy award winner James Garner). The crew incluedes Mole(Corey Burton), Vinny(Don Novello), Audrey(Jacqueline Obradors), Joshua Sweet(Phil Morris), Helga(Claudia Christian), Mrs. Packard(Florence Stanley), and Cookie(the late Jim Varney). When they reach Atlantis they meet Princess Kida(Cree Summer) who shows Milo around and the King(Leonard Nimoy) Milo soon learns that the crystal they were looking for in Atlantis is their life and learns that Rourke and Helga are planning to steal it and sale it! After they kidnap the Princess Milo and the rest of the crew go after and stop Rourke and Helga and save Princess Kida and Atlantis. The crew returns home and tells Whitmore they didn't find anything while Milo stays behind in Atlantis with Kida. Filled with wonderful animation, characters, and story Atlantis is a true movie the whole family can enjoy! I know me and my family have enjoyed it! I think the two best actors in the movie were Leonard Nimoy the voice of the King and Jim Varney the voice of Cookie who died a year before the films release. Atlantis The Lost Empire is a true family film that the whole family can enjoy without a doubt! 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Fewer songs, more explosions.","Date":"4 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" When this movie first came out, I was hesitant about watching it. I thought it would be like every other Disney movie I'd seen an overly-gorgeous princess would be in danger, or someone close to her would, and it was up to the handsome young prince to save the day. I was pleasantly surprised. The hero was instead a clumsy nerd who managed to save an entire civilization AND get the girl, a tribal-style woman who could fight for herself. Another thing that won me over was that there was no major love scene. The two never got mushy, but instead had a strong bond that formed from helping one another. I would recommend this movie to anyone who has a yearning for something different, non-traditional, and with a crud-load of explosions and action.It's also good to see a nerd get a tattoo. "},{"Title":"Atlantis is waiting","Date":"26 August 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I don't care what anyone says THE CONTEMPORARY Disney MOVIES ARE GOOD! It's very fashionable to say that all Disney movies after Walt's death have sucked and that the Disney Renaissance of the late-eighties/early-nineties resulted in but a few flukes. And the box office returns of some of these movies seem very supportive of that fact. But that's not the fault of the movies themselves It's Eisner's fault! He's been trying to undermine the values and ideals of Disney since he got the job in 1984. As I write these words, he's working on a) eliminating all cell-animated movies, b) cutting back or shutting down altogether the live action film company and c) focusing on ABC TV and the theme parks. Why? Because they make more money.The quality of these films is not declining. If anything, they're becoming more sophisticated and that marriage of traditional values in storytelling and contemporary comedy is working out much better. As an example, I give you Atlantis. Here is a very original story, which cleverly incorporates CG graphics into an otherwise entirely cell-animated movie and manages to portray dark aspects and big action just as expertly as comedy. A stellar cast, led by Michael J. Fox, helps the movie character to seem more believable, and not just funny drawings. Wisely deciding that not every animated film has to be a musical, there are no annoyingly optimistic songs to ruin the mood.This movie is noteworthy if for no other reason than Jim Varney gave what would be his last performance as the voice of Cookie, the...well, the cook.  "},{"Title":"Impressive and interesting effort from Disney.","Date":"17 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  ATLANTIS THE LOST EMPIRE (2001)THE GOOD--I like it when I learn things from films, and I learnt a lot about the intriguing Atlantis legend after seeing this Disney picture. Beforehand I knew nothing about the legend.--Atlantis The Lost Empire takes a more mature approach to the story than some Disney movies do. I actually felt it was as much an adult's film as a kid's movie, moreso perhaps. I was impressed to see that the movie did not need cheesy songs to keep the pace up, and the story kept me enthralled the whole time.--The characters have a good scene all together that develops them nicely. They have just landed in Atlantis and are camping and discuss their story with one another, we learn about their history and personalities nicely. There is a flaw with the scene though, mentioned in THE BAD section of my review.--I don't really understand why the animation in the film was called bad. I was quite stunned by the animation and camera work in the film. No, it's not in the fancy style that Shrek and the Toy Story films were, but not all films have to be like that. I personally think its good to keep some conventional animation going in the movie world. I loved the opening sequence where Atlantis is pulled into the waves, and the scene where Kida is floating upwards into the cave, and the huge pull-outs showing all of Atlantis.--There were some great action sequences in this film, particularly toward the end of the movie. They're exciting, well constructed involving and well filmed. THE BAD--Mole was an interesting character to me, and he is the only character that isn't fully developed history-wise in the scene where the characters are camping and discussing their personalities and history. Apparently we don't want to know about his history. Saying that came off as lazy and a way to get out of telling the audience.--Though I did love the animation, some of the facial expressions seemed a little rushed, and did not have that much range expression wise.RATING8/10 - An impressive and extremely underrated effort from Disney.IF YOU LIKED THIS I RECOMMENDHearts in Atlantis (7/10) Hercules (6/10) The Little Mermaid (9/10) Peter Pan (7/10) Shrek (9/10) "},{"Title":"Second viewing.","Date":"16 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I recently saw this again and was struck by how lame it was.  The characters are so sketchy and shallow, and the worst part is that the script is even set up to keep them that way.  There is this one scene where the gang is eating dinner and they go through a brief exploration of everyone's personality.  (And by brief, I mean... about three sentences per character?)  So when everybody has had their  15-word personality expose, Milo actually turns and looks at Mole and goes, So what's Mole's story?   (This is the only time we're going to get any character details on any of you, so we'd better include everybody.)   Also I happened to rent Stargate around the same time, and I will state for the record that msc23 is absolutely correct; Atlantis is a BIG ripoff of Stargate, following it point for point and in some cases scene for scene.  "},{"Title":"Wow something different","Date":"31 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Before I talk about this movie let me tell what motivated me to see it. I first heard about this from Star Trek the Magazine.  Jim Martin who is famous for designing the U.S.S Defiant on Star Trek DS9 was one of four production designers on this movie.  Yep you heard me right I got into this movie because a guy who designed one of my favorite starships worked on it ).  Anyway this is very different for a Disney movie.  It has a well thought out story and desent characters.  Plus it is actually built on myths from Atlantis.  My favorite part is the opening sequence with the quote from Plato and then the nuclear blast follows the ships.  For a fun film watch Atlantis. "},{"Title":"If you like animated, but not Disney, this is for you!","Date":"26 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Thank goodness Disney is making some animated features with punch!  This is one.  None of that eye-rolling cuteness that you usually put up with because you are with toddlers!This film is fun, fun, fun!  The characterizations are fine, the science fiction framework better than most live action films of the genre, and the art just gritty enough to be cool.The action is fast--almost too fast!  But the film covers a lot of ground (and water), so things have to move quickly.  I'd like to see the sequel.Disney's producers should take a very proud bow for making an exciting story with excellent characters.  And the actors who do the voices deserve strong applause for giving the characters true depth.  (The doctor was my favorite!)More like this! "}{"Title":"What about Indy?","Date":"12 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I watched Atlantis, and I must say that it's action packed and fast paced. But... the script is very sloppy. There are a lot of loose ends here.I had the notion that this picture left too little time to let the viewer get comfortable with the characters or the story. It took me about halfway the picture to figure out the setting was around 1914. ;-)But what I found most striking was the resemblance with an adventure game from a few years back called 'Indiana Jones and the Fate of Atlantis'. Certainly someone must've played this LucasArts beauty.Not only is there a lot of resemblance between the plot of the movie and the one of the game (looking for a power source, set in pre-WW2), it also leaves no opening for a possible upcoming Indiana Jones movie. I'd have loved to see an IJ Atlantis movie!Let's just hope people will forget about this one, so Spielberg/Lucas'll get their shot in a few years time. "},{"Title":"A Must See!","Date":"1 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Atlantis is one of the best films I've ever seen. I give it a 9 out of 10, It explodes you into the story line. If You like this I recomend, The Emperor's New Groove! I like the way John Mahoney acts in this movie -D "},{"Title":"One of the best Disney movies ever made!","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I am not a Disney fanatic in any way.  I pick and choose the movies that I like from them, including Aladdin and Hercules, as well as Little Mermaid and Mulan, but I tend to stay away from Disney.  However, being a fan of Michael J Fox, I felt compelled to watch this movie, to just give it a chance.And I was not let down.  It really is a great masterpiece of animation.  I did not feel that the action lagged, or story was rushed or missing parts, and I thought that the characters were as complete as they needed to be for the film.  And since most people claim to not like it due to the Atlanteans not having a larger presence in the film, then you fail to see that the movie is about the discovery of the lost civilization, not necessarily the civilization itself.  Rather Atlantis serves to show how power can destroy an empire.Never expect Shakespeare from Disney, however, they are capable of delivering great masterpieces, and this should be counted among them. "},{"Title":"Started well, but...","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Warning may contain spoilers.For me, Atlantis was the final straw Disney as officially lost its edge. Atlantis started out promisingly enough. I liked Milo all right, and enjoyed the scene in which his superiors try to blow him off. Things went down hill with the appearance of the cliched, unrealistic, multi-culti crew. Was it me, or were those characters completely unappealing? Helga was vaguely interesting, but everyone else--Mole lost me the very first time he started ranting about Milo ruining his dirt collection. Dr. Sweet seemed all right, but he just wasn't funny. Him and Mole together at the begining of the voyage was just too much. Audrey was just ridiculous--how on Earth does a Hispanic teenaged female get to join an expedition in 1914. For some reason, she got to me even more than Helga and Dr. Sweet. In general, it just seemed like Disney was trying too hard to bombard us with colorful characters--I wound up hating every one of them. Princess Kida was intriguing enough---I wish we could have seen more of her.This movie spends very little time on the actual Atlantis. We catch a glimps or too of the Atlantean people, listen to Princess Kida complain for a while, and then go off on some weird mystery quest that I didn't really understand until the second viewing. I never knew enough about Atlantis or the quest to really care what was going to happen. Kida said several times that their culture was dying, but WHAT DID SHE MEAN BY THAT? And what was the point of the crystal pulling a member of the royal family to it everytime there was trouble? And why did Kida survive and her mother didn't? It all seemed like the writers were trying too hard to appear profound, rather than create a well thought-out story. All of Disney's recent movies always feel to me like they're trying so hard to call attention to themselves, and hit the viewer over the head with everything that goes on. Milo regurgitates the entire plot in a fit of self-pity. Yeah, thanks, Milo. You're a failure. We get it. Disney has continually tried to boost it's dying reputation by unloading more special effects on the unsuspecting audience. WHen will they realize that the art department is NOT where they're lacking. WRITE A DECENT STORY, FOR HEAVEN'S SAKE! There are plenty of decent writers looking for work out there. And there's no need to lose the songs and talking animal characters. Granted those things have been overdone in the past, but back in the days when they were done well, I don't remember anyone complaining. Nobody minded Part of Your World or Under the Sea. Those songs were good! Nowadays the songs and comic releif are inserted way to awkwardly. Atantis was worth seeing for the animation, but it's boring storyline and unlikable characters make it unworthy of a second viewing. I hope Disney pulls itself out of this rut sometime soon.  "},{"Title":"Animation that digresses...","Date":"1 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  2D and 3D animation? Yeah, so what. The backgrounds may have looked pretty good, but the character animation lacked in so many ways. It looks to me like the folks at Disney spent all their time and money on the scenery and didn't have enough time left over to even give the poor characters proper fingernails, much less anything else of great detail. The thin line drawings of Milo and all the rest were unsatisfying and distracting from the movie for me. I can only hope that, for Disney's next outing, they would consider putting a little more detail and fluidity into the actual characters; they are where the story lies. "},{"Title":"Dark, but beautiful...a visual masterpiece.","Date":"25 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Visually a stunning film.  Quite beautiful in its premise and in its artificial architecture.  I was quite partial to the scene in which Kida fused with the Heart of Atlantis, and the faces of the kings fell as she walked forward.A good deal of dark humor, and not a sign of that odd let's-all-break-into-song atmosphere.  An old-fashioned but revolutionary animation style.  A very seamless fusion of CG/traditional animation, unlike efforts in Hercules and its ilk.  Don't let the dark aspects of this film turn you away; it is still Disney, still teaches life lessons, and is still, in its heart, maudlin as any Disney flick before it.A better plot than other recent Disney films, and a fresher look  as well. Atlantis The Lost Empire may be dark...but it is also beautiful; overall a visual masterpiece.  Kudos to Disney. "},{"Title":"Not quite there","Date":"18 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Animated movies don't need musical numbers to be exceptional (c.f. The Iron Giant). Nor do they have to have marketing gimmicks. Atlantis missed its mark because it has a case of inconsistent cohesion. Animated films tend to be tight-paced. Atlantis at least has that along with its excellent animation. In at least one place, the pace is TOO fast, as in the case of the escape from the leviathan which could have been a show stopper like the Tarzan vs. Sabor battle in Tarzan if the story editors allowed it more time. The characterizations are ... inconsistent. We get a delightful introduction to most of the secondary characters, although Helga Sinclair is a huge question mark. Why is she always looking so annoyed? Why is her facial expression range so limited? Why do we get no background on her AT ALL? And why are there characters as serious or believable as Joshua Sweet juxtaposed with Cookie and Moliere? I liked all the characters, but the fleshing out was uneven, leading to an inconsistency of scenes that work. The chemistry is not quite there.By all means, see Atlantis, but don't expect the clarity or story quality from it as you could expect from other Disney masterpieces. "},{"Title":"Fantasic Adventure","Date":"9 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  i think this movie kinda got a few too many bad reviews, maybe thats just in the UK, but i think this film is really good. Michael J. Fox is wonderful as Milo, and there are a host of well known artists that did voices in the movie, such as John Mahoney who does Professor Wiltmore, he plays Martin Crane in Frasier, and also singer Cree Summer does the voice of Kida, and Leonard Nimoy, better known as Dr. Spock did the voice of the Atlantean King. Its amazing the amount of work put into this movie, although i do prefer films with more songs, than just an end title, this film is definately a great hit with me, and is a fantastic adventure based on a well known legend. i love it! "},{"Title":"Atlantis The LEAST Empire","Date":"5 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  No wonder this fizzled at the Box Office it's a ludicrous excuse to show off animated super special effects. The story, set in 1912, is replete with assinine, stereotypical, overly contemporary characters, including 2 women, who unfortunately at the time would not even be allowed to join an expedition, half-baked plot developments, unanswered twists (what's the back story on the gigantic crustacean?), and an excessive climax. The lack of songs are actually sorely missed. No wonder Atlantis sank.  "},{"Title":"Nice work...","Date":"21 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  It's nice to see that Disney are continuing to explore other ideas in animated story telling, and it's refreshing.  Atlantis isn't a bad film.  Not my favorite Disney flick but I can appreciate the effort that went into it.  The visuals are top-notch as always, and the style is quite a departure from the traditional Disney animation.  There are definite hints of anime influence in this film, and it very much works.  The music in parts is beautiful (the Enya-like music was awesome), fitting in with the scene wonderfully and helping to convey the mood.  In particular I refer to the sequence in the chamber containing the giant rock faces of past kings.  Combined with the imagery and editing, it was breath-taking.  This is where my main qualm with the film comes in.  It's disappointing that Disney didn't try to maintain this approach througout the rest of the film, using both the music and imagery to evoke such moods.  The Atlantis story had a lot of potential in this respect, but Disney only touched on it here and there.   The story, as others have pointed out, is kinda thin.  The characters are pretty shallow and to be honest, Milo took the geekazoid act to the extreme and it got kind of annoying.  Michael J Fox did a great job with the voice-acting, but personally I felt his voice didn't match the character too well.All in all, not a bad flick.  See it on video.  7 out of 10.    "}{"Title":"Where are all of the Atlantians?","Date":"20 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie had so much promise and I have to say I'm disappointed in it. While the animation and colors are absolutely beautiful and really capture ones imagination, the plot and characters make you realize this is just another formula movie.  The plot borrows heavily from the Indiana Jones trilogy and many other classic adventure movies, but fails to turn them into anything original.  Every character in the movie is a standard cardboard cut out of characters we've seen a hundred times before the nerdy hero who no one will listen to about Atlantis; the eccentric millionaire who finances the expedition; the rag-tag expedition crew who reminded me heavily of the marines in Aliens.  A few of the characters are fun, such as the demolition expert, but over all they are very much stock characters.Though the biggest problem I have with this movie is the lack of Atlantian characters!  Other than background characters, there are only two Atlantian characters who are involved in the plot the king and his daughter, Kida. I feel the movie would've been much more interesting if the plot concentrated more on the Atlantian people and less on the crew of the expedition.Overall Atlantis is worth seeing for the beautiful artwork, but leaves you feeling cheated because of the unoriginal screenplay and lack of Atlantians. "},{"Title":"A new kind of Disney.","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I'll have some spoilers ahead.Death.  Destruction.  Explosions.Does this sound like Disney to you?  Hardly.Yet Atlantis  The Lost Empire has broken through the restraints set on earlier Disney films and attempted to become more of an action flick rather than the usual feel-good Disney content.Is this a good thing?  Definitely!  Disney is trying to break through, survive, and attract a larger crowd.  Recently it has done that, pitting major characters against nature, evil advisors, and comrades.  Death, something which occurs quite frequently in real life but isn't to be seen much in Disney films, is now appearing more and more with the introduction of Dinosaur and now Atlantis.  Disney has slapped the audience in the face with these newer movies, giving them something more realistic.Atlantis continues this newer kind of film, especially since around 150 people are killed within the first hour of the film.  Great graphics and realistic (but somewhat shallow) characters add to the film's depth.  One of the worst things about the film, however, is the sense of rushing through a busy highway going 110 mph.  Images flash by and quickly you're at your destination.  The beginning of Atlantis is like this.  The viewer is bombarded with constant scene shifts and new plot developments all the time in the beginning, which makes you feel kind of thrown into it all.All in all, Atlantis is quite a movie, and proves that Disney is making a great name for itself as it bursts into this new era.  Let's hope they keep it up. "},{"Title":"good disney classic","Date":"13 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  CONTAINS SPOILERS A TELL ALL, BEWARE.  The story of Milo James Thatch  and the adventure under the sea.  with a large crew,  they go to Atlantis to find a civilization that still thrives on the land.  although the commander is not looking for friendship, but the all powerful life force.  which he finds  in princess Kida.  he tries to take Kida back to the surface world but is stopped by Milo and the rest of the crew.  Commander Rourke is finally killed by Milo and shatters into a million pieces.  when the rest of the crew  gets back to the United States,  Mr Whitmore asks what happened to everyone.  Milo as you probably know lives on  with his new love Kida.  I think they should make a second Atlantis,  with more adventure and action. "},{"Title":"Whapow! Excellent!","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Instant 10/10This is one of Disney's BEST. Aimed at all audiences and now a bold step for The company. Sure people can bitch as MUCH as they want about It being too violent and It just isn't Disney. But it IS Disney and it is one of it's best. If they are gonna complain about it being too scary they should have read the PG label on it. They have started to realise that they have to step BEYOND children movies and go into a bit more graphic content. (Not meaning blood and guts and stuff, but hey, every villain has to get what he deserves, even if it means killing them.) The cast was good and the animation was perfected. It was the best Atlantis story I have heard. If you liked this movie, try the Indiana Jones and the Fate of Atlantis game. It is one of the best. "},{"Title":"A huge letdown...","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  ATLANTIS THE LOST EMPIRE / (2001) D+By Wes AlexanderOnce, long ago, Disney's movies used to be about good conquering evil. Those films were never afraid to be scary. Why, even SNOW WHITE AND THE SEVEN DWARFS was scary to young kids. That period of time died, along with Disney's ability to make a truly great, scary, adventurous movie. Disney started making musicals with positive moral values. This was a good sign, they made their best films ever, BEAUTY AND THE BEAST, but they drifted so far from the films Walt Disney himself used to make. Now, in a sad attempt to bring back that magic, we have ATLANTIS THE LOST EMPIRE.Milo Thatch (voiced by Michael J. Fox) is a bumbling linguist who is desperate to find the lost empire of Atlantis that was buried beneath the sea a long, long time ago. He works for a museum (heating the building in the boiler room) and they just laugh at him and his ideas. He meets his grandfather's good, old friend Preston Whitmore (voiced by John Mahoney) who tells him that he is willing to fund the trip to search for Atlantis because of a certain book that he has obtained. This book comes from Milo's grandfather (who Milo had a strong bond with) and Whitmore made a promise that if he found the book, he'd arrange the trip. So, Milo is off to search for Atlantis, along with Helga (voiced by Claudia Christian), Rourke (voiced by James Garner), `Mole' (voiced by Corey Burton), Audrey (Jacqueline Obradors), Dr. Sweet (Phil Morris), Vinny (Don Novello), Cookie (voiced by the late Jim Varney), and Mrs. Packard (voiced by Florence Stanley).When they finally find Atlantis, they meet Princess Kida (voiced by Cree Summer). Everyone is surprised to find people there. What's more surprising is that they live for hundreds of years and barely age. This happens because a crystal protects the city. A crystal that the bad guys want to steal. These `bad guys' are people that are on the trip with Milo. I won't give it away but it's pretty obvious once the movie starts. If this crystal is removed, then the entire city dies. It's up to Milo to save the day.Yes, this is a movie aimed at children. It has more plot than most adult movies. This is one of the main problems of the movie. The running time is one hour and thirty-five minutes, one hour and twenty minutes of that is setting up the plot and getting everything worked out. By the time the entire storyline had been laid out, I really didn't care too much. This movie lets its audience go because it does not give us anything of interest.For a children's movie, it's loud and obnoxious. It doesn't feel like a Disney movie. It feels like a summer blockbuster produced by Jerry Bruckheimer. The end sequence is as loud as PEARL HARBOR. Usually, Disney offers thrilling end battles, but in ATLANTIS the end battle is predictable and sloppy.Now, am I the only one who thinks computer animation looks out of place in animated movies? It worked for BEAUTY AND THE BEAST because it was only one scene. But it seems in ATLANTIS every seen has a computer animated set and it's fake and obvious.Traditional animation is slipping away, with computer animated movies SHREK taking over the box-office and MONSTERS, INC. on the way in November. Disney needs to be on top of this and start releasing the great, classic Disney movies that we all have come to expect these last couple years. And with a failed attempt like ATLANTIS they aren't doing to well.ATLANTIS THE LOST EMPIRE lacks the charm and charisma as such Disney films as THE LION KING or even HERCULES. It also lacks the excitement and action of 20th Century Fox's TITAN A.E. The end result is a big mess of a movie that has no heart, no brains, and a lot of noise.  "},{"Title":"The Lost Chance","Date":"5 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The problem with Atlantis, the Lost Empire, is that it is as dead as the civilization it is trying to depict. Whereas technologically competent and almost ambitious, along with having a great idea for start, the movie loses steam almost immediately after the attack by the giant lobster (or is it a shrimp?). The uneventful and unfunny underground and cave scenes (where the expedition survivors attempt to find their way out (or in...) before discovering Atlantis), achieves something diffusing most of the audience attention and interest. It is unfortunate. The movie SHOULD have been a success as all the elements were in place. But it ended up being less than the sum of its part. An important aspect of this `unfunny' business is Mole or Molière who's consciously trying to compete with Jar Jar Bink for the most annoying computer-generated character ever. Although Jar Jar Bink wins, when Milo meets with Mole and the doc in their quarter, is it meant for us to laugh or to feel embarrassed? When Mole is digging to sleep, is that supposed to be funny? When Milo kicks Mole's engine back to life, are we expected to laugh? The movie brightest and finest moments come anytime Wilhelmina Bertha Packard talks Florence Stanley infuses a spirit and a witty combination to a character well drawn and well written for. But in the end, Mrs. Packard is right as she keeps repeating, `who wrote this?' and `we're all going to die'&#133; of boredom. The film falls flat and like the characters, we're trying to escape back to light even before the movie ends.  "},{"Title":"Good not Great","Date":"5 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  An OK movie from Disney.  Seemed to lack the usual magical scenes that most Disney movies have.  Animation was up to Disney standards.  But, the characters were not that interesting.  I enjoyed the movie I just wasn't overwhelmed.  Perhaps, we expect too much from Disney, expecting a blockbuster with every release, but this seemed rather ordinary.  "},{"Title":"Now this was a Great Movie!","Date":"4 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I greatly enjoyed this movie and think most other people will like it, also. It's not just a little kids cartoon, either. The characters were great, and the story was awesome. It had everything!A group of people go to search for Atlantis, and have some unexpected happenings on their way. It's funny, and it has action, too.The whole movie was entertaining. I think a wide variety of people will enjoy this movie. "},{"Title":"getting worst","Date":"2 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I used to be a die hard disney animation products but that's not anymore after Lion King. I noticed degrading in terms of animation quality and the charm of the character(s)The story line is not meaningfull anymore (look at beauty and the beast, alladin and lion king) If you watch those movies at the end of the movies there are something still attached to us like the character of the beast, alladin ,timon ,etcAtlantis is more suitble for kids rather than the Juvenile and aboveKids like simplified cartoon, not the state of the art quality from Dreamworks.  But since most of the audiences are not kids it is better for Disney to look back what they have done to the previous trilogy (beauty & the beast, alladin and lion king )I have to put 3 out of 10  "},{"Title":"Great animation, but boo to everything else","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie just struck me as odd.  I can't really pinpoint the audience Disney was looking for here.  Because with Disney, one has come to expect a certain spark and liveliness (along with top-notch animation) that is able to capture the attention of even the most inattentive four year-old. Atlantis, however, was made with a more adult audience in mind.  I honestly can't see a child of less than 10 REALLY enjoying this movie.  If a parent bought this for their son or daughter, I can't see the kid wanting to watch it more than a few times.  There just isn't much to rewatch except for the animation.  And unfortunately, just because something LOOKS good doesn't mean it IS good.The main character was a cliché and the usually boisterous Disney supporting cast was lackluster on this outing.  Milo's little band of compadres are unfriendly and unwelcoming.  Their quirks seem to be tacked-on in order to appeal to children, but I personally didn't see how they were all that charming or funny.In addition, the storyline itself would be extremely dull if it didn't have such exquisite animation.  The dialogue wasn't particularly clever, and there were several large gaps/holes in the plotline.  Thus, I can't see the movie being all that appealing to anyone over 14.I see Atlantis as like a mature Disney version of Final Fantasy.  Could have been good, but wasn't. "}{"Title":"Very different for Disney","Date":"23 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The story is very Jules Vernian. Right up there with 20,000 LeaguesUnder the Sea and Journey to the Center of the Earth. The characteranimation was very expressive I took one look at the blonde woman andknew she was one of the bad guys. Disney could take some tips fromDreamworks for water animation (watch out for Dreamworks, they mightleave Disney in the dust), but it was a very good story.        "},{"Title":"A new animated movie","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Atlantis is a animated movie where Disney have been the courage of change, and this is better manner to revel 100 years. The story  be obliged to Japan anime Nadia and secret of blue water , the blue stone the submariner, Milo/Jean, the plot, but present many interesting news. It's without songs and cosmopolitan cast ( for me a good news), the players must make a choice  Money or friendly to dissimilarity ?  any choice the second but others choice the first and this is a very important news for the Disney. Because introduce the concept of choice. Always have been seen protagonist or good or bad, rarely good that wrong but after make a good action.  In Atlantis the players Helga that is bad in the moment of the choice, choice the money. Is true that loose but the audience not expect that. At last but not the last the message that scream us   believe in your dream  A very important message in this repetitive and mechanic world that don't want our heart.  "},{"Title":"a good film for the kids","Date":"23 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  atlantis lost empire is a great film in a year of great smash hits for kids i sneaked to see this with my freinds i liked becase it had some great action scenes in it and some funny lines and that it was done by disney micheal j fox plays the part of milo thatch in it which if u look at the clumsy character it fits the film was good and i will rent it when it comes out on video or dvd "},{"Title":"Like duck tales","Date":"20 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie reminds me to duck tales, which I saw on TV as child Nearly straight story line and clear personalized good/bad contrast. Disney's problem is that this picture is shown in the cinema and not on TV. A parallelism to this fact is the Star Trek series which moved to the 'big' screen in the late 70's. Fairly good TV stuff, but also as movie it affects just like a long  TV special. Sorry, Disney, but this new direction of making films doesn't fit to a claim to be a movie creator. Atlantis would be a good TV film, in the cinemas it is just a (average) film. I gave it 7 stars. "},{"Title":"Void of content - but perfect animation","Date":"17 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  With Atlantis, Disney is experimenting with its techniques in a new genre, an action movie, probably in order to win a more general audience. Of course, on the level of the plot, you wouldn't expect anything original  or novel from Disney, and, in fact, the story of Atlantis is as flat and trivial as could be. The events are haphazard and barely motivated and much has been seen somewhere else (e.g., Milo manages to speak a language which has been dead for thousands of years even faster than James Spader did in Stargate; with a short moralistic appeal he manages to win tough mercenaries for his cause ... you get the idea). At the beginning, the film is filled with annoying silly and corny gags. Finally, the characters are extremely poorly developed, even for a Disney movie.This said, Atlantis is still a movie worth watching, because of its fantastic visual style. From the design of the characters to the beautiful landscapes, the look of Atlantis is almost overwhelming. This makes Atlantis an experience despite its non-existing story.Certainly, Disney's animation department is in full possession of state of the art artistic and technical means, but the studio is still lacking a unifying spirit like Walt Disney who has a vision of the whole and brings together all the talents in order to create a lasting masterpiece. Since Aladdin, Disney has failed to create another classic, and I am afraid Atlantis won't be one either. For this, its story and characters are simply too undistinguished. "},{"Title":"No more Disney Spirit","Date":"15 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Much too violent, much too much action, special effects,... This is no longer the good old Disney Spirit. I watched this film in Le Grand Rex in Paris with 1000 other spectators, a lot of kids in the audience. Almost never during the film the kids could laugh.Sad to see that such bad movies can come from studios which such good history. "},{"Title":"Lame with a few nice pictures /* some spoilers */","Date":"14 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I don't know what the previous poster's (Jack Oats) standards are... to me his review sounds more like paid advertisement.Atlantis deeply disappointed me. The story was lame, full of clichees, poorly executed, jammed with pseudo-esoteric humbug, and generally boring. We didn't have characters, not to mention any development- just clichees.The character animation was mediocre, to say the best. What was done with CGI was impressive, but much too short and poorly placed. Why one wastes an endless span with the (pretty pointless) exposition and the superfluent and absurd twist of Milo being kidnapped, then introduces the magnificent submarine and ditches it again just a minute later, to follow up with the endless and boring expedition, rather than exploiting the awe-inspiring design, completely escapes me.The soundtrack was okay, but not spectacular. At least for the German dubbed version, one has to note that the accents and speech impediments of various characters were way too pronounced, and sometimes they were pretty hard to understand.Overall, the old rule of thumb that six screenplay writers are five to many, seems to apply again. The story held _nothing_, and since all the cool images (like the zeppelin/ballon) were staged in the least effective way, one can't even say it was nice to look at.Atlantis seemed to me to lack a concept. The character animation reminded me of 60's disney movies, like Merlin and Mim, or the Jungle Book, and sometimes tried to be funny. The background and CGI style, though, was much more mature and sombre, and contrasted awkwardly with the characters. Likewise, fun characters like Vinnie, Mole or Cookie were not funny for the most part, and they didn't fit in with the gloomy aspects like the expedition members resembling WWI-soldiers with gas masks. (Why they were required to constantly wear gas masks will remains the director's secret, I suspect. Probably to make them look gloomy. But it's stoopid.)/*** spoiler ahead ***/Likewise, after the crash of the submarine, the crew shortly mourns for some two hundred of the crew having died... but goes on with their cheap jokes immediately. Not necessarily character depth, I'd say.Even worse, we are told that Atlantis sank as a result of a war running wild, yet the film later implies that the evil guys can only be overcome by a battle of machine guns, war planes and bombs. Fair enough for a Schwarzenegger vehicle, but questionable in connection with our plot. One would expect the Atlantians and Milo resp. to be able to come up with something more clever and original.Summary To some it's a movie. To others it's the longest outtake of the year. "},{"Title":"Almost Right!","Date":"5 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Finally, a Disney animated film that lacks the two things I hate most about animated Disney films1) No SINGING!!!2) No Anachronistic (voiced-by-a-popular-comedian) Sidekicks!!!That said, the animation was up to the usual Disney standards. But the story, unfortunately, needed a little more development. The plot was so stop-and-go in the pacing that I nearly got whiplash no gradual build-up to the climax, just short action-packed sequences interspersed along an otherwise long and uninteresting journey.There were also a couple of story elements that were entirely too contrived and inconsistent, but I risk spoiling the story for those who have not seen the film yet.Overall, I enjoyed it. But Disney still has a lot of work to do if they plan on making PG rated animated films like this in the future. "},{"Title":"Pretty Damn Good","Date":"21 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie was excellent.  Who, when reviewing a movie, needs to comment on how it is/isn't for kids.  Who cares?!  As an adult, I thought the non-musical format was a relief (another big Phil Collins or Elton John production and I am gonna puke!).  This was a beautifully animated adventure.  It shows how the Disney animators are willing to experiment and go beyond the 'kiddie cartoon formula'.  There should be more animated films for adults who enjoy then.  Sure, this movie borrowed from many genres - but which movies don't 'borrow' ideas, styles, etc.   "},{"Title":"Exciting but not up to usual Disney standards","Date":"28 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is an action movie - full of explosions and awesome scenic  effects. Great stuff, but flawed in some ways - I especially thought it a mistake to open with a sequence of foreign-language stuff with sub-titles, guaranteed to turn off kids with reading difficulties or short attention spans. The plot was predictable but nonetheless enjoyable; I took two 13-year-olds and an 8-year-old who loved most of it. The drawings were sharp and up-to-the-minute, definitely not a cute style, plenty of explosions and some amazing computer-generated special effects. Boys will love it for the adventure, and there is probably enough romance for the ladies too! I think it lost out to some films with strong musical content - we couldn't come away humming a tune - but the idea is intriguing, maybe appealing mostly to parents who know the mythology -? "}{"Title":"A good Disney film which could have been more","Date":"27 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I will be brief. I feel that this film has been a real missed opportunity for Disney. I'm not saying that it wasn't a good film, it is and follows an increasing line up of modern Disney successes. But perhaps it could have been a bit more. I know that they must be true to their roots but the story here doesn't really fit in to that pattern and forcing it to diminishes the film.Our hero here is Milo Thatch, a young linguist who dreams of fulfilling his Grandfathers lifetime goal of discovering Atlantis. After becoming a laughing stock at the museum where he works, Milo out of the blue is called before the 'intimidating' Mr Preston Whitmore who turns out to be a old friend of his grandfathers who is willing and ready to fund the expedition to find Atlantis. Milo meets up with the crew of the impressively animated sub-marine who turn out to be a fairly standard Disney bunch and set out to find the Lost Empire.Ok in part the animation here, Disney's first real try at anime, was impressive the opening shots were remarkable and with a small audience of children who had never seen Japanese animation I heard more than one gasp. But this new stylism does not extend to the characters are typical of those produce by Disney at various times over the last 30 years and are the main disappointment of the film. With a smaller more tightly written cast this film would have been greatly improved. In particular the Mole, Cookie and teenage chief mechanic Audrey were where fairly token inclusions.As recent Disney has increasingly had a dark side this would have been the darkest yet the main issue here being nothing less than genocide, but a few fudges have avoided this. Had this dark vein been followed to what I thought would have been its logical conclusion, the oddly comic Preston Whitmore this would have been a better film.I said I would be brief didn't I? Ah well. Take the Kids to see this, they wont know any better!  "},{"Title":"Pacific Heights","Date":"27 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The idea to recruit Mike Mignola for this Disney's movie is indeedbrilliant, if not a risky one. Being famous for his Hellboy on goingseries, Mike Mignola's vision towards cartoons and animated artsis beyond doubts.But same as the standard disney's movie, atlantis holds its hopesand dreams to become reality towards the heroes. The storysomehow is predictable and flat, the plot arrangement issomehow stands in it's basic form which cannot offer us morethan any Disney's pictures.What helds strongly and adds much point to this movie is theproduction design. Every elements is detailed and concepted andindeed results a highly artistic movie.The colours are solid and strong, as the line art is original andmemorable.A must for art reference in animated movie. "},{"Title":"Not like the good old days","Date":"24 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Although Atlantis is reasonably good, it lacks the certain Disney magic of just a few years ago. Some of the characters are a little 2 dimensional and unlikeable, but only because they are given few chances to develop. Although there are supposed to be 13 main characters only 2 are really focused on (Milo and Princess Kida) The companies animation skills improve with each film and this is no exception to the rule. Some of the computer animation is very impressive and make the action sequences that much better. However nice animation doesn't make up for a dull script and lifeless characters. spoilers below.Now is it me or are Disney trying to come up with more Gruesome ways for the baddies to die. Usually it involves falling off a building into the cloud never to be seen again. Recently I have seen plummeting into flame, being hung (if accidentally) and in this case being frozen and then chopped into a thousand pieces by spinning blades.Lets hope the next Classic recaptures some of the flair and originality of early and mid-nineties Disney films 6/10  "},{"Title":"Pretty good film,if not that original","Date":"24 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Although I quite enjoyed this disney offering..I couldn't help but notice the comparisons between this film and the Dreamworks offering ROAD TO EL DORADO.In both films,People follow maps and pass many spectacular stone carvings trying to reach a great place,and when they get there,the beauty of it is beyond words.Unfortunately for this film,the story runs out pretty much by the time they get to Atlantis.Chances are the filmmakers didnt want to plagarise Road to el dorado, so they took a different path which doesnt always work in its favour.In this film our heroes companions betray him so they can get the city most precious diamond and take it away.It makes for a Great and highly visual action climax which compensates for the lack of storyThe film is funny and has some great visual scenes aboard the Sub(Many times I was asking myself how this film would work as a live piece).It was an enjoyable film indeed..which also spared us the musical numbers...but it makes me miss the old days of film when films like this were done live..and without the dreaded digitism.I give it....7 out of 10I give it "},{"Title":"Shameless rip off","Date":"23 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie was a complete rip-off of Hayao Miyazaki's masterpiece, Laputa. I probably would have enjoyed this movie a lot if I didn't keep seeing parts of the Animie throughout the film. Disney doesn't seem to be coming up with original ideas anymore (eg Tarzan - a cross between jungle book and Lion King). But to give it credit, the animation was good and the characters likeable. There were the odd good jokes in it and some famous voices. If you read this before you go to see it - see if you can spot Leonard Nimroy! "},{"Title":"Disney Explores new Depths","Date":"22 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  `Atlantis-The Lost Continent' goes beyond traditional Disney animation movie fare because it is much more adult-oriented than other Disney movies. Its mood is darker, the monsters look scarier (one child actually cried in the theater at the sight of the sea monster) and the villains are more evil. It also comes closer to depicting death, however indirectly, than any other Disney movie. In more than one respect, it was strongly reminiscent of Japanese animes, although by comparison it is still much tamer. The message of the movie is contemporary, because the villains do not strive for some abstract power, but simply for money. The animation is (predictably) awesome, and even here Disney introduces something new While the hero and heroine look unmistakably like Disney figures, the other members of the explorer team look like they each sprung out of a different comic genre. This juxtaposition of different styles makes the animation more interesting to watch.  The story moves at a fast pace, leaving us to be entertained from beginning to end.  Overall, a very good contribution and a riposte to those who object to the rampant `Disneyfication' of every subject matter that this company treats.  "},{"Title":"An excellently plotted and stunningly animated Disney film.","Date":"15 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  ATLANTIS THE LOST EMPIRE (2001) Rating 9/10Date of review 16 September 2001Disney has indeed released a flock of good movies recently. Dinosaur, The Emperor's New Groove and now Atlantis The Lost Empire have all been fantastic. I went into Atlantis expecting to like it. I loved the mysterious trailer and the Disney studio, as I said before, is doing excellently at the current time. Well, I was indeed blown away by this film. The visuals are some of the best in any cartoon; the zoom-back scenes are particularly eye-catching. The script and story are surprisingly intelligent and well explained. The script especially brings out the adventure in the film with humour, suspense and intrigue. I enjoyed the film's many ideas and thought the direction and animation were both very focused. One scene I particularly liked in this movie was the one where all the characters are about to bunk and they look back on one another's history. It develops these characters and brings them to life. However, I would've liked to have heard the story of the hilarious Mole, but it never came up. I think children will not enjoy this movie as much as adults will. They may not be able to understand the ending very well but adults will no doubt love this movie. It is a lot more complex than some of the recent animated movies and a lot more likeable, but it still doesn't surpass the 2nd best movie of the year so far, Shrek. But I'll tell you this, it definitely isn't far behind. All in all, this animated adventure was stunning and well made with a mysterious story and a wonderfully passionate, romantic, humorous and action-packed story. Highly recommended!  "},{"Title":"Brilliant as a genre movie, but it lacks some depth","Date":"30 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  When I saw Atlantis on this years Fantasy Film Fest in Frankfurt, I was quite amazed. Not because I saw a film I didn't expect that good, no, because the audience, who mostly hate animation at large and Disney especially, began muttering, but then followed the film and mostly liked it at the end!The first I heard was that no songs would be in the film, many people therefore thought it to be something very new for Disney. I didn't think so. The film has no songs, instead it has a very powerful score by James Newton Howard. But if you see the last Disneys, you could feel this shift would come sooner or later. Now here we are Disney made a genre film, a classic adventure movie, without killing the own genre disney film they established over the last years, but giving it something more.&#24;The background is very detailed. As expected, the best was the smooth animation. The characters seemed to be out of one comic book from the 20s to 40s. But what was rather unexpected (mostly because of the both directors Kirk Wise and Gary Troudsdale, who made the enchanting Beauty and the Beast) was the slim and brilliant action, it used. When I saw the picture, it took some time for me, to get into the film. The story is not that good and the characters a bit to schematic, but when the action started all was forgotten. If you go to see the film, pay some attention the the montage of those sequences!Another very interesting aspect was the end. The film has a climax you wouldn't see in most todays films. The use of pathos and the choir on the soundtrack, when the characters become to know their true identity resembles adventure movies of the 40s --and along with those some of the most entertaining blockbusters, as the Indiana Jones-series or The Mask of Zorro. The directors also knew how to use this climax to lead into the last big action scene (as Roger Ebert pointed out, an outstanding one!).I liked the film as a genre movie, not as a Disney picture. Don't get me wrong, I like animation an love some of the Disneys as much as the films of my personal animation-hero Hayao Miyazaki (whos Laputa-Castle in the Sky can be felt through in some scenes of Atlantis). But this film didn't work that well on this dineyesque level. The comic relieve characters where not that enchanting, the moral of the story not the center of the film. In fact, Atlantis seems to have no big moral at all! But as one, who was very depressed after seeing most event movies of the year, I was glad to have one action adventure to entertain me. This one was Atlantis. I suggest you to see it, if you like such films. Yes, it is animated, but that's just the way it was made. Don't fall in this trap! See the film, enjoy it, as I did! "},{"Title":"par for course with Disney - at least they skipped the music","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Following a prologue depicting the sinking of Atlantis, the story jumps to 1914, where scientist Milo Thatch (Fox) is hard at work on his lifelong dream to embark on a search for the lost city.  Milo's aspirations are long underappreciated by his employers at the Museum, until one night when he meets eccentric millionaire Preston Whitmore (Mahoney).  It turns out Preston made a pledge to Milo's late grandfather (also an Atlantis nut) and wants to find the city with the help of a guidebook recently unearthed in Iceland.  Whitmore invites Milo to join his expedition team formed by Commander Rourke (Garner), femme fatale C.O. Helga Sinclair (Christian), and a motley assortment of other Disney attempts at endearing stereotypes.  The adventurers make the underwater journey to Atlantis with less trouble that might be expected, and when they get to the city they find it is indeed inhabited by a friendly group of Atlanteans who switch from their native tongue to (inexplicably) French, then English, and continue to speak English for the rest of the film, even when only amongst fellow Atlanteans.  How considerate for us viewers!  The Atlantean King Nedakh (Nimoy) is none too keen on his new guests and cautions his daughter Princess Kida (Summer)-a carbon copy of Arial the Little Mermaid-that the new visitors may be after the powerful sustained energy source at the city's center.  And of course-gasp!-he's right!  After the inevitable betrayal of very obviously foreshadowed villains Milo is left a few friends to save the city and save his new girlfriend Kida.All in all, Atlantis is a bit of a disappointment.  For all the beauty of the animation and the possibilities of the storyline, the film could have been longer and explored a more intriguing plot.  Packed into ninety-some minutes, the film is unfortunately all form and little substance, with a sparse smattering of good gags thrown in.  In most respects the marriage of voices to characters is done quite well (most notably Garner's Rourke and King Spock).  The cast of characters look like something from Sesame Street with their mix of ethnicities and gender-role switches-the petite Latina mechanic Audrey Ramirez, black medical officer Sweet, Italian demolitions officer Vinny Santorini, French dirt-loving digging expert Molière-all they need is a Native American vegan lesbian to achieve total PC-ness.  For the most part these characters are no more than slightly irritating clichés (Molière being the worst), although the chain-smoking unflappable communications officer Mrs. Packard (Florence Stanley) offers up quite a few laughs with her deadpan causticity.  But despite the impressive animation and a few cute character interactions, the film just lacks the oomph to make it a good adventure.  As it is, Atlantis clips along at too quick a pace, not allowing the atmosphere of the visuals to sink in and lapsing into lame-ass hippie crystal theory at the end.  Disney passed on writing music for this film, perhaps because there hasn't been charisma in their musical numbers since 1992's Aladdin.  "},{"Title":"Disney needs your money!","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Yeah, usually don't see Disney flicks, but I'm interested in the theories of Atlantis, so that made me go.  I can't rip this flick, or praise it.  It's Disney for God sake!  I believe they police the internet as well as the govt., and &#145;weed out' any anti-Disney-ites that are out there.  (Father Guido Sarducci has a voice role&#133;.nice to hear his voice again).  C "}{"Title":"Funky Animation, Good Movie","Date":"3 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Well, I think will all the CGI floating around, Disney had given up on being realistic and decided to go for style style style. And they thought Hey, while we go for a funky style, lets get completly crazy, get rid of all singing, add some guns and earn ourselves a PG rating! The result? Well, it's not the best Disney flick, but it's certainly can be a turning point in what's to come from Disney.The sweet and goofy Milo, who has devoted himself to Atlantis. Through a fated series of event, he is part of an journey to find the lost ladn, and does. They find a magnificent but dying community, and Milo and the J.Lo Shaped Princess Kida are trying to find a way to save atlantis.The best thing about this movie is Disney is more and more getting away from their formula that made them a juggernaut in the 90's. And a PG rating? It almost blew me away, but don't worry, the kids can still watch. It's fast pased, (sometimes too fastpaced), multicultured (Hey, has anyone else seen a black man in any disney movies?) and Astheticly pleasing. And there no singing or talking animals, which is good to see (don't get me wrong, I like the talking fish, candlesticks, racoons, monkey, horsies and duckies as much as anyone else)I don't think it will win Best Animated Movie this year, but this is a good movie and can proudly be added to the Disney Collection. "},{"Title":"Powerful entry for the 21st Century.","Date":"2 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  A more anime-like style of beautiful, animation, albeit with some unique character designs, an appropriate soundtrack without juvenile showtunes and a mature storyline sets this Disney feature-length animated motion picture apart from previous films.  The dialog is extremely fast-paced though (I'm positive that kids probably understood less than 15% of what was actually said), some scenes are animated in a somewhat cartoony way and some of the characters look like filler to lighten up the feel of the movie (which is usually the case).  This films strengths, however, overcome that by blurring the lines between who the good guys and bad guys are. It's not immediately clear if Milo's adventure is the source of hostility, his father's friend, the crew of the submarine, or just one of the crew.  No character was designed to look more evil than the other so as to present a very realistic situation in which the actions of the real villain becomes more important than just the fact that the painters gave the bad guy more shadow below his eyebrows.  Kids might not get the story and lose track of the dialog but enjoy those useless, cartoony-character's antics more than mom and dad will. "},{"Title":"amazing but least satisfying","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  i think the movie itself is good,,the effect the story are well scripted..but one major fault that i think is the depth of the character,,,disney's film always give something to their chara's example tarzan, belle in beauty and the beast,,ariel,,etc. but in atlantis i saw Milo's chara's as not deep as the other chara's..he just want to fullfil his grand fathers dream but he himself didn't have his own purpose/mind....and much worst is that disney didn't tell much about milo's background or childhood....that makes his charachter a rather bitter.....in other word..juat ordinary character. That's my comment if anyone  want to reply this comment please send me an e-mail "},{"Title":"Ok, Not as good as I thought it would be.","Date":"27 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I took my kids to this one, they enjoyed the popcorn and drinks more than the movie. The animation and visual effects were done very well. The plot was on the weak side. This movie will be forgotten about in two years. Let's hope the next guy who does the Atlantis story gets it right. Rest in please Jim Varney. "},{"Title":"Not a bad Disney film","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  It's what we've come to expect from Disney a family friendly movie with a nice story and something for everyone.  Evaluated strictly as a work of film, it lacks substance in a number of places, in technique and more seriously in the narrative.  There's nothing startlingly original about anything here, and thus no reason to see it beyond the mild curiosity stirred up by the trailers (which I have to say were pretty good as Disney trailers go.)  I did find the wild, desperate stab at racial character diversity overwhelming, artificial, and forced most of the time, but the intentions were good and ultimately forgivable (with the exception of the French mole character, who seemed to provoke in me an irrational rage every time he graced the screen.)  Overall, this is probably one of the better movies to come out in the summer of 2001, although that is not saying very much. "},{"Title":"Titan AE Revisited.  Just Add Water!","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Judging by the very watery, hacked plot, it seems like most of `Atlantis' got left in the cutting room.  It's unbelievable, and not in the good, mystical way.. Just in an annoying way that goes on and on in a confusing drone until you get to the incredibly forgettable `song' during the credits.   Omitting music is the wave of the future, but it's of no use if the songs are replaced with mindless action scenes and incomprehensible `plot twists'&#133; (The whole point is to USE that time effectively, by building up the characters and story and making the audience give a hoot.)  Plot `holes' notwithstanding, the real problem is that this one jumps and jerks so badly that you can't understand what's going on. Nothing is explained.  No ADULT can follow this&#133; to say nothing of the little kiddies sitting there with their Milk Duds, so bored and uninterested, but they can't get up and walk out because they're minors.  Poor little shrimps.  But&#133; wait a minute.   Boredom?  Choppy Editing?  FX flexing with little meaning or heart?  Late minute betrayal followed by last minute turnover?   Where am I&#133; Twentieth Century Fox?   Disney should be ashamed of this film even being  reminiscent of Titan AE.   Transfer some material straight from The Last Crusade  (The Journal passed to Milo from his father figure, down to the vocal confirmation of the whereabouts of Atlantis.)  and this one will have you fooled .. You think it's new and different, but really it's just a knockoff of every other action adventure flick you've already seen.   This is kinda like Dinosaur's plot rip off of  `The Land Before Time,'  but without the heartfelt scenes, engaging characters and  powerful score. The character designs are eclectic, from comic book bimbo to Saturday morning mechanic to Atlantian emperor who might have walked right out of Heavy Metal.  In fact, this entire film looks and sounds like a conglomeration of stolen creativity.    `Atlantis The Lost Audience' &#133; Nice effects and animation, a few good laughs, but the only awe inspired by this one is the fact that the Mouse is behind it.   "},{"Title":"STARGATE anyone?","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Not to say Atlantis wasn't a good movie - it was.  But if you take the plot outline, it's EXACTLY like Stargate from beginning to end!  I won't go into detail (just watch both movies), but maybe this plot's been overdone.  The animation could have used some work, I found an overall plain blue for underwater to be kind of rudimentary.  This movie is saved by the hilarious dialogue and antics of Milo's menagerie.  Each character has an enjoyable, refreshingly unique personality.  I'll just say one last thing, I can't stand it when someone learns an entire language in a few days, for example, Atlantis, Stargate, Species, 13th Warrior, and what Linda Park will be doing in the Star Trek Enterprise series. "},{"Title":"Take the kids and go have some fun with this one!","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Disney animators have had fun in creating this movie and their pride shows through bright and clear.  The kids are going to love this one for the action and adventure.  The adults will enjoy the 20,000 Leagues Beneath The Sea and Journey to The Center of The Earth comparisons that the Disney animators have made throughout the picture.  The animation is Disney Perfect as is expected and the characters are enjoyable.This one has some scary spots for the really small kids &#150; so parents be ready if you take children under age 5, you may have some reassuring to do quickly.Overall &#150; Kids of all ages (A.K.A. &#150; adults and children) should go and see this movie.  It is 95 minutes of fun for everyone.  "},{"Title":"Cool Stuff, Predictable Plotline","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Much of the Titan AE plot, but with a new-age, groovy mood.  Also some very compelling/funny characters, especially the work by Don Novello, Jim Varney, Florence Stanley and Corey Burton.Yet again, the linguist hero (ala Spader's character in Stargate) is a useless dork in every other ability.  Too bad they couldn't omit that stale device.As she is in the flesh, Jacqueline Obradors' voice is very sexy, slightly more so than the teutonic dominatrix job that Claudia Christian turns-in.Good message.  The kids will love it.  Adults who have seen Shrek and even Titan AE may find it wanting a bit. "},{"Title":"Weakest of the new Disney animations","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Atlantis is entertaining, but nevertheless remains inferior to most of its new-age, animated counterparts.I'd enjoyed The Little Mermaid, Beauty and the Beast, and Aladdin a lot.  I liked Lion King less, and Hunchback of Notre Dame still less.  Since then, I haven't seen any of Disney's cartoon movies, until Atlantis.What disappointed me most about Atlantis compared to its predecessors was the lack of an underlying theme.  Little Mermaid was about growing up to experience the world, and the spirit of adventure that burns in young people.  Beauty and the Beast was about beauty of the spirit vs. physical appearances.  Aladdin was about being true to yourself.  In all of these movies, the plot revolved pretty tightly around these central themes, and most people could relate to the characters because of it.In Atlantis, the central theme was.... honor thy ancestors?  Or maybe, don't always do it for money?  In either case, the theme played a minimal role.  If there was a message in this movie, it was vague and weak.Another disturbing trend in Disney's animated movies is the proliferation of useless, slapstick characters.  Aladdin's Genie was really the first slapstick sidekick.  He worked well, but since then, Disney has gone into a hiring frenzy with extras.  In Atlantis, we are presented with an excavation team of about 8 characters.  None of them are developed in depth, yet all are still far from mere stand-in characters.  Most of them, ie mole, that old lady, and the cook, have absolutely nothing to do with the plot; really now, how necessary was it to have a switchboard operator on this mission?  Instead most of these extras are there for cheap slapstick jokes and gags.**some spoilers**Overall, the plot was mystical and magical.  I would even call it sloppy and illogical but that's just because I'm so darn cynical.  The nature of the Atlantian's special blue power was never explained in much depth.  Why was Kida returned by the crystal whereas her mother wasn't?  Didn't essentially the same thing happen with her mother thousands of years ago?Yes, that's being picky.  Regardless of the mystical nature of the plot, there were nevertheless some more basic plotholes.  It made no sense how the Atlantians had lost their culture.  Afterall, don't Atlantians live for thousands of years?  Many of the Atlantians that Milo meets would've been alive back when the city was first buried.  At the very least, we know that the King and Princess were alive back then.  **end spoilers**The animation and artwork are good, but to be honest I wasn't that impressed.  Most of the effects only seem a few steps better than Aladdin, which was created nearly 10 years ago.So all in all, bring the kids to see it, but don't overthink or analyze this one, like I did.  This time, Disney used a bare minimum of plot and depth.By the way, the first half of this movie, and the end, really reminded me of Stargate. "}{"Title":"Atlantis The Eye Opener","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I did not know what to expect with Atlantis, but with the knowledge that Disney has recently been making corny movies, and the fact that there was no singing was a precaution that I might be disappointed. The only disappointment, however, was that the movie had to end. Atlantis was enjoyable through every moment. From the adventure of an action flick, to the fantasy and mysticism captured in beloved past Disney films, it is an understatement to say that this is a success, it is also a beginning for Disney to regain itself if it chooses to continue on this path that does not cut corners and perfects every detail to ensure a fantastic and believable spectacle. The plot is well developed, the characters are lovable (and hateable) the scenery is beautiful, and the music, even without singing, is phenomenal.  "},{"Title":"So Cool","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie has got to be one of Disney's best movies of all time. When I saw this movie for the first time, I really enjoyed it. The actors doing the voices were great, the plot was good and the action parts were very good. I laughed when Milo said Oh I swim pretty girl...pretty good because it sounded funny. The whole movie was totally awesome and I would recommend it to my friends and family. My brother saw it just recently and he thought it was good. This is the best disney movie ever made and the story is totally great. If you have time, go see this movie because you'll love it.Rating 10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"...wow.","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Wow.That was the first word I uttered after coming out of the theatre. I was more than impressed. I was happy to see what the Disney film studio is turning into.They weren't getting anywhere with their musical stuff. Snow White *had* to be made that way, because vaudeville was all the rage back then. But that time is over. Disney was still dragging, including at least one musical number per film. Terrible. Just terrible.Then comes something like Emperor's New Groove, a fantastically funny piece, unmarred by songs filled with false emotions. Back in my comments of that film, I stated I could only be grateful if Atlantis came out half as good as that film.Turns out I am more than happy now. Atlantis is not twice as good as Emperor's. Atlantis *is* a certified, bona-fide, old time Disney classic.From the strength of its drawings, characters taken almost directly out from 101 Dalmatians (the hero looks a lot like the hero on that movie, too!), to the incredible blend of CGs and hand images, Atlantis shines on the big screen with such an intensity you simply cannot stop watching it. SPOILERS AHEAD The story is aimed at a semi-mature audiences. There are numerous deaths and scars throughout this film, plus assorted explosions of all kinds. And the best, and I mean this, the loudest laugh I had was when the mole used the cleanest, purest form of sexual innuendo on the heroine of the film (Parlez vous francais? Oui? Voulez-vous... followed by a tremendous punch from her). The best thing about it is that no children noticed it, making the movie good & clean fun for everyone.There are so many hidden details on the film there is no way a comment can address them all. And that's the reason I'll have to watch this movie again. And again. And maybe again. It's pure joy.And maybe, after some time, I'll raise the 9 I rated this film with, to a 10.  "},{"Title":"A Disney masterpiece!","Date":"7 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I've just seen this movie, and I must say the I was very, very impressed. The soundtrack is wonderful, the animation is beautiful, and each scene was beautifully acted out to the best of perfection. I enjoyed every scene of the movie and I definetly recommend this to all fans of Disney.A perfect 10/10 "},{"Title":"Geared more towards young teens","Date":"7 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"    Disney made a great movie and should have marketed it more for the 12 to 15 y/o crowd this movie would appeal to. I admit my wife and I enjoyed it as much as my 14 year old daughter.  I noticed some very young kids that did seem to lose interest in the movie, but I highly recommend it for older kids. "},{"Title":"A Magical Adventure","Date":"5 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Atlantis is probally the best Disney movie that i have seen in years. It has great action scene, magic, an intelligent and weel written script. Atlantis, brings back the magic of the Disney Classics such as The Lion King or Alladin. After Seeing this one i'm sure that this year summer blockbusters season will be great.I recommend to you all, Alantis  The Lost Empire is like a breath of inspiration.9 out of 10 "},{"Title":"The best Disney boy movie yet!","Date":"2 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  If you have sons or daughters who love action, adventure, intrigue,  and imagination - without the need to break into song every twelve minutes - then this is the Disney movie for you!  My sons loved every minute of this film, and I have to admit that I laughed out loud many times throughout the movie. There are no sappy songs to get in the way of a wonderfully told story, and the characters are all lovable and identifiable in their own right. This should go down as one of the Disney classics because of its beautifully illustrated scenery and its non-stop excitement! "},{"Title":"Disney - Songs + Action = Animated Excellence!","Date":"30 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  While I have a great respect for Disney's animated films, as of late they haven't really been what I would call must-see.  Atlantis looked intriguing from the first movie poster and trailer, and thankfully lived up to my expectations.Atlantis is a more mature Disney film in the sense that it lacks songs (a very unusual trait for a Disney film indeed), and is focused more on action and discovery than any other recent Disney offering.  The world of Atlantis, hidden beneath the earth's core, is fantastic, presented as desolate caverns with ruins, and then slowly developing into actual ecosystems, which, while usually containing some reminder of harshness, become more and more intriguing until the tropical paradise itself is reached.  The presentation of simply Atlantis' landscape and setting, without some expendable cheery song, gave the kingdom a much more beautiful and intriguing appearance.  The inclusion of an Atlantean language, as well as attempts to connect it into the mythology of real-life ancient civilizations adds to this, and works fairly well.Also, with the exception of some scenes involving Mole's practical jokes, there didn't seem to be much of a childish element that I usually associate with Disney films.  Instead, the main elements were the struggle to get to Atlantis, and the constant discovery that occurred at Atlantis, as Milo the outsider was able to learn all he ever needed to know about the place by helping the Atlanteans discover parts of their own history that they didn't know about.  Part of this involves the Atlantean weaponry, which is used in a very action-packed climax which is, for lack of a better word, quite exciting.Granted, not all of the story makes full sense, and the film doesn't feature any amazing new computer-generated visual effects, but, aside from the Toy Story movies, this is the most entertaining Disney film I've seen in years. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Good","Date":"29 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Atlantis was much better than I had anticipated.  In some ways it had a better story than come of the other films aimed at a higher age.  Although this film did demand a solid attention span at times.  It was a great film for all ages.  I noticed some of the younger audience expected a comedy but got an adventure.  I think everyone is tired of an endless parade of extreme parodies.  A lot of these kids have seen nothing but parodies.  After a short time everyone seemed very intensely watching Atlantis.   "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Good","Date":"29 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Atlantis was much better than I had anticipated.  In some ways it had a better story than come of the other films aimed at a higher age.  Although this film did demand a soid attention span at times.  It was a great film for all ages.  I noticed some of the younger audience expected a comedy but got an adventure.  I think everyone is tired of an endless parade of extreme parodies.  A lot of these kids have seen nothing but parodies.  After a short time everyone seemed very intensely watching Atlantis.   "}{"Title":"Wonderful images with a typical Disney plot.","Date":"27 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Beautiful to watch, but what would be the first thing you would do the moment YOU discovered Atlantis?  Explore it!  Here was a golden opportunity to take viewers someplace special.  Instead, Disney reverted to the same old formula story telling. "},{"Title":"Finally Disney Releases a decent film!","Date":"26 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  To my surprise, I really enjoyed Disney's latest animation installment. The Film had its lows, but overall I felt the story was strong and the characters were easy to relate to.  It was also pleasant to see an Animated Disney film that was not a musical.  I was about pushed to the limits with Tarzan.  Thankfully they gave the music thing a rest. Another nice feature about the film is that the comedy was not completely dumbed down (a la Hercules), rather subtle so it still made the kids laugh while not make the adults feel giddy or just plain stupid.One disappointment was the animation.  With all the great animated films happening outside Disney studios, you would think they would move along and catch up a little.  There is something to say about tradition, but imagine the possibilities with the story of Atlantis! Overall the film was entertaining, and definitely worth a trip to the multiplex. "},{"Title":"Disney can do better","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I took my children to see this movie this weekend because it is a Disney movie and the focus for their movies is kids right?  Not only did this movie not capture my childrens attention, but it also felt like a movie where the script was intended for live action but animation seemed the cheaper way to go.  The storyline was weak, the characterizations of many of the characters were hard to understand ie the mole, and the humor which typically is the part of Disney movies that makes them enjoyable for adults wasn't funny.  Although the animation in much of the movie was beautiful, and the action sequences were unbelievable in their realism, the animation could not overcome the fact that the story wasn't there.  James Garners character as the snake in the grass commander of the expedition was square, and was like watching a Dr. Jekyl into Mr. Hyde transformation.  All in all, I feel that Disney tried to make a motion picture where they target an older audience at the expense of their traditional primary audience.  Parents should be warned that younger children may not enjoy this movie as it does not follow the traditional Walt Disney style of summer releases.  My young daughter whom I have taken to many movies asked me twenty minutes into a 75 minute affair if we could go home.  I noticed many children in the audience acting similarly. I have loved Disney movies since I was a child and this is the first one that I can honestly say really stinks. "},{"Title":"not even close to the *real* Atlantis","Date":"24 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Okay. If Atlantis was real, and on the bottom of the sea, there would be no way people would still be alive. Atlantis is also called Three Rings i never saw three rings in the movie. I've studied Atlantis since 6th grade and yes, i've read plato's discription and the movie was nothing near it. you probably don't get anything i'm saying but, seriously, the movie is nothing like the real atlantis. just get me here, they were a great civilization, but they couldn't ever have flying machines without electricity. i picture Atlantis being something like the game Myst or Riven.Austin "},{"Title":"not bad","Date":"24 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  that kid a is such a babe; this movie was no Titan A.E.(of which it is in many ways modeled after) but still came off as entertaining, the fact this lost to a piece of monkey crap like Tomb raider makes wanna cry; includes some of the most entertaining characters i've seen in disney film "},{"Title":"Incredible Movie!","Date":"24 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I LOVED this movie!  I am biased seeing as I am a huge Disney fan, but I really enjoyed myself.  The action takes off running in the beginning of the film and just keeps going!  This is a bit of a departure for Disney, they don't spend quite as much time on character development (my husband pointed this out)and there are no musical numbers.  It is strictly action adventure.  I thoroughly enjoyed it and recommend it to anyone who loves Disney, be they young or old. "},{"Title":"Cris shouldn't keep his kids up so late","Date":"24 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  While there aren't any talking animals, big lavish song production numbers, or villians with half white / half black hair ... it does have 1 thing ... realistic people acting normally in a strange circumstance, and Walt & Roy did in their eras with the studio.  If you thought think The Castaways or The Island At The Top Of The World weren't identical, or you hold them to a higher authority than Atlantis, then your idealism is just as whacked as keeping your kids up till midnight to watch a friggin' cartoon. "},{"Title":"Cris shouldn't keep his kids up so late","Date":"24 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  While there aren't any talking animals, big lavish song production numbers, or villians with half white / half black hair ... it does have 1 thing ... realistic people acting normally in a strange circumstance, and Walt & Roy did in their eras with the studio.  If you thought think The Castaways or The Island At The Top Of The World weren't identical, or you hold them to a higher authority than Atlantis, then your idealism is just as whacked as keeping your kids up till midnight to watch a friggin' cartoon. "},{"Title":"diverting, but not a classic","Date":"23 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This highly derivative film will be entertaining for the many who have not seen some of the more obscure anime films. I enjoyed most of it, especially after the rather flat opening minutes in the museum (although the pre-title sequence is very entertaining and includes some of the better bits of animation). James Garner as the Commander and Leonard Nimoy as the King give impressive performances.  "},{"Title":"Good, entertaining family film.","Date":"23 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Atlantis The Lost Empire was everything the previews indicated it would be.  It is not often you find that.  Most of the time, the previews show only the best parts and then the rest of the movie is terrible.  Not so with this one.  I was pleased with the original plot, even though the sub-plots were not.  The animation was not break through like Shrek but it was good, none the less.  The plot and the story line were well presented and there were only a few slow spots in them.  This keeps you interested.  I found myself enjoying this one.  Atlantis gets and keeps your attention.  You also have to think a little bit, but not too much.  Once you think about it a little, you can figure out what needs to happen but you really don't know for sure how it is going to happen.The casting was also good.  Michael J. Fox, as Milo was an excellent choice.  His personality fits nicely.  The gruff natured Commander Rourke was also well chosen with James Garner.  His character reminded me of his performance in Maverick which I also liked.  I really liked the casting of Claudia Christian as Helga Sinclair.  Her ability to play a no nonsense personality makes the film more interesting.  It's just too bad she is a villain.Over all, definitely worth you while (8 out of 10). "}{"Title":"Art and Spirit","Date":"23 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Expressively beautiful art of intricate design and imaginative story of compelling spirituality . My nine year old loved the action and the excitement , while I found the visual artistry inspiring. The concept of good over evil was spiritually done and achieved without maudlin overtones of any religious creed or belief. I felt that it represented a true picture of the possible Atlantean culture in that it portrayed them as more highly evolved with true spirituality and not needing the crutch of a collective consciousness type religion such as we have been burdened with since the proliferation of mono-theism. "},{"Title":"I want a tatoo like that!","Date":"23 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Wow!  What a great fantasy on one of the oldest stories of  knownhistory.  Fun, creepy, educational and aweing.  Some scenescaused me to leave my mouth dropped to the floor.  I could haveused less of the supporting characters, which in a short moviethey did not have enough time to give them justice.  They had fartoo much content alone with the story line then having to shove insub-plots of small supporting characters.  A great movie for kids,adults and families.  Absolutely, not to be missed.And... I want a tatoo like that! -) "},{"Title":"Another Titan A.E.?","Date":"22 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  After the huge success of Emperor's New Groove, Disney again presented another original animation. However, this time it's not as funny as Emperor's New Groove and the animation is extremely similar to Titan A.E.No matter how ordinary the jokes are, Disney really presents a wonderful animation with great colorful scenery. After seeing this one, you'll be wondering what if you were among those people going to Atlantis.Nice job, Disney! "},{"Title":"What Titan A.E. Should Have Been","Date":"22 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Well directed, energetic and engaging, with a seamless blend of CGI and hand-drawn animation, Atlantis the Lost Empire is Disney's best animated offering since Aladdin, or at least The Hunchback of Notre Dame.  It's the Sci-Fi action flick Titan A.E. tried to be.  And while this most likely will not be the blockbuster event that The Little Mermaid was, it may well serve as the latest reinvention of the Disney animated movie.The story follows a young loner named Milo.  (Linguist, cartographer, *and* plumber--it's a wonder he's still single.)  Milo's grandfather dreamed of finding the lost city of Atlantis, and now that dream (as well as a lost book) has been handed down to him.  Funded by an old friend of his grandfather, Milo guides a rag-tag team of explorers into the depths of the ocean to find the lost city.  There are dangers along the way, and many of the crew are lost. Then upon arrival we realize things may not be all they appear to be why does the presence of Atlanteans threaten the captain's plans, and what is the king of Atlantis hiding?Rated PG for violence (the death toll reaches well into the hundreds, though we never actually see anyone die, and we only see one recently deceased person resting peacefully), Atlantis may not be suitable for younger children, but rest assured it is harmless entertainment for children old enough to enjoy such classic cartoons as _Speed Racer_ and _The Transformers_.  For adults, the storyline may seem a bit simplistic, and the movie is a little slow getting started.  But there is enough action and suspense here to carry anyone through to the end.Atlantis the Lost Empire probably will not become the classic that other Disney films have in the last fifteen years, mainly because there just aren't many levels to this straightforward action tale.  But in a summer thus far virtually devoid of any good entertainment, Atlantis is a good enough reason to take the family to the movie theater on a hot Saturday afternoon. "},{"Title":"A good movie, but a little extra work would have made it great.","Date":"21 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Where to start.. well, I thought the storyline was good enough. To those who didn't know better, it seems entirely original. The variety in the characters and the personalities just add to the immensity of color in the film. The script was good, and I can find nothing wrong with that.The animation could have used some work. The characters moved too quickly, I thought - the characters seemed to race from one position to the next without really seeing the movement inbetween. The design was also a bit blocky and overall it just looked rushed and needed a little more work. Like I said, the color throughout the film was so lively and really made the filmOverall, it would have been an extradorinary film if Disney hadn't borrowed so much from certain things... won't get into that. If I hadn't known anything about the controversy, most likely I would have given it an A- "},{"Title":"Best Non-kiddie animation outta Disney yet.","Date":"21 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I think that this is a positive direction for Disney. Instead of cheap kiddie entertainment, they produced something that is mildly entertaining to people over the age of 6. The action and the comic relief blend was well balanced out , and Lenard Nemoy, James Garner, and Jim Varney do a great job. Go see it.Small Side Note for all people who think its a rip off of _________  every movie is a rip off of something else. Star Wars=Old Myth, The Godfather=any old 1940's Cagney film, Disney's Cinderella=the book CinderellaIts just all on how you tell the story. "},{"Title":"no one, NO ONE?","Date":"21 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Scanning quickly through the other comments, I'm surprised (though perhaps I shouldn't be) that I'm not the first to see parallels here between Atlantis and Laputa. (As well as the more obvious Stargate, and 20k Leagues.)I don't need to waste any space flaming Disney on the same accounts as these previous reviewers. What I could not stand to be silent for was IMDB's own paragraph of review about this film, in which the editor states no one, NO ONE can approach Disney in the animation department yetI have a few recommendations for this reviewer. Starting with Laputa; though Akira, Ghost in the Shell, Honneamise, and the canonical Mononoke all come to mind, too. Akira is now some 13 years old, and it still looks (and acts) better than this Saturday-morning tripe. (Laputa is 15 years old.) I've seen OAVs with more life to them, more _feeling_ in the art. (Kenshin comes to mind.)(The irony is this Disney purportedly outsources many of its cels to Japanese animation studios. I can't say whether that's just vicious rumor or not, though.)As numerous others seem to have already done a fine job at vivisecting the story, characters and acting, I won't even bother. I paid 8 bucks to see if Disney's animation has finally begun to mature alongside its Eastern brothers (and sisters) - I had no pretensions about a good movie to go along with it. (To Disney's credit - kind of - the Pixar releases have been getting better and better.)If Atlantis had been live action, it would be a B movie. If anyone other than Disney had their name stamped on it, it would be forgotten of in a matter of weeks. Then again, perhaps it will be.1 star.  "},{"Title":"Best thing to come out of Disney Studios in years!","Date":"21 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This film evoked in me the awe and wonder I had as a child for Disney Studios animation art, story telling, and fabulous characterizations! Whomever made the decision to tell this story without resort to songs and inane dialog did EXACTLY the right thing! Hopefully this marks the beginning of more wonders from the master studios! "},{"Title":"Great animation, never mind the reviews, see this one.","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" The Good Stuff Great blend of traditional and computer animation; great voices (all of them full of personality); great character design (loved the blond femme-fatale).The Bad Stuff Milo looking too much like Harry Potter; the unpleasant Mole characterThe Verdict Never mind the reviews or the comparisons with Shreck, see this one, it has the right balance of adventure and excitement, it was written for kids, but the adults can enjoy it too, (I sure did), and it's always a blast when I see my nephews so immersed in the film that they dodge the rocks or bullets coming from the screen, I'm pretty sure you'll like it! "},{"Title":"A Disney Film?","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I would like to preface this review by saying that I didn't check the rating on this film before going to see it. DUH! In truth, my family and I take our first annual trip to the drive-in to see the Disney summer release. So that's where we were when I realized I'd made a mistake. The movie in and of itself was a very different Disney movie. The entire feel and look was unique, but we could still see them trying to put that familiar Disney feeling in there somewhere.(i.e. humorous characters).  Disney's reputation is not present enough in this film. I'm not the moral police or anywhere close to it, but the chain-smoking old lady and the action movie scenes were not appropriate for my kids (ages 12, 11, 8, and 7 ). I wouldn't take them to a Bruce Willis or Mel Gibson action movie. I think it was in bad taste to market this movie to my children on the Disney Channel and then find out the movie is filled with violence, guns, way-too-shapely women, and smoking (no advertising tobacco as far as I know, but throw it into a kids animated flick and that's OK). During one particularly weird sequence, my 8 year old son turned to me and said, This movie just keeps getting stranger. My 11 year old daughter loved it. And I'm still going HUH??? We had a great time at the drive-in, but it had nothing to do with Atlantis.  "}{"Title":"Hail Atlantis!","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Way down below the ocean... lies the lost city of Atlantis.  Atlantis has been a mystery to man for centuries, even Plato is quoted about the disappearance of Atlantis.  Now Disney studios have made it's most lavish and expensive non-computer generated animated film to date, ATLANTIS THE LOST EMPIRE. ATLANTIS, begins with the sinking of Atlantis, as young Princess Kida witnesses her mother being taken by the blue crystal that is the lifeforce of Atlantis, the city is covered by a shield as the ocean covers it.  Now it's the early 20th century, museum boiler tech Milo Thatch (voiced by Michael J. Fox) has done years of research to prove that Atlantis does exist.  He is laughed and ignored by the museum board of directors, but when Milo returns home he meets the very sexy and mysterous Helga Sinclair (Claudia Christian).  Helga takes Milo to meet billionaire Preston B. Whitmore (John Mahoney), who has funded a expedition team to look for Atlantis.  The team includes a very big yet friendly Doctor Sweet (Phil Morris), demolitionist Vinny Santorini (Don Father Gudio Sarducchi Novello), dirt expert Mole (Corey Burton), mechanist Audrey Ramirez (Jacqueline Obradors), radio operator Florance Stanley (Wilhelmina Packard), chief Cookie Farnsworth (the late Jim Varney), and Commander Lyle Rourke (James Garner).  Milo is invited because of his knowledge and reading of the Atlantian language. Milo explains that Atlantis was centuries before anyone else's time, they even had aeroplanes and electricity before it disappeared.  So the team travel in a submarine to look for the lost city.  Once it is found Milo befriends and falls in love with an older Princess Kida (Cree Summer) who protects her ailing father King Nedakh (Leonard Nimoy). While Milo learns of the way the Atlantians manage to live for centuries, Commander Rourke and the crew find a way to turn in a discovery trip into a treasure hunt, which could endanger the lives of the citizens of Atlantis. ATLANTIS is Disney's most ambitious animated feature in years, it's directed by Gary Trousdale and Kirk Wise (the two men who made the best recent Disney animated film BEAUTY & THE BEAST).  And now they have made a film that is on the same level of greatness and classic status.  I highly loved ATLANTIS, it's the kind of film that brought out the kid in me, when I loved to watch a good adventure.  It is indeed pretty violent (there are quite a few deaths shown) but it is intelligent, fun, and most of all exciting. What I found enjoyable about ATLANTIS is 1.) there are no cute fuzzy animals (i.e. THE LION KING)  2.) there are no scenes where a character can't express how they feel, so they are going to sing it to us (i.e. ALADDIN, LION KING, LITTLE MERMAID, POCHANTAS, etc.)  3.) there are not one, not two, but three sexy female characters that are on the same level as Jessica Rabbit (Princess Kida, Helga Sinclair, and Audrey Ramirez)  4.) No cute animal or sidekick to steal every scene (Mushu in MULAN) 5.) It's strong support of supporting characters who are all different and intresting 6.) it's not like any other Disney animated film that I have seen. Sadly, the highly overrated Dreamworks SHREK is ruining the Disney films.  SHREK is the film for people who enjoy potty humor (oh gee Shrek broke wind in the pond and killed the fish, Ho! Ho! It is to laugh).  While ATLANTIS continues the Disney tradition with it's imagination and visuals as well as funnier humor. People are flocking to see SHREK when they are missing the much more enjoyable ATLANTIS.  A child who watches SHREK will more than likely have their mouth washed out with soap.  While ATLANTIS brings out the imagination in all of us. Unlike last summers TITAN A.E. ATLANTIS isn't just aimed for boys, and it's not as gruesome as TITAN.  It's along the lines of a Indiana Jones film, with mystery, romance, and excitement. And I've never been a fan of the Japanesse animation films, but from what I was told ATLANTIS is along the same lines of adventure. This is by far the best film that I have seen so far this summer.  It just shows that after having a bad summer so far, leave it to the Disney Studio to brighten our days with this film.  DO NOT MISS!!!!!!!!!  ***** (out of five) "},{"Title":"Good? Sure. Original? I don't think so.","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Atlantis is a pretty good film if you can get over some glaring problems.  First, it looks like someone said, You must fit this 2.5 hour film into 90 minutes.  Dialog and character development is frantic to put it mildly.  We learn about who the characters are and where they come from almost three-quarters of the way through the film.Those fans of Disney animation who are looking for stunning drawings are going to be in for a bit of a shock on this film.  While the Deep Canvas technique has done wonders for bringing 3D into animation, there are places where the traditionally animated characters look slapped on the film and sketched by the studio intern.  Japanese animation is at least consistent with its quality across one film.Finally, the show needs some help with its originality.  Besides 50,000 Leagues Under the Sea, Atlantis borrows heavily from Iron Giant, Princess Mononoke (where it seems entire character designs were lifted), Indiana Jones, and most horribly from Stargate.It was a daring first attempt at serious story in animation, but it still needs a bit of help.  We'll see what the next one looks like. "},{"Title":"Kept the kids seated and me interested!","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Maybe it's that Milo Thatch reminded me so much of Marty from 'Back to the Future'...young and bumbly with mannerisms of the innocent, but I immediately identified with him.  My 5 year old loved that it wasn't a typical kiddie cartoon, and my 2 year old seemed to thrive on the beauty of the city of Atlantis. The scenery is amazing and the special effects well done.  Throughly enjoyable!   "},{"Title":"Not a bad effort.","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Disney hasn't made a movie like this since Black Cauldron 16 years ago, and I'm glad they finally decided to do it again.  Sure there are a lot of plot holes.  But the voice cast, especially Michael J. Fox, is right on the money, as it always is in Disney films.  James Newton Howard, whose score for Dinosaur was one of the best things about that film, turns in another winner here, although I wish the mixers had turned it up a notch--it's a bit hard to hear in some places.  Visually, this movie is a knockout.  This is only the fourth traditionally animated film Disney has shot in the widescreen format.  (The other three are Lady and the Tramp, Sleeping Beauty, and Black Cauldron.  A Bug's Life was also shot widescreen, but that was CGI.)  The expanded 2.351 aspect ratio greatly enhances the visual effects and Mike Mignola's character designs.  So basically, it's not groundbreaking cinema, but it's a nice way to spend an afternoon and a nice time at the movies. "},{"Title":"Disney continues to evolve...thank you!","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  With no cute, funny animals, no musical numbers, and a PG rating, Atlantis is a big risk for Disney, and I applaud them for finally having the guts to come out from behind the mommy's skirt of their very dependable, very tired formula.  It remains to be seen whether it will pay off monetarily, but creatively, it's paid off handsomely.  Atlantis is the best Disney animation since The Lion King (my all-time favorite).The biggest difference you'll notice immediately is the art style.  The character designs were done by Mike Mignola, who is familiar to comics fans everywhere with his Jack Kirby-influenced angular designs.  They work quite well here, and help to reduce the cute quotient that Disney is so famous for.  The look of the film seems more influenced by Hayao Miyazake and Jules Verne than by previous Disneys, and that's a good thing.  It's exciting to watch, a melding of designs that's never been seen on the screen before.  In a word, original; not a word Disney's been connected with much.The plot isn't spectacularly creative (especially if you've seen Titan A.E.), but that really isn't the main draw here.  The look is beautiful, the voice acting is great, the action is thrilling, and the music score (by John Powell) is terrific.If you've been avoiding Disney films because they've become boring and homogenized, this is the one to check out.  I give it an 8.Note to parents just because it's Disney, don't expect your toddler to sit through it.  This isn't Tarzan; there are no funny monkeys.  What there is is a lot of plot and dialogue.  A couple of clueless moms ruined the movie where I saw it because they brought in three-year-olds, who ended up getting bored and running around the theater yelling.  This is for older children. "},{"Title":"Dejavu!!","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Awfully similar to Laputa-Castle in the Sky. How many times is Disney going to rip-off the Japanese. Has anyone heard of Kimba the lion? "},{"Title":"Not your normal Disney","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I enjoyed Atlantis The Lost Empire, although I think before you go to see it, you should realize that it's not the normal Disney movie.  No characters ever sing or dance, the plot is more complex and involved than the Disney movies we're used to.  I do think it should be marketed more towards older kids.  I am rating it a 9, but that is from my own perspective, not from the view point of movies for my children. "},{"Title":"Disney remakes Stargate(1994)","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Disney's new animated feature Atlantis bears a striking resemblance to the story-line of Stargate. This maybe simply due to the fact that both tell the tale of an idealistic young academic whose arrogant older colleagues find foolish and unorthodox, but who is actually ingenious with their new approach to the all but abandoned age-old questions. Then an eccentric financier arrives with an artifact unfolding the very theories of which the young archaeologist/linguist hypothesized both left to them by departed patriarchs. A journey ensues in which the romantic view of adventure and the search for knowledge of the protagonist is threatened by the ulterior motives of his team. Blah blah blah battle ensues; similar flying things and in the end the young archaeologist stays behind with the girl while the team goes home all having learned a lesson from his doe-eyed optimism and naivete also they each carry a necklace back to the eccentric financier with a message from the hero.I'm not saying these similarities make either of these films bad or anything. I just felt like pointing them out. All of these specifics may just be conventions of the genre they are sharing. So yah I liked Atlantis though. It did develop rather fast though, it's like BAM they're in Atlantis, but I guess the target audience of Disney animated features aren't looking for more development. And come to think of it they're probably not writing reviews of the film or rating it in the vote system on IMDB so who cares what I write because the movie was aimed at young toe-headed little rugrats who wouldn't draw parallels between these films. Ahhh, now I like Disney just for preserving the youthful optimism and idealism of our country.  There's magic in the air.Oh and I was glad to hear the late Jim Varney in the film at least he left on a high note. "},{"Title":"This is very good, a real summer adventure flick. Go see.","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  You have to applaud Disney for making this; essentially a combo of '20,000 Leagues Under the Sea' with the Indy type flick of yer choice. Certainly the baddie is a Too much like the Tarzan villain, and there are a few other loop holes-but why kick? There's so much to like here.Might be some SPOILERS below, be warned.Voice work-Foxx, 'Ivanova' from Bab Five, Jim Varney(as the cook, his last role), James Garner, Cree Summer, heck even Spock and Frasier Crane's dad get into the act, along with Winchester from Mash. This part of things Disney always has down. Very good. They capture the characters well.The journey as far's getting to Atlantis-terrific. I liked the whole Nemo/giant robotic 'Leviathon'/trucks in the caves/attack of the burning moths(don't ask) stuff-sure the Leviathon is right outta 'Phantom Menace', but then it's also right outta any Aquaman comic you read as a kid, too. We all crib from the same well springs, Lucas would be the first to admit that.The sub exploding kills 200 or more, that certainly is jarring-but the characters as all Toon characters do, pick right up and move on. Same as their all surviving the huge falls from the collapsing bridge, the fight at the end, etc. You either accept it-I did-or shake yer head. All the technology, design, etc seemed to be more or less right for 1914, though some of the characters-one is basically Father Guido Sarducchi, another Sharon Stone, another Jennifer Lopez, etc-kinda too contemporary to quite buy. Again that's fine, though-much like seeing Checkhov in the Beatle wig in those Trek episodes, part of when they were made, inescapably so. Or seeing 60s/70s dews/sideburns in Western characters in all those Bonanzas from that same era. It's Hollywood.The crystal business, all ice blue, mystical, moving, done well. I like the ring of Giant Robots at the end too-Iron Giant anyone? Anime?-nice touches. The final battle in the volcano has great f/x, has death, has the baddie dying a fittingly nasty way-though How they knew, the Expeditioners, Ahead of time, that they'd needa  blimp to get out-well, ya got me. It made for some pretty good action though no doubt.Oh it's nice to hear both Foxx and Cree Summer getting featured in such a big flick too-esp Summer. I enjoyed moment of meeting when her character met Foxx's, and those blue eyes kinda just echoed. Nicely done.So-there ya have it-derivative, full of action, nicely acted-well thought out-the characters did seem to switch allegiances a little fast in a couple spots, and there needed to be more in Atlantis itself, by way of showing the people etc. but that's not a big deal.***1/2 outta ****. Guaranteed to give you a good time; and to make you get the VCR when it comes out in the winter again.  "},{"Title":"Stunningly mature, and it's about time.","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Parents are going to take this movie, as well as Shrek, for granted.  Animation, especially Disney animation, is automatically for the kiddies, right?  Wrong!  Do us all a favour and leave the three year-olds at home for this one.Atlantis TLE shows promise that Disney might be realising that adults enjoy action animation and that you don't have to be a kid to enjoy cartoons.  Not since The Black Cauldron has a gamble like this been taken and it is WAY overdue.Although I have seen many people screaming Star Wars and Nadia rip-off, they seem to forget about Tennkuu no Escaflowne, which was also about the search for the lost power and city of Atlantis which has a mole-man, empowered crystals, and the city of Atlantis is destroyed in much the same way and for the same reasons as in this Disney rendition.  Rip-off?  Not quite.  Let's just say, slightly influenced.   The Lion King was a rip-off.  As for character design, I was constantly being reminded of Heavy Metal with a slight anime feel.  And the scenery was breath-taking.  Absolutely wonderful.Another thing I would like to applaud Disney for is the fact that there were NO musical numbers to throw off the action and pace of the movie.  The music in The Lion King was fitting, and The Hunchback of Notre Dame contained songs that fit with the dark feeling of the plot, but the music of Mulan and Hercules is enough to make me want to listen to nails grating on a chalkboard in comparison.  It was nice to enjoy a Disney movie where the characters weren't breaking out in song every five minutes for whatever reason.  I was bracing myself for that.Now, a note to parents.  Why is it that I have the ability to research a movie with a certain rating when I am 27, have no children and never intend to have any, and most parents I know take their kids to any animated film just because they ASSUME that all cartoons are made with kids in mind?  Atlantis TLE is NOT a G-rated movie for several reasons.  It contains frightening scenes that made even me jump out of my seat.  There are references to alcohol, one of the characters smokes constantly, good amounts of action (read violence to many parents), plenty of guns, and some mild sexual innuendo.  But, sure enough, at a 950 showing, there were five year-olds and younger in the audience.  It has a PG-rating for a reason, folks!  I'm sure the watchdog parent groups are going to be down Disney's throats so much about this movie that another one like it will not be out for ANOTHER 20 years.  And that is a real shame.  Disney puts out so many song-filled colourfests to appease the kiddies that we adults and older kids are left out in the cold.  This was a breath of fresh air, and unfortunately, probably a rare one from Disney.   "}{"Title":"Next best thing to reading.","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Terrific animated tribute to late 19th Century/early 20th Century adventure novels and short stories, most notably those of Jules Verne, Edgar Rice Burroughs, and Arthur Conan Doyle.  Their stories have been told before on screen starting with the earliest of silent film projects directed by Georges Melies, Disney projects from 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea to The Black Hole, various high budget projects such as Michael Todd's Around the World in 80 Days, low budget projects such as the Doug McClure efforts (The Land That Time Forgot, etc...) and loosely inspired efforts (everything from the classic anime project Nadia The Secret of Blue Water to the Canadian series The Secret Adventures of Jules Verne).  Because of their fantasy content every animator of note has played with the subject matter, with the Fleischer Studios perhaps being the most memorable of the cartoon pioneers to tackle Verne and others.  Karel Zeman, perhaps gave the most realized account of what was ticking inside the minds of these story tellers with his films in the 50's and 60's whose drawings seemed to pop out of the early novels.  Japanese animator Hayao Miyazaki, inspired by such works created an entire industry but loses much of the Euro flavor that put such stories in historical context.  Miyazaki's works were always candy for the eye, not the brain.  Much of what the novelists of the time were creating were actual accounts of exploratory and scientific discoveries of the age.  Unlike Nadia which threw away all that was great in the original stories to pander to what is widely regarded as a less mature fan base (Nadia, like most of Miyazaki's works suffered from Saturday Morning cartoon plots), Atlantis does try to capture the adventure flavor of the early novels combining elements from Jules Verne's 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea and Journey to the Center of the Earth, Edgar Rice Burrough's At the Earth's Core, and Arthur Conan Doyle's Lost World sequels.  Atlantis reminded me of those great Illustrated Classics that brought these novels to life in the fifties and sixties and reprinted in the seventies and eighties.  Even better, are a series of paperback versions with great illustrated covers that came out in the sixties that can be found from time to time in old book stores and have inspired every sci-fi paperback cover since.  Most people familiar with these stories have not read the books, only seeing the live action films of the sixties the Japanimated films of the eighties, and heaven forbid, rip-offs having nothing to do with the character of the original work.  Though Americanized in an all too familiar Disney way, Atlantis is still much closer to what made these stories great.  Sadly the animation is not as great as Miyazaki but it does elicit a certain awe, so hopefully the film will inspire fans to read the novels and realize that Lucas and Miyazaki really had nothing new to say that wasn't said over a hundred years ago.  Atlantis seems to be made for sci-fi readers more than anime junkies and that's a good thing.  Maybe not what is popular at this time, but still a good thing. "},{"Title":"Not the best animated movie, rent Titan A.E. instead","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I went to see Atlantis with great expectations, remembering such Disney and Toy Story 2. However, I failed to get impressed. Of course, the animation is very   nice, even if I sometimes grew tired of Disney-style drawing. It is nice they   have a signature-style, yet I would love to see more variety.   Anyway, back to Atlantis, I found the story to be way too sweet. It felt too   much Disney, even if we were spared from the tunes. It didn't have a strong   plot, it didn't build the tension, it was just simply flat.  As a bottom line, don't see it for 10$, maybe for 5$ at most. You'd be better to   rent Time Masters, Titan A. E. Or even Ghost in the Shell instead. "},{"Title":"Pretty good movie despite recycled plot . . . (SPOILERS)","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Wow.  This has got to be a breakthrough the first Disney summer movie for little kiddies that is rated PG!  This movie is actually pretty good, although it recycles plots and other items from other sci-fi movies.For starters, the entire plot is a copy of the movie Stargate (1994). Both of the movies start off with a promising linguist (or whatnot) that wants acceptance from the scholarly community.  They, of course, are rejected because of their fanastical ideas and theories; they, however, get an offer to follow through their theories.  Boom.  They end up being right. But there's a catch their companions actually have their own agenda, which usually means the death of others, etc. etc.  The good guys save the day and our hero stays with the chick.  Yea.  What a complete ripoff, espcially since Stargate came out 7 years ago.  However, I do admit that most movies take ideas from other previous movies.  Except this movie just outdid it a little.Another thing that I noticed was the leviathan from the depths of the water in Iceland was a ripoff of Star Wars Episode One.How is it that in this movie, there were giant submarines and little one-man subs with weapons?  Atlantis was set in 1914 and they have more advanced ships than we do in the 21st century.I've noticed that the general trend in those kiddie Disney movies is that the human characters are disproportional.  For starters, in Sleeping Beauty, Briar Rose had a one millimeter waist.  However, the proportionality did get slightly better in Mulan.  However, in Atlantis, the bodies did not look extremely realistic.But hey, don't get me wrong.  I still like the movie.  I like both of Stargate and Atlantis.  I just believe that now that we're in the 21st century, there should be some more unique plots.  No movie should ever copy the same plots it takes away from the excitement of the movie.  However, there are many positive merits from this movie.  One of the things that I loved about this movie was that the characters did NOT break out into song every two minutes.  The movie is a lot more fluid without the constant singing.  There was quite a bit of action and intrigue in this movie; it did keep me on my toes throughout the movie.All in all, the movie was pretty good it did not conform to the usual Disney movie form of singing every two minutes.  However, if you want an extremely original plot, then this is not the movie for you.  I would recommend that you save your $9 and rent the movie when it comes out four months from you. "},{"Title":"First step in the right direction...","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  While much else has already been commented on, what is really noteworthy here is that Atlantis succeeds as an animated film for adults.  While there has been plenty here left for the little tykes (leave it to Disney to hedge their bets), it has been toned down from many of their other films where annoying side-kicks virtually up-end the show, stealing it from main characters and/or ruining the film with insipid musical numbers (no offense to musicals, but must they all be geared toward 6 year olds only?)  Atlantis totally avoids the problem and delivers an action packed science fiction tale.  All of this doesn't mean that Atlantis is a good film.  It has so many logistical faults that you eventually must give up and just enjoy it as a movie.  There are also problems with pacing--like so many other animated films, this needs another 10-30 minutes to fully explain the plot and give us a chance to actually enjoy a lot of the brilliant animation that is gone before the eye has really had a chance to register all that's happened.Putting the whole Nadia controversy aside (which now seems doubtful, though there is clearly plenty of anime inspiration), Atlantis shows Disney taking a step in the right direction...a direction that people might actually appreciate once it hits video since probably the worst movie of the summer, Tomb Raider, seems to have stolen center stage this weekend.  "},{"Title":"One of Disney's Best","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Disney did such a wonderful job on this animated film.  It's very obvious that a lot of time and effort went into this movie from seeing how the special effects turned out in the final results.  I really enjoyed this movie;  every minute of it is exciting and edge-of-your-seat thrills pop up every minute. "},{"Title":"Call me traditional, but all you need is good adventure!","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I still believe, despite the CGI in Shrek, that as long as you have a good plot, characters, and a bit of adventure, special effects are not necessary. Atlantis, does just this.  Its not as visually stunning as Shrek, but it doesn't have to be.  Atlantis, is a story about friendship, love, discovery, and taming that young boy adventure.  With all those themes, you don't need fancy computer graphics.  This movies delivers with humor and intrigue.  While you're watching, you feel for the characters, and you really want them to complete the mission.Now, I'll answer that ominous question  Which is better, Shrek, or Atlantis?  Well, I can tell you that Atlantis, is more complex, and has deeper themes of emotion.  However, Shrek, is truly ground breaking in graphics and story line.  I give them both the same grade of A+, however, Shrek, wins by a tiny bit. Don't let that opinion persuade you not to see Atlantis.  This Disney movie is one-of-a-kind and should be seen.---------****A+ "},{"Title":"First-class animated adventure","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  A very good adventure film, with good characters, a lot of action, and solid plotting.  It's Disney for an older audience, the type of film others (i.e., Titan AE) have tried to make but failed.  The voice actors are all well chosen and the style is more like a superhero comic book than a Disney cartoon. "},{"Title":"Disappointment","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  OK, so I love the musicals from Little Mermaid to Hunchback. That's my prejudice. I even like the cute, furry animals who talk and take on other human characteristics. But I tried to give this movie the benefit of the doubt. After all, I thoroughly enjoyed Emperor's New Groove, which was a major departure for Disney. And I even rated Dinosaur higher than most audiences did.But Atlantis is a major disappointment. Reminds me of Disney's Black Cauldron and Black Hole days. For all its supposed sophistication, the animation seems a throwback to those earlier and less successful Disney efforts. There is far too much reliance on human characters, who when carefully examined, are less human than those cute furry animals. Come on, the setting is pre-WWI, and we have a multi-cultural crew (a black doctor, a Hispanic woman mechanic). Talk about your history re-writes.An earlier reviewer remarked that the plot would go over the heads of most children. It would go over the heads of most thinking adults as well. For example, when they first meet the Atlanteans and experience their abilities to speak any of the world's languages, Thatch makes the comment that it's some sort of dialectical code like the tower of Babel. Well for students of the Bible, the tower of Babel didn't involve any kind of code. Those people couldn't understand each other's languages. Babel was the opposite of what happens in Atlantis, but there's never really any logical explanation given as to how the Atlanteans trapped at the bottom of the ocean have managed to learn all the languages of the world. Oh, the movie tries to give explanations, but not logical ones.Ordinarily, I would drop my arguments and say it's just a children's movie, but since Disney seems to be aiming toward making it something more, then logic should apply. And in this case, it doesn't. The entire plot of the Atlantis crystal-curing culture versus the evil white capitalists seems more at home in a bad episode of Captain Planet.  "},{"Title":"Steals from a lot of movies, but it's better than Titan A.E. (Spoilers)","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  There is a web site dedicated to a comparison between Castle in the Sky and Nadia, two Japanese anime from the mid-eighties(the former a movie, the latter a series).  Maybe somebody should have dedicate a site to how Atlantis is really just a Disney rehash of these ideas.First of all, there's a young man who dreams about finding some mythical place (Laputa, the Floating City in Castle in the Sky, but I can't remember what the boy is after in Nadia) that his father or grandfather died searching for.Secondly, there is some magical girl from an ancient race who (lo and behold) has a magical blue crystal or magical amulet with blue symbols. In all, the magical item allows levitation and is the key to unlocking some great power, but is also what keeps the mythical place more or less alive.Thirdly, there's always a gang going after the power purely for monetary gain, and then there's always some greater evil (in Atlantis, a group of Panzer-like soldiers) after it for the power itself.  They always capture the girl, and the boy has to join the gang to save the girl.There are other similar things the designs for the flying fish are curiously similar to the Doma pirate gang's dragonfly craft from Castle in the Sky.  The idea of inserting a crystal into something is another common link.Beyond that, Atlantis seems to borrow the subplot from Titan A.E., but at least this time the betrayal had a lead up that made sense (I could name a half-dozen instances in A.E. that contradict the betrayal thing).Still, the animation was terrific, though I would've like to have seen more done with the sub before it gets blown away.  7/10 "},{"Title":"Another thing--more spoilers","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  It also steals a lot from Stargate (especially what happens to Fox's character at the end).  Also, although people seem to like it, the Leviathan is nothing more than a rip-off of the Star Wars Episode One sea creature.More complaints since when did Norse vikings use english?  When Fox explains how people could mistakenly transliterate (not translate, it is actually going letter by letter, not by meaning) the location of the Shephard's diary as Ireland instead of Iceland, all he does is change the R to a C.Oh, and about languages--how is it that all the Atlantians have forgotten the how to read their own language, even though apparently they were all alive when the cataclysm happened.You know, having thought a bit more clearly about the movie, you might be better off watching Blue Submarine 6 on video.  It has a submarine, a rag tag group of fighters, and a lot more umph to the story.  "}{"Title":"Spectacular break from Disney norm","Date":"15 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  As a long time fan of Disney, I naturally kept abreast of the news following this film.  Part of me cringed thinking such a break from Disney styling might hit as low as Emperor's New Groove.I should have never feared.  The film is exotic, moving, and delightful. There is just enough humor to keep the movie going without delving into lunacy.  There are no musical outbursts, but they are not needed.  In fact, they would have detracted greatly from the film.Effects are, as they are meant to be, a tasty blend of computer and traditional animation. This allows warmth through the characters and a true texture to the technological wonders of Atlantis.While some scenes may prove overwhelming for very young viewers (under 8), this is a story everyone can enjoy. "},{"Title":"Titan A.E. underwater","Date":"15 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I was very surprised to find how many similarities this movie had to Titan A.E. An awkward young man with a grunt job and not much of a life lives in the shadow of his long-past father, but a gift from his father and help from the father's close friend provides the only key to finding a new world. The young man joins an expedition with some ragtag specialists and guides (and befriends) them... but not everyone has the same agenda.  Just like Titan A.E., the movie starts out with fast-paced action (though here the banter is snappier); but just like Titan A.E., midway through the movie the film takes a wrenching plot turn into predictability, and from there on in it's all one can do to ignore the plot holes.  Still, it's pretty, the characters are likeable, and there are no furry animals to annoy the audience.  The music here is unremarkable -- an area where Titan A.E wins easily. "},{"Title":"Not the best but a very good movie","Date":"15 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I really enjoyed watching Atlantis even though I wouldn't qualify it as one of the best cartoon movies out there.First of all, I wasn't especially wowed by the animation.  I think that Disney could have definitely done a much better job with that.  The two biggest things, I think, were how the artists drew the fingers and the vistas.  Those were the two main things that could have been drawn better. Otherwise the art was pretty good.I really liked the character of Milo.  I totally got hooked to him as a character and would have totally bawled if he died or something.  This is natural because you want a very likeable hero in the story.  However, the development of the other characters did not go as well as that of Milo. The other characters seemed very 2D, but I thank Disney for leaving out the spunky sidekick and the smart-assed sidekick.  (but by the end of the movie I was getting really annoyed by that pesimistic-not-very-funny woman that always said were all gonna die.)  I also thought that they should have thought up a better evil than I'm doing it for the money kind of thing. That kind of plot is way to overused.However, the thing that made up for the lameness of the evil of the plot was the mythological part of the story.  It was very original and had many twists and new ideas that I would have never guessed.  I think that the mythological aspect of this movie was definitely what made it worth while.The last thing that I must give Disney kudos for is the wonderful pacing of the movie.  Nothing was overemphisized; everything was very consise and to the point and there wasn't too much focus on the romance.Overall, I thought that Disney did a great job...especially since most of the movies that they have released in the last thirty some years have all been the same formula...guy and girl destined to be in love, cute little animal sidekicks, and so on.  This was a nice change for Disney, a good step for them, and I hope that they keep it up!  "},{"Title":"Not for young children","Date":"15 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I loved the movie.  However, my little boy (who`s 5) had trouble sitting through it.  He often became bored and wanted to talk to me.  My daughter (who`s 7) loved it.  I would definitely recommend leaving your younger children at home.  I loved the fact that Michael J. Fox was the voice of Milo.  It made Milo seem like a friend from the very beginning. "},{"Title":"Not your average Disney Movie","Date":"15 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie did stand out from an average Disney movie. Sure it did have good vs. evil, 2 people fell in love, and there were other things too but I don't want to give out any spoilers. But the movie did have thrilling yet violent parts to it. It had its good moments and it had its bad moments. And what's real weird but cool is that Joss Wheldon who created Buffy the Vampire Slayer did the story line for this movie. But I would say that what made this movie good was that it had things in it that your normal Disney flick doesn't. "},{"Title":"All Hail New Disney!!!","Date":"15 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Since the glorious film The Emperor's New Groove, I thought Disney's let's break away from the normal routine stint would be over, boy was I wrong. Atlantis has NO musical numbers and NO personified cutesy animals. Instead we get a completely original story, with excellent design, humor, and a few MINOR plot holes. The only thing Disney sorta kept on to was a easy-to-follow plot (although a few aspects will fly over the kids heads). Instead of cutesy animals, we get hilarious crazy people, like Mole the French, digging obsessed man with a fear of baths or the old prospecterish cook, Jebidiah (voiced by the late Jim Varney). I recommend you go see what will be the beginning of a beautiful era in Disney history. "},{"Title":"Shows Signs of Improvement","Date":"15 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  First of all, Hayao Miyazaki's Laputa Castle in the Sky has a plot very similar to this  movie, and is in fact much much better in every way.  I believe Disney has the rights to  release Laputa in the US, and I suspect that they won't dare release it in theaters now  for fear of the tremendous embarrassment of borrowing so much and doing such a  lousy job.Most importantly, the movie has huge pacing problems. I feel as though another hour  could easily have been (and should have been) added on.  This would have lent the  scenes that were supposed to be awe inspiring more power due to a gradual build-up,  but instead the audience is thrown from emotion to emotion too rapidly for any of them  to actually sink in.  Disney is like a nervous dominatrix telling us how we should feel,  we play along because the game is temporary.  But, Disney's loyalty is to film as a source of capital, not film as art, so I understand that  they want to hurry things along for all the kids in the audience.  Despite all the  criticism I have, the film does show promise.  All of the character designs have their  charm except for the friendly musclebound African American doctor Sweet.  The main  villain was poorly developed, but then again all of the characters were given  barebones development in the rush to get to the next action scene.The animation quality was average in most places, with the exception of the Leviathan.   Obviously computer generated, but the design of the enormous mechanicallobster-like Leviathan was truly impressive.  I wish that it had more screen time.  The  writing was decent,but that nagging Disney habit of jamming jokes into inappropriate  situations is evident.  Disney is at the cusp of making movies that are actually  marketed for adults, but they are unwilling to leave behind the cash cow of the kiddie  audience, and this will hamper their artistic vision... probably forever unless they can  get enough artistic courage to leave commercialism behind... naaah ain't gonna  happen.  From the design of some of the ancient robots, I'm guessing that the animators at  Disney have seen The Iron Giant.  The writers (there are quite a few, always a bad sign)  have obviously seen Laputa.  Somehow though, they both have failed to see the simple  beauty of those superior animated movies.  Or maybe simplicity and beauty have lost  their charm as modern society relentlessly chops more and more years fromchildhood.   "},{"Title":"An intriguing premise, but just doesn't pull it off.","Date":"15 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I went to see this movie at a preview screening. I entered the cinema expecting much - gorgeous images, terrific acting, ambient music and a grand sense of scale. Unfortunately, the movie has none of these. Admittedly, any movie based on the 'lost underwater civilisation' must be good, you would expect. However, instead of opting for Pixar's computer animation, Disney go for normal, 2D cartoony visuals. No, I have nothing against these, but in a movie of this sort, more is expected. The acting is wooden. well, the voices anyway. They are rather monotone, which detracts from the atmosphere. The music is beautiful - when you get to hear it. I think that in only two scenes do we hear music, and even those scenes were short. The scale is big, although the cartoony visuals shrink the sizes of the architecture.In conclusion, a good movie - atmospheric and on a grand scale - although hammy voice acting, cartoony visuals and a severe lack of music push it into mediocre.I give this movie 6/10.  "},{"Title":"Taking the Disney Traditions and Heritage to a new level!","Date":"15 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I just got back from this movie and was astonished. The negatives... It's not Lion King.  It's not Beauty and the Beast.  It's not Tarzan. The positives... It's not Lion King.  It's not Beauty and the beast.  It's not Tarzan. For starters the visuals of the movie blew me away.  The increased aspect ratio was a must for this action packed movie.  The animation was very fluid and visually stunning.  I quite frequently forgot that I was watching a cartoon.  And the main reason for that is it didn't have the pranks normally associated with a cartoon.  No talking coffee pots or song numbers from a warthog. Did I mention how strong the action was?  I did a double bill today and also saw Tomb Raider.  If you want action?  Atlantis.  If you want excitement Atlantis.  If you want a movie that your 6 year old and your 15 year old will enjoy.  See Atlantis.  "},{"Title":"Wow!  What an epic canvas on which to paint an animated picture!","Date":"12 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  SPOILERS!!!!1914.  Europe is at war.  The U.S. is neutral, but selling arms to both sides of World War 1.Milo Thatch is a lowly caretaker in a museum.  He has an obsession with finding Atlantis, but the museum owners are, umm, less than impressed.  Then Milo is kidnapped by the lovely and dangerous Helga Sinclair to meet an eccentric zillionaire, Preston Whitmore.  Whitmore knew Milo's grandfather, Thaddeus Thatch, and presents Milo with the key to finding Atlantis  an ancient book called The Shepherd's Journal.  Whitmore sends Milo on a lavishly equipped expedition deep under the ocean to find Atlantis and its most fabulous treasure the most powerful energy source in the world.This is an adult film.  Parents, be aware of sexual innuendo and accurate depictions of war violence.  The innuendo is subtle but there.  Adults will get a lot more out of this film than will children.The vistas are many and grand.  I wish the film were more--leisurely, so that our eyes could linger over the backgrounds.  Like the wonderful vistas shown in Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon.Disney is making ever greater strides in the seamless integration of traditional and digital animation.  Just the scene of the submarine gliding for the first time into the depths makes one gape in wonder at their mastery of technique.The mastery of the technique of character animation is foregone somewhat, in favor of some stylization.  We saw that before in a previous film the Paris Disney unit did Hercules.  The squared off fingertips were jarring in the liquid flow of face, gesture, figure and background.Disney cast the voices well.  Claudia Christian as Helga Sinclair purrs dangerously a perfect sonic villainess.  James Garner (Commander Lyle T. Rourke) puts real disarming down-home charm into his bad guy.  Michael J. Fox does great as Milo.  And Florence Stanley, who voices Wihelmina Bertha Packard, the radio operator, spits out her cigarette butts and sarcasm with just the right edge of resignation and bitterness.The greatest failure of the film is its reliance on the hoary cliche of the Evil White Businessman.  Commander Rourke would destroy untold people and an entire civilization just for the money.  Yes, in 1914 the U.S. was selling arms to both sides of WWI, but the movie makes no capital of this.  Disney even put into the dialogue the phrase (ad)venture capitalists.  Please. The rest of the movie was so stunning and creative, they could have come up with a much more creative motivation for the bad guys.  And so hypocritical Hollywood is the most capitalistic of American enterprises. "}{"Title":". . . Atlantis is Waiting . . .","Date":"10 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  To put it bluntly; the film, Atlantis The Lost Empire was thrilling, wonderful, adventurous, and courageous. It was really a splendid animated film that left me standing in awe. The effects, sound, and other visual pieces of eye candy were stunningly astounding; I found myself deeply enjoying the effort it took to produce such a masterpiece, as it was greatly illustrated throughout the feature through the examples of animation, special effects, computer animation, among many other things. The voice actors and actresses were just as wonderful, and they had done an amazing job in the production of bringing the characters to life, using such brilliance and majesty. I would strongly recommend this film for anyone who adores action, adventure, and originality. "},{"Title":"Steam!","Date":"9 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Saw it with the Atlantis Experience at the El Capitan premiere with my family and everyone enjoyed it. Very tightly edited and wonderful depictions of Victorian Steam Punk. Interesting characters that didn't overshadow the story.But one question not answered - Who wrote the Shepherds Journal? "},{"Title":"They found the Empire along with my funny bone","Date":"9 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Ya know, I wasnt looking forward to this screening, but I have to say I really enjoyed this film. Again the traditional Disney look brought back a warm familiarity as did all the well known voices however, the humor they released wasnt so traditional and kept rippin my gut most of the film. The character development (especially with the numurous amount) was well thought out and rang true to each. Again, I was suprised at the humorous warmth of this film and suggest it even moreso for adults then even children. Good goin Disney.  "},{"Title":"I went to the premiere, very nice.","Date":"7 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  So I had the privilege of attending last night's New York City premiere of Disney's new feature lenght film Atlantis The Lost Empire.  It was my first premiere and I loved it!  It was such a thrill.Now, onto the review.  Disney is taking a huge chance on this movie for a number of reasons.  First of all, it is NOT a musical.  Much of the Disney name is based on the legendary soundtracks.  Initially, I thought that the lack of music would make the movie seem a bit longer and not so Disney. But after seeing it, I thought that the absence of music was a great move. Even though I love such classic songs as Under the Sea and A Friend Like Me, music might have made it a bit too kiddy.  Nice job Disney.Secondly, this movie is PG.  It is NOT G and with good reason.  There is a good deal of action (and those scenes are better than any part of Pearl Harbor).  The partially CG, partially animated Star Wars-esque dogfights and chases truly are breathtaking, even to an adult.  Yes, this movie might frighten some small kids, especially the scene with Leviathan and some of the climactic rumble(s).  But overall, the kids in the audience weren't too frightened.  The nice mix of humor for kids (and some for the adults too) helped to keep the balance of intense action and light hearted fun.Lastly, this movie is not Sleeping Beauty.  This is not Snow White. It isn't Beauty and the Beast or Aladdin.  But this is not nessesarily a bad thing.  This is like the dark side of The Little Mermaid.  Disney pulled out a couple of the stops but for a reason.  Yes, there is a bit of blood.  It's not a gauging like the over pretentious Gladiator, it's enough to convey real emotion.  (Milo Thatch, Atlantis' main character, has more dimension as a 2-D cartoon than any scene involving Russell Crowe in Gladiator).  This movie isn't the vibrant end of Be Our Guest.  The darker nature almost made you forget that this was an animated feature. It was very effective and finally someone at Disney realized it isn't all about selling t-shirts and plush toys.  Bravo Disney, Atlantis surely won't sinkBTW, I got to meet Marty McFly himself, Mr. Michael J. Fox.  Great guy, and the premiere did benefit his Parkinson's reasearch Center.  Again, bravo to Disney, this was an incredibly generous move on their part. "},{"Title":"Amazing Atlantis a break from tradition","Date":"26 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I was lucky enough to see this film at a special preview held at George Street Cinemas in Sydney. It is the story of young Milo Thatch (wonderfully voiced by Michael J. Fox), a likeable historian trying to get funding to search for the legendary city of Atlantis. The other characters are an odd mix of experienced adventurers, each bringing with them a specific skill or talent necessary to succeed on their journey.The mythical and mystical themes are strong throughout, and make for quite an unusual film. Yes, it is a Disney animated movie, but don't expect the characters to break out into song at every convenient moment and don't assume this is just another children's film. Much of the meaning behind many of the scenes will be lost on a younger audience.I found the plot to be very original, with frequent twists and turns that will have you bracing yourself in your seat. It is a fast-paced film with stunning animation sequences, packed with a dazzling display of colour and light, which present magnificently on the big screen.A must-see for any fantasy fan or Atlantis enthusiast that will not disappoint Disney lovers, though it is definitely a break from their traditional films.  "},{"Title":"Severely under-appreciated movie","Date":"18 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Maybe it's because it doesn't follow the typical Disney formula, but this fun, interesting, and hits on some relevant points about dreams, ambitions, and human greed. If you're looking for a dashing prince to save a beautiful princess, go watch another movie. If you want a movie that is enjoyable to watch again and again, watch this one. While character development varies, it's not hard to like the characters. Even the antagonists are likable, in the way that only villains can be. The animation style is different than most other Disney films, and personally, I like it.This is one of those movies Disney has kind of swept under the rug and forgotten about, for reasons I don't understand. Kida is not featured with the rest of the Disney Princesses, (even though she is one of many who are actually princesses within their world of origin). This is another nuance I don't understand, and it, sadly, only serves to prove just how under-appreciated this movie is. "},{"Title":"Terrific Sci-Fi/Fantasty Adventure from Disney","Date":"6 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I've seen this film three times, each viewing separated by several years, beginning with seeing it in the theater. And even as an ever-older adult, I like it more every time I watch it. This is one of the best things that Disney has ever produced, in my humble opinion.First of all, it's not musical. This film is not a descendant of Cinderella or The Jungle Book or Beauty and the Beast. It's much more a descendant of Disney's live-action films like 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea. It combines the classic style of Jules Verne-era science fiction with the retro-futuristic-mythology of Stargate (the lead character is basically Daniel Jackson). Throw in some Indiana Jones overtones, and there you have it. I love all of those influences, personally, and I find Atlantis here to be a very enjoyable blend of them.From an animation standpoint, I love the stylized character designs. Some people note the influence of anime, but don't worry; the characters here don't look anything like the over-caffeinated Dragonball Z aesthetic. A better reference point would be Genndy Tartakovsky's original Star Wars Clone Wars. CGI is used for some of the vehicles and panoramas, and it is breathtaking at best, but I really appreciate how the look is purely 2D - it's classic-style animation, just utilized optimally to fuel the adventure. There are some truly wonderful visual elements in this film, from the beautiful design of Atlantis to the steampunk-influenced submarines and other vehicles.The cast of characters is made up of many typical clichés and types, for sure, but the dialog is often witty and the pacing fast. The only character who really bothers me is the French geologist/excavator Moliere, a truly horrible, demeaning caricature if there ever was one. Otherwise, the cast is fun, diverse and each individual is a worthwhile inclusion, making the film better for being a part of it.I felt compelled to review this film because, having lived with it for all these years, I am more and more convinced that it is simply one of the best throwback sci-fi adventures put to film, animated or otherwise. It's true that the story could use some additional running time to flesh itself out, but I defy any other film to fit so much clearly-executed (if abbreviated) storytelling, action, humor, awe and wonder into an hour and a half. It goes without saying that this film is designed for the young at heart; if that describes you, rest assured that this one is a great experience for all ages. "},{"Title":"My favourite animated movie.","Date":"27 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I rated this a little higher than it deserves, mostly because this movie has been with me as long as I remember. I've seen it about 30 times since it first came out. So yes, I'm a little biased. Now that I'm older, I can look at this movie and notice things I never did before. Like the animation, for example. It's pretty good, as you would expect from the creator of the Hellboy comics. The culture created for the Atlanteans is amazing, and even has a language (which I may or may not have tried to learn a few times). I don't get why people don't like this movie. Sure, it's a step away from the the regular Disney formula, but that's not a bad thing. "},{"Title":"A peculiar, oft-overlooked gem from Disney","Date":"14 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Atlantis The Lost Empire, released during the summer in 2001, will most likely be looked upon by future generations of audiences as a peculiar, if not totally over-looked gem. I first saw this delightful, Jules Verne-inspired little animated film from the co-directing team of Gary Trousdale and Kirk Wise (with producer Don Hahn) - who were behind Disney's animated renaissance favorite Beauty and the Beast (1991) - when it came to DVD in early 2002.Having watched the film today for the first time in ages, I was again awe-struck by the lush beauty of its visuals (which seemed to have mimicked the style of Japanese Anime' and American Hellboy comic book artist Mike Mignola), its highly evocative musical score (by James Newton Howard), and its beautiful aquatic imagery; I have a thing for water, the ocean and aquatic imagery/visuals, so Atlantis The Lost Empire was right up my alley. I was also disappointed at the time to find out that this movie was not a success (at least not as big as Disney had originally hoped), but regardless of its box office performance, this is a movie to be cherished.There is some historical significance with this picture 11 years down the road. Atlantis The Lost Empire has the benefit of being one of the last animated Disney films (one of the last animated films period) to be almost entirely hand-drawn - that is people actually sitting down at a desk and drawing things down on paper, by hand! Yes, there is some heavy use of CGI mixed with the hand-drawn images, but for the most part it's easy to tell where human hands left off, and a computer stepped in to do the rest.The other added benefit is that the CGI is hardly noticeable here (at least to the untrained eyes of certain audience members); but I will admit that 11 years later down the road and with so many significant advances in CGI animation (in addition to having seen, and loved, Avatar in 2009), it would be interesting to see how this movie and its underwater imagery would have looked had it been done completely in CGI, so I'm not going to lambaste CGI animated films completely.And yet there is a human story, with real flesh & blood animated characters; such characters, their stories, and their motivations usually get lost in a production such as this, even an animated one. As you might expect, the story concerns the search for the lost continent of Atlantis of ancient folklore/legends (particulary those as described by Plato and the famed clairvoyant Edgar Cayce), which was befallen by a great cataclysmic event that caused it to disappear beneath the surface of the ocean centuries ago. Opening in 1914, Milo Thatch (voiced by Michael J. Fox, one of my all-time favorite and inspirational actors) is a young linguist/cartographer trying to get funding for an expedition to find the Lost Continent.Shunned by his colleagues but spurned on by the cherished memories of his late adventurer-grandfather, the enthusiastic young explorer finds unexpected financial backing from the mysterious rich benefactor Preston J. Whitmore (John Mahoney) who puts him on an expedition to find Atlantis. The operation is led by Commander Rourke (James Garner) and his second-in-command Helga Sinclair (Claudia Christian), and others include ex-Army physician Dr. Joshua Sweet (Phil Morris), French geologist Gaetan The Mole Moliere (Corey Burton), Italian demolitions expert Vinny Santorini (Don Novello), feisty teenage Latina mechanic Audrey Ramirez (Jacqueline Obradors), chain-smoking radio operator Mrs. Packard (Florence Stanley), and chef Cookie (the late Jim Varney).They eventually find the underwater kingdom, only to discover that there is an entire civilization of people thriving there, led by King Nedakh (Leonard Nimoy) and his beautiful daughter Kida (Cree Summers). The Atlantean people are highly advanced technologically, and have their own thriving native language (developed for the film by linguist Mark Okrand) and thoroughly self-contained mythology.Thinking about the film, I remember that much of the story and imagery in Atlantis The Lost Empire still remains remarkably fresh in my mind; I find that to be one of the strongest hallmarks of any animated feature. That Disney was able to make me care so much about the characters and story says as much about its overall entertainment value. Additionally, the all-star cast of first-rate voice actors make the proceedings even more enjoyable; I'm also glad that there were no songs here, either, and that it was a straight-forward science fiction/adventure movie, and a rather thrilling and intelligent one, at that.I find Atlantis The Lost Empire to be a beautifully animated Disney feature, oft-over-looked but hopefully never forgotten by the masses of animation fans out there. It was one of the last animated films to have been almost completely hand-drawn, during a time when animated movies were making a huge transition to being almost completely computer-generated.Just get ready to dive in to one of the greatest animated adventures of all time!10/10 "},{"Title":"We witness the Mother of all Races, to once again see it disappear  ","Date":"11 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Facinated with the ancient story of Atlantis, we have here yet another attempt to resurrect it from a watery grave to entertain modern audiences. The film is entitled  Atlantis The lost Empire  and once again it's left up to the animators of Walt Disney studios to offer us this charming rendition. James Garner's recognizable voice plays Commander Lyle Rourke an opportunistic, adventurer who leads a team to the wondrous and fabulous city of Atlantis. Michael J. Fox is the voice of Milo Thatch, who's grandfather left him a book detailing the route to reach the mythical city. John Mahoney, Phil Morris, David Ogden Stiers, Don Novello, Jim Varney and Leonard Nimoy head an all star cast to the water kingdom. It's a magical place with colorful sceneries and highlighted with flying vehicles, all of which are designed to bring to life the city beneath the sea. The film has garnered much praise and countless awards in it's quest to become what for Disney is yet another Classic movie. Cree Summer adds a royal flair as Princess 'Kida', while Claudia Christian, Jacqueline Obradors and Florence Stanley complete the wonderful assemblage. The entire movie is another triumph for directer Gary Trousdale and writer Kirk Wise. Easily recommended. **** "}{"Title":"Underrated, Undiscovered","Date":"15 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I just don't understand all the bad reviews for this film. Atlantis- The Lost Empire is another wonderful Disney film. Atlantis- The Lost Empire doesn't really break a whole lot of new ground, but it's an exceptionally entertaining animated film. The film is about Milo Thatch, a young professor that no one takes seriously who is in search of Atlantis. Once again, Milo's funding proposition is turned down. But all that changes when he's given a package from his long deceased grandfather, and given proper funding by a associate of his. Now Milo goes in search of Atlantis with a crew of colorful characters. The characters are hilarious, to be vague. Dirt experts, explosive enthusiasts, and grease-loving chefs make up a small part of a large and amusing cast. And the voice cast only adds depth to these characters. There are also plenty of genius one liners. The animation boasts impressive visual effects, but there are a lot of flat backgrounds. The score is generally impressive as well. The climatic battle isn't incredible, and it won't raise your pulse, but it's certainly entertaining, and I've seen a lot of action movies with considerably worse final battles than this. Atlantis- The Lost Empire provides a funny and adventurous film that will surely entertain kids and parents alike. "},{"Title":"An underrated journey into a mystical wonder.","Date":"14 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I don't think that this movie has been given enough credit by the general public. This is a welcome departure from the traditional music-filled genre that Disney has been known for, going for a more sci-fi route than a magical fairy tale, which ironically is what most people in this world think Atlantis really is. That doesn't stop our main hero Milo Thatch (Michael J. Fox) from revealing the truth about this lost civilization. So let's dive into Atlantis The Lost Empire.It was archaeologist Milo Thatch's dream to prove that the legendary Atlantis is not just a myth, so he takes a journey with military officials and adventurers alike to find the lost civilization. After going through numerous deadly obstacles, they finally found it, but not all is as it seems. With Atlantis, and not to mention the world, threatened, Milo and company (including newfound love interest princess Kida, voiced by Cree Summer) set out to save the day and prevent the same disaster that had Lost Continent sink beneath the waves.I'm glad that the filmmakers made sure that this appeals to adults as well as kids as there are numerous rather dark moments throughout the film, a characteristic typically overlooked among Disney movies. Most of the characters are tons of fun as they all have some funny quirks and moments that serve as a source of comedy, which is done very well. They generally have some complexity too and this is backed by a dynamic voice cast from Michael J. Fox to Leonard Nimoy. Kida is probably one of the best Disney princesses I have ever seen; not only is she easy on the eyes, but she's also quite curious and tough. I prefer Kida over the likes of Snow White and Sleeping Beauty.Other aspects of the film are truly spectacular. The visuals and art design are breathtaking as you could stare out and marvel at its wonder all day long. The action scenes are great, probably some of the best in the Disney franchise with cool camera angles, intensity, and a surprising body count. I also like how they use the science in this film as it plays around how some cultures had stories of Atlantis and how myths have a basis in truth. The story and themes of Atantis are done very wheel and they're quite thought-provoking.Overall, this semi-aquatic film is a true masterpiece. It's often you see a movie like this from Disney of all companies. I only wish that it will gain a greater recognition from the world. Atlantis, the story that continues to bring sense of awe. Check it out! "},{"Title":"Disney can do better","Date":"9 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I took my children to see this movie because it is a Disney movie and the focus for their movies is kids right? Not only did this movie not capture my children's attention, but it also felt like a movie where the script was intended for live action but animation seemed the cheaper way to go. The storyline was weak, the characterizations of many of the characters were hard to understand ie the mole, and the humor which typically is the part of Disney movies that makes them enjoyable for adults wasn't funny. Although the animation in much of the movie was beautiful, and the action sequences were unbelievable in their realism, the animation could not overcome the fact that the story wasn't there. James Garners character as the snake in the grass commander of the expedition was square, and was like watching a Dr. Jekyl into Mr. Hyde transformation. All in all, I feel that Disney tried to make a motion picture where they target an older audience at the expense of their traditional primary audience. Parents should be warned that younger children may not enjoy this movie as it does not follow the traditional Walt Disney style of summer releases. My young daughter whom I have taken to many movies asked me twenty minutes into a 75 minute affair if we could go home. I noticed many children in the audience acting similarly. I have loved Disney movies since I was a child and this is the first one that I can honestly say really stinks. "},{"Title":"The bodies pile up...","Date":"7 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" In my opinion, this movie was actually pretty darned violent. Not in the sense of intense, scary scenes (LOTS of Disney movies can be pretty scary in their own ways), but in terms of sheer death and non-family friendly ideas. At the beginning we can assume several thousand people are wiped out by an arrogant king's use of a weapon of WAR. Who ever heard of war being a staple idea of how a conflict was caused in a Disney movie? And the Leviathan scene, where a giant swimming robot attacks the sub,while hardly scary at all,immediately destroys about four hundred people (we see several of them trapped to die by drowning as a flood control door is shut in front of them). And then you see the escape ships wiped out one by one by the creature's laser beams(We're getting murdered out here!), and a funeral scene for the dead. Then there's the part at the end where there's that big firefight between the evil humans and the normally noble-and-benevolent-but-pressed-into-violent-conflict-anyway Atlanteans. You see people enveloped by explosions and whatnot.Come on! How is this Disney, family friendly fare? Mass death and destruction wielded with almost scary casualness is not what I expect from a Disney movie. In the old days, most of the death was either shown to be tragic or unnecessary, or justified in the case of the villains. Now, we get this whole thing about Hey look kids. That guy just died. Ho hum. On to more special effects! W00t! Even I as a young adult am disturbed (just because I'm grown up doesn't mean I'll enjoy adult feature films) by this flagrant disregard for what Disney used to be. As well as this movie being just kinda bad to me overall makes my vote what it is. Along with the violence goes along with fun like best friends thing, there's an almost too-typical romance, overused special effects (the new computer smoothed models, while impressive, are just not as charming as the classic Disney characters), an odd, somewhat PC story (notice how they have to have every race imaginable displayed, giving several superfluous characters that don't seem to impact the story at all) that makes former comrades into faceless monsters, and I'm talking about the guys from the sub that didn't die, who suddenly aren't important and have sterile masks instead of faces that makes it okay to kill them all at the end, as well as the now over-used message that old, alien societies that are in touch with the world around them are always better and less ignorant than modern, European invaders. We got enough of that in Pocahontas. Ugh. Whatever happened to simple stories of friendship like in The Fox and the Hound? "},{"Title":"No no no","Date":"23 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Well, the first Disney movie I saw was 'Oliver & Company' of 1988. Since then I've seen several of them and the one that really caught me back in -91 and still has me was 'Beauty and the Beast'. Several of Disney's movies (Aladdin, the Jungle book...) give you all the basics for a good film, no matter if you're 6, 26 or 46. 'Atlantis the lost Empire' in NOT one of them.The animation in itself is rather progressive and arty but an ill match with the concept of Disney's annual 'classic to be'. It's the same style in 'Tarzan', in which it worked better but the very cubist animation gets too much when the film is dark to such an extent. I never developed any feelings for the characters, nor the good ones or the bad once (most of the crew play both parts to an extent it seems) and the story itself could easily have been better done.This is the worst Disney film I've seen, spite the great way they show expressions and reactions on the characters faces, and it makes me long for either good old classics like 'Snow White' or brand new thrilling Japanese Anime. "},{"Title":"Average Disney Sci-Fi","Date":"12 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Average Disney Sci-Fi Adventure Animation movie that needed a better story and better characters.Also,the Jules Verne style 1910 setting does not work now adays as well anymore.The atmosphere here was done slightly more darker than the usual Disney mellow fare but still,it falls short in the end due to lack of a better script/story.Only for big fans of Disney movies who would not mind a typical Jules Verne style adventure.Most kids though will love it of coarse! "},{"Title":"This will never be one of their classics, but still worth seeing.","Date":"6 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Atlantis The Lost Empire underperformed at the box office, but it does continue the attempts of Disney to stretch themselves a bit - even if it is, in a way, going back to the days of 20,000 Leagues Under The Sea with its Jules Verne-esque storyline.It's basically a straight-out adventure yarn; linguist Milo (voice of Michael J. Fox) is obsessed with finding the source of the power of the lost city of Atlantis, just as his late grandfather was - wealthy Preston Whitmore (friend of his grandfather) finances the voyage to find the city, but there are dangers en route and when they arrive. The tone of the whole enterprise is closer to movies like Titan A.E. than expected, except that this movie works where that didn't; as impressive as the animation there was, the story just wasn't a grabber... this won't win any prizes either, but at least it keeps moving (Milo is on his way to Atlantis within the first 15 minutes), and the presence of Buffy the Vampire Slayer's Joss Whedon - who shares story credit with five others (including the directors and scriptwriter Tab Murphy) - explains moments like Today, beans are on the menu; musical accompaniment to follow... Who wrote this?The movie also benefits from having a good voice cast (Claudia Christian, John Mahoney, Leonard Nimoy, Don Novello, the late Jim Varney, James Garner - although having Roarke not only be voiced by the latter but actually RESEMBLE ol' Rockford is a slight problem), and from avoiding some if not all of the pitfalls of a movie like this - can we not have a crusty old cook please? In fact, Atlantis The Lost Empire doesn't feel like a Disney movie at all - but unlike some other recent Disney efforts, it feels like it could have been from any studio (with the arguable exception of Columbia, the least cartoon-friendly of Hollywood studios); there's nothing terribly distinctive about it, and it doesn't help that the animation doesn't push the boundaries for the most part.If you judge it against a lot of other movies from the House of Mouse it'll fall short, but on its own merits it's a perfectly entertaining movie which keeps the adventure to a maximum and the romance to a blissful minimum; shame about that Mya ballad over the credits (co-written by the ubiquitous Diane Warren and James Newton Howard, supplier of the movie's rousing score). It really ruins the mood set up by the finale, but not enough to ruin the movie. And in any case, this still beats Warlords of Atlantis or Waterworld. "},{"Title":"Multiculturalism Run Amok","Date":"31 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Ever since Disney came out with Snow White, the animation giant has thrived on a plethora of one-dimensional characters to tell a story. In the 1937 classic, for example, each dwarf's psyche could be determined completely by the one word that made up his name.  Atlantis has become yet another tale in this mold. Unfortunately, it had also attempted to add the political correctness of diversity by trying to include one representative from as many different racial and ethnic groups as they could fit into a submarine within the time allotted. The result has been a distraction from the story as well as a disservice to the various groups it tried to portray. When you assign one-dimensional characteristics to an ethnic group, you create or enforce stereotypes. I give this picture a 4 (out of 10).  "},{"Title":"Good looking, but too predictable.","Date":"3 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This was a very unimpressive offering from Disney.Although it may sound laughable to criticize a summer animated release from Disney for being too predictable and paint-by-the-numbers, that's pretty much my biggest problem with this movie. It's basically the same story that was told in 1999 with Tarzan. Just replace Tarzan with Kida, Jane with Milo, and the muscled, evil hunter with the muscled, evil submarine captain. This wouldn't have been too bad, but unlike Tarzan, Atlantis doesn't seem to have any interest in making you care about the characters or what happens to them. Also, the scope of Atlantis is too large. There are many characters and everything that happens to them is really too ambitious to fit in 90 minutes. The result is that the movie races as fast as it can through each predictable plot point so it can tie everything up nice and neat at the end.I do have a couple of good things to say about it. The animation was great. Very detailed, colorful, and imaginative. An excellent blend of CGI and traditional cel animation. It's everything I've come to expect visually in a Disney motion picture.And I found a bit of the story enjoyable as well, mostly in the first 30 minutes. I remember there were several quick visual jokes that I laughed at.Too bad that it had to fall off so badly in the last hour. "},{"Title":"Great animation, lousy writing","Date":"20 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The animation in this movie was spectacular. I wish I could say the same for the writing. The animation seamlessly blended computer animation with the more traditional methods and created a beautiful new world. The writing was lackluster and filled with cliche after cliche. It's too bad Disney doesn't seem to take as much care with their plotting as they did in the early 90's. After their biggest triumph (commercially and critically, The Lion King is by far the best recent Disney movie), they seem to have taken a big downhill slide. In trying to compete with the eye candy of the totally computer animated movies, they've forgotten that the story is just as important (if not more) than the animation. Atlantis clearly reflects this. I gave this movie a 3 out of 10.   "}{"Title":"An obnoxious and rushed effort","Date":"5 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Disney's Atlantis was a large bucket of three dimensional dirt mixed with two dimensional sadness. There was hardly anything good about this film. The animation had hideous flaws, and the story was poorly paced and typical.Everyone was telling me how great the 2D and 3D blended together... Not really...There was a scene where a 2D character was holding a 3D book. The book slid around the character's hands as if it was caked in chicken grease. Would it have killed them to just cel animate the book into the character's hand? How lazy has Disney become?.The movie wasn't a complete wreck. There were some inspired visuals. But a few good scenes weren't enough. This is what happens when executives who know nothing about art try to tell artists what to do. "},{"Title":"No heart","Date":"23 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Long on form, short on content; the Disney Animation Department once again relies too much on gee-whiz effects and too little on plot and character development - as Walt would have said, it had no heart. On a scale of 1 to 10 (1>Alice and 10>B&B) I'd have to give it a 3, Roy. "},{"Title":"The Audio-Visual Experience of the Summer!!!","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  No matter what anyone says, Atlantis is a nice change of pace from the usual singing animals that Disney usually offers for the summer season. I realize that a large number of Disney fans prefer the show tune approach, and that's all well and good. But it's nice to see that the animation department is trying to branch out a bit. I have always been a fan of Japanese animation since my earliest exposure in the 70's. And I've always been a bit disappointed that American animation has never been able to capture the same passion and chaos that makes anime so cool. Even Disney, with all it's history and glory, has never been able to get in the zone of anime. However, recent films have given me a little faith that things may be changing. First, 1992's inspired insanity of Aladdin, a film of both visual style and rapier wit. Next, 1997's Tarzan, an absolute visual feast of 3-D backgrounds and thundering audio splender, all wrapped in a amazingly fun story. And now the wonder of Atlantis The Lost Empire, which is by far the most amazing audio-visual experience of this summer (so far at least). If you can, see it in a Dolby Digital/DTS/THX cinema. I saw it the first time in a old single-speaker theater with a friend and his daughter. And though a good time was had by all, it paled in comparison to my expectations. However, when I saw it again a week later at a modern multiplex with Dolby Digital EX sound, it flat out blew me away. Multi-channel sound is the way to go!!!I realize that Atlantis has not done as well, finacially, as Disney had hoped. I can only hope that this is not a set back in what could be a new trend in film making for them. A PG rated animated feature released as often as the G rated films that come out each year. It seemed to work well enough with last years release of the PG rated Dinosaur, which was followed later that year by the G rated The Emperor's New Groove. It seemed to work then. I can only hope that Disney believes it will work in the future.Atlantis has been one of the best films I've seen this summer. It's big. It's loud. And it IS cool. Which is always a nice combination during the never-quite-perfect summer movie season. Remember, see it where it's LOUD!!!  "},{"Title":"Disney Grows Up","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Atlantis The Lost Empire has been widely discussed as a departure for Disney animation.  You can tell this is so, since this is not a G-rated musical.  I found the animation very well done.  There was some Atlantean lore that was thought-provoking.  But there is quite a bit to be taken with a grain of salt.  For one thing, most of the story takes place in 1914, but Cmdr. Rourke's crew looks more multicultural than can be believed.  Anyway, the story mostly takes a back seat to the artwork, which is a common pitfall for animated features.  I call it eye candy. "},{"Title":"Tough sell to adults...","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Some have praised -Atlantis-The Lost Empire- as a Disney adventure for adults. I don't think so--at least not for thinking adults.This script suggests a beginning as a live-action movie, that struck someone as the type of crap you cannot sell to adults anymore. The crack staff of many older adventure movies has been done well before, (think The Dirty Dozen) but -Atlantis- represents one of the worse films in that motif. The characters are weak. Even the background that each member trots out seems stock and awkward at best. An MD/Medicine Man, a tomboy mechanic whose father always wanted sons, if we have not at least seen these before, we have seen mix-and-match quirks before. The story about how one companion, Vinny played by Don Novello (Fr. Guido Sarducci), went from flower stores to demolitions totally unconvincing.Only the main character, Milo Thatch, a young Atlantis-obsessed academic voiced by Michael J. Fox, has any depth to him. Milo's search for Atlantis continues that of his grandfather who raised him. The opening scene shows a much younger Milo giddily perched on a knee, as his grandfather places his pith helmet on his head.And while the characters were thin at best, the best part about -Atlantis- was the voice talent. Commander Rourke loses nothing being voiced by James Garner. Although Rourke is a pretty stock military type, Garner shows his ability to breath life into characters simply by his delivery. Garner's vocal performance is the high point. I'm sorry to say Leonard Nimoy's Dying King is nothing more than obligatory. Additionally, Don Novello as the demolition expert, Vinny Santorini, was also notable for one or two well-done, funny lines--but I've always liked Father Guido Sarducci, anyway.Also well done was the Computer Animation. The BACKGROUND animation, that is.  The character animation does nothing if not make already flat characters appear even flatter. Aside from landscapes, buildings and vehicles there isn't much to impress.The plot was the worst. Some say hackneyed or trite. I'm not so sure about that. Any serviceable plot can be made into something new with the proper treatment. Shakespeare often started from a known story and plot and was famous only for putting on a new coat of paint. So the treatment is the thing. And -Atlantis- obviously lacks that.I cannot begin to go into all the logic gaps without a spoiler section. The plot was bad. The plot's bridges snap like twine and the ending does not make sense. To add to that, the script and the animation is peppered with annoying sloppiness.** SPOILERS **Right at the beginning when Milo reveals that runic or Celtic symbols have been wrongly transliterated and the Coast of Ireland should read the Coast of Iceland, we begin to have problems. The writers of the script would need to know the British take for Eire or Eireann as Ireland, and completely ignore the older, Latin term Hibernia. But more than this, they need to know of the Vikings conspiracy to call the greener island Iceland and the icier island Greenland.By making it the matter of a mis-tranliterated letter, the writers have doomed themselves to requiring a runic version of English and a post-Roman date on the script. Since this is long after Atlantis was supposed to have sunk into its undersea cave. And without visible clues and less technology than Milo had, made the inscription far less trustworthy.The Shepherd's Journal could not be written before the sinking of Atlantis, or it would know nothing about the cave or the crystal lying in the King's eye. It must have been written after the sinking, but without even the technology that Milo's expedition had, how the heck did anybody get by the Leviathan. So how could it know more about anything after that? And why would it be written in Atlantian?Automatic writing and clairvoyance or astral travel can explain these things. However clairvoyance and astral travel do not require to write in Atlantian. So it's got to be some sort automatic writing. Since no-one left in Atlantis can read, it must be the spirits of the crystal beaming messages to the surface. This would have made more sense. But could also have been explained within the movie Milo could shepherd have discovered that this power had been calling him all his life--appeared in dreams, etc. This needed to be explored in the movie.The Atlantians should simply not be able to comprehend modern languages. No-one expects that the original Indo-Europeans would be able to converse in Europe, anymore than Romans would understand that hard cs or their day became French chs (pronounced like shs, no less!)Current Atlantians were alive before the cataclysm--when apparently they *could* read, yet now are unable to read what they used to, or operate similar machinery.The Mass Illiteracy points out a crucial flaw in the movie. NOTHING seems to have happened to this culture. It seems suspended in air until Milo can rescue it. Even though it appears that life is not a constant struggle for survival, no-one wants to compose poetry or write novels and perhaps it is a combination of Atlantian school systems going downhill toward the end and lack of good fiction that caused Atlantis to fall into illiteracy.Kida can be excused for not knowing how to read or operate the machinery if she was so young when the Cataclysm of Stupidity set in--But ANY OF IT **HARDLY** qualifies her father for Deification!! Kashakim's foolishness almost single-handedly wiped his people from existence. Killed a bunch in the cataclysm, stalled progress (not a lot killed here, but he oversaw a massive slide in culture and progress) until someone could take the crystal to kill everybody, if they weren't boiled in lava first because the Giant Robots weren't there to protect them.A bolt of blue electricity should have shattered Kashakim's likeness, when Kida tried joining her father's image to the circle of GREAT Kings of Atlantis!Even though Milo was the only one who could read Atlantian, Rourke and others knew enough to look through a book of gibberish and find a page on a crystal--which he knew to be a crystal and not some stylized astrological or phases of the sun diagram.If Milo's grandfather had told Rourke about it, it still does not explain how Rourke would have suffered from Milo's reading it as part of the book. Ripping out the page--which was dog-eared in Rourke's hand, even though Milo found NO sign of a torn page in the book apparently--only was there to tip off the viewer that something was not quite right. Unless the word crystal would have set alarms off in Milo's head that somebody would try to steal it, Milo would have suspected nothing. It's just thick-headed foreshadowing.The crew's double-cross was not a character change. We learned that Vinny, Sweet, Audrey and Cookie had been going along with Rourke from the beginning. However, the change of heart falls flat. It was a change, and needed to be better motivated. Hard to do with characters who weren't given anything to begin with.Niggling little bit that the lava flows up over the dome, instead of filling in the rest of the area that we view the sequence from. It's liquid; it will not flow over the protective dome until it fills up all lower areas.The ending STINKS!-- and makes no sense other than to appease political correctness. With it's powersource restored, Atlantis is no longer a weak power, needing coddling. The giant robot guardians and the sky-cycles shooting blue lightning suggest that they have less to fear from us than they might. The technology is superior to ours, and definitely to early 20th-century. In the end Milo needs to teach the Atlantians to read, for what? The whole idea is to leave their little quiet, chastened culture alone, not to send it into hyperdrive.** END SPOILERS **Perhaps, the Lost World plot and the turn-of-the-century setting should give me a hint that this is more an homage to pulps. The failures I find with the film agree with this idea. But I am at a loss why I should pay to see thin characters and plot holes simply because many dime novels had them as well. And pulp stories is part of the crap they can't sell adults anymore, anyway. We have become a bit more sophisticated and our pulp needs to grow up as well. Raiders of the Lost Ark lost none of its pulp feel and avoided so much badness.4 out of 10--the movie is enjoyable but as I think about the plot, it seeps ever lower. "},{"Title":"Tough sell to adults...","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Some have praised _Atlantis_The_Lost_Empire_ as a Disney adventure for adults. I don't think so--at least not for thinking adults.This script suggests a beginning as a live-action movie, that struck someone as the type of crap you cannot sell to adults anymore. The crack staff of many older adventure movies has been done well before, (think _The Dirty Dozen_) but _Atlantis_ represents one of the worse films in that motif. The characters are weak. Even the background that each member trots out seems stock and awkward at best. An MD/Medicine Man, a tomboy mechanic whose father always wanted sons, if we have not at least seen these before, we have seen mix-and-match quirks before. The story about how one companion, Vinny played by Don Novello (Fr. Guido Sarducci), went from flower stores to demolitions totally unconvincing.Only the main character, Milo Thatch, a young Atlantis-obsessed academic voiced by Michael J. Fox, has any depth to him. Milo's search for Atlantis continues that of his grandfather who raised him. The opening scene shows a much younger Milo giddily perched on a knee, as his grandfather places his pith helmet on his head.And while the characters were thin at best, the best part about _Atlantis_ was the voice talent. Perhaps Milo's depth is no thicker than Fox's charm. Commander Rourke loses nothing being voiced by James Garner. Although Rourke is a pretty stock military type, Garner shows his ability to breath life into characters simply by his delivery. Garner's vocal performance is the high point. I'm sorry to say Leonard Nimoy's Dying King is nothing more than obligatory. Additionally, Don Novello as the demolition expert, Vinny Santorini, was also notable for one or two well-done, funny lines--but I've always liked Father Guido Sarducci, anyway. Also well done was the Computer Animation. The BACKGROUND animation, that is. The character animation has not been this bad for Disney since the minimalism that drove Don Bluth out the door. The character animation does nothing if not make already flat characters appear even flatter. Aside from landscapes, buildings and vehicles there isn't much to impress.The plot was the worst. Some say hackneyed or trite. I'm not so sure about that. Any serviceable plot can be made into something new with the proper treatment. Shakespeare often started from a known story and plot and was famous only for putting on a new coat of paint. So the treatment is the thing. And _Atlantis_ obviously lacks that.I cannot begin to go into all the logic gaps without a spoiler section. The plot was bad. The plot's bridges snap like twine and the ending does not make sense. To add to that, the script and the animation is peppered with annoying sloppiness.** SPOILERS **1. Right at the beginning when Milo reveals that runic or Celtic symbols have been wrongly transliterated and the Coast of Ireland should read the Coast of Iceland, we begin to have problems. The writers of the script would need to know the British take for Eire or Eireann as Ireland, and completely ignore the older, Latin term Hibernia. But more than this, they need to know of the Vikings conspiracy to call the greener island Iceland and the icier island Greenland. By making it the matter of a mis-tranliterated letter, the writers have doomed themselves to requiring a runic version of English and a post-Roman date on the script. Since this is long after Atlantis was supposed to have sunk into its undersea cave. And without visible clues and less technology than Milo had, made the inscription far less trustworthy.2. The Shepard's Journal could not be written before the sinking of Atlantis, or it would know nothing about the cave or the crystal lying in the King's eye. It must have been written after the sinking, but without even the technology that Milo's expedition had, how the heck did anybody get by the Leviathan. So how could it know more about anything after that? And why would it be written in Atlantian? Automatic writing and clairvoyance or astral travel can explain these things. However clairvoyance and astral travel do not require the shepard to write in Atlantian. So it's got to be some sort automatic writing. Since noone left in Atlantis can read, it must be the spirits of the crystal beaming messages to the surface. This would have made more sense. But could also have been explained within the movie Milo could have discovered that this power had been calling him all his life--appeared in dreams, etc. This needed to be explored in the movie.3. The Atlantians should simply not be able to comprehend modern languages. No-one expects that the original Indo-Europeans would be able to converse in Europe, anymore than Romans would understand that hard cs or their day became French chs (pronounced like shs, no less!)4. Current Atlantians were alive before the cataclysm--when apparently they *could* read, yet now are unable to read what they used to, or operate similar machinery. 5. The Mass Illiteracy points out a crucial flaw in the movie. NOTHING seems to have happened to this culture. It seems suspended in air until Milo can rescue it. Even though it appears that life is not a constant struggle for survival, no-one wants to compose poetry or write novels and perhaps it is a combination of Atlantian school systems going downhill toward the end and lack of good fiction that caused Atlantis to fall into illiteracy.5. Kida can be excused for not knowing how to read or operate the machinery if she was so young when the Cataclysm of Stupidity set in--But ANY OF IT **HARDLY** qualifies her father for Deification!! Kashakim's foolishness almost single-handedly wiped his people from existence. Killed a bunch in the cataclysm, stalled progress (not a lot killed here, but he oversaw a massive slide in culture and progress) until someone could take the crystal to kill everybody, if they weren't boiled in lava first because the Giant Robots weren't there to protect them. A bolt of blue electricity should have shattered Kashakim's likeness, when Kida tried joining her father's image to the circle of GREAT Kings of Atlantis! 6. Even though Milo was the only one who could read Atlantian, Rourke and others knew enough to look through a book of gibberish and find a page on a crystal--which he knew to be a crystal and not some stylized astrological or phases of the sun diagram.7. If Milo's grandfather had told Rourke about it, it still does not explain what how Rourke would have suffered from Milo's reading it as part of the book. Ripping out the page--which was dog-eared in Rourke's hand, even though Milo found NO sign of a torn page in the book apparently--only was there to tip off the viewer that something was not quite right. Unless the word crystal would have set alarms off in Milo's head that somebody would try to steal it, Milo would have suspected nothing. It's just thick-headed foreshadowing.8. The crew's double-cross was not a character change. We learned that Vinny, Sweet, Audrey and Cookie had been going along with Rourke from the beginning. However, the change of heart falls flat. It was a change, and needed to be better motivated. Hard to do with characters who weren't given anything to begin with.9. Niggling little bit that the lava flows up over the dome, instead of filling in the rest of the area that we view the sequence from. It's liquid; it will not flow over the protective dome until it fills up all lower areas.10. The ending STINKS!-- and makes no sense other than to appease political correctness. With it's powersource restored, Atlantis is no longer a weak power, needing coddling. The giant robot guardians and the sky-cycles shooting blue lightning suggest that they have less to fear from us than they might. The technology is superior to ours, and definitely to early 20th-century. In the end Milo needs to teach the Atlantians to read, for what? The whole idea is to leave their little quiet, chastened culture alone, not to send it into hyperdrive. ** END SPOILERS **Perhaps, the Lost World plot and the turn-of-the-century setting should give me a hint that this is more an homage to pulps. The failures I find with the film agree with this idea. But I am at a loss why I should pay to see thin characters and plot holes simply because many dime novels had them as well. And pulp stories is part of the crap they can't sell adults anymore, anyway. We have become a bit more sophisticated and our pulp needs to grow up as well. Raiders of the Lost Ark lost none of its pulp feel and avoided so much badness.4 out of 10--the movie is enjoyable but as I think about the plot, it seeps ever lower. "},{"Title":"Not half bad, but...","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" ...it could have been better.  Give the Disney people credit not only for attempting an original story rather than yet another adaptation, not only for chosing a story that demanded a more mature manner than most of their stuff, but for rendering that story with enough artistry to make compelling viewing for the duration of a feature.  Nevertheless, there were enough flaws to partially mitigate Atlantis's considerable virtues, and the nature of the flaws suggests that the filmmakers didn't know their own film's strongest points.The first major flaw is common among original fantasy movies--the filmmakers tried to cram too much story into too short a film.  (Other victims of the syndrome include films as diverse as A Close Shave and The Phantom Menace.)  At the very least, they should have allowed the visuals some time to sink in, the better to awe the viewer.  As it is, they barely have time enough to move the story along.  Then too, all that neat Atlantean stuff to look at makes one wonder about the people who created and live among it, yet we never really learn much about the Atlanteans themselves, not even the king and the princess (the two major Atlantean characters).  As few as ten more minutes could have done Atlantis a world of good.The second major flaw grows directly out of the first--the characters are too shallow, and most of their distinctiveness comes out of their comic aspects.  Not that there's necessarily anything wrong with an abundance of funny characters--indeed, most people ARE funny at least some of the time--but given the short time we get to know these people, we never get to see other sides to them, and the few bits of their backgrounds are told rather than shown (with a few minor exceptions for the main character).  Thus, when they finally stand up to the bad guy, it's not because of any strength of character hinted at earlier, but because the story demands it.(To be fair, most of the comedy is carried out well enough.  Special thanks here to Don Novello, whose deadpan portrayal of the explosives expert matched by an animation team led by Russ Edmonds stands as the perfect riposte to the manic comic sidekicks which have plagued so many recent cartoon films.)A few minor flaws involve matters of taste, so you're free to ignore them if you like.  First, this is yet another film revealing the heavy hand of Star Wars among its obvious influences.  At least the dogfights here take place in an atmosphere, so they're not as obviously impossible as the space-based dogfights in Star Wars, but it's hard to believe the technology of 1914 could accomplish some of the things depicted here.  (Maybe the story should have been set immediately after the World War rather than before it, even if it meant throwing out that one line about the Kaiser.)James Newton Howard's music also showed a heavy Star Wars influence, which is too bad because he's capable of better.  For one thing, John Williams's original Star Wars music itself derives heavily from early 20th century sources (notably Holst's The Planets), and it wouldn't have been out of line for Howard to draw upon some of them as well, considering the time of the story.  Secondly, the intimations of gamelan in part of the closing credits music suggest a sense of wonder that would have greatly added to the visuals had similar music been used during the film proper.Finally, I'm not sure I like the emphasis (also present in Disney's Tarzan) on colonialist exploitation as a source of evil.  For one thing, it was perhaps less appropriate in this movie than in Tarzan, which had some ecological hooks on which to hang the message.  Also, I consider it retrograde to suggest that the wielding of oppressive, exploitative power is a special sin of gun-wielding white males, rather than a potential temptation for any human being in the right place at the right time.  (The backstory of Atlantis itself, once the most powerful society on Earth in this movie anyway, suggests a way the latter option could have been rendered.  Unfortunately, this is yet another thing we are told rather than given a chance to see and feel for ourselves.)Nonetheless, the best parts of Atlantis are still wonderful to look at, and to wonder about.  Too bad that in the quest to make a more mature film the Disney people chose to model Atlantis after Star Wars rather than Snow White, because they had all the story material and artistry necessary for an American answer to Princess Mononoke. "},{"Title":"Not for Kids and a little Boring","Date":"15 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Well, in all honesty I think that Disney is headed for older audiences because I felt that Atlantis was not a kid's movie. I think that the movie was a very graphic and not really Disney like... I hope that Disney gets a clue and go back to what it usually does--- where's the magic? I like the semi- love story--- but the bad guys surely prove to little kids that some people may seem nice... but they aren't well... you be the judge--- i give this movie a 2 out of a 10 "},{"Title":"Freaky","Date":"15 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is a combination of simplistic animation (such as square fingertips with triangles for fingernails) and some computer animation. The artistry is not impressive, especially the drawing of water. See SNOW WHITE and FANTASIA to see well-done Disney water animation.What really disappointed me is the fact that the story makes little sense. There are plot holes bigger than the cavern where Atlantis is found. The sermony theme is tired and predictable. Much of the battle scenery is merely imitation of the first two STAR WARS films. All of these flaws added up to one freaky film.The only thing I really liked about the film was the music. It promises more than the visuals deliver. "},{"Title":"A different direction in Disney animation.","Date":"27 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Pretty much the first Animated Disney film I know so far that has some more mature approach, than your average Family safe films.Atlantis is an Adventure/Fantasy/Sci-Fi Animated film.It's all done with 2-D Animation and CGI combined together.It's about Milo, a guy who's obsess with Atlantis in which he studied it's language, myth, and tales. He wanted to prove it exists but the Natural Museum only tells him he's crazy to believe in an myth.But just when his luck is down he encounters Helga, a German woman who leads him to this guy who knows his Grandfather who wanted to find the lost continent himself. Milo is offered a chance to find the lost civilization with a very high tech voyage.The animation is very well done. Story has it's ups and downs. I'm surprised it only got decent reviews, I think it's good for an Animated movie for older viewers.It's rated PG for Action Violence. Has some guns and some fights.This isn't a movie for everyone, so I'd suggest renting before buying it. "}{"Title":"Not a bad 'kid flick' but not a great Disney film.","Date":"29 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  So what constitutes a great Disney film?  Well, slick animation, smooth transitions, beautiful and memorable music, and captivating characters. What did Atlantis lack?  Well, slick animation, smooth transitions, beautiful and memorable music, and captivating characters.But Atlantis isn't a bad 'kid flick' - it has just the right amounts of humour and action to keep any child entertained for the duration of the film.  Michael J. Fox does a fair turn as Milo, breathing enough life into what threatens to be a lifeless Nerd-type character.  Mix him up with a cast of caricatures... er, I mean, characters... and you have a good Saturday Morning formula for success.Which is probably why the sequel comes off feeling like the pilot for a Saturday Morning cartoon... but that's another review.The animation style of this movie is yet another step away from good Disney animation.  This fits into the pattern being established by Hercules, The Emperor's New Groove, and Tarzan.  But it's not BAD animation, exactly... just not the clean, classic style we associate with great Disney works such as Beauty & The Beast, Aladdin, Sleeping Beauty, or the Lion King.  In fact, the much underrated Titan A.E. features more Disney-like animation (and a better plot)!Transitions in this film seem rushed and disjointed.  One scene jumps to the next with almost no transition whatsoever.  We're left with the impression that the events all happen over the course of a day or two.  It's almost laughable.While Atlantis does have a memorable soundtrack - at least, the key themes are melodramatic enough to stay with you - it isn't a Disney soundtrack. Gone are the inane bursts of song during various inopportune moments. Gone are cute diddies about exploration or life in a cave under the sea. Strangely, though, that turns out to be a GOOD point.As for the characters, in spite of some great acting attempts by some great folks, everyone in this film just comes off as a caricature of someone else. There's enough to pique your curiousity, but not enough for you to really develop a liking for ANY of these folks.  Good and evil are too ill-defined for most of Milo's crew, and even the Mole's few shining moments are weakened by a lack of character development.  Cut down the supporting cast by half, and you MIGHT have likable characters.  Instead, you come off liking Milo and despising most everyone else.Overall, this isn't a good Disney movie, but it's an OK kiddie show.  6/10 from me. "},{"Title":"A Step Backward...","Date":"31 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Final Score (an average of various classic cinematic qualities- acting, visuals, creativity, payoff, humor, fun, ect)4.3 (out of 10)Had Atlantis The Lost Empire come out a few years ago it would have seemed like a bold, serious new direction in Disney animation. However, it comes just a year after the innovative and nearly genius The Emperor's New Groove and marks a step back in freeing Disney from it's repetative Disney Formula. I'm a big fan of the feature length Disney animated films. Have to see them all love it or hate it. Atlantis is an animated throwback to 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea and similar live-action sci-fi adventures of the 50s and 60s.  Problem is that this version hardly contains one original idea. It feels like a remake of something, even more so than actual Disney remakes(Tarzan, The Hunchback of Notre Dame). The characters are little more than a walking cliches of the usual suspects that typically populate these type of films (the oddball mechanic, the gung ho general, the sassy tough women).  Beyond Milo Thatch (Fox) and Rourke (Garner) the supporting cast is flat-out obnoxious. The movie also suffers from it's succinct pace.  Instead of fleshing it out into an epic story, Disney jams a lot in the usually brief running time brushing over opportunities to develop...suspence, characters, anything really. They thow us into this new and wonderous world and barely let us get our barings. The awkward pace sometimes makes confusing what is a relatively simple story. The animation is dark and dreary and cheap. This thing looks like a slapped together saturday morning cartoon.  Let's hope they haven't forgotten that 2D traditional animation can still be wonderous. The Iron Giant among others proved that.Negatives The visuals, pace, and sheer lack of originality.Positives Quite possibly the coolest death scene for a Disney villain in a long time. It's the creative highlight of the movie.  "},{"Title":"Boring","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Boring, dumb, choppy animated tale by Disney. The premise is noble, but the script is completely ludicrous. How can the Atlanteans know French and English when they were sunk before the languages were invented? How can the Atlanteans age insanely slower than us? I don't want to waste any more time talking about this stupid, stupid movie. It only avoids a 1 because every once in a while, the old lady would elicit a chuckle or two. "},{"Title":"Disney The Declining Empire","Date":"24 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I heard a really bad rumor before I went in to the theater to watch Disney¡¦s Atlantis. But I still went watch it because I want to see it for myself. What I heard is Disney ripped off a Japanese animate called ¡§Nadia - The secret of blue water (Gainax - 1991).Let¡¦s put it aside from our head thinking the fact that whether Disney did it or not, it¡¦s true that the quality of Disney animation is declining. You don¡¦t agree with me? Fine. Remember the Little Mermaid, Beauty and the Beast, Aladdin, and Lion King? Even Hercules, or Tarzan. Think of those animations for a moment, please. Compare Atlantis to those 90¡¦s Disney classics you will understand what I mean by losing quality on their works.Let¡¦s talk about character art. Comparing Milo (the main character), Audrey (the mechanic girl) or Helga (the blond sexy lady), you will find them don¡¦t really match. It seems like characters from different animation. I am not saying they don¡¦t match in the story but the way animators drew them. On the other hand, don¡¦t you think the mask princess Kida wears and how she moves are quite similar to Princess Mononoke?Then how about the story? To me the story seems a bit fast pace. Within 30 minutes of the movie, we already watch the crew found Atlantis. There¡¦s nothing wrong with a fast pace, but a good story requires time to built up the relationship between characters. In this case, that¡¦s why I don¡¦t feel the friendship between the crew and Milo is convincing.Over all, the movie was entertaining, but Atlantis can never be an animated classic as what Disney used to produce. It¡¦s sad that with strong influence from Japanese animation, Disney seems losing the direction of how to make a ¡§Disney style¡¨ animation. "},{"Title":"A good movie that begs to be better.","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Disney's Atlantis is highly ambitious, has good detail for characterization concerning its hero and his crew, brilliant art direction and some of the most spectacular animation I have ever seen.Unfortunately, it suddenly resorts to action-packed heroics just when it's getting interesting without pausing to give audiences the juicy details they deserve.Usually in movies like this in which a hero goes off in search of a new fabled land, a specific pattern is followed. Something along the lines of* First act We meet the hero and get to know him, understand why he wants to do what he's about to be doing and watch as he finally gets his chance.* Second act We follow the hero and crew on the perilous journey to the fabled land in question, getting to meet the crew members in the process.* Third act We finally reach the place, get to know its people and share a sense of wonder with the hero as he learns about the culture and members of its community.* Fourth act A huge threat somehow looms into view and the hero must conquer it to save the new land he's discovered.The problem that makes Atlantis an unnecessary letdown is that it has its first and second acts very firmly and expertly fitted into place, but then suddenly rushes into its fourth act without giving us a third.Oh sure, we basically get to meet the princess and her father, but they really only serve as functions to further the story rather than being believable people. The ruler doesn't trust the newcomers, the princess does. It's as simple as that.We only get to learn the most minute basics about the city (what powers it, basically), but that's it, and even THOSE details are merely glossed over. It's as if the writers were so paranoid of losing the audience's interest that they decided to keep it on full speed without pausing.As a result, the would-be third act is really about two or so minutes of just seeing glimpses of the Atlanteans fishing, what appears to be their main square and what a home briefly looks like. But we learn nothing else. We don't even get to meet any Atlanteans--or even the ruler and his daughter, really! What are those creatures they appear to keep as pets? What are their families like? What are their beliefs in life and philosophies besides the power source? What's their recreation? Such wonderous details, which would have added a ton of power to the story, are expected but  never given.Now I'm not saying that I'm expecting an hour or so of an entire fantasy culture being created from scratch, but we barely even get a chance to get a good LOOK at Atlantis--the story is too busy rushing on to its plot details. It doesn't even show the differences in culture present in Pocahontas (a movie which I really didn't care for, by the way). It doesn't have the details which show an audience an understanding for the story's presented way of life as the wonderful Prince of Egypt. And it certainly doesn't have anywhere near the details of such things that had been carefully placed into better adventure films made during the age before Hollywood had complete contempt for its audience.When I go to another country for the first time, I don't just want to see glimpses of the scenery. I want an *experience*. I want to meet a few people, see the sights, enjoy myself and discover the details that makes seeing another country for the first time so special and beautiful--the differences in their way of living from your own which are so unique to them but at the same time are so filled with humanity and familiarity, the things that remind you that everyone is different and unique while being as special as yourself at the same time.You don't want to be on some bargain ticket which forces you to take only about five or six hours there before you're rushed home.It's really unfair to an audience to promise them a unique look at a land like Atlantis and suddenly not deliver. When you make a film with subject matter like this, there's a HUGE empty lot for potential. The writers could have had an absolute blast creating an entire believable world for us to visit and enjoy. They could have done anything with it--ANYTHING. And in terms of art direction it certainly delivers. Atlantis sure seems to be a place you want to get to know better. Its people have unique hair and styles of makeup from what you can tell, and they seem to be happy even though they are a dying city. The action sequences are well done and exciting, and the scenes in which we learn about the power source and the fact that Atlanteans have forgotten their own language are genuinely fascinating and awe-inspiring.What the movie does NOT do, and what the writers are not expecting audiences to want it to do, is breathe a sense of humanity and believability into the city itself. I'm sorry, but a couple of minutes or so of showing us the city just doesn't cut it. While I couldn't help but feel concerned that everyone in the city would die, it didn't feel as tragic as it could have felt simply because skipping such details makes it difficult for viewers to identify with the hero or--especially--the city's inhabitants. If we had gotten to know a few of the people there, characters we grow to really care about, it would have make such a huge difference.This is one title which would be deserving of a sequel (as long as it's well done) so we can learn more about the city itself and develop a feel for its personality.In short, I like the movie but feel ripped off. I spent several months waiting to see the city of Atlantis. And now that I've seen the actual film, I *STILL* want to see the city of Atlantis.  "},{"Title":"All Flash and No Substance","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  If the makers of Atlantis had something to say in this film, its theme was (literally) drowned out by the emphasis on special effects over characterization. Almost as if in an attempt to keep up with the rest of the summer action blockbusters, Disney has ditched the character-driven, movie-with-a-message approach in favor of a Star Wars shoot-'em-up with stereotype heroes and villains.The art is cartoony and the producers think that they can rely on computer generated images (CGI) of flying fish-craft and submarines to fill the gap. They are wrong, and the days of beautiful, handcrafted animation is fast flying out the window in favor of assembly-line CGI.This movie is all spectacle with no heart. At times the film comes close to being a good, worthwhile movie, but frustratingly misses the mark so many times by copping out of talking about something meaningful and instead choosing to go with the glitz.Another problem with the movie is the pacing. It starts confusingly and then begins to rocket along with a choppy story editing style that is not appreciated. The viewer is rushed out of the door along with Milo Thatch (voiced well by Michael J. Fox) and is left thinking Gee there must be an awful lot of stuff that's going to happen once we get to Atlantis. Unfortunately, not much happens. The secret of Atlantis remains a secret with the story-tellers not really knowing how to explain the legendary island/continent. They are afraid to commit to saying where Atlantis is, even in a fictional story. Is it in the Atlantic? Is it in the Mediterranean Sea? Who knows? Nothing is hypothesized, even from a purely fantasy-based point of view. The viewer will leave the theatre asking themselves Now what was that all about? What was the point of the movie? Why couldn't the surviving Atlantean's remember how to read when many of them lived through the disaster to the present day? And WHY did Atlantis sink? and then promptly begin to forget about what they saw. There is nothing left to think about or mill over... except the loss of money in their wallets.The characters and their motivations are equally unfathomable. From the eccentric zillionaire who founds the expedition with seemingly more money that existed on the entire planet in 1914, to the (spoiler) collective consciousness that enters Kida and VOLUNTARILY deserts its people!?! The crew are a collection of quirky, 2-dimensional people of anachronistically (for 1914) P.C. race and gender. The demolitions expert talks like he came right out of a Warner Brothers' Bugs Bunny short. Most of the jokes are gross one-liners that are largely missed by the audience for two reasons They are delivered at lightning-speed pacing and usually mumbled. The way these supporting players do a moral turn-around near the end of the movie is hard to believe.While we applaud Disney for trying to create animated movies for adults - and this is the first Disney not to have cute, talking animals or objects - it fails to make the transition. Younger children will be frightened by some of the action scenes and be left in the dark by the large amount of subtitles (when the characters speak Atlantean). In the first five minutes of the expedition, approximately 200 people are killed without a second thought. Obviously Disney thinks that if you didn't know who those people were, then why should you care? Again, the movie has no feelings on any level.Mulan and Tarzan were the last animated movies produced by Disney that were done extremely well. Sadly, Atlantis harkens back to those failed attempts in the past such as the Black Cauldron and Hunchback of Notre Dame. Disney needs to get back to their roots. A sequel to Peter Pan is coming out shortly but one never knows what the results will be until you see it for yourself. And now that Disney has discovered Science Fiction one hopes that they will realize that that genre must have more than spectacle to it. We also hope that the upcoming Treasure Planet, a sci-fi adaptation of Robert L. Stevenson's Treasure Island, will have more heart to it than the unfathomable Atlantis The Lost Empire. "},{"Title":"The search for Atlantis is one to repeat again and again","Date":"1 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" The movie Atlantis The Lost Empire is a shining gem in the rubble of films produced by the Disney Studios recently. Parents who have had to sit through The Jungle Book 2 or even a Pokemon movie will surely appreciate this one.The film is one of few to attempt at an original story; previous feature films were merely re tellings of existing stories. Films such as Toy Story, Finding Nemo, and Monsters Inc. all do the same, but it must be noted that all were made by Pixar and only distributed by Disney. Recent films from the Disney Studios are mostly released direct to video, and are sequels to an existing successful film. The quality of those films is given way to the profitability. A new era started with Atlantis following it were Mulan, Lilo & Stitch, and most recently Open Range. The writers have created all original story lines instead of the fairy tales of the past.A good portion of the movie is devoted to the quest to find Atlantis, a task that has captured the imagination of many for hundreds of years. Including that of young Milo Thatch, voiced by Michael J. Fox. Milo is employed by a museum in Washington D.C.. His grandfather was a renowned archaeologist, who had devoted his life to discovering Atlantis. This was seen as a waste by his peers, and they wish Milo to not follow in his footsteps. After failing to convince the museum board of directors to sponsor his expedition, Milo comes home to find a woman in his darkened apartment. She takes him to her employer, a Mr. Whitmore. Whitmore was a close friend of Milo's grandfather, and wishes to send Milo with a team to locate Atlantis. Mr. Whitmore is very wealth and has paid for the best of everything. The crew that is to accompany him is the same as his grandfathers. The journey is filled with many great obstacles to overcome and is great fun to watch. The viewer finds themselves caught up in if they will reach Atlantis. The plot takes an unexpected turn after the discovery Atlantis, not just the discovery of people. It is enough to keep the interest of the older audience.The animators have done a wonderful job in then depth of the animation. The movie is very successful in blending traditional animation with Computer Generated Images. A feat not easily achieved, most audiences are quick to notice the difference in the two. The characters are believably human. There are some nice chase type scenes, with lots of action going on. A few lulls are filled with jokes that the children just may not get.The creativity of the writers really shines through. The culture of Atlantis is richly developed, including an entire language. The film uses references to Atlantis from historical sources, such as Plato. The disappearance of Atlantis from the world is explained. Believable, if by a younger audience, that magic really does exist. The powers of the people of Atlantis are not exactly presented as magic, but can best be described in this way.Although set in 1914 the level of technology used is unrealistic. The voyage is in a submarine very reminiscent of Captain Nemo's nautilus, complete with sub pods that fire torpedoes. The giant diggers are driven by steam boilers so they did try for some era technology. The female characters are empowered in a way that women of the age would not have been, even holding roles in leadership. This is not a bad thing. It gives a good role model for my daughter to look to, rather than an all male cast.One reason this film is a favorite of mine over other Disney films is that there is not one single song, ever. A tradition that began with the first feature film, Snow White, and carried on through to The Lion King, almost every Disney film is full of upbeat songs. This is great and all, what would the Seven Dwarfs be without Hi HO!? After the millionth time through it'd almost be better without, but this one spares the parent. Not once does every single person on the screen suddenly know the words to a song that no one has ever heard before and break out in song. I for one am grateful.The storyline and depth of animation is sure to keep the attention of both parent and child alike. It is a film I am willing to watch again and again with my children. "},{"Title":"Haven't I Seen This Before?","Date":"7 November 2001","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Classic Disney Fodder. Host of big names doing voice-overs. Cliched baddies. Noble causes. Happy endings. As I said, just plain usual. No apparent graphical enhancements since Disney's last few feature outings. Personally I await 'Monsters Inc.', with more anticipation than this offering. Not to say that this was not enjoyable as it was and the story, as usual, will appeal to both children and adults. This adult has seen for too much of his wholesome mulch before, however, and it brought nothing outstanding to a Disney catalogue already burdened with titles not dissimilar to this. Michael J Fox and Leonard Nimoy, amongst others, all make characters believable, but as I said, it has all been done before. A winning formula no doubt, but it would be nice if Disney stretched themselves like they did when making the technological leap to 'The Lion King'. Harmless, bland and average. "},{"Title":"The Lost Screenplay.","Date":"24 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Atlantis The Lost Empire (2001) Dir Kirk Wise, Gary Trousdale / Voices Michael J. Fox, James Garner, Leonard Nimoy, Cree Summer, Jim Varney Dazzling animation set in Washington D.C. 1914. Young professor Milo Thatch discovers his grandfather's journal and wishes to prove that Atlantis exists. Boarding a submarine with a crew that seems to have walked off the set of Saturday Night Live they encounter gigantic creatures and the tribe of the lost empire. They carry healing devices around their necks because Tylenol wasn't available. Unsatisfactory ending with hero's detachment from civilization. Contrived plot directed by Kirk Wise and Gary Trousdale who previously collaborated on the much better The Hunchback of Notre Dame. Michael J. Fox voices Thatch as a straight ripoff of Indiana Jones who feels the need to stray from logic. James Garner is typecast voicing the villain who has all the personality of a paper bag. Leonard Nimoy plays that ever familiar senile tribe leader who goes from cold to warm to complete moron. Cree Summer voices daddy's little Princess who holds the key to the future of Atlantis, which lay in ruin, much like the film. This is also one of the last films to feature the talents of Ernest comic Jim Varney. The only thing she holds the key too is Thatch's late night sexual fantasies. Pointless idiocy render the empire totally lost. Score 2 / 10 "},{"Title":"Admirable but not that great","Date":"14 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" After barely recouping its cost upon its initial release, Atlantis The Lost Empire (2001) has become a cult film. I personally always liked it. It was the first film I saw in theaters. I owned the PS1 video game and treasured my own McDonalds Happy Meal crystal for years. To this day, I have a soft spot for its dieselpunk vibe, its epic musical score, and its boldness to try something new; however, I would never say that this is a good movie.Atlantis' characters are one-dimensional, save for Milo. The villains are uninteresting, from their character designs to their one-note personalities The story is uninspired and full of holes. Even the angular animation style looks rather unappealing at times.I'm glad this film has garnered a small fan base, but it's not hard to see why it hasn't ever become more than that. "}{"Title":"Stop drinkin' the nitroglycerin","Date":"22 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" If you've seen James Cameron's Avatar you've already seen a less imaginative version of Disney's Atlantis The Lost Empire. It's the same young guy travels to new civilisation, falls in love with local princess, is shocked when his militaristic bosses reveal themselves to be mineral hungry colonialists and so joins the locals in the fight against his fellow-man tale, but lacks the turgid, bloated, second-hand feel of James Cameron's epic.Like Avatar, The Lost Empire's plot, characters and plot-beats are common (if Avatar swaps Dance With Wolves' buffaloes for dragons, Atlantis swaps both for submersible bikes), popping up in fare like Lawrence of Arabia, Delgo, Ferngully, Geronimo, A Man Called Horse, The Mission, Burn!, Blue Soldier, The New World, Dances With Wolves, Battle for Terra, The Last Of The Mohicans, Princess Mononoke, The Last Samurai, Emerald Forest, Pocahontas, Nausicaa etc etc. But Disney has long been synonymous with formula. This is made-by-committee cinema, and the film has a distinctly corporate tone, ever minute cynically calculated.Still, what's interesting here is the film's animation work, environments, conceptual designs, and several sequences in which the animators are allowed to cut lose from plot and indulge in either action sequences, landscapes or ambiance. The film's steam-punk sets, machines and designs are cool, the film's submarines and submersibles recall Jules Verne, and our gang of heroes are a funny, likable bunch. Watching any Disney film is like watching a faceless skyscraper for 90 minutes with the hope that some young artist might run outside and scrawl his own graffiti on the walls. This film has some nice graffiti sprinkled about.Incidentally, the film is a raging rip-off Nadia The Secret of Blue Water, a Studio Ghibli animation. Here we see the growing influence of Hayao Miyazaki and anime on Western scifi/fantasy. Miyazaki fare like Nausicca of the Valley of the Wind, Castle in the Sky and Princess Mononoke would itself play a big influence on Avatar.Comic book artist Mike Mignola is one of the personalities responsible for Atlantis The Lost Empire's aesthetic, which blends steam-punk with German expressionism.7.9/10 &#x96; A fun, fast and funny children's adventure, with an unimaginative plot and some cool art work. Worth one viewing. "},{"Title":"Nicely done","Date":"16 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" It's a Disney movie, pre-Pixar cooperation, so you get more or less the usual fare. It's not as intelligent or clever as any Pixar movie (bar Cars), but it does do the trick. Quite strange characters are on hand here and the story is quite nice too.I watched this as a Sneak Preview, expecting Final Fantasy to be playing. Since I'm not that aware of the whole FF Universe, it might have been better, that they did play this instead. Of course the Atlantis myth is also a big one, but not having a clue (or not much of one) about the history of that, will not be a problem for you to watch this one. Family entertainment light then. "},{"Title":"Almost completely unbearable","Date":"28 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I really enjoyed what they tried to do with the Atlantis back story and the whole new age mythology they incorporated into it, but sadly this is one of the worst Disney films I've ever seen.The opening Disney logo was the only great thing about it. In fact, when it first came up I thought that this might truly be something special. The truth was on the contrary. The voice work by Michael J. Fox was fine. The animation was bearable, and sometimes cool, but never to the level of the Disney Renaissance pictures. However, the storyline, pace, music, and nearly everything else was almost unwatchable. I almost turned the film off, but stuck it out to the end. It never really got any better. Sorry Disney, but this one's a dud. "},{"Title":"An excellent film. Grossly underrated.","Date":"27 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I never paid much attention to this movie when I first heard of it, it seemed like yet another Disney flick that didn't quite make it. But I decided to watch it after reading a bit more and finding out that it didn't have singing, which I grew out of long ago. I absolutely loved this film!I think that one of the reasons the film didn't to too well was that it may have been a bit on the mature side and didn't appeal to young children, in that it wasn't the usual fuzzy cartoon they were expecting from Disney. The older people who would have appreciated this the most probably didn't bother because they assumed it was a typical Disney children's film like I did.The film is rather short, only one and a half hours, but it manages to pack in a solid adventure, great visuals and a wonderful, captivating musical score. The characters are voiced to perfection and every scene counts, there isn't a single moment where a scene feels like it's dragging on.All that makes it the more tragic that because this film didn't get the recognition it deserved, a half-arsed 'sequel' was made that pretty much buried a potentially great franchise. "},{"Title":"Rap style of animated feature presentation, but it's a nod to Miyazaki's Castle in the Sky.","Date":"4 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Well, I don't have to talk too much about this film, it's good in its own way I think. To argue that it's not very original is not meaningful, but it surely can be criticized for duplicating Castle in the sky. However, it also has something to say very helpful in this era of chaos.To note, the movie is about the differences between cultures and the right attitude towards it. Atlantisians simply would hide themselves in the temple for the reason of preserving their culture and life. But are they just right in this way? Possibly not. But also possibly right. The movie turns the tone in the middle of the story, just when the captain disclose his own purpose in the Atlantis city...... Different from Castle in the Sky, this movie showed a positive conclusion in the culture of ancient world. The confidence through the culture plus right faith in humanity would save them all. That is what about to say.Atlantis is equipped with very beautiful 2.5D cartoon rendered visual style, and it showed the perfect integrity of Disney cartoon production. Overally it's good and enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Different Disney fare, but a great adventure nonetheless.","Date":"12 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" My take Old-fashioned thrills elevate this animated Disney adventure. In the fashion of old-fashioned adventures the likes of Indiana Jones, Disney's ATLANTIS THE LOST EMPIRE is enjoyable, exciting and very well done. Although the film slows down momentarily during the second act, moments of high-flying adventure and jolly-good action sequences helm ATLANTIS to a great, ripping yarn, a true family entertainment that rewards kids and adults alike.In terms of characters though, ATLANTIS is a tad below the other wonders of Disney's earlier adventures. The lead character of Milo Tatch is appealing and comedic, and under the talented voicing of Michael J. Fox, the character is fun but not quite as memorable like Aladdin or Hercules, other Disney characters. Other supporting characters are well drawn, but not quite as well drawn as Disney's previous animated brainchildren.But its limits never diminishes ATLANTIS' overall impact. It's still a fun ride with beautifully drawn scenery that delights, enthralls and wonders. The sight of the large, technology-driven primeval world of Atlantis during the opening scenes (when it nears its imminent doom) and during the final climax (when the ultimate battle to sustain ensues) are wondrous as any of Disney's most exciting escapades. The machinery, including the giant submarines and digging machines are marvelous creations. The screenplay, on the other hand, is a terrific replenishing of old-fashioned adventures like Jules Verne's 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea and Journey to the Center of the Earth, as well as Sir A. Conan Doyle's The Lost World, complete with great moments of pure adventure (the battle with the monstrous leviathan earlier in the film being the best).Overall, pure action-packed escapism for the whole family. Recommended.Rating ***1/2 out of 5. "},{"Title":"Where the plot flounders, the characters pick up the slack","Date":"17 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" The feeling I got after finishing this movie was a fond memory of the characters and the lines and no real idea of what the plot was. The plot was choppy and did not flow well at all, it took almost half the movie to introduce a villain, leaving an unsatisfying conclusion. However the extensive character development and very well written and very funny dialog made up for this. It is certainly worth a once over but subsequent viewings could be replaced with a read through of some of the best quotes. I wish there had been more plot and more development, but with a scope as big as Alantis, they did a pretty good job. "},{"Title":"I love this film","Date":"19 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" There's something in this film that makes it my all-time favorite. At least as an animated film. I love the characters, especially Kida. I think she's the most beautiful of all female Disney characters to date. Maybe I'm just a romantic but there's something special about the relationship between Kida and Milo. Something you won't see in any other Disney film.I know many people dislike this film and say that there's really nothing new about the story and the characters are too black and white. Despite some incorrect details and clumsiness, I think you can find many deeper meanings and thoughts when you really dive into it. I'm not going to specify what those are, I'll leave it for you to find. I, at least, found many of those while watching and afterward when thinking it through. Unlike any other Disney film, Atlantis won't open up so easily which only a good thing. Therefore it's more suitable for older viewers than for the smallest children. Although it depends on how you watch it. Since you can also watch it as a straight-forward cartoon, which it really isn't, at the end of the day.The imagery and scenery are astonishing. The score then is nothing extremely spectacular, yet fitting and at times very touching. I can recommend this film to everyone and if you've already seen it, watch it again then. Just remember to keep your eyes open and you might experience something that brings you to tears and makes you feel more aware of the world around you. "},{"Title":"epic quality animated adventure without the epic length","Date":"26 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" this is a great animated adventure about the lost city of Atlantis.it has an epic feel with out the epic length.the animation is quite good,even spectacular at times.the movie is funny,dramatic and exciting.the voice actors also really fit their roles,and really put a lot of effort into their characterizations.speaking of which this a great mix of different characters that really play well off each other.plus the story is engaging and compelling.i really enjoyed myself for the 90 minutes or so run time of this movie.the rating for this movie is currently relatively low(6.3/10)to me,the movie is much better than the rating currently reflects.i give AtlantisThe Lost Empire a strong 8/10 "},{"Title":"Top-notch Disney adventure.","Date":"21 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This is one of Disney's best movies ever made, and also one of their best achievements into the genre of action/adventure. This movie has it all great characters, comedy, adventure, action, and even some suspense. The creators never take a wrong turn or make a mistake. To some, the plot is quite confusing, but for all of us that have the will to suspend their disbelief, the movie is great fun. Listen for the great James Garner as the main villain, called Rourke, who dies in a way that is a lot like the villain from another great Disney movie, ALADDIN AND THE KING OF THIEVES. There is absolutely no need to endlessly argue over whether or not this movie is a remake of other adventure, fantasy, or science fiction. This is a movie that is a true Disney movie, with dashes of Indiana Jones, Jules Verne, and others. As for those who say that this should have a remake as a live action movie, that would be great. Ricky Ullman would be good, but who would play the other characters? Only major change that should be done, except for transitioning it from animation to live action and the cast, is to make it BIGGER and BETTER! "}{"Title":"Another sadly underrated animated feature","Date":"18 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Atlantis The Lost Empire is an animated film that has much to recommend it but failed to set the box-office on fire upon its release. Made only six years ago, it came at a time when Disney's animated branch was really in a slump. Although I'm not really a Disney acolyte, they do on occasion turn out decent pictures. Atlantis was sadly one of their last really good ones before Disney's hand drawn animated division shut down production.Much more serious in tone than Disney's last outing, the delightful Emperor's New Groove, Atlantis is a film that takes a leaf from classic matinée serials and sweeping Indiana Jones adventures. A team of scholars, mercenaries and soldiers set off in a grand submarine to locate the lost city of Atlantis, and when they discover it, it all results in a clash between exploration and capitalism among the crew.Atlantis may not be quite in the classic bracket, but its definitely got much going for it. One thing I found refreshing about it is compared to most Disney films of late, there are no buffoonish comic sidekicks, no songs and no glib contemporary film references. Its all played with a considerable degree of seriousness, making it an animated feature that even adults can enjoy. I can safely say I never felt patronised by the material.One thing Atlantis has in its favour is the really wonderful cast of characters that Disney have managed to create. There may be a few too many, and it could have done with dispensing with one or two, but this is a crew that's motley in every sense of the word.Michael J Fox is likable enough as the nerdy Milo Thatch, providing a suitably exasperated voice to their dilemma. But its really the supporting characters that give Atlantis its life. James Garner is perfectly crusty as the treacherous Commander Roarke. Leonard Nimoy brings dignity to the King of Atlantis. Jacqueline Obradors is a wonderfully feisty engineer (a female engineer in a Disney film, gasp!!). And Florence Stanley is downright hilarious as the ship's dryly cynical radio operator.One thing that took me by surprise when I read the end credits was that part of the screenplay was written by Buffy creator Joss Whedon. Crafting the crew must have been his input, because there are striking similarities between Atlantis and Whedon's much underrated SF show Firefly. Two eclectic crews who swing between ambiguous extremes of profit and nobility. Look at the crew of Atlantis, and you see the crew of Firefly in an earlier form.Another great character is Princess Kida, the King's daughter. She is one of the sexiest characters to ever crop up in a Disney film. We even see her strip down to her bikini! Not only is she a great sex symbol, she's a great leader too. Its a shame she gets sidelined towards the end, although the scenes of her transformed into a being of pure light are very eerie, and recalls the style of many a Japanese anime cartoon.Some of the animation is a little bit on the blocky side and not quite up to the high standards of Disney's earlier efforts. But some of the backgrounds and underwater shots of Atlantis are exquisitely stylised and detailed. And I love the moment when Milo and Kida climb to the top of a pyramid, and the camera does a stunning 360 degree angle of the entire city of Atlantis.And as it gets to the end, we get to see some really exciting action sequences, aerial dogfights and monumental plot developments. There are times when Atlantis scales almost operatic heights. A truly thrilling climax! Its a pity Atlantis The Lost Empire went unnoticed by the public because its far too worthwhile to be cast aside. With so many great voice actors and set-pieces, its a superb animated feature, and one of Disney's lost treasures. "},{"Title":"very good","Date":"3 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Micheal J Fox was excellent in this. Admittedly he was the only voice I actually recognised, But I really enjoyed this film. I thought the Commander was Tommy Lee Jones (as it sounded so much like him).All the characters were excellent, i'd like to have had a bit more plot but the animation was excellent and generally was very enjoyable.The film seemed to run out of ideas a bit and I get the feeling they based Fox's character on Daniel Jackson from Stargate ( A misfit good at ancient languages).All the nice shiny crystals that make them live for thousands of years are clever and Leonard Nimoy was unrecognisable as the chief of the Atlanteans.highly enjoyable. "},{"Title":"What the hell? What kinda movie is this?","Date":"15 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Forced to buy this- I just yawned at the start. Thinking - right more singing, happiness and happily ever afters. WRONG!! After 10 minuets i see fighting, death, water and things that scared my little cousin to death- what the hell? This is not a Disney movie! There was absolutely NO warning about all the hell raised death and fighting. Guns, Guns, Guns. I would rather rate this a 12! Tomb raider now looks a Disney movie after seeing this. If you are planning to let little children to see this I wouldn't. Unless you want them to have nightmares. I would like to comment on Atlantis 2, but thats another review for me to write. "},{"Title":"A great adventure film!","Date":"7 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Atlantis The Lost Empire is a Disney film from 2001. Here, we peer down into the lost world of Atlantis and discover that Atlantis really isn't lost after all!!!!!This movie has its ups and downs. The ups are that this is a Disney film; this is an adventure film; there are things that are serious and things that are just silly; and that this is a very enjoyable film to watch. The downs depending on how you look at things (especially movies), your kids might not be able to watch this, but I have no problem with that whatsoever!!!!!This movie also has some interesting facts about geography, history, anthropology, archaeology, deep-sea exploring, science, and anything else smart that you can think of!!!!! Think of it as Movie Watching 101!!!!! LOLAtlantis is a wonderful film that is very fun to watch.10/10 "},{"Title":"A Triumph for Animation","Date":"14 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Atlantis The Lost Empire is triumph for animation in many ways. Firstly it combines an excellent story with equally impressive animation, to create a captivating film. The characters are brilliant, there's no cute talking animal side-kicks. The depth that this film reaches is quite impressive for Disney, it's a film that both children and adults can enjoy.While there are no grand musical numbers the soundtrack is also top-notch. What makes the film even more enjoyable is an excellent voice-cast.An under-rated classic. "},{"Title":"An Overall Awesome Movie","Date":"2 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I loved this movie overall. I found the plot entrancing and the characters funny as well as well played and thought out. All the way from the nerdy, glass wearing Milo, to the creepy, you don't want to know digger called Mole.And trust me, I've seen Castle in the Sky and Miyazaki is one of my favorite animators and artists. But I love it how they used some of their ideas in the movie. From the power source, the crystal and the giant rock protectors. But Atlantis has its own depth within it all. I don't see how you can say that the animation is BAD... I mean, if you say Atlantis' animation is bad, you're pretty much stating all of all of Disney movies' animation is bad. They have the classic hand drawn animations of Milo and the characters and the occasional computer graphics for the fish flying machines and things like that. In total, I think it makes a creative combination and unlike some movies, the computer graphics weren't overstated and obvious to point out.I think most people don't like this movie for the number of deaths that happen. Drowning, fiery explosions, etc. But quite frankly... what kind of little child will focus on that? I will admit, it isn't exactly the first choice for an ideal little children's movie, especially because of all the guns and fighting. and you CANNOT compare it to the Fox and the Hound. I mean the hound had to kill the fox... what kind of... anyway, that's not the movie I'm talking about...I also REALLY didn't mind the random songs that are usually in a Disney movie. I do love a lot of Disney classic songs, *hums hakuna matata* but sometimes, it's just kind of annoying for the adults. I liked the more action type movie, that was less Aww. Love. Let's all sing now!! but more gripping and leaving you on the edge of your seat, all intense. I personally enjoy watching the main fight scene over and over again. Partially due to all the funny lines...Which brings me to my next point. This movie was just hilarious. It had a lot of one liners, especially from Vinny, that I like to quote frequently. half of the time, this movie had be cracking up.So yeah, I think I got everything... Good animation, action, no songs, and hilarious. yep. I got it all.9.5/10 the -.5 is because of the character death. I agree there was a lot of it, but think about it. All of those people complaining about it... are you children? And if you were a child, then is that really the first thing your mind thinks of when you think of this movie? Jeez. "},{"Title":"Very Underrated","Date":"18 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I remember when this movie first came out, it wasn't very well received by critics at all. I really don't know what they were thinking because I loved it. The voice acting was great all around, but Micheal J. Fox is excellent as Milo, and other actors, like James Garner and Leonard Neimoy have good parts as well. The mythology and world the movie creates is very interesting, and the pacing is perfect. The action scene at the end is very violent and intense for a Disney animation, and the death of James Garner's character (Rourke) is very gruesome for a movie intended for children (the villain's death in Tarzan was graphic as well, but not as bizarre). All in all I thought the movie was great, a rarity if you consider all the bad hand-drawn (at least partially) Disney movies after the 90's. "},{"Title":"This movie is cool P","Date":"22 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Atlantis was a movie that I saw it on my primary school when I was grade 3,8 year old.But I also have more inspiration than other students because I love watching Atlantis,some of the part are very sad,and some are stupids XD(not really but I mean not really intelligent XD),and also I wish the supporters improve the supports too!Atlantis was also a great movie,I love the ways that they work hard on it as we do too.But for another again it's cool!I can't imagine what language are the girls and they're groups talks!But it was sad and inspire me many more when the girl die,and then the group support her...Then I'll say too bad for THE bad guy!I wish I could rewatch this movie again...or forever... "},{"Title":"Atlantis The Lost Empire","Date":"20 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" When I heard about this film from my brother, he told me Atlantis The Lost Empire was pretty good. He is kind of right, it is an interesting idea for a film. Milos James Thatch (voiced by Michael J. Fox) is chosen for a special secret mission to try and find the lost empire city of Atlantis. I can't remember much of the team joining him, but I do remember the rather amusing antics of the character called 'The Mole'. A rather weird story in places, they do find the missing empire city and see many strange things. For example, for some reason the princess of the city keeps going to a lake and floats in the air being surrounded by blue light, why? Okay! "},{"Title":"Atlantis the Island in the Sea","Date":"6 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" The first time I saw this film was on the airplane. At this flight it bored me to dead. Considering the fact that almost every film is boring on an airplane and the fact that a friend of mine kept telling me this really was a good movie made me watch it again.I absolutely love the work of Hayao Miyazaki. It is obvious that his work inspired this film a lot, and I mean A LOT. Thank god the filmmakers admitted this for else it would be a shameless rip from Laputa Castle in the Sky. There are some major element from this film that has been slightly altered and placed in this movie.Fortunately the film is not a rip from Castle in the Sky. It has his own story, his own characters and movements. The first half of the film you can barely notice the influence. But it is the climax of the film that has the most resemblance. The crystals, the stone guards etc.So to wrap it up, this is a good film. If you loved Castle in the Sky you will probably like this one to and if you loved this one you will adore Castle. Like Castle it does not have the compelling story or highly developed characters, it is a simple film, with a simple script. Good direction, stunning animation and a great musical score and that makes it a fun ride. 7/10. "}{"Title":"Disney did their Homework!","Date":"26 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Wow, is there really anything bad to say about this movie? I mean, Disney not only surprised me, but they impressed me beyond my wildest dreams. Disney used Plato's description of Atlantis to create a magical and breathtaking scenery, and although this movie is animated, it sure seems real. There are also little name droppings, (if you'll call them that) that caught my ear instantly. For example, one of the character's names is Vincenzo 'Vinny' Santorini, and it just so happens that Santorini is the name of the island that is believed to be Atlantis (located in the Mediterranean off the coast of Greece). Michael J. Fox does a spectacular job as the hopeful and witty Milo Thatch, and Cree Summer is the perfect Princess Kida. Together the two discover the ancient history of Atlantis and help save its people. Despite the fact this Disney Classic is not a musical; it's definitely spectacular, and one to remember. Directors Gary Trousdale and Kirk Wise sure read up on the lost continent, and possibly their only flaw was not revealing where the city was located. Atlantis the Lost Empire is a movie for the whole family, with humor for the kids, and the adults. As an Atlantis buff, I give this movie two thumbs WAY UP! MY RATING ****/**** "},{"Title":"This action-filled adventure is unique for Disney...","Date":"24 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" 1st watched 12/24/2004 - 6 out of 10(Dir-Gary Trousdale & Kirk Wise) This action-filled adventure is unique for Disney in that they didn't try to cuten themselves out of the story by giving us lovable little creatures to giggle at. I think this is a maturity-level that their animation and storytelling has gone to that might not help them in the pocket-book, but definitely broadens their artistic appeal and shows it's audiences the ability to stretch themselves. This story is about a looked down upon historian who is given a chance to find the lost continent of Atlantis for the sake of the discovery. We find out later that this is not the intention of everyone on the crew which eventually brings about much of the action in the final 3rd of the movie. The crew consists of funny and unique characters that are a ragtag bunch each with their unique abilities to lend to the expedition. Some dazzling animation effects are a plus as well for this much more male-focused entry for Disney. The uniqueness in the story should keep this a classic and should proudly be put on the shelf alongside others like Beauty and the Beast and the Lion King despite it's definite differences and because of them, showing the consistency for them(Disney animated films) to be inconsistent. "},{"Title":"Majestic, impressive, fun...","Date":"13 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I like this new generation of Disney movies. The newer films have the fun, colorful appeal that has made the Disney company the official pandering superpower to young children, and yet the writing is improving. There's a touch of humor, sometimes just a sight gag or hinted hilarity that is funnier than trying to drive gut-busters right at us. Atlantis is a very glossy film, a product of this new generation where all cartoons are made on computers, but keep their 2D qualities. With the digital era, Disney films have grown to this new scope, a wider panoramic, in the sense that they've created deep, rich environments for the stories to play out within. Michael J Fox is the kind of actor you can't not like. Even in voice work, his nice-guy personality shines through, with that hint of innocence, almost sadness you hear when he speaks. Overall, I felt that Atlantis managed to recreate that majesty that the classic films built upon. It's cool, dynamic, and funny. I recommend this for everyone in the family.  "},{"Title":"Very well made, in the tradition of classic cartoons","Date":"25 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I think the reason behind that this movie was not so successful, is that it was classified as a children's movie. But it is not. The jokes, the story are rather similar to Japanese anime's style. Also, the graphical design is quite similar. I personally prefer animes, I think there are much more ideas in their stories than in regular western cartoons. Atlantis did not fit in the category they said it would be in. Nor has any cool 3D graphics, what are so much in fashion nowadays. For example, Monster Inc. was a big success, but I think it was rather boring. Not much new ideas and simple story. In the contrary Atlantis has a very good story with a little Indiana Jones feeling. The betrayal of Commander Rurke surprised even me. The characters - by the way - are well formed. I had no problem with their voices, too. So much for this matter. If You have any comments, please e-mail me. Thanks for Your patience! Good picture-going! (Also, I would like to apologize for any mistakes in the text.)  "},{"Title":"Film has touched me to the bottom of the heart!","Date":"27 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Film has touched me to the bottom of the heart! As always magnificent music, voices of characters, fine work of artists, the good animation, an interesting scene have together kept one more deep print in my soul. I liked all characters... Especially - Kida... I love good, kind films with the beautiful main heroine. I love films, are saturated with the pleasant moments mixed sad. Even I like to cry sometimes during such moments. I love films which set you thinking, films complete emotions, feelings, beautiful films in which authors have enclosed the soul. I do not know... There can be I simply such impressionable person... But this film - one more small masterpiece which remain in my heart on all my life as well as Disney other creations. "},{"Title":"Atlantis","Date":"26 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie is akin to child pornography. Too many nymphs, too little clothing. I did, however, enjoy Milo's search for true love among the undersea world. Or was that just a fair world? Regardless, it was an enjoyable flick to watch-especially if you have no other options. I remember the day I saw it...and I remember the day currently, as I eat Puffins cereal and reminisce on movies gone past. Puffins cereal is good, much better than Atlantis, I might add. I agree with Cirquemm except for the fact that there needed to be more clothing, less nymph booty. So, if anyone truly wants to party, watch Atlantis at a movie theter in the summer. BOOM, 10 lines. "},{"Title":"Disney does it again!!","Date":"18 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Disney's Atlantis depicts the journey of Milo, some scientist, which takes him deep into the ocean, supposedly where the lost continent of Atlantis is to be found. Once there, Milo meets a whole bunch of Atlantians, including Princess Kida who shakes it really fast and teaches him how to love; Atlantis-style. The movie brilliantly blends the two genres of fantasy and crap, creating the genre called fantacrap. Atlantis is long and pointless, but also wildly sexy and tastefully sassy. If you liked Treasure Planet, you'll go CRAZY for Atlantis. "},{"Title":"An awful Disney movie.","Date":"5 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  After Fantasia 2000, and even Emperor's New Groove, I was horribly disappointed in this just plain awful movie.  Although the story starts off easy to understand, the plot soon just falls apart, leaving you to wonder What is going on?, especially during the below-par ending.  The animation is far below Disney standards, the characters often look really grotesque, with none of the usual clean animation the studio is known for.  Coupled with a forgettable soundtrack and you have one of the worst Disney films ever made, easily rivaling the studios awful direct-to-video sequels for their good animated films.  The fact that they released this horrible film on two different DVDs, a normal version, and a special version, is just insulting.  Not even a great performance by the late Jim Varney can save this one.BOTTOM LINE  This should have stayed lost. "},{"Title":"how disgusting!!!","Date":"5 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" ..this is as bad as they get.......this is so poorly animated... so disgusting in terms of dialogue, and interactions between characters... why do they make these films?... to make money?.. because they are certainly not trying to get any message across...what can someone learn from this film? where is the imagination?.. after watching this, i had to go watch a miyazaki film just to calm me down...... the plot is cheap, the characters are too diverse to a point where i think the movie actually becomes racist... princess Kida looks like a porn star, and the female villan does'nt even fit with the style of all the other characters... anyway, there's no point to keep typing......you get the message... this movie is full of special effects, but the creativity is just not there... Disney needs to figure out that kids are capable of understanding more complicated and intriguing stories/dialogues......if you wanna watch something real and meaningfull go rent Kiki's delivery service or Castle in the sky or spirited away or princess Mononoke... basically any film done by Miyazaki, and dont waste your money on this sorry Film...  "},{"Title":"An amazing adventure!","Date":"15 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Its kind of hard to say what i liked about this film. Almost everything was good. for the voice of milo they couldnt have picked a better voice than michael j. fox. and the first time you see atlantis you will get something beautiful to lay your eyes on.The adventure was really fun to watch and it did never get boring. The characters were all funny and seemed beliveable(maybe except for Gaetan 'The Mole' Moliere).I give this movie ****1/2 of ***** because it was an really fun adventure "}{"Title":"Brilliant, for all ages, see it!","Date":"7 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This film gave me more than i expected from an animated film. Although the overall review of 6.5/10 did not seem that high, i decided to rent it and see for myself what it was worth. For a start the opening scene was brilliant, the sound effects and music really added a good effect throughout the film.I expected this film to be a bit boring from the title and to be aimed mainly at children since it was made by Disney, but i was wrong, i thoroughly enjoyed the film, from start to end and would have quite happily watched another 2 hours..My final comment, watch it! "},{"Title":"Wow!  Can you believe it's a Disney movie?","Date":"27 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie can be very enjoyable for the adults and young adults.  I don't recommend it for the younger kids or the kids who are easily upset by death (as one should be!).  My kids loved it however in hindsight I wish I would have previewed it before showing it to my younger son.  He has Autism and some movies upset him.  This one was a bit much for him.  Being a Disney movie I thought it should be ok for him.  Wrong.  Next time I know better.Even though I didn't like the violence for the most part, I did really enjoy watching the movie.  Now a days it seems that the movies have to blow up and kill things to get your attention.  This one does that, a lot!  Kids seem to love it especially my boys.  I prefer great special effects to violence and with cartoons you can get away with lots can't you?All in all to sum it up I say to watch the movie and see what you think first.   "},{"Title":"Yet another animated disappointment from Walt Disney Pictures in recent years","Date":"25 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  In my view, Walt Disney Pictures may never again have the glory days of animation that it had while Walt Disney was alive and this horrid 2001 release does nothing to change my view. This mess about a team of explorers who go on an underwater expedition to find the fabled aquatic city ranks with Beauty And The Beast, The Hunchback Of Notre Dame, Hercules, Mulan and Dinosaur among the studio's stream of recent animated trifles. "},{"Title":"Damn it's good!","Date":"20 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie may resemble other movies, but it's the best Disney movie in years. They just took half the advertising that should have been used on it and stuck it on Lilo and Stitch which was just crappy. Do you know how much time they spent researching for this movie? At least 5 years! In this age of crude live action films (Austin Powers, Zoolander) and cartoons stretched into movies (The Grinch, The Rugrats Movie), Disney made an original story, animated it, and cast it with such big-name stars as Michael J Fox, Leonard Nimoy, and Cree Summer. Remember this if a movie is animated, it most likely means that the production company thought it was worth it to pay scads of animators; if a movie is live action, it takes a lot less work. "},{"Title":"Another great Disney film","Date":"29 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  First off, I'm a Disney fan, I grew up with it and I don't think there's a Disney film I actually haven't enjoyed... well, if you don't count all those sequels they've started pumping out, deary me.It seems to me that with children growing older faster Disney's standard format has lessened in it's appeal, which has lead to Emperor's New Groove, Tarzan and most recently - Atlantis. I thought it was a wonderful film, the animation was fantastic and blended well with the CGI (something I feel didn't go so well in things like Aladdin) but I'd give even more praise to the characters, who have a depth which makes the film a bit more mature for today's children and helps break the arguably antiquated Disney mould. Disney are trying something new, and succeeding.One thing that sat uneasily with me though, and don't get me wrong, I loved the film, but I got the feeling those responsible had perhaps seen Titan A.E., just as those responsible for The Lion King might just have heard of Kimba, The White Lion. It's by no means a carbon copy, but for one thing it seemed like Gune had more or less been lifted out of Titan A.E. and kitted out as Mole Hmm... perhaps I'm imagining it.Anyway, it's a great Disney film in my opinion, I especially liked the little details, like the two Coelocanths swimming around in a tank as the mission falls together. "},{"Title":"A Beautiful and magical journey","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  this is really a great movie! It's not logical or something, but the character are great, the voices are brilliant and the animation!! wooohh... even the music is very nice!  Another good disney production. "},{"Title":"One of Disney's best!","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The animation alone in this film is well worth watching!  This film doesn't really seem like a Disney film though, but I sure did like it.  The story is really interesting, with few things to complain about.  The story, of course, is nothing terribly complicated, but still rather good.There are a number of recognizable voices in the film too.  Michael J. Fox, James Garner, John Mahoney and Jim Varney in one of his final performances.Overall, I thought it was a very good Disney movie.  It wasn't nearly as cute and cuddly as certain other Disney movies, which in this case is a good thing.  I thought the movie was great, and I hope that you enjoy it as well.  Thanks for reading,-Chris "},{"Title":"Disney delivers a rare letdown","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  For the first time in a while, Disney creates a letdown feature film! Who would have thought that a story with a plot so good, beautiful coloring, and fantastic special effects would turn out so horrible? The Lion King was better...  "},{"Title":"Loved It!","Date":"26 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Okay.  I know people get upset over it being a ripoff of either Nadia or Laputa.  I, however, found it a refreshing break from the normal Disney movies.  Though I enjoy the Disney songs as singing material, they just wouldn't fit in this story.  As for it being a ripoff, let's think.  I loved Nadia, in fact, it's my favorite anime besides CCS and Tenchi Muyo, but I've heard it was inspired by Laputa.  I've never seen Laputa, so I cannot judge that.  Some comparisons between Nadia and Atlantis Are 1. The Characters Milo greatly resembles Jean, but if you think about it, that is a typical stereotype of a brainy nerd who is interested in ancient civilizations. And if one really wanted to get technical, one could say they were both inspired by John from Peter Pan.  Kida and Nadia are both dressed alike, but that could just be a safe way to make them look exotic, yet not innappropriate for younger audiences.  Think about Jeannie in I Dream of Jeannie.  Helga and Electra look alike, but they really aren't alike at all, except for feeling betrayed by their employers and trying to kill them.  The Nautilus and the Ulysses are alike, but they are both undersea vehicles too!2. The Plot Yes, they both concern bad guys trying to get a legendary power source from Atlantis, and the crew of a submarine trying to protect it.  But in Nadia, Atlantis is dead, while in Atlantis, it is alive.  Yes, the power source is found around a princess's neck, but where did you think they were going to put it?  Up her nose?  And yes, the geek gets with the princess, but you knew that was going to happen.  You didn't think Nadia was going to get with Sanson, did you?  Or Kida with Vinny (Mole is out of the question)?  And lastly, yes, the good guys win, but this is Disney, for God's sake! The differences 1. The Characters In Nadia, there are about 30 episodes, so the characters could be more subtle, as there is more character development time.  In Atlantis, however, they have to be more out there, given 95 minutes to become fixed in memory. Also, though some characters are similar, where in Nadia do you find characters like Mole, Sweet, Mrs. Packard, Audrey, Cookie, or Vinny (My favorite)?  Or, where in Atlantis do you find characters like Nemo, Marie, King, Grandis, Hanson, or Sanson (another favorite)? 2 The Plot In Atlantis, the plot moves faster, since there is only 95 minutes.  Nadia is more spread out over the 30 or so episodes.  There are different intricities in both, and they are different, I tell you!Overall, I loved both and the fact that Atlantis was inspired by Nadia made it even better to watch.  I give it 10/10.  "},{"Title":"Another landmark film to mark the decline of Disney.","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  See it once to satisfy your curiosity, and then go rent Bambi, Cinderella, Sleeping Beauty and all the rest from Disney's Golden Age.Here we have a few good moments (averything with Don Novello) and lots of pap ... unconnected, too-short sequences that will frustrate anyone with an attention-span longer than that of a flea. The film looks like it was edited with a hedge-clipper.And parents, beware the character of Mrs. Packard smokes endlessly. (Disney couldn't create her without a cigarette? That shows how the creativity-process runs throughout this film.)    "}{"Title":"Don't Think","Date":"7 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I enjoyed watching this Disney offering.  I only grew angry at some of the subtleties after *thinking* about it afterward (e.g. our young linguist somehow learned to *speak* Atlantean from *text*).  So don't make the same mistake remember that Atlantis is a *summer* movie; it isn't designed to withstand much thought. "},{"Title":"Unforgivable plot-holes make beautiful movie hard to watch","Date":"7 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I went in really expecting to enjoy Atlantis.  The scenery and the music didn't disappoint me, but there are so many giant plot holes that are so large they prevented me from suspending my disbelief.I'm a veteran science-fiction fan, and I understand that lots of little inconsistencies or inaccuracies need to be overlooked in order for a good story to be told.  But the major logic of the plot needs to work, and it appears that the writers of Atlantis didn't understand this. "},{"Title":"I don't know","Date":"3 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie reminded me strongly of The Road to El Dorado and Titan A.E.. But I really liked both of those movies, and Atlantis somehow just fell short of the mark.  The characters and plot were okay, but only okay, and somehow it just didn't seem worth it to watch.  Disney doesn't usually do this, they might just need practice.   "},{"Title":"A big leap for Disney...","Date":"26 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Ok, after reading a couple of reviews on Atlantis The Lost Empire, I just want to clear up some misunderstanding as to it being a direct rip off from Nadia Secret of the Blue Water. The only part that was a ripoff from Nadia is that the pendant from Nadia and the pendant from Atlantis bear so much resemblence in terms of how it's used, origins and how it's created from the source of life that there's no doubt about it being copied.  If you want to consider how Kida and Nadia is dressed alike then you could put that against Disney too(It was kind of wierd for Nadia and Kida to wear that bikini style clothing in an adventure sci-fi, not to mention they both move in a similar style too).  As an anime fan I have to agree there's some degree of copying but it's only on the minor details and even though not many of the ideas are original (like the encryption design on the wall in Laputa, the ancient mask from Princess Mononoke, the resemblence of the vehicles to the Garfish submarine in Nadia, etc)...The plot itself I believe it's highly original and it's quite amazing that Disney can pull it off without the use of Captain Nemo(the main character in Jules Verne's 20k Leagues Under the Sea which is also the main character in Nadia).  As for Mylo and Jean wearing similar style glasses...As shown in the novel Lord of the Flies, glasses is a symbol of wisdom and intelligence.  I think Mylo, Jean, the main character from Stargate and a dozen of other INTELLIGENT characters would look kind of unfit for the role if they went in without glasses. As for the submarines, and how the submarines fight(with those wide blast torpedos which really resembles what Nautilius does), I want to state that it's a required element for either one if Atlantis is involved in the plot(after all it's a sunken city beneath the waters).  As for the crew having some charactistical resemblence with the crew from Nautilius in Nadia, it might be the artwork but I don't sense any copyright infringement there as the character's personalities were perfectly original to me.  As an anime fan that rated Nadia as the #1 best anime I ever watched even now today.  I do have my doubts about Atlantis when I first saw the preview.  But now that I watched the movie, I once again regained my confidence with Disney and have high hopes for their future movies after Atlantis.  Overall, the best Disney movie yet without me shivering at the sound of their songs at the middle of the movie and it's a plus that they revised their cheesy scripts to make it even better.  Also, it's amazing that they actually portray the bad guys look normal with out making them overly evil in the beginning (I was wondering who the bad guys are and only the blonde girl kind of resemble the looks of a bad character in terms of how Disney draws it aka make the bad guys look really menacing) "},{"Title":"Great Show!!!","Date":"23 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I watch this movie with a fren and I loved the show it reminded me of Titan AE in many ways, its quite different from most cartoons. The submarine Ulyses was impressive(reminded me of a battlecruiser though) and the battle scenes and dogfights were way too cool. I'd rate this movie 9 out of 10.Cheers ) "},{"Title":"Quite possibly the best Disney film yet!","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  When I first heard of Atlantis, I was thrilled. I saw the first teaser trailer on the net and I was hooked. But then I saw the Disney logo at the end and my heart sunk. No... This great movie was going to ruined by Disney. But the more teasers and trailers I saw, I had to admit that it still looked a great film. They did a good job with Lion King and Mulan, they could do it again... So I went. Now I have seen Disney's Atlantis and I can say they did two things with this film. First, they made me belive that somewhere inside Disney, there is a person with brain. Second, they made a movie that beat The Lion King as my favorite mainstream Disney cartoon. By mainstream I mean their big cartoon-of-the-year animated film (is, Aladdin, Mulan, Lion King, Little Mermain, not Toy Story, Little Mermain II, or 102 Dalmations). Atlantis is quite possibly the best thing they've ever put out. I mean, I loved this movie. I'm 20 years old, and I'm planning on going out tomorrow and buying the soundtrack (which I'll get to in a minute).First off, this isn't your older brother's Disney. Gone are the cheap animal sidekicks and spontaneous songs. Instead, we are given characters, while are funny, are real people whom we can like or hate, depending on which one. Now, I knew this was going to be something different when I saw a tiny thing at the end of one the trailers. It was something I have never before seen in a mainstream (see above for definition) Disney movie. PG!!! This movie is rated PG!! Mulan, with enormous battles was rated G! This is PG!! That opens a lot of door my friends. Believe you me. I would now spend a little time about the music. Like I said before there are no musical-esqe melodies here. In fact, there are no lyrics at all, if you don't count the chanting during several of the scenes. In fact, the music was incredible. I didn't realize at the time, but most of the trailer music is in the movie, and it gets a lot better than that too. Beautiful melodies, great action music, and eerie chants as well. I could feel the anime influence on this. And I can't say how great a thing this is. I hope this a sign of a new direction Disney made be heading. In closing I would to say that this is an excellent film that young children, teenagers, and more can go and enjoy this film. "},{"Title":"Still lost","Date":"30 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Atlantis the Lost Empire tries hard to be an exciting animated sci-fi adventure feature, but it turned out to be rather dull. The characters, while well developed, seem to be very ordinary the geeky scientist/linguist hero, the aggressive military commander, the strong female sidekick, the pretty love interest, the comical supporting cast.The animation is good, but it is not up to Disney standards. The pace is fast enough to keep most interested, but the story gets lost somewhere along the way. (Speaking of story, you can look elsewhere for the plot rehash.) The voice-acting is fine, but the characters facial expression don't seem fitting for the situations they're in. The film just doesn't have the all-age appeal that Disney is known for.Is it me, or is this entire storyline borrowed from Stargate? Isn't Milo just like Daniel Jackson? If you want to see a good animated sci-fi adventure, rent Titan, AE, which combines traditional 2-D animation with 3-D digital effects. I just can't recommend this. Atlantis the Lost Empire could have been so much better than it was, but it just missed the mark. "},{"Title":"Hey!  Mole's a stinker!","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Perhaps nothing is as exciting as the discovery of a new world populated by unique, affable peoples whose cultures are so drastically simpler than ours that they are capable of enjoying the sensuous pleasures of everyday life without a moment's hesitation.  Disney has a notoriety for creating such worlds, and with the exception of their last couple years' work, they have always been some of the most apt at the trade.Unfortunately, Disney also has a notoriety for blatantly plagiarizing from eastern works, and Atlantis is no exception.  It's easy enough finding comparisons out there without the aid of a well-learned fan, so it should suffice to say that the creators of this movie probably spent a couple weeks watching anime and playing RPGs, and then took all the ideas they must have thought looked cool and applied them to this movie without understanding the principles that made them work in the first place.The primary story is simple enough  Milo Thatch, a bookworm who aspires to discover the city of Atlantis, heads out on his search after being handed a journal with vital clues in regards to the lost city's whereabouts.  Along the way he befriends any crew member he can find who is not an Anglo-Saxon American, and falls madly in love with the Atlantean princess once he reaches the city.  After a day's stay, the crew commander, along with his storm troopers (all as non-descript as the 30-some-odd white crew members whom Milo never befriended), busts out some heavy-fire artillery and proceeds to steal the Atlanteans' primary life-source, his sole purpose being a meager profit and a place in the history books.The political undertones of Atlantis remind me of a Japanese RPG by the name of Xenogears.  Just as from the work that inspired it, it featured innumerable religious references that were so preposterously out of place that you couldn't help but laugh whenever the narrative made a religious comment, for it seemed as though the writer had simply opened up to a random page of the Bible for inspiration whenever he was stuck.  Though Atlantis contains very few religious references, the political ones appear to fit this vein;  you'd be hard-pressed to find a more inappropriate format for a writer to express his other-worldly understanding of the problems that plague society.If this were the only problem with Atlantis, it'd be a forgivable trait that probably wouldn't hinder the overall presentation.  But since Disney decided to take a more adventurous approach that includes more action than comedy, the movie also fails in a narrative sense.  Everything, from Milo's inspiration, to the journey to Atlantis, to the discovery of its culture, is handled with such breakneck speed that it's impossible to associate with either the characters or the situations.Obviously, you're going to have to retain a young child's interest when it comes to this type of movie, so a quick narrative is an almost unavoidable device.  But it's not acceptable to include every social stereotype that a child has grown up with in this country as a substitute for characterization.  Ignoring the fact that it's historically inaccurate considering the time period that the story transpires in to begin with, the stereotypes that are presented are a bad enough influence to be considered politically incorrect.The paradoxical, or even hypocritical nature of this movie will no doubt sail over the target audience's head.  So I'm certainly going to sleep soundly knowing that the leading child's entertainment company is continuing the American government's plot to brainwash its populace into becoming blubbering idiots.  If you like to live in a bucket, it's perfectly fine by me.The only thing bothering me is this what the hell is Mole?  Knowing the profoundly insightful messages that are to be found in Atlantis, it's possibly something much more idiotic than a commentary on the French's hygiene habits.4/10 "},{"Title":"So this thing is a movie? In a way...","Date":"21 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This movie seems to have all it takes. The story outlines itself clearly, the characters are designed with purpose and there were surely made many sketches to get to this animated scenery.But everybody involved took another road and never did those roads meet.The questions that torment me are so simple that I doubt if anyone directed this movie. It is clueless all over.Why is the story set in 1914? There is no obvious reason nor a subtle one. It could be as easily set in 1950 or 1850 or 1500 so why not choose 2001? The only thing you end up with are steam-engined submarines (??) and high-hatted scientists. There must be some flaw in the story that forced the writers to this era, but I couldn't find it, as there are so many flaws that this solution is plain ridiculous.Why do they go out on the mission in a freighter? Why take hundreds of sailors in a fake nautilus to have them killed off in the first incident that occurs? What's the point the storytellers are making? Why is there not a single stroke of wonder in any of the scientists when the arrive in the underworld? They put up camp, take their steam-engined (!) vehicles and decide to take the roads that they find laid out for them. When they find an ancient pillar of enormous size they blow it up. When Milo arrives in Atlantis he wants to leave as soon as possible because the blind king orders him to. When they get to stay one night, instead of making notes or interviewing or doing research, he hops around with the girl taking almost everything for granted.If the Atlantians have lived for hundreds of years without any contact to the outer world, why do they have special clothes to deter aliens? How can they speak French and English? And how did they lose the ability to read? Do they really need a bespectacled American to decipher the signs that they engraved themselves? The motor fish laying around are unused because the Atlantians just did not find the way to put their hand and crystal together in the right place? They lived hundred of years of stupidity? When the girl is called by the crystal, why does she return to the surface? Why does she get captured by the evil guys so easily? She carries the power of a whole civilization, surely she would be untouchable.Why do the bad accomplices leave their leader so easily in about... uh... twelve seconds? Ow, where about to do something bad, let's change sides and instead of sneakily overthrowing the Bad Man, we decide to stay in Atlantis with Milo, so were dead already. Making a fantasy or science fiction movie asks of the writer a serious attempt to make the story as logical as possible. Impossible or unlikely happenings are only accepted by the viewer if they're explained well and within a logical environment. Here both sides are cripple things are not explained and the real world is not logical. The story can be scored with the most dramatic Champions League music, any empathy, sympathy, drama is absent.The animation is adequate, but the designs are often plain awful. Sometimes it looks more like a He-man Masters of the Universe-episode than something by Disney. I never have seen anyone with square fingertips, but here everybody has them.The characters are terribly cliché, with some racial and cultural stereotypes mentioned by other reviewers. The jokes are not funny.In the end it seems that there must have been an idea somewhere but it went from hand to hand and everybody had a say, and decisions were made and in the end... Not a lost empire, but a lost film. "},{"Title":"Man, what a let down!","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"      Was Atlantis beautiful to look at?  Yes, it was absolutely breathtaking.  And the music? Just gorgeous.  How about the story structure and the character development........ oh my. Ouch.  The sad truth is that this visually beautiful movie could have been wonderful! It had so much potential! Shall we inspect the problems? (Don't worry, I have at least ONE good thing to say, so bear with me, Atlantis fans)- Character Development  Very poor.  The characters (as cute as some of them are) come across as very shallow and cardboard.  Not a good thing.  It's hard to care about what happens to characters like these.-Pacing The pace of the movie was jarring.  The first part of the movie seems so rushed as if the directors just wanted to get it out of the way and get to the good stuff.  They introduce the spectacularly rendered submarine.... and that's all they do with it. Give it a 5 minute long intro so we can gaze on it with reverence... and then it's out.  No more use of it in the story at all! Well THAT was a waste of time!  The timing throughout the movie was just ALL wrong.-Plot  Nice idea... now if only they could have gone about it in a way that wasn't predictable.  You shouldn't be one step ahead of the movie. There's a big problem when you are!Okay, now onto the ONE compliment I have, and please note that it IS on the visual aspects of the movie..... possible SPOILER ALERT!!The scene where Princess Kida becomes one with the Heart of Atlantis blew my mind. It was SO DARN COOL!  And when she spoke in the creepy voice, it gave me the chills.  WOWIE! Good job on that, fellas.END SPOILER!!I wanna conclude by saying that if it takes more than 7 people to write the script.... especially one like this... something is VERY WRONG.Oh, and by the way, see The Emperor's New Groove. If you're looking for a Disney movie that IS fresh and original, look no further than that. THIS one isn't.  "}{"Title":"Simply Awful","Date":"11 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Disney pushes into all-talking, no-singing, no-dancing and, in the end, no-fun animated territory with ``Atlantis The Lost Empire.''This blandly conceived and executed attempt at a juve-style ``Indiana Jones'' with Jules Verne trappings recycles familiar adventure and cartoon devices with minimal wit and flair, and the lack of imagination will seem all the more dramatic to audiences in comparison to the winningly sophisticated ``Shrek,'' against which ``Atlantis'' doesn't stand a chance at the box office.Rated PG but likely to be avoided by kids over 12 or so, and without many elements that will register as cool to younger kids, picture stands among the very least of Disney's major, non-TV-derived animated features. "},{"Title":"A sore disappointment.","Date":"29 September 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  What does one say about a film in which nothing works?  Nothing works.  Perhaps I should supply you with a list(1)  Let's start with the sorest disappointment of all the character animation, which is merely so-so.  Disney's character animation is usually superb - they have the best animators in the world, and they at least some of their animators, who have worked miracles on other projects, were set to work on this one.  What went wrong?  Maybe it's that there are no characters; maybe the character designs were unworkable (they certainly looked it).  So let's move on(2)  There are no characters.  Milo is a mere hole in the script he is insouciant when directors Trousdale and Wise think it would be amusing for him to be so, strong in resolve when the script requires, clever when the script requires, stupid when the script requires that.  He himself doesn't exist.  Neither do the mercenaries, the Atlantans - certainly not the 200+ anonymous soldiers, most of whom perish early on, without either any of the other characters, or the audience, caring.  I wasn't aware they'd even existed until after they'd died.  Maybe they didn't.(3)  Art direction is wildly inconsistent.  The Japanese do this kind of story better; whatever else Japanese animators may do wrong, they at least make it look as the characters belong in the world into which they are drawn.  Not so here.(4)  And those ninety-degree character designs - theory-driven, they neither allow good animation to be wrung out of them, nor blend in with the world in which the story takes place.  Compare with the cunning stylisation of Hercules, and weep.  And these non-angular Atlantans are just bland, bland, bland.  The female lead is the kind of thing I'd expect to see in Ferngully The Last Rainforest.  To that extent we can say that the artwork fits the story.  For...(5)  At heart this is a Saturday morning cartoon story, complete with mystical gibberish, prosaic, ready-made awe, and a moral at the end that tells us that we should ... well, respect Atlantean culture, should we ever to come across it, which we won't, and should the film have told us what this culture is, which it didn't.(6)  Computer-generated effects animation.  It's as well that this mostly consists of blue bolts of energy meeting gold bolts of energy, for that's all the technique is good for.  Disney sometimes gets the mix of CGI and hand-drawn animation exactly right - either by using no CGI at all (the simplest way, which is why their early features and The Emperor's New Groove work visually), or being cunning and sparing in the way that the CGI is used (which is why The Lion King, Hercules, Mulan, et al., work).  The mix here is ghastly.  I'm inclined to blame audiences more than the studio.  As the public's goggle-eyed reaction to Shrek shows, if you coat your shoddy, uninspired animation with enough digital varnish, nobody will notice how bad it is.(7)  Pacing is terrible.  I got the impression as far back as Beauty and the Beast that Trousdale and Wise had a poor sense of comic timing - although that film was so deeply felt it didn't matter.  Now they've sharpened their comic timing by speeding everything up.  The results are predictable (as are the jokes).  They've also sped up the dramatic timing, to the point where we've already reached Atlantis before we have any insight at all into any character's desires - before we even discover what our own desires are.(8)  The film is over-scored.  Alan Menken had a tendency to overscore, too, but Menken was both tuneful and sensitive to the demands of the moment; James Newton Howard is neither.  Besides, Menken was scoring musicals.  J.N.H. writes the underscore as if the characters are going to start singing at any moment, which they never do.Any animation studio can make a poor film; what I don't get is how the Disney studio, with a proud tradition it was continuing to live up to just the previous year, managed to make something so completely devoid of merit.  It's a glitch, an aberration, a sport.  The terrible thing is that it could spell the end of an animation studio that's nearly three-quarters of a century old.  Please let this not be so. "},{"Title":"Boring!","Date":"27 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" My ten-year-old son seemed to love the movie, but I was bored to tears. And confused!  I kept wondering what new, unbelievable twist of the plot was going to come next.  I found the people animation to be disturbing.  It seemed too sylistic on some characters and too cutesy on others.  It didn't tie together at all.  For example, I didn't like all the angles used in Milo's and the commander's faces, and where was Helga's nose, anyway?  I like some of the vehicle animation, and the drawings of ruins and scenery were quite lovely.  Although I'm religiously liberal, I was really disturbed by all the metaphyiscal and crystal references.  Bunch of hooey, as far as I'm concerned.  And the plot didn't in any way prepare me for it or make me care to even want to believe it.  I thought it was a disappointing movie. Far inferior to Titan AE for example both in story and animation.  And take into account that it's a Disney film, I think it was a terrible failure.  "},{"Title":"trite, jerky, annoying","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Since the next three showings of Tomb Raider were all sold out, we settled for this piece of drivel instead.  Atlantis is the same kind of low-quality unintelligent money grab that Disney has become famous for in the Eisner era.  I've been scammed out of $25, and I'm going to file a complaint.The first distraction is the jerky movement of the characters, and poor animation throughout.  In the classic Walt Disney features, like Jungle Book, the characters flow in a smooth and natural manner, and as much effort and detail are put into the background as the foreground.  Walt must be spinning in his grave over these cheap factory knock-offs.But the lousy animation is nothing compared to the stultifyingly stupid writing.  I understand that it is being written for a general audience, and that they aim for a four-year-old mentality.  That doesn't mean you have to insult the audience's intelligence.  Children respond better to thoughtful stories than stupid ones.  Unfortunately, Disney has decided that it is too much bother to produce quality rather than crap, and that the consumer will gladly accept getting the shaft yet again.  "},{"Title":"Disney veers from the singing teapot mode","Date":"10 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" After having much financial success with animated musicals like The Little Mermaaid, The Hunchback of Notre Dame, Beauty and the Beast, Pocahontas, and the mega-hit The Lion King, Disney charted untried waters (pun intended) with this underwater epic about the fabled continent. With an all-star talented cast, that included Michael J. Fox, Leonard Nimoy, James Garner, John Mahoney (Martin Crane from Frasier), the film is one of the best performed of many films in recent Disney history. Even with a heavy-hitting cast like the aforementioned, it is voice-over veteran Cree Summer that really steals the show as the Atlantean princess, Kida. Not only does the actress have to speak in English but also in Atlantean, a dialect that was obviously developed for this film.With a story that is heavy on fantasy and science fiction, the animators didn't spare any creative juices, with breathtaking landscapes, thrilling battle scenes, and truly awe-inspiring appearance of several stone giants.Also, an appearance early on of The Leviathan is not just impressive, but goose bump-inducing, too. "},{"Title":"This was the Biggest Mistake in the history of Disney","Date":"17 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This was the Biggest Mistake in the history of Disney..by that I mean, I absoluteley loved it...and I believe this may be one of (if not the) Best animated movie I've ever seen.right now you are asking yourself,why was it a mistake?-------because this should've been a Live Action feature film ! !------the story is GREAT! if this had been done as a feature film instead of a cartoon, this movie would've easily gone down as one of the all time Sci-Fi/Fantasy giants,ranking right up there with the Star Wars,Jurassic Park, and Lord of the Rings films - YES, The story and concept IS really that GOOD. Unfortunatley this was done as an Animated Cartoon Feature and now it will forever be type cast into the realm of Disney's Movies like Dumbo,Pinocchio, Lady and the Tramp, and Bambi and will never be taken seriously by the Sci-Fi/Fantasy realm.as I was watching it, I could already imagine Matt Damon as Milo Thatch, and maybe Drew Barrymore as Keeta..and I could imagine some top noth special efeects -- but that will never happenI gave his film 10 out of 10 stars --but this story was WAAAAY to good for animation.........maybe (if we are lucky) 10 years from now Disney will remake it into a 1st class Feature film production (Why not- It'd be much better than 102 Dalmations(2000) or The Jungle Book(1995)movies were!) "},{"Title":"Disney-what happened?","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"     In the Disney film ATLANTIS THE LOST EMPIRE Michael J. Fox voices Milo James Thatch, a museum worker, who is fascinated with atlantis. After getting a journal that states where atlantis is, he sets off with a group of funded explorers, and begins his journey.  My main question, is what happened Disney? And why would Michael J. Fox ever sign on to this(I guess because of his disease-that's why we haven't seen him live action films for a while. Too bad. I guess they definitely won't make BTTF part 4 now) The characters are all really dumb, except the Mole guy, and the dynamite guy(I don't remember their names) the rest of the characters have no personality really. The atlantians(or whatever they call them-who cares at this point) look like a bunch of people with blue paint smeared on their bodies, and the whole idea behind Atlantis reeks with stupidity. Even for those who argue this is a great family film, I don't think so. Take your kids to see something good. Not this cheap load of so called Disney Magic.  1/5 stars "},{"Title":"This is so bad, I cried.","Date":"1 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I walked into a packed cinema screening when I was younger, expecting a good Disney family film. I walked out vomiting my own intestines. This is the second worst Disney movie ever. Lilo and Stitch topped this one's awful display with the worst story ever.Atlantis The Lost Empire doesn't just urinate on all of the Disney films before it, it spits on your face and takes your money in like a vacuum. The story consists of an array of plot holes and terrible twists and turns, the characters are disgusting and the script is passable.The Disney corporation is bringing out some absolutely awful films to date, such as Hunchback of Notre Damne 2, Bedauty and the Beast 3 and Cinderella 2! But, when they try to actually come up with an original movie, they come out with disgraces like Atlantis and Lilo and Stitch.So what's going on with Disney? Absolute bullshit. The old classics like Snow White, Little Mermaid, oh I could go on; changed animated movies forever. But this new stuff mutates cartoon movies into inbred sequels with foamy mouths and a brain the size of a pea.This has to stop, I've got to admit. Either Disney wake up and smell the coffee, or we'll be left with awful presentations of pure garbage like the one made here. "},{"Title":"A jumbled politically correct mess. Disney's worst animated film in years","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The directing team that brought us Beauty and the Beast as well as The Hunchback of Notre Dame took a serious step backwards with this awful picture. Simply put, this is Disney's worst animated theatrical release since Oliver and Company. Before you even ask me, yes, The Goofy Movie was better.Where this film fails is with the story. Can anyone explain to me where Atlantis came from? No? Neither did the makers of this picture. Or how does the power of the crystal actually provide electrical-type energy? Again, nothing is explained. All we see is a happy, little commune, that is partially destroyed. Then, we see them living years later...surviving with the power of a blue crystal. Yes, you heard correctly.Milo, the lead character is voiced by Michael J Fox who does a good job. James Garner seems to be enjoying his over the top villain. The rest of the cast is shoved down our throats with the exception of Don Dr Guido Sarducci as an explosives expert. Here the PCism goes too far. It is 1913 and we are told they have hired the best of the best including an African-American physician and a Latino female mechanic that looks like a badly drawn Rosie Perez. For a minute I thought I was looking at the Clinton cabinet.Then we have the power of the crystal, providing life to every inhabitant of Atlantis. Alas, we have our new age lifestyle, showing us how utopian we can be. Throw in the fact that they have had flying vehicles for thousands of years. By this time I had already guessed this was a dud.Very little storyline. Weak characters who you don't care about. Silly contraptions. Loads of plot holes. In short, nothing makes sense, no character is worthy of being cared for, and we can all guess the ending. A real snow-job on Disney's part. I want my money back!!! "},{"Title":"hens are funny","Date":"15 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Ben ma is a hole. you eat sushi. I'm the winner. ice is cool. dim wit is a word. from is not a word. i came from the ice cream place. lopping is giggle. =). sushi. cars is a hectic movie. hey you smell. You eat you hands. i want my name. hens make noises. giggiling is fun. jump your heart in. your face is messed up. i like chimps. he stinks. i like render. hello. faces are funny because some are messed up. from. ladders make me itchy. the mens bathroom is for men. sushi tastes weird. i like the red thing. lemons hurt. your face smells like bin juice. me. i like giggle. funky junk. lap dance on my feet. funny Pisani. liars make good things happen. i like blue snakes. hens are funny. "}{"Title":"Already awful thus what if Mignola didn't get involved? (DVD)","Date":"4 June 2011","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Disney chooses to make an adventure animation and picks the Atlantis Myth. The studio decides to hire Mignola as consultant and inspiration. Mignola delivers some great visuals. So far, everything is perfect.Unfortunately, when the time arrives to write a story, things get complicated if you watch the movie, going to Atlantis is as easy as taking a bus maybe dangerous but always in straight line! Then, the explanation behind the power of Atlantis is stupid crystals, sleeping giants... But the worst is to come! To live the adventure, a team must be put together but for Disney, the characterization means psychos Mole, Dynamite man, Cookie, bragging doctor, Smoking grandma???? Nobody could them that they weren't the right stuff but the wrong stuff. In addition, they try to be funny but they failed. Well, the only good moments here are the scenes with Milo and Kida and the Mignola's touch but that's all. And to conclude this requiem, Disney is always happy to sell Disney DVD with pure digital magic but take a look at the bonus material and you'll understand it's only advertising long, dull, boring, complicated. Maybe ¾ hours of talking to never understand still how an animation is made! "},{"Title":"This is the worst movie I've ever seen.","Date":"3 March 2002","Score":"7 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Disney's ATLANTIS THE LOST EMPIRE is quite possibly the worst movie I've ever seen.  Generally, the characters were stereotypes with no personalities.  The only character that was quasi-believable was Milo, until he transformed into a geeky yet butt-kicking version of Indiana Jones. This in itself made no sense.  The other beef I have with Milo is that he has incredibly bad English for a linguist.  Although I realize that the swim pretty good line was intended for his pretty girl line, might I mention that any English grammarian/linguist knows that he should instead say swim pretty well, since well is an adverb.The plot was entirely nonsensical and full of MacGuffins (Hitchcockian red herrings, only in ATLANTIS's case, without the Hickcockian flair).  The first half drags like no other.  Many of the elements, such as the life force, Atlantean motor vehicles, and floating crystal thingies were ripped off from Japanese animator Hayao Miyazaki's films NAUSICAA OF THE VALLEY OF THE WIND  and LAPUTA CASTLE IN THE SKY.  The script was poorly written and could not keep my attention.I would also like to comment that Disney was trying to play the field and make a movie for older children and adolescents.  The violence factor is huge and gratuitous in this film.  DO NOT LET CHILDREN WATCH ATLANTIS. Yet, even so, Disney marketed its film with ATLANTIS Happy Meals.  What's wrong with the world?Want to see a real animated movie?  Go watch PRINCESS MONONOKE. "},{"Title":"An enjoyable film, but doesn't qualify as the next Disney classic. *** (out of four)","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  ATLANTIS THE LOST EMPIRE / (2001) *** (out of four)By Blake FrenchIt's always fun to watch filmmakers break traditional expectations and tread into new waters. Atlantis The Lost Empire, Disney's dazzling animation spectacular directed by Gary Trousdale and Kirk Wise, leaves the expected musical numbers behind to develop concepts and action. It works, and there is certainly nothing wrong with the film's style, but I long for the next Disney classic. The studio has not released a true animation masterpiece in years. Atlantis The Lost Empire is worth a watch, but it doesn't qualify as a contender for the Disney's next classic. Atlantis The Lost Empire doesn't contain a lot of interesting characters. The film doesn't clearly develop the protagonist, named Milo Thatch (voice of Michael J. Fox), a timid cartographer in 1914. He wants his museum boss to give him money for an exploration where he hopes to find an ancient relic that will provide the information he needs to find the lost island of Atlantis. Milo is a surprisingly bland character. Usually, Disney prospers with strong protagonists, but Milo is week, timid, and bland.Everyone thinks Milo is crazy, as he babbles about lost empires and ancient cities; it doesn't help that people also accused his late grandfather of insanity. However, a rich old man named Preston B. Whitmore (voice of John Mahoney), who knew Milo's grandfather, has the artifact that Milo so desperately needs. Preston B. Whitmore funds Milo's exploration; he provides a huge submarine led by Commander Lyle T. Rourke (voice of James Garner). The rest of his crew consists of Vinny Santorini (voice of Don Novello); the young mechanic, Audrey (voice of Jacqueline Obradors); ship doctor Joshua Sweet (voice of Phil Morris); the cook, Cookie (voice of the late Jim Varney); the old grumpy switchboard operator, Wilhelmina (voice of Florence Stanley); and Mole (voice of Corey Burton). The ship travels to the bottom of the sea, searching the power source of Atlantis. A gigantic monster protecting Atlantis kills much of the crew and damages their ship, but the main characters manage to escape with their lives and some equipment. Finally reaching the Kingdom of Atlantis, they meet a beautiful young princess named Kida (voice of Cree Summer), whose aging father controls the troubled city. However, Milo's fascination with Atlantis has been a distraction from a greater motive that has corrupted the other's minds. Atlantis The Lost Empire does not capture the heartwarming atmosphere that many other Disney movies did, like Aladdin, Beauty and the Beast, and The Fox and the Hound. This film is adventurous, but lacks actual suspense and tension. An adventure requires motive and reason, and an increasing danger or rising of the stakes. This creates the suspense and tension that keeps us involved. Atlantis The Lost Empire only briefly sketches its characters and quickly establishes the situation. The filmmaking works under the circumstances, but it certainly does not prosper overwhelmingly. The movie does not prepare for a particularly involving finale; the villains don't even come into play until the final act; the audience's involvement is tentative until the last thirty minutes.Most people will enjoy Atlantis The Lost Empire, especially children looking for something more mature than Rugrats and less intense than Final Fantasy. With its interesting plot and some exciting action sequences, parents may even find themselves enjoying this picture; I certainly had a good time.    "},{"Title":"Unimaginative and boring","Date":"27 April 2002","Score":"5 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I went to see this one with much expectation. Quite unfortunately the dialogue is utterly stupid and overall the movie is far from inspiring awe or interest. Even a child can see the missing logic to character's behaviors. Today's kids need creative stories which would inspire them, which would make them 'daydream' about the events. That's precisely what happened with movies like E.T. and Star Wars a decade ago. (How many kids imagined about becoming Jedi Knights and igniting their own lightsabers?) Seriously don't waste your time & money on this one. "},{"Title":"Why « Atlantis » deserved to sink","Date":"5 February 2002","Score":"5 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I paid $ 45 (Canadian) for this DVD and how I wish I had my money back! I can't even offer it as a hand-me-down to a deserving child as this film is a racist pamphlet that would probably get me in trouble with his or her well-meaning parents or the local schoolboard. There are so many wrong-headed aspects to this film, I don't know where to start. First of all, being myself, if not French, at least Québécois, French-speaking and Francophile, I found the character Molière, a geologist, a kind of absolute compendium of hate mongering, xenophobia and of the use of negative stereotypes to inflict humiliation on nations who do not happen to agree with US foreign policy at all times. The Nazis would have been really proud of this one. Molière (or `Mole', get it?, a pun that can only exist by mispronouncing `Molière', i.e. pronouncing it the ignorant American way &#150; moh-lière - instead of the proper French way &#150; mah-lière) was a French XVIIth century playwright whose name (an invented one, his real name being Jean-Baptiste Poquelin) has become synonymous with the French language. One says `the language of Molière' for French as one says `the language of Shakespeare' for English. So naming this virulent collection of vile racial stereotypes `Molière' is tantamount to insulting the entire French nation and its language. Molière is short, ugly, unkempt, unintelligible, lascivious, slobbering, voracious, hairy, selfish, boorish, stubborn, greedy, piggish and smelly. He has an aversion for soap. Molière became a geologist because he likes all things dirty, presumably (he is the only one who doesn't get to tell his story). Molière is a sub-human character, just the way Hitler pictured the Jews in pre-war propaganda films. His opinions are uninformed and inconsequential. He is an object of scorn, shame and ridicule and he is not to be trusted. I can't say I appreciated the bull-dykish, ex-school bully, street-smart, female Spanish-American mechanical engineer much either. What would have been really refreshing and original is to depict a female mechanic who does her job, against type, with a certain grace, charm and femininity. But then grace and originality are not on the agenda of this outing. As soon as the bookish hero joins this practical crew, all the characters who depend on him to make their fortune automatically resort to sarcasm, violence, bitching, dirty tricks, razzing, bullying and ostracism to keep him in his place. What is this? A co-ed episode of `Oz'?! Do they really hate him because he is intelligent and cultured? Am I reading this movie right? Are there really 86 minutes left of this tortured monograph of a turn-of-the-century criminal subculture?! Let's skip 70 of these minutes and get to the point Besides all its other faults, this movie is the first Disney opus to have a really appalling body count untold thousands die in the prologue, many hundreds die in the Leviathan incident and the rest of the movie is a general orgy of blood-and-guts violence. You will yourself call for a merciful end to all this long before the dénouement. The `heroine' was modeled after the type of bleached California beach volleyball slag that can so easily be mistaken for an overage hooker off the court. The `natives' are dumb, silent, lumbering, uninformed and inconsequential, basically cannon fodder for the visiting Americans. Maybe they're meant to represent an idyllic vision of the French at the beach, I'm not sure. The authors' intentions are as obscure as the story points in this one. One thing is for sure, this little effort won't play long at Euro Disney! "},{"Title":"A TOTAL RIP-OFF!!!","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  If you think Atlantis is a Star Wars rip-off, I kindly urge you to get a hold of LAPUTA.  LAPUTA - a 1986 Miyazaki production, one of my all time favorite anime, has more depth and (definitely) more originality than Disney's recent rip-off Atlantis (after The Lion King).  It was not only a disappointment for me, also an embarrassment to see Disney shamelessly promote this newest release.  After the English-dubbed version video release of Tonari no Totoro and Majo no takkyubin; and the theatrical release of Princess Mononoke (all three from Miyazaki), I was wondering why LAPUTA wasn't being released on video/theater yet.  It's all clear to me now - it's all part of a Disney master plan to blind audiences from the original!  I hate to see Disney stoop that low.On a side note, does anyone else see the similarity between Princess Mononoke and the final piece in Fantasia 2000??  Is it just me, or does that look like another Disney RIP-OFF?  Talk about originality! "},{"Title":"Don't waste your time.","Date":"23 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  no fun, mindless violence. the guy getting his wrist slashed was positively GROSS! THIS from the same people who gave us BEAUTY AND THE BEAST? and these guys deleted the MARTIN AND MCCOY sequence from MAKE MINE MUSIC because of all the guns. so what do we get here? GUNS. they delete the cigarettes from MELODY TIME. what do we get here? CIGARETTES. makes me want to totally write off the disney people. "},{"Title":"Well-animated and Politically Correct.","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  One of Disney's best animation flicks yet.  Maybe it's just me, but I could not fail to notice the political undertones.  Capitalism; baaad,  Military; baaad,  Guns; very, very baaad,  Mysterious blue lightening bolts that kill; okay.  Too bad Disney couldn't have cast George W. Bush or Rush Limbaugh as the voice of the `Bad Guy.'  James Garner must have been the third choice. "},{"Title":"Pure Crud","Date":"30 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I am going to put this into one word and that is crud. The movie is set to like what 1900? subs existed, but only in primitive form. Robots? what robots? there were no robots in the early 1900s. No Lasers either. Also, it would have been impossible to even go to a depth like that in a primitive sub of the day..... I will never see this again, although my little brother likes it. I cant stand Milo. or the whole team, because they all seem like they are going to make an enormous breakthrough in science. At the same time, the USA wasn't even wanting to explore, the world, why because we were just in a war with Spain, and that drained our money, big time. What ever you do, don't see this waste of time movie, it is definitely not worth your time */***** "}]