[{"Title":"OK, But They Went To The Well Once Too Often","Date":"10 May 2006","Score":"29 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":" They went one-too-many in the Crocodile Dundee series with this third film. The sequel (Dundee II) was very good and that should have been the end of it. By the time this third one was made, Paul Hogan was putting on the wrinkles fast (although still in shape) and co-star/wife Linda Kozlowski had put on a few pounds.The movie didn't fare well, maybe because the humor dominated instead of a balanced mix of it with drama, humor and romance as the other two films emphasized. Also, this story had done before in the first movie, with the Australian coping with America in New York so we didn't a replay of that in Los Angeles.One thing nice about this film it was nice in a mellow sort of way. There is a gentleness to it, a nice tone which you don't often see in today's R-rated dominated film industry....and it still was entertaining, for the most part. It's just too much familiar ground and added very little to what the first two films showed. "},{"Title":"A wonderful conclusion","Date":"26 December 2005","Score":"30 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This movie is what people want out of Paul Hogan. Personally, I loved Almost an Angel and Lightning Jack. But for those of you who don't quite get Paul Hogan's humor, why would you even bother watching the third installment of the Crocodile Dundee saga? The character of Michael J. Crocodile Dundee is someone to be adored by any child of the 80's. And I, for one, am so thankful Paul decided to give us one more. Its a story, again, about a fish out of water scenario but he pulls it off with astonishing bliss. Its been over a decade since we were graced with the comedy of Crocodile Dundee II but the magic and love and simplicity of the character is still apparent in Paul's portrayal of Dundee. I'm so glad Linda Kozlowski reprises her role as the sexy, Sue Charlton as well. Movies forget the aspect of characters and story nowadays and focus on hype, special effects and epic-ness. I'm so glad there are still movies I can shed a tear to simply because of its kindness, simplicity and down-to-earth quality of its characters that I grew up with. Crocodile Dundee is Los Angeles is a wonderful finale for anyone who loves the first two. Paul Hogan did the world a wonderful thing when he created the character, so why not come back around by one final wonderful installment. At least check it out.... "},{"Title":"An unlikely return","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"22 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Paul Hogan's knive-tossing, hand-slapping Outback legend skipped the whole of the 90's so his 2001 comeback came as something of a big surprise.  Unfortunately, audiences had of course moved on and the critics didn't hesitate in drowning the film.  Indeed, you don't have to be an expert to realise that this belated third caper isn't exactly accomplished film-making; there's an uninvolving and considerably underdeveloped plot whilst the comedy itself (consistently spot-on in the original) is pretty much hit-and-miss here.  Still, if its clean, fun, enjoyable entertainment you're looking for, Dundee in LA serves the purpose well and is satisfying for the family or younger ones.  The character himself is still interesting and enjoyable to watch as he once again returns to the USA, this time acting detective when he suspects a shady movie company of smuggling.  Not by no means a classic but harmless and pleasant entertainment nonetheless. "},{"Title":"Go see this film. Critics need to lighten up...","Date":"21 April 2001","Score":"19 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  It's been a very long time since I've seen a movie with my children that did not have to rely on gross-out humor just to get a laugh. Crocodile Dundee in Los Angeles is a FUN movie.It's fun to let go and get in on the silliness of the jokes. Critics should not be comparing it to the first or even the second Dundee movies. This film is wonderfully different than both of them, and uniquely funny and endearing all on its own. Yes, Paul Hogan's Mick Dundee is still the same--still sweetly naive. Why critics feel the need to rip the character up for that just goes to show how jaded our society has become when people can't appreciate and embrace a quality like that in a film character. I, for one, love that my children can sit and watch a character who is moral, who is loving and attentive to his wife and child, who seeks out new things and learns from them and for the most part who sees the good in people. What's wrong with sending our children THOSE messages? "},{"Title":"Not as bad as many says","Date":"1 July 2003","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I admit it is not a very good movie but at the other hand it is a light and mostly enjoyable comedy. The minor disappointment for me is that Paul and Linda had lost some of their charm from 80-s, they are just too old now. But the biggest problem with Crocodile Dundee in L.A. is the thing that this movie is too similar to previous old Crocodile Dundee movies. One idea very rarely can work twice but third time it's simply too much. So if you like the first two Crocodile Dundee movies most likely you will enjoy this little movie or at least you'll tolerate it. The story was a bit primitive (can anybody explain to me what's going on with screenwriters?) but young Serge Cockburn had brought a bit of fresh magic to the movie, though overall acting was pretty average.It is also obviously that now it is much harder to surprise or entertain anyone with wild Aussies. Despite that this sequel had enough funny moments and jokes, including one very surprising cameo appearance. In my opinion the third Mick Dundee movie is slightly above average, not annoying light comedy. At least it is not worse (to be honest it is much better in my opinion) than Crocodile Hunter movie, that had been released next year after this sequel.My grade 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Hilarious -- if you're into it.","Date":"2 July 2005","Score":"16 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I saw this in Germany on surprise night. That means, you go to the theater and pay only four or five bucks, get to see something new, but you don't know what you're going to see. On top of that, its always in the original language without subtitles. Problematic if its a French or Chinese movie - but they were *always* in English.When the curtains came up, one always had those moments of dreadful anticipation. And DAMN if the last thing I EVER expected was Crocodile Dundee in LA. I didn't even know they had made another one...My German comrades didn't get as big a kick as I did out of it -- but this is just a fun, fun movie -- and if you've had a few beers and grew up with the originals you'll enjoy it tremendously. The story is pretty weak, mostly an excuse to get Paul hogan cracking jokes, but any excuse is good if it means Paul hogan is cracking jokes...You'll get a big kick out of it or you'll be miserable. I thought it was awesome.ps Mike Tyson! "},{"Title":"Funny in a relaxed way","Date":"6 December 2004","Score":"14 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is a perfect Sunday afternoon film, when you're stuffed with roast and vegging on the sofa.The plot is nowhere to be seen, but the film ambles along in a series of sketches and setpieces usually involving Dundee being amazed by the crazy Americans and coming up with some Australian saying to sum up the situation.'Gay, well I am kinda happy' Yay Mick, you show those Americans who's boss.In summary, a ludicrous film, but I really enjoyed it. And I agree with crocodile dundee about coffee enemas. 'Don't order a coffee here, you might not like how they serve it' "},{"Title":"still pretty good","Date":"5 July 2003","Score":"13 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Even though its been awhile since we last seen Crocodile Dundee this movie didn't disappoint, same Paul Hogan adjusting to city life this time in LA this time with his son Mikey. Well, this third film may not be the best of the series, but still was entertaining and funny, lots of cool gags, and nothing too bad so the whole family can enjoy this one. Crocodile Dundee in L.A. wasn't bad considering it was a third sequel, I guess it was the long wait between the second and third movies that we forgot what the Crocodile was all about. "},{"Title":"Nothing new.. but that is positive. The good old Mr Dundee is back.","Date":"1 October 2001","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I just saw this movie it was like a timemachine, I was back in the 80's. That was positive.  The movie has the same charm and humor as in the first Dundee.  So if you like Crocodile Dundee you must see this movie.. this is a good oldfashioned movie without any big special effects.  See it... "},{"Title":"Wow... just wow","Date":"19 March 2005","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Personally I have never been a fan of the crocodile Dundee series. I find the humor to be childish and the action to be less than sub-par. But my mind sure was changed after viewing this one! I found myself delightfully entertained throughout the entirety of the movie. I was either laughing hysterically or on the edge of my seat at all the crazy mishaps Dundee managed to get himself into. I figured he'd have a difficult time with the culture change, but not do such crazy things like he did! LOL absolutely nuts!! The best part has got to be when they are trying to save the skunk on the express way! OMG I though for sure I was going to faint from laughing so hectically hard. I mean they stopped the entire freeway just for a skunk. Can you imagine if that really happened in LA!?! People would absolutely freak about it! Either way this is a must see film, I hope they come out with another witty installment as good as this!!! "}{"Title":"THIS IS THE FUNNIEST CROCODILE DUNDEE MOVIE OF THE YEAR.","Date":"3 May 2001","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Good fun abounds in this acceptable sequal.  If you take this movie too seriously then you won't enjoy it.  I say enjoy this movie for what it is and not for what it isn't.  Paul Hogan is cool in this, Linda K. is kind of stale in her part.  Finally, the Dundee trilogy is complete and so is my life, now.  Good a' mate, i found me a croc' to wrastle. 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Mick Dundee Is Back!","Date":"11 November 2001","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  	In general, life can be a most trying proposition even in the best of times; and simply negotiating the daily grind can be exasperating for even the most resilient among us.  And that's why it's so refreshing to find respite from the drama of day-to-day living-- a safe haven, if you will-- even if it's only for a couple of hours or so at the movies, which is just what you get with the light-hearted comedy, `Crocodile Dundee In Los Angeles,' directed by Simon Wincer.  In this third installment of the `Dundee' series, once again starring Paul Hogan as the famed and fearless crocodile hunter, Mick Dundee, we find Mick, his significant other, Sue Charleton (Linda Kozlowski) and their fourth-grade son, Mikey (Serge Cockburn) living in a small hamlet (population 20) in Australia on the cusp of the Outback.  When the editor of Sue's father's West Coast office of his newspaper in America dies suddenly, Mr. Charleton asks his journalist daughter to fill in for a few weeks until he can find a permanent replacement.  So it's off to Los Angeles for Mick, Sue and Mikey, where Sue quickly finds herself involved with the investigation of a shady new movie studio, while Mick gets work there as an extra on their latest production.  There's also plenty of time for Mick and Mikey to explore the terrain of the big city, which is new territory for Mikey, but for Mick-- already a veteran of a trip to New York-- it becomes just one g'day after another, mate.  Which is really what this film is all about.  And it works.	It's light fare from the outset, and Wincer does a good job of keeping it all on track and presenting the material in just the right way.  It's casual fun and a lot of laughs, and though there's a lot of sight-gags and physical humor it's never overblown or slapstick, which keeps the rhythm of the film intact and makes the humor flow quite naturally.  In short, Wincer has the formula down for what works here, and he never attempts to make this film anything other than what it is, which makes it easy for the audience to just go with it and enjoy the proceedings.	Hogan has a charismatic screen presence, and as Mick he's so laid back that you feel relaxed just watching him.  He makes his character real, and the way he under-reacts to just about any given situation makes the story refreshingly and readily accessible.  Watching this movie is kind of like spending some time with an old friend; it's a fun and pleasant experience, and makes you glad you got together after all these years.  Like the film itself, Hogan never attempts to make Mick anything other than what he is, which is a guy who happens to hunt crocodiles for a living.  And that's an aspect he could easily have tried to play upon, approaching it from the perspective that this is a rather `odd' occupation compared to the average guy on the street.  But he doesn't take that route, opting instead to make Mick just another average guy on the street, like the clerk at the store or the mailman.  And it lends credibility to the character, as well as the story, inasmuch as the plot is fairly insignificant in light of the fact that this movie is really about the characters and the way they interact, as opposed to what the storyline is.  It's good work by Hogan, who has created a character who is so likable and real, while Hogan the actor, in retrospect, is destined to be under appreciated for it.  It's one of those instances in which it's too hard to separate the actor from the character, which in essence is a tribute to the quality of Hogan's performance.	After being absent from the big screen for some six years, it's good to see Linda Kozlowski back reprising her role of Sue Charlton.  As an actor, she is talented, has an extremely natural screen presence and is absolutely gorgeous; it's a shame she hasn't made more than a half dozen movies or so since `Dundee II' in 1988.  Her role here is fairly straightforward, but she plays it so well, and with such facility, that it's the kind of performance that is easily and too often overlooked.  And she plays well opposite Hogan (but then, she should; they're married in real life).  She's a gifted actor, and hopefully we'll see much more of her in the near future; her continued presence would be a real asset to the cinematic community.	Serge Cockburn, meanwhile, does a good turn as Mikey; he's a likable youngster with a natural talent that was a definite asset to this film.  Also helping to sell the movie is Alec Wilson, as Jacko, Mick's friend from Australia who follows him to L.A. to join in the fray, and who adds some laughs along the way.	The supporting cast includes Jere Burns (Rothman), Jonathan Banks (Milos), Aida Turturro (Jean), Paul Rodriguez (Diego), Kaitlin Hopkins (Miss Mathis), Gerry Skilton (Nugget) and Steve Rackman (Donk).  An entertaining, uplifting comedy, `Crocodile Dundee In Los Angeles' is well crafted and delivered, and will make you feel good and put a smile on your face.  There won't be any Oscars here, but it doesn't matter; this is a film that makes life a little brighter-- for awhile anyway-- and that's not such a bad deal in the grand scheme of things.  It's the magic of the movies.  I rate this one 7/10. "},{"Title":"enjoyable family entertainment;fine comic perf. from Hogan","Date":"29 April 2001","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I went in to this film hoping to entertain my children, a few of their friends who came along, and myself for 90 minutes on a weekend afternoon, and what I got was quality old-fashioned family entertainment and a reintroduction to Paul Hogan's fine comic talent. To most kids my children's ages, Hogan is better known as a spokesman for Subaru station wagons than as an actor. However, he is a wonderful comic actor, fully deserving of vehicles such as this. The yokel- among-the-sophisticates plot is timeless, ranging from Buster Keaton's Elmer character through the Bowery Boys, Ma and Pa Kettle, Jerry Lewis, Jim Varney, etc. Hogan is working in that classic tradition, and his skills as a physical comedian, his superb comic timing, and his loveable persona will make this film a favorite on cable TV and as a video rental for decades to come. There were no dazzling special effects, nothing shocking, no social or political agenda--just well-performed, funny family comedy. The only flaw, if it can be called that, in the film was that Paul Rodriguez's character was not given enough screen time. I could imagine those two making a great screen pair. Maybe in the next film, Mick Dundee could call on his old friend from the movie business, the character played by Rodriguez, to help him out of some jam. With that large Aussie sidekick who accompanied Dundee in the second half of the film (the name escapes me)playing off both Hogan and Rodriguez, you'd have a great combination! Think about it, Paul Hogan and Lance Hool! I'll pay to bring my family to Crocodile Dundee 4 when it comes out. We had an 8 year old with us viewing the film, and she loved it, so I'd guess that the film should be acceptable to children 6 or over, and there's nothing really offensive in it if you have to take children younger than that. With this and SPY KIDS coming out in the same month, it's been a good season for family films. "},{"Title":"Entertaining","Date":"4 November 2001","Score":"12 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  All of the Dundee series are light comedy and should be viewed with  that in mind.  Let them entertain you and don't look for an award winning film. Paul Hogan and his wife Linda are pleasant enjoyable personalities, and the story line is innocent with some clever lines thrown in.  "},{"Title":"Good light viewing","Date":"28 September 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  CD in LA is not a classic, but doesn't aspire to be, and if you're simply looking for a fun, light-hearted comedy, then this is the movie for you.The plot is relatively simplistic and predictable, but there are more than enough funny scenes and enjoyable characters to counter that. If you enjoyed the first 2 CD movies, than you'll probably enjoy this.Note I actually wanted to give this move 6.5, but there is no way to do that, so I gave it the benefit of the doubt and gave it a 7. "},{"Title":"A disappointing sequel","Date":"17 April 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The original Crocodile Dundee film was fresh and creative, as was the first sequel, as it juxtaposed the culture of the Outback with the shallowness of modern urban society, tipping its hat to the superiority of the former over the latter. This film, however, seems to have been shot with the idea of profit paramount. The product placements are obvious (Pepsi, Apple computers, Wendy's and, who could miss it, a Subaru Outback station wagon), as is the thinly-developed plot. Paul Hogan was very effective in the earlier films, but in this one he seems tired of the role. Without the novelty available to the earlier films, the only thing that would have saved this one was a vibrant Mick Dundee, and, unfortunately, Hogan could not pull it off. "},{"Title":"The formula still works","Date":"22 November 2001","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Crocodile Dundee in Los Angeles follows the same fish-out-of-water formula as the original 1986 film with a different setting. That probably explains why its overall IMDb user rating is just 5. People get the feeling that the movie is only repeating, with minor changes, something that was already done. (Like when Mel Brooks used jokes in his Robin Hood movie that he'd used years before in Blazing Saddles.Yet Crocodile Dundee in Los Angeles is still a pleasant and funny diversion. Perhaps if Crocodile Dundee and Crocodile Dundee II hadn't come before it moviegoers would be more enthusiastic about this movie.It's also a movie you can show to young children, which is more than you can say about 90 percent of the comedies (or movies in general) nowadays. "},{"Title":"TV Fare Down Under","Date":"31 March 2003","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  It's not a bomb. It's just that Hogan drifts through the whole thing as if he can't wait to be finished.The plot about the art crooks is plain silly though there are some funny one-liners and a hilarious cameo from Mike Tyson as himself.It works best as a movie on TV. It's clean, undemanding fare and something you can enjoy with all the family. Not many movies outside Disney can you say that about these days.  "},{"Title":"The worst of the three","Date":"12 January 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The first movie was good, the second was the same as the first and the third one was typical third movie syndrome like Spider-man 3, Karate Kid 3, Ninja Turtles 3 and so on.It's just like the first movie, only Mick goes to LA and acts like a fish out of water again. The shtick was getting dull.It is not funny or exciting at all. The scene where someone asks Mick You're Australian, you must know Mel Gibson. and Mick says Yeah, I know 'Mal' Gibson. How is that funny?Mike Tyson's cameo was pointless and unfunny. The Mick, Mike and Mikey gag is not funny.And the whole Lethal Agent thing just bored me. The whole movie just bores me. The WGA didn't give Paul a writing credit on the film because they probably knew that this film sucked and didn't want Paul to take the blame.We haven't seen Paul Hogan do anything since '01. If he is going to make a comeback, he is going to have to do something spectacular. A Croc Dundee 4? On your bike! "},{"Title":"not as good as the origanals but still pretty good","Date":"31 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  WARNING MAY CONTAIN SPOILERS!!!!!!!!!........When I first saw crocodile Dundee in LA I thought it was going to be a good movie just like the originals,but i was wrong. Don't get me wrong it was a good movie but way too short and the acting was not to great either. But there was many good parts to this movie like the Wedeys scene, and the adaconda scene when he stapps it. A good movie but not as  good as the first one. "}{"Title":"Be of an open mind!","Date":"28 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Crocodile Dundee 2 was not as good as Crocodile Dundee 1 etc, etc.... So we always hear, but so what? View this third offering with an open mind and you will enjoy it without comparison to the first two. I was very pleasantly surprised at the very funny one liners and situations, and came away from the cinema with a smile on my face. Do yourself a favor and rent this for a bit of occasionally hilarious escapism. As one of the other contributors stated, don't take it too seriously, it's a comedy! "},{"Title":"Give it a shot!","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Ok, I was three when the first one came out, so I don't remember seeing it in 1986, but I do remember no. 2 in 1988. I've seen both of them too many times to count. Honestly, I never expected another Crocodile Dundee. I thought they had done all that they could with the idea. But, when I saw this movie, I thought wrong. Although this is not even close to being on my list of fav movies, it was worth the 4 bucks I paid to rent it. It wasn't original, but it was funny and entertaining, and that's what's important. too many people take movies like this and compare them to the movies that win Oscars. Personally, I thought this movie was more enjoyable than Lord of the Rings, and I'm usually in to those kind of movies. 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Fun movie","Date":"31 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  It's a fun movie that works for all age groups.  The plot line is thin, but this is a comedy movie and it does deliver on that line.  The jokes are good and the movie is fairly clean.  Don't expect any big theological issues to be discussed, but do be prepared to laugh. "},{"Title":"Why take so long to make a 3rd?","Date":"8 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie was good nonetheless, but why wait 13 years to make another one? After waiting for about 5 years for a third movie after seeing parts one and two, I was kind of disappointed that I would probably not see another one, but after a 13 year wait, I finally got my wish. This movie didn't have the plot-structure as the first one which would probably hint as to why it was no where near as successful. It was good to see Dundee (Hogan) in a different venue other then the played out scene of New York. It was also good to see Hogan in another theatre release, since he really hadn't appeared in one since he starred with Elijah Wood in 1996's Flipper. Another person I was happy to see again was Sue's character played by Hogan's real-life wife, Linda Kozlowski. Even after 13 years she is still a very beautiful and attractive woman. With the release of this, I wouldn't be surprised if Paul Hogan tried to stay in the spotlight again by releasing a sequel to another one his movies. Lightning Jack 2 or maybe even a Flipper 2. That would be entertaining. Nevertheless, Paul Hogan remains my favorite Aussie actor.  "},{"Title":"A pleasant few hours spent with a likeable guy from down under.","Date":"18 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I rented Crocodile Dundee in LA on it's first day of video release and watched it twice that evening. I was not expecting high art and didn't find it, but I did find a pleasant, watchable and entertaining movie. There's something about Mick as a hero that is just likeable. I think it's his self confidence. With all the tension of the past week it was nice to just sit back and watch Mick save the day in a calm and caring fashion. I'll be buying this one on DVD and be waiting for Mick Dundee, Private Eye. "},{"Title":"A lot better than I thought...","Date":"1 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I saw this film today in the Cinema. The film critics gave it the bottom grade. But I didn't listen to them. Do I ever? This third entry is not really as good as the two other films, but well worth seeing. I was really a lot better than I thought. Paul Hogan is as funny and charming as ever. If you're a fan like me. Four words GO AND SEE IT! For everyone else. I recomend it. I give it 7/10.  "},{"Title":"nice movie","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  First of all I never saw the first two Crocodile Dundee movie's personally I think its not a great movie but it is entertaining but some of the jokes ar not so funny but there are also a few good joke's but still I liked this movie paul hogan acting very well as Mick Dundee now I want to see the other 2 movie's and I heard they are better then this one if thats true then I really want to see them I give it a 7.5/10  "},{"Title":"A refreshing commitment to cornball humour","Date":"13 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  After two forays into New York, it has taken awhile for North America's favourite Australian, Crocodile Dundee, to take the next logical step, but 13 years later there you have it Crocodile Dundee in Los Angeles.The setting is different, but the same gentle tenor that resonated through the first two movies is still there. There are sequences involving Jaws-like crocodiles sending Great White Hunters scrambling for overhanging tree branches, naive Outback folk causing a traffic jam on the Los Angeles expressway to rescue a four-legged mate, and Crocodile himself relying on cat-like reflexes and a huge hunting knife to wage battle with a mechanical snake during a studio tour.Personally, I like a little more edge and development to my humour -- you could see the cliche-driven jokes coming from, well, a mile away -- but you have to give Hogan credit for daring to more or less stick with what has worked for him in the past.There aren't many comedians these days who dare to extract a few yucks simply by trying to master the remote control. Hogan doesn't stop there. Crocodile and his beau, big city reporter Sue Charlton, played by Hogan's wife, Linda Kozlowski, now have a son, Mikey, played by Serge Cockburn. Gasp! A family movie?   Well, not quite. There is enough swearing and coarse language for a PG rating. That said, even the bad guys are fairly tame in the sense that, for once, they don't kill anyone, although they certainly like to wave the hand guns.A wise move was also made by bringing Crocodile's biggest rival but best mate, Jacko, played by Alec Wilson, along for the trip. They work well off each other as they explore such features of modern life as drive-throughs and crosswalks.It also would have been nice if a few more of Crocodile's mates had come along for the ride, but it appears that there were some budget constraints to consider. Not only were the number of characters with speaking parts kept fairly low, but it also looks like they went a little cheap on the filming -- this movie has a very washed-out look.Nonetheless, Crocodile Dundee in Los Angeles is a pleasant change from the parade of such gag-inducing flicks as See Spot Run, Saving Silverman, and Tomcats. (And talk about washed-out looks). Could it be that Hogan made this movie not so much to launch a comeback as to make a statement? One thing is for sure Hogan remains true to his beliefs -- a genuine guy, as they say in the Great White North. "},{"Title":"nice finishing touch to the first two","Date":"9 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  i don't know what everyone has against this movie. sure, it isn't the best thing i have ever seen and probably won't win any academy awards, but still...the return of the crocodile dundee character was wonderful. linda kozlowski has been missed from the big screen as well. what great great performances husband and wife played in their recurring roles. i urge anyone and everyone to go see this movie. "},{"Title":"Typical Mick Dundee humor with a parental touch.","Date":"29 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This was just as entertaining as the previous two.  There are some unexpected but funny cameo appearances. The plot is light but enjoyable.  It's not like the first two Dundees were Oscar nominated flicks.  Worth the matinee admission price. "}{"Title":"Very Funny Movie","Date":"27 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie gets off to a slow start but there are plenty laughs along the way, I love the boy who played Mikey. he was cute and wonderfully portrayed and I hope he will be in more movies..my girlfriend laughed so hard she started coughing! she liked alot.. some of scences are funny like the cops think he has a bomb when its a sknunk and then when Dundee tries to hide the news breif from his girlfrined (and Mikeys mom)- about skunk incident, she revilies that she knew all about..  "},{"Title":"Great fun!","Date":"24 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I recommend it. Just good, engaging fun. There is just  something about Paul Hogan playing Crocodile Dundee! I would much rather be amused by this movie than most of the movies recently released. I hope there will be yet another sequel. "},{"Title":"Mick Dundee is as good as ever!","Date":"24 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  We liked this very familiar storyline, because we like Mick Dundee.The beautiful Linda Koslowski is still lovely to look at. Her face looks changed, but I'm not sure why.  I noticed she didn't have as big a part as usual. Mikey, their son, was better than good.The late John Meillon's part of Wally has changed to a character called Nugget. At least they didn't try to find John Meillon's twin.Paul looks as handsome as he did 16 years ago, and hypnotizes a razorback pig this time around. We always enjoy the improbability of those hypnotizing-wild-animal scenes.Misunderstanding American customs is corny, but that's Mick! For example, fine dining is going out to dinner at Wendy's burgers, there is a long joke about colonic cleansings with coffee, and Malcom Gibson, Mick's neighbor, isn't to be confused with Mel Gibson the 80s movie star. When asked what Tom Cruise looks like, Mick replies, Tom Cruise looks like Tom Cruise! We thought that was very apropos. "},{"Title":"Take it seriously and you've missed the point.","Date":"28 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  There is going to be a lot of people in Australia thinking to themselves Oh God, not another one...  Their views on flogging Aussie stereotypes abroad are there own, however this movie, and the other Croc Dundee movies for that matter, are too often shoved into that category.  If you take these movies, as many will, seriously, and let the Australian mind-set of cultural cringe ruin your viewing experience, you're selling yourself short. This is a comedy (which would suggest a bit of silliness) about Mick Dundee's further adventures, and this time he's in America, or specifically, L.A, one of the weirdest and most fake places in America.  This, contrary to popular belief, is a great place for Mick, the original straight shooter and honest bloke.  Oh, and he takes his kid. Here's a homework project for you  Watch this movie, and allow yourself to enjoy it.  This movie is no masterpiece, but it's funny. "},{"Title":"Different","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The only thing, actually, saving this film, from being a total load of crap is that it is a satire. I mean it does not take any movie serious (itself included) and it kind of gets away with it. OK there are moments when I thought 'I'm too old for this.' or 'That's unnecessary  crap.' but all in all it made me laugh and did not bore me to death. It is definitely something if you're tired of Croc. 1 and 2 and looking for some of that Dundee stuff. But it is nothing more than passable 'for old times sake' in a new jacket.6 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Quite Good.","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Paul Hogan and Linda Kozlowski are back in this third installment of the Crocodile Dundee chain. This time they're in Los Angeles and having a great time too. Though this movie is not as good as the first Crocodile Dundee, it is a little better than the second one. I wouldn't say this movie was a masterpiece, but it's good fun, so enjoy it. I give Crocodile Dundee In Los Angeles a 6/10.  "},{"Title":"A Dingo Ate the Script!","Date":"8 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Maybe a dingo ate this movies real script, and producers were forced to go with this one instead. Or perhaps star and Producer Paul Hogan believed the audience would drink so much Foster's beer they wouldn't realize how awful this movie is! Crocodile Dundee in Los Angeles is a lazy copy of the original movie's fish out of water story line. But that fish has been out of water for 15 years now, and its stinking up the theatre!And really, the original Crocodile Dundee was a one joke movie as well. Watch what happens to this wacky Australian guy who doesn't know a thing about our modern society! While this formula charmed us back in 1986 -- it now only makes you want to throw Paul Hogan, and a few shrimp on the barbee for inflicting this boring and derivative flop on us! If you go see Crocodile Dundee in Los Angeles you won't have a G'day Mate! 1 and a half stars out of 5 "},{"Title":"A 'crocodile' of a movie!","Date":"3 May 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  CROCODILE DUNDEE IN LOS ANGELES once again stars Paul Hogan as Mick Dundee. This time he moves to Los Angeles when his girlfriend Sue from the first to CROCODILE DUNDEE movies is offered a job for a newspaper. Once there he discovers something isn't right around the Hollywood set. While not as good as the first two CROCODILE DUNDEE movies, CROCODILE DUNDEE IN LOS ANGELES does have its moments. The jokes are pretty much stolen from the first two films, but they seem funnier than ever here. Paul Hogan gives a better performance as Crocodile Dundee than he did in the first two movies. He seems to be the only person who knows how to actually act in this movie. If you are a big fan of the first tow Crocodile Dundee movies then you should love CROCODILE DUNDEE IN LOS ANGELES. I sure did.   "},{"Title":"good old Dundee","Date":"2 May 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  i 've read some very bad reviews about this movie.. but hey people.. this movie isn't about a great storyline etc.. It's just about some entertainment...but i would suggest to watch this movie if you like Indiana Jones and movies comme ça.. if you don't, then don't bother to watch this one...to those who saw the first two a long long time ago all ready..You must love this one too.. I did for sure.. go Dundee )  "},{"Title":"A vast improvement over the previous installment","Date":"25 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  One of the few negatives about the Crocodile Dundee franchise is that Americans view the films and think that everyone in Australia lives like the title character. While it is a nice thought, it is also patently untrue, as anyone who has grown up in a place like Sydney can tell you. Indeed, half the fun in the Crocodile Dundee series is cringing at the way the rest of the world views those who are proud to call themselves Australian citizens (makes me glad I can say I am the descendant of Scots, quite frankly).The original Crocodile Dundee was a slow film, but it was original and had a lot of clever jokes to keep it from being dull. The culture shock of transplanting the straightest shooter into a city where everything is a facade was a clever idea. It was, however, a little less easy to believe in when you had the knowledge that Paul Hogan previously made a living as a maintenence worker on the Sydney Harbour Bridge.Crocodile Dundee II was a nice effort, but it lacked the bite of the original. Another serious problem was that the character of Mick Dundee was portrayed in such a dumbed-down manner that it led a lot of critics in Australia to wonder if this was really what Paul Hogan thought of the Australian people. Things got better when the location changed back to the Northern Territory, but that left the film taking an hour to set up the last thirty minutes. This is to say nothing of the fact that while there are sixteen or so million people in Australia, less than ten percent of them live in the kind of area shown in these two films. Most of them would fail to notice the difference between New York and Sydney, as a matter of fact.Crocodile Dundee III addresses the flaws of these two films, and the sequel in particular, by delivering a more interesting premise and a central character that was not as dumbed-down as previous installments called for. Indeed, this film sees Mick Dundee actively using the American misconception of the average Australian to screw with American heads, an opportunity that was sorely missed in the previous two films. In spite of a less restrictive rating by the OFLC, this installment in the Crocodile Dundee franchise is also a lot more adult in nature. Rather than being crude about it, as seems to be the case with a lot of adult comedies coming from America, this one is very subtle and easy-going in nature. The score music by Basil Poledouris is a tremendous improvement over that which accompanied the first two films, as well. It too is less in your face and more supportive of the overall film experience.It's not all good, however. The cinematography in this installment is, to be kind about it, crap. There are numerous shots in the 1.851 frame of this film that will look little different if they are panned and scanned to fit the 1.331 frame that is finally being left behind. The backgrounds of numerous shots, which were a prominent feature of the previous films, are hazy and indistinct. They are also quite often very grainy in the bargain, looking like part of a zoomed-in Super 35 negative. The cityscape of Los Angeles, and the barren wastelands of the Northern Territory in particular, are not very forgiving to bad photography, and this film has a lot of that. Another problem with this film is that the transition from Walkabout Creek to Los Angeles was very abrupt and jarring, needing another five or ten minutes of footage to smooth it out.Overall, however, this film is a lot better than the American critics would like you to believe. It *does* contain the out-loud belly laughs that they deny the existence of, as long as you bear in mind that only a very small fraction of Australians live the way that is depicted here. Think of it as a play upon stereotypes, and you're well on your way to appreciating the film, as well as the central character, for what they really are. "}{"Title":"Not perfect, but enjoyable sequel","Date":"20 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Croc Dundee in LA is a sequel to a classic comedy, so it is tough to top it, but the film does work by itself.  It stars the memorable croc man, played still silly like by Paul Hogan, who goes to LA with his girlfriend and son to check out the other side of the US.  Nothing to really think special here, but it is a pleasant and sporadically funny movie that should appeal to families mainly (though fans of the series shoudln't be dissapointed). Worht seeing if only for Mike Tyson's uproarious cameo. B+ "},{"Title":"If you liked the first two Dundee's you're guaranteed to like this one.","Date":"12 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  If you liked the first two Dundee's you're guaranteed to like this one.There are a steady flow of chuckles and a few laugh out loud moments in this entertaining installment. Hogan and newcomer Cockburn have good chemistry and for once a child actor is not an annoying brat. Equally good is Alec Wilson as Jacko, Mick's outback mate who comes to LA as a baby sitter.There are a few jokes that only Americans would get, a few that are corny and a few that fall flat. It is almost a cross between Crocodile Dundee and Crocodile Dundee II in its writing. The action sequence at the end of this one is far more comical than the second and doesn't take itself as serious. One factor that may be missing is the loss of the character Wally (deceased actor John Mellion)All in all Hogan's charisma takes this beyond just an average family film, and a worthy sequel to a great franchise. I did wonder once it had finished, if this film would be more successful if it had been released closer to the first two and sadly I'd say yes. Still, it is a good reason to head down to the cinema for a light family film. "},{"Title":"Down Under?  More like drown under...","Date":"10 June 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is the perfect example of when enough is enough.  In my opinion Crocodile Dundee II was pushing it, but this movie has totally gone off the edge.  In Crocodile Dundee in Los Angeles, Mick Dundee (Paul Hogan) is back and he's older than ever, Sue Charlton (Linda Kozlowski) is back also as a reporter fill-in for some LA newspaper.  Mick also has a kid and I have no idea where he came from.  Mike Tyson even has a horrible cameo appearance! The plot revolves around a studio company smuggling paintings that were thought to be destroyed.  Somehow, Mick gets involved and that just leads to more stupid stuff.  I'm dead serious, this movie offers little to no action, no climax, and very little enjoyment.  There are some scenes that are so bad, my mind just faded out and I started daydreaming in the theater.  One especially bad is Mick's discussion about buildings with his aussie friend.  Whoever that guy was, he is a lousy actor.Simply put, it's old.  Mick already went through the city thing and this is just a rehash.  There is nothing new or worthwhile.  I wish Paul Hogan came out with a different movie other than this.If you want a good movie, then watch Crocodile Dundee I.  It is very funny.  The sequel is much better than this 3rd installment. "},{"Title":"Go Back to the Outback.","Date":"3 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Crocodile Dundee in Los Angeles (2001) Dir Simon Wincer / Cast Paul Hogan, Linda Kozlowski, Jonathan Banks, Paul Rodriguez, Jere Burns About someone out of their element, which is exactly the same theme as the first film. Paul Hogan plays Mick Dundee who is dealing with a crocodile problem in the Australian outback when his girlfriend receives opportunity to join a newspaper in Los Angeles. Upon arrival Dundee becomes involved in a film being made but attention falls upon paintings that are used as props. He will bond with his son in theme parks before battling bad guys in an embarrassing climax. Director Simon Wincer has no idea where this material is going. He previously made The Phantom, which is another failure from the outback. These films aren't exactly complimenting the land of the kangaroo. Screenplay is simply Dundee in a series of stupid adventures through Hollywood, and the result is a movie this bad. Hogan is basically hanging onto what made him famous. Linda Kozlowski is there because of convenience. Film exists because Hogan had no legs to stand on to keep his career alive. That is nothing against him. He can convey charm and charisma when the material is right but the audience isn't joining him here. The result is a film that is about as entertaining as the many boring fishing programs that people sleep through. Score 2 / 10 "},{"Title":"'Crocodile' Dundee in Los Angeles","Date":"10 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Well I guess you know what I'm gonna say about this third sequel. The first film was great and the second was decent enough but was walking a tightrope in terms of how much further they could take the franchise. This final film falls from that tightrope right into a large vat of poo.The idea is weak, so very weak. The intrepid bushman is back, this time in LA, why? because his love must go there to run the family newspaper business for a time. This of course equals lots of pathetic predictable visual gags that refer to LA culture and anything remotely well known in the area. For example Dundee goes to Paramount Studios for a tour, he ends up as an extra on movie sets and there is a hideous cameo by Mike Tyson, pretty much all the things you would expect from a comedy film set in the vile city of LA.Its sad because it just seems that LA has nothing to offer in terms of locations or ideas that somehow don't end up revolving around the film business. I mean there are other tacky moments of course, you have the obligatory attempted drive by mugging by some stereotypical Latin American youths, dubious nightclubs, airhead blondes, fast food drive thru's etc...but still the whole thing still ends up revolving around the movie business with most sequences taking place on movie sets.I get the impression that because the first two films were set in New York, movie folk in LA (the West) were jealous so they had to make another with Dundee in their neck of the woods battling with their cross cultural problems (gotta have something to do with LA it seems, can't not have that *groan*). I mean really, the whole notion is such a waste of time, you could of made a much better go of it in another country at least. Try Dundee in Japan or Russia or Italy or where ever! sure the whole idea is still stretched and pointless but at least it would be more interesting, but no lets make it in LA, cos we can't possibly leave out LA.Ignoring all rational advice we have this terrible result, a total cheese fest. Admittedly the continuity is again good with cast members returning, down side is Dundee now has a brat (son of 'Crocodile' Dundee? thank god not yet), luckily he is not involved too much which begs the question why put him in there in the first place?. Hogan still defies the laws of time and looks damn good as Dundee, his weather beaten tanned leathery face still looks youngish as does his body, makeup aside.With US/Hollywood meddling this final chapter in the Aussie franchise is a by the numbers load of fluffy crapola that didn't even need to be made. Could of been reasonable with better imagination, maybe a new location instead of boring LA...and what the hell happened to his croc skin waistcoat?! Guess that wasn't very PC for nowadays.3/10 "},{"Title":"Cliché upon cliché","Date":"17 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I found the script to be just one cliché after the next. Many reviewers here say it is good 'Family fun'. If I had kids I might understand what that means but it seems to mean 'non-offensive pablum for the masses' and that's about all it is. Watching it reminded me of seeing the 1978 Gilligan's Island movie which was very depressing. Paul Hogan was about 47 when he did the first Crocodile movie but he was about 62 in this one so it's just not believable -- after 15 years he's still wearing the same black hat, has the same naivety about city-slickers. The jokes and script are very poorly written. It's like they hired writers that normally write for teen TV sitcoms like 'The Suite Life'. BLECH! Don't waste your time. "},{"Title":"Paul Hogan, that's pretty much it","Date":"11 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This movie features our hero going to Los Angeles to star is some more fish-out-of-water sequences. Sometimes they're amusing (the gay bar), but usually they're rather lame. They also throw in a weak crime plot for good measure, which makes the last half hour play out like a sub-par episode of The A-Team. The only thing that really holds up the movie is Paul Hogan's performance. Hogan is aware he's not making a good movie, but he's definitely making the best of it and is just as good as in the first one. The material has just gotten worse. At one point Dundee claims Los Angeles is Italian for lost angels. That's just not very good. The charm is still there though I guess, just looking at the main character makes me laugh, he just rarely says anything funny. This is kind of a failure, but the star makes up for something here and there. "},{"Title":"Unnecessary.","Date":"30 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Let say that I enjoyed Crocodile Dundee back in the eighties. The sequels , to a certain extent, were good but not like the original so it is with great fanfare that I dislike this latest entry in the franchise. This film simply lacks the charm and charisma of the first film and the jokes (well, some of them are funny) aren't that funny at all. And the inclusion of Dundee's son is one of the main reasons why the raunchiness is sadly missing from this movie. I wanted to like this movie; I really did. But its conservative approach to humor is what killed the franchise in the first place. If they decide to make a fourth movie (which I seriously doubt) audiences who had their first taste of the quirky antics of an outback man won't even care. Personally, I don't either. "},{"Title":"More of the same is not all bad.","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The Crocodile Dundee series is witty despite the fact that its humour is nearly exclusively made from Australian - stereotypes, and this third incarnation of the series does not fail to deliver in this aspect.The film has less tension and drama than the previous appellations and instead focuses on the comedy - elements that we have come to know from the series.When the previous films had most of the plot devoted to an upsetting consequence this film steps outside of this formulaic plot well only to step into another. All this and we only see Sue Charlton (Linda Kozlowski) with a gun to her head for barely a minute.In my view this decision to use a different principle for the plot is an attempt to revive a film which in most ways failed. I feel that despite the fact there is an attempt to not make this a sequel to far this is exactly the feeling you will get when leaving the cinema.However this film is not all bad - if you liked the last two films you will like this. "},{"Title":"well, there's no swearing....","Date":"16 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I thought it was cute, but pulling strongly on the hope that you've seen the other 2.  The story could (and should) have much quicker, but the odd sweet and funny moments make it a good Sunday night watch. Long story short, in a world where it's getting harder to find a good movie for Family night, this one will have something for everyone.  The old croc hunter has a son, so the movie takes on a strong family feel. I still say watch the first 2 for more laughs, but all in all, parents have a safe movie to grab off the video store shelf! "}{"Title":"A step down from the first two.","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The third go-around for Mick Dundee sees him in L.A. doing his usual stuff. Well, sort of, this film does capture dundee's charisma quite nicely, but the script this time around is very amateurish and more likely to appeal to kids. There's a few laughs and is enjoyable enough from start to finish, but scenes like the one with the gay bar and the wendy's drive-in just seem so pointless, and by this time Mick should know what a transvestite looks like. A step down from the first two, but it's still a joy watching Mick on the screen again. 6.5/10 "},{"Title":"In need of a face-lift...","Date":"5 April 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The problems of this film are predictable, but deadly1. Lacklustre villain/plot.2. It's the softest 'satire' ever... Getting a rise out of the movie business and LA's 'preening' culture came about ten years too late... At least the original - with its jabs at cocaine use, etc - felt like a product of its time. Material like this could and should have been released in the early 90's, and it would've been more at home. The world has moved on a lot since then, though.Also, if you're going to do exactly the same thing, without bringing anything fresh to the formula, then people ought to be asking 'why repeat yourself, if not for cash alone'?! At least the first sequel was a twist on the original because it goes back to Mick's natural environment; this however was exactly the same theme as the first time round, when the two American cities they've used aren't different enough from one another to make a proper distinction...So what?! "},{"Title":"Good, innocent fun","Date":"13 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This movie has all the elements of a warm hearted, family friendly movie. Croc Dundee and his mates present a strong code of morals for kids and adults alike to aspire to. He is friendly, polite, and always willing to stick his neck out to protect others. He also appears to be the model parent, encouraging growth and adventure rather than stifling and discipline like the typical parent. Mike Tyson's motivational cameo is also not to be missed. All in all the plot is fairly cookie cutter, and only serves as a backdrop for Dundee's humor. What makes this movie work is the heartfelt bond of family and friendship, the ability to resist American culture and yet still function within it, and the foundation it can lay for children to stay open minded in regards to different cultures and experiences. "},{"Title":"The Ol' Croc Hunter Returns","Date":"19 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Crocodile Dundee In Los Angeles is the third installment in Paul Hogan's franchise.  In this movie, Mick Dundee is a family man, but still every inch the Aussie bushwhacker.  He travels with his best gal Sue and their son to Los Angeles, and finds himself in the heart of one of America's strangest cultures.  Yet he still manages to get by with his outback skills and no-worries amiability.  This is an enjoyable movie.  The spoof of Hollywood culture is everywhere and has laugh potential.  There's even celebrity cameos (the one with Mike Tyson seems even more ironic now than ever!).  So, if you're a fan of Crocodile Dundee, you'll love his adventures in Los Angeles! "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good.","Date":"14 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  (spoilers)It's very obvious though that Paul Hogan shoulda made one in the 90's.  He's looking every bit his 65.  But the biggest change is that wife of his.  Except for her voice, I barely recognize her. And after all this time...  they haven't gotten married?I liked the score on the second movie the best.But I was surprised to actually like this third movie.  It's pretty much the same ol Dundee.  So it was quite a refreshing feeling he's still around to make us laugh.  Though obviously it won't win any awards, it was still a sweet addition to the series.6/10Quality 4/10 Entertainment 10/10 Replayable 10/10 "},{"Title":"Not all that bad, really.","Date":"1 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Just caught this on TBS last night. Hogan clearly knows that he's getting too old for the Crocodile Dundee shtick and pokes fun at himself in a few scenes; the mystery is passable up to a point. However, the movie would have been better if the filmmakers had taken the Galaxy Quest approach and did a send-up of the whole movie making business. Instead, we get an okay movie that has trouble deciding which direction to go. "},{"Title":"An enjoyable piece of nostalgia","Date":"30 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Crocodile Dundee In Los Angeles will probably be enjoyable for those of us that are old enough to remember when Crocodile Dundee was every bit as cool as any other 80's movie hero.  In fact, I'd say that Paul Hogan has retained his on screen charm much better than his other 80's counterparts.  The critics can say what they want- Croc Dundee in L.A. is a thoroughly  enjoyable bit of nostalgia.  It's refreshing to see a good hearted movie sometimes, and that's just what this one is. It also takes a few pokes at certain aspects of Hollywood, and I even caught a thinly veiled crack at well known producer Joel Silver. The plot is fairly simple, but if you're perfectly honest with yourself, you know that's a fact that applies to nearly every movie.  If you're a fan of Crocodile Dundee, check it out.  I don't think you'll be disappointed. Sure, maybe we've seen it before, but a couple hours spent with Mick Dundee is time well spent in my opinion. "},{"Title":"Great movie series!","Date":"9 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The Crocodile Dundee series is a great one that's funny and exciting at the same time!Paul Hogan and Linda Kozlowski are very good.I just like the scenes in the out back and and Hogan is hilarious in the city!This series is very good and very entertaining.Check it out soon!  "},{"Title":"One go too many","Date":"22 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This film shows that sometimes a winning formula can be overstretched. The magic and sparkle of Crocodile Dundee should have ceased after the second movie of the series. Having said that, the third installment does provide light and fluffy entertainment that is relatively inoffensive and suitable for the entire family. "},{"Title":"not great cinema, but fun and enjoyable","Date":"2 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is a nice light comedy.  If you enjoy the first two Dundee movies, especially the first, you'll probably enjoy this as well.  This movie isn't one of the all time greats, but good for a fun evening.  A cute movie which deserves a good notch or so above the overall rating here.  As another review stated, just don't analyze it as if it were a serious movie and simply enjoy the fun.  Personally I prefer this one over the second movie which I thought came off too heavy, took itself too seriously.  "}{"Title":"A little slow, but clever....","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is definitely a rental and is refreshingly clean enough for the whole family.  Not many movies these days dare to be simply P.G.Lots of clever gags in this one.  As one who works in the biz I think there is an important message in this one.  Real life is more interesting than fiction.  Go for what's real.6/10 "},{"Title":"Sweet movie","Date":"8 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  'Crocodile Dundee in Los Angeles' is a nice family comedy, that won't get you embarrassed in front of your parents and it will still make you laugh.Paul Hogan plays Crocodile Dundee, exactly the way he played it fifteen years ago. And this is not bad too. His innocence is still adorable after all these years, as it is his way of applying the laws of the jungle to the big city life.The production is okay, the pace is good and the story is light and nice.A very refreshing moment nevertheless.9/10 "},{"Title":"Oh dear!","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I saw this movie last night and I'm sorry to say its one of the worst i've ever seen. I've watched the first two films and really enjoyed them, but this is just abysmal. I wouldn't recommend this to anyone who isn't a fan, or anyone who is for that matter!Its just a movie to cash in from people who are curious to see whats going to happen this time, but i don't think there is a joke throughout the entire film! Not one thats funny anyway. I'd recommend everybody to avoid this film at all costs!  "},{"Title":"Dundee Death Knell?","Date":"8 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Mick Crocodile Dundee (Paul Hogan) is in Los Angeles with his son and Sue Charlton (Linda Kozlowski), his longtime companion. There's something amiss in the world of movies and art, and Dundee is soon to be right in the middle of it.Undeniably the worst of the three Crocodile Dundee movies, to the point where you wonder just why anyone at the studio gave it the green light? By the time Crocodile Dundee II came out in 1988, it was obvious that much of the charm and adventure like magic from the first film had greatly diminished. So fast forward 13 years and they saw fit to produce another movie.Strangely enough it turns out to not be a complete stinker, yes the formula is tired, I mean how many times can you do the fish out of water comedy before it gets lame? But there's some genuinely funny sequences in here, with barbed asides towards the movie industry and the American way of life. Hogan and Kozlowski are still likable leads, their chemistry cemented, and if you can get past the stereotypes on show (they forgot this was not the 80s!) there's some fun to be had on a time waster basis.Instantly forgettable, and certainly not needed, it is however a pic that fans of the first two films can find a modicum of comfort in. 5.5/10 "},{"Title":"A Depressing Farewell to a Likable Character,","Date":"25 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Crocodile Dundee in Los Angeles is an awful movie with a very poorly written storyline and a cast that just don't seem interested. I wasn't a huge fan of the first Dundee, it was watchable and quite funny and that was about it, the second one was much worse, losing a lot of the heart and humour that made the original so loved, but this one completely runs it all down in to the ground, the set up of the story is ridiculous and even the title will tell you that they completely sold out with this sequel. The majority of the cast seemed to have no interest being in this film, except for Paul Hogan, who does honestly in all three movies keep the same confidence and charisma that is definitely needed to play this character, his acting is certainly not the reason the film stumbles, it's mostly the script. This film has a problem that a lot of comedy sequels seem to have, they just mess around for most of the movie, basically watching the actors do a bunch of stupid things for the first hour and then desperately trying to cram in a story for the final thirty minutes, comedies are obviously suppose to be funny but when you're just making jokes for an immensely long time and not focusing on the story one bit, it can get unbearable for the audience, particularly when the jokes aren't funny. A finale that will surely disappoint fans of the Dundee series and very few laughs, I would not recommend Crocodile Dundee in Los Angeles to anyone. Crocodile Dundee most move to Los Angeles with son, where he gets caught up in a lot of trouble. Best Performance Paul Hogan Worst Performance Mike Tyson "},{"Title":"The Croc gets family friendly","Date":"18 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Crocodile Dundee's third go 'round is actually a bit more generically entertaining than the somewhat leaden 'Crocodile Dundee II'. Here they dust off the fish out of water shtick again, substituting L.A. stereotypes for New York ones, but that kinda makes it feel freshish. Especially if you decide to watch the three films over consecutive days for some sad, completionist reason.They keep the Croc as a man of action thing from part II, but instead of drug dealers, he's facing off against art thieves. On paper that's a major downgrade, but the tone here is even more overtly family friendly than the moderately softened second film, and it actually almost kinda sorta works in fits and starts.This might be the most unnecessary sequel ever, but it's far from the worst. "},{"Title":"LA crock's","Date":"19 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Paul Hogan is a popular Australian comedian whose shows were popular even on British television in the early 1980s. His foray into films hit Bullseye on his first attempt with Crocodile Dundee.This third instalment was a greatest hits package and looks like a tired retread. Hogan looks he has been smoothed out and the delicious Linda Kozlowski seemed to have piled on a few pounds hence why she seems to be dressed in black all the time.Mick Dundee heads to LA as his wife takes on an assignment to investigate a shady film production company in a plot that involves smuggling of supposedly destroyed paintings.Dundee decides to help out by being an extra on the film and later an American wrangler. At the same time Dundee now accompanied by his son and later on in the film by another Crocodile Hunter makes a few observations about LA life and there are cameos from Mike Tyson and George Hamilton.The film is a nice way to pass the time, its family friendly fun which can be enjoyed with the kids who have not watched the original.The film lacks the freshness of the original and the gags have been seen and heard before and it was funnier the first time around. "},{"Title":"Far Better Than Expected","Date":"17 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Mick Dundee (Paul Hogan) travels to the city of smog and stars with his young son (Serge Cockburn) in tow.No one should have had big expectations for this film, with its 1980s character now in the year 2001, with Paul Hogan noticeably aged and Linda Kozlowski looking like she had a few plastic surgery disasters. And Serge Cockburn is just annoying -- everything about this movie would be better if the kid was removed entirely (he really played no important part in the story).And yet, it is still pretty funny with a not-too-terrible mystery plot. What crime, if any, is being committed? And can Mick get to the bottom of it? These may not be the ruthless drug dealers of part two, but movie producers can be some vicious folks, as well! "},{"Title":"How not to make a movie","Date":"9 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is the problem with Hollywood film industry It grossed 5x more than it cost but how? it is a bad bad movie not even close to the original nor the secondI notice they didn't name it crocodile Dundee 3 this occasion.It's no wonder the rest of the world hates you Yanks.You churn out so much junk, as the norm, that you rip everyone offfrom prior successesAnd have know fear of the outcome.This is not how the film industry should functionPoor Mr Paul hogan produced this movie as he's first toe in the water. not another one will he do again then ain't he? "},{"Title":"Unlike Croc flick, with Hoges kicking butt in the city of angels","Date":"27 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The third and like a lot of other third entries, the worst. This one didn't gather my interest when seeing a preview, as I could tell then and there, this was pretty bad. With a 13 year gap, since the previous Dundee, this one has Dundee and son going to Los Angeles. When visiting a theme park and movie set for some reason, they stumble across a hidden operation, a front for counterfeit art. Laughs are scarce, I must say, and Hoges's new compadre, moustache and all, was an interesting addition. The best bit is when the two are back in Oz, sitting on a tree branch hovered about an infested croc lake, sthat naps, where they're chased by a crocodile. The drive through scene in America, gathers some small laughs too. Personally, I think Hoges should of been chomped up for making this. What a relief there is, though is thanks to some of the American stars. Thank god, primarily for the comic attributes of Paul Rodrigues as film extra in story, commenting on Dundee's back acting, befriending him. He was a welcome air of relief. Too was Jonathan Banks, as a baddie, while another one was played by the lesser known star, who was the lead of the solid drama thriller, Road Rage. Still it is entertaining for some unknown reason. I would call it entertainingly bad, as action outnumbers laughs, with the movie ending with that notorious Men at Work song. Grant Piro as the larger than life host of a theme park is a funny asset, with Rackman, back in Oz doing an Irish accent for some reason. The reasons I've stated for watching this, are the only reasons. They should make a Croc 4 I apologize. A very week and big drop since the last Croc instalment, that comes as a cheesily bad one. "}{"Title":"Light and funny comedy","Date":"23 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I get that some people wanted something more here. But it's another Croc. Dundee movie. What did you expect?I get that the first move WAS original, and this is more of a silly comedy. What's wrong with silly comedies, anyway?I found it cute and funny. Turn you brain off here. I get that some people won't find it funny, because comedy is not universal. But I laughed throughout the movie in spite of the jokes being nothing new. I think because Paul Hogan pulls it off so well.Of course the thugs were incompetent. That's the style. Who cares if the plot was a little silly - it's a silly comedy. It works in the context of this sort of movie. Think 80s style action comedies even though this was not an 80s movie. If you can only stomach more modern cynical stuff I feel sorry for you, but if so, don't watch this.I think the kid was an OK edition. I always liked the lead female character as wellI can't believe some of the low ratings here. I have seen films I would rate a 4 or below, and I can't see how people can equate this film to those films. They are zero redeeming qualities unlike this pretty decent light comedy. "},{"Title":"For Completists Only","Date":"12 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The story Dundee and Kozlowski have been together and have had a son, though they didn't marry (this is pointed out in the movie). Then Kozlowski is contacted by her newspaper publisher father to go to Los Angeles to work there, and the others come along. Once there, Dundee is a fish out of water again-which is much less credible after 13 years of having lived with a native New Yorker. Rehash many of the jokes from the prior movies, add a thin plot of their getting involved with a movie studio which is involved in drug smuggling, and there you have it.Overlong, slow, and dull. Even if the original charmed you, this movie will not. Don't expect a Crocodile Dundee Four; Paul Hogan was age 62 when he made this one! "},{"Title":"Flat as a pancake","Date":"21 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":" With its bland photography, flat direction, and a lack of both gags and ambition, the only surprise in this belated second sequel is that it wasn't designed to go straight to video. But anyway, Crocodile Dundee is back and walking in the footsteps of Axel Foley, his rough and ready personality clashing with the uptight denizens of Beverly Hills. The plot, in which Mick gets a job as a movie extra and uncovers an art smuggling ring, is nonsense, and whatever steam might have been left in the series after the underwhelming 'Crocodile Dundee II' has entirely evaporated in the intervening years.Tiresome, repetitious and plodding, this trundles through a series of barely-linked scenes, none of which are particularly unexpected, most of which are reheated from the first film; meanwhile Linda Koslowski does very little and does it even more wetly and woodenly than before. It's all very pointless and dull, and absolutely no match for the original, which is still charming after all this time. "},{"Title":"What a waste of time","Date":"2 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This new addition to the Crocodile Dundee franchise is like one of the worst thing that ever happened in 2001, at the end of the film you feel like Paul Hogan should pay you back for seeing this. The movie from the set go lacks vision, entertainment and if it were a direct to DVD movie it would have made more sense.There was definitely no reason for them to have made this movie, but they did anyway and put it out there for us to see and dislike. This movie was so bad that I couldn't believe that it left the storyboard. Dundee (Paul Hogan) and Sue (Linda Kozlowski) are now together for like 15 years and they have a son named Michael after his father.While living in Australia Sue got a call from her father that she should come and help hold down his office (a newspaper company) in Los Angeles while he attends to other matters. Sue (after Dundee said that he and Michael their son will go along) accepted the offer and moved with her family to Los Angeles, there both father and son were kind of out of it and made the news once for just not getting how things work in America.The antagonist in this one is a phony movie production company, and in this flick we get to see Dundee go undercover. A side story to the whole movie plot has both Dundee and Sue not being married for the whole 15 years they have been together with Sue wanting it but not pushing it and Dundee just not manning up to do the right thing.Trust me after you have read this review just run away from this flick, it is not worth the one hour thirty minutes I put into it. In this movie Hogan is all old, so is Sue and the whole cute lovable couple is not so cute anymore then there are scenes were we see some ladies go gaga for Dundee, I'm no woman but that guy looked old and out of it, so I didn't see the attraction.I felt the makers wanted to see if they could still make some more money off the franchise but this $21 million production only made 39 million in the box office, maybe the DVD sales helped later on, that I don't know but one thing I'm glad for is that, I don't think there will be a Crocodile Dundee IV.www.lagsreviews.com "},{"Title":"No worries.....","Date":"23 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Mick Dundee is back from the eighties, and this time, more hilarity ensues with typecast European villains played by people who played bad guys in the eighties in more notable films.The plot involves some sort of bad movie franchise (no pun intended) which is acting as a front to steal some rare paintings.Obviously Mick gets in the centre of it all, whilst getting involved in fish out of water scenarios, including gay bars, muggings, and talking about good old Mal Gibson.Strange considering he did this fifteen years prior. Well if it ain't broke, don't fix it.And this is the motto for Paul Hogan, and although it is a case of diminishing returns and same old same old, Hogans Dundee is such an endearing screen prescience, it's hard not to like.The story isn't up to much, and the apart from the main cast, the rest are just paper cut out Hollywood types, but it works, and heaven knows how, because it shouldn't.If you are a fan of the original movie, you will lap this up, otherwise, you will just balk at the idea, and not appreciate the cheesiness of it all. "},{"Title":"If the others were an 8 then this one is about a 6","Date":"12 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This film wasn't that bad. Sure, it wasn't what some people may have been hoping for but it's true to the character. The film was a nice send off. My grandfather saw it a few years ago and he said it was OK and that was that. He loves the first two films. He watched them annually. The third film might of not made that list but it was still an OK film.If I were to make the others a 8 out of 10 on my scale...I'd deduct two points from the conclusion.Where as it's no masterpiece it is different from the other two in its own ways. And I'd watch it again just to revisit the plot and character in that situation. It's entertaining enough...There is no nuke the fridge scene in this film. I thought the film was worth while and brought up positive memories of the first two because the character remained true. The story was a little weak but Paul pulls it off.It was enjoyable it just wasn't a instant classic, we could of have done worse though. It's worth seeing once and it's even re watchable but because it's a little more tired and less expressive (unique) than the other two films I have to rate it slightly lower in the series. "},{"Title":"Paul Hogan is likable, sadly that is pretty much it","Date":"4 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Okay, it was marginally better than I expected, but compared to the first two, which were flawed and entertaining this isn't really worth bothering with. The scenery and photography are good and Paul Hogan, while getting on a bit, is still very likable. But the thing, the film isn't really entertaining, with the comedy missing more than it hits(someone say No worries mate no longer counts as comedy, please), the plot is very slight, the pacing is uneven with one too many parts dragging and the direction is much too slow and soporific. Also what made the first two so charming and entertaining, the innocent abroad act, outback wisdom and the crocodile-hunting bravado, doesn't work as well here. Overall, it had its moments but it is really a sequel too far and not particularly worth watching except for Hogan. 3/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Paul Hogan still picks up the babes!","Date":"3 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Linda Koslowski can still serve it up! She has the class to continually be a leading lady, looks and style for any leading man.It appears that she will most likely be an actress that may have other roles in mind. I would like to see her in a role that brings out her seductive talents. maybe a role in the next 007 movie with again, Pierce Brosnan. Daniel Craig is an Awesome Bond! I still like the grace of Pierce. He is like Roger Moore, Old School Bond. In any event, these gentlemen will always have their place. As for the other Bonds, they to have their place in time.What to say?????? How about a scene that will play out in Las Vegas? Daniel Craig parachutes in from 4,000 ft above the Wynn Las Vegas. He then releases the chute within 10 ft and lands in the pool to a bunch of hot ties playing at the pool side bar. There is a robbery in progress, the LV PD is not quite there. The Casino Security has taken a big hit from the barrage of bullets from the slimy gangsters that are working their way through the casino to make their exit. Pierce who by the way is merely entering the main door, utilizing his skills to apprehend the slimy criminals catching them off guard while causing minimal damage and loss of life at the casino. Mr. Steve Wynn comes from out of nowhere, barely missing a bullet pulls out his 357 magnum and takes out the main boss. Pierce wraps up the others just in time for LVPD to clean up the mess.Hows that for a scene? "},{"Title":"Mental, alright","Date":"19 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":" So, this isn't quite Mick as we remember him. He still takes matters into his own hands to help others when he can, and he did thankfully bring some of the Aussie charm and humor with him when he went to LA&#x85; but from pretty early on, you can just tell it's not the same. After a start with beautiful nature photography yet again, we soon leave for not NY(seriously, are they really all that different? This is the third movie to use that same schtick!). After this point, the music and editing occasionally slip into hyperdrive, and in general, this tries *way* too hard. The acting is over the top half of the time. Burns is stunningly unfunny. The kid, whom I pity on account of his horrible surname(if I was called that, I would not procreate, at least not until I had gotten it changed), is surprisingly... not annoying. We get the expected gimmicks with him, but he's not forced down our throats as something cute. This is actually amusing at times, albeit these are few and far between. The thing is black and white as they come, with ominous music letting us know who the villains are. For how reasonably big a budget this clearly had, they didn't go nuts and just toss a bunch of expensive stuff in our faces; it is worth noting that, for the dumb jokes and such, this is not anywhere near as irritating and intolerable as the recent family comedies often are. There are a couple of shameless plugs. It would help if this was willing to parody the glamour instead of merely revelling in it. The same two leads are back, the make-up team unable to hide the fact that it's been over a decade since last time. There is almost no strong language or otherwise offensive material(apart from the most obvious end song ever) in this; it doesn't take chances like the first 2 did. I recommend this purely to big fans of the franchise. 5/10 "},{"Title":"It's not great, but it's nice to see an old friend again!","Date":"14 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Being a massive fan of the first 2 films, I approached this film with extreme caution. The thought of another Crocodile Dundee film after Paul Hogan had said in an interview That story's dead after the second one had shades of $$$$$$$ written all over it.Was I right?Yes and no!First off, it's nowhere near as bad as I'd thought it would be and the director did quite a good job of squeezing the few remaining jokes out of the formula as he could. Paul Hogan is as charming as ever and it is nice to see Linda Kozlowski as well. Both really don't look like any time has passed since 1986 and this does give it an advantage over other sequels of 80's stuff featuring frail older versions of the heros.It's a shame they didn't really have much to work with. The script plods along with nothing really catchy about it, most of the jokes have been done before and the film doesn't really do anything for C.D. and family. No major disasters or kidnappings afoot for Mick or his pal to sort out so it really should have been Crocodile Dundee- The Holiday film, because that's exactly what it looks like. Just him having a vacation in Hollywood. The Film studio plot (the exciting bit about the movie) is shallowly explored leaving Mick nothing to do but, well.......just be Mick in a variety of mildly humorous situations which, I will admit do bring a warm chuckle to my face.So there you go. If you have nothing to do one night and don't expect the quality of the first two then this film will be a perfect way to just spend a couple of hours with a smile on your face, but expect more and you will be disappointed!We all know it was going to be a 'croc' but Mick is an old friend to a lot of us, and in just that you sort of forgive him when you see his face again! "}{"Title":"One comment about fast-food","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Hey falks!Only one comment. This movie isn't that a piece of art and it loses to old 2 ones, but... Hey. Americans! It's really funny to read comments like Have Australians never seen McDonald's? Guys, are you kidding? Can you imagine McDonald's in a wild nature where Mick came from? I guess bushmen never use drive-thru either. ) Sometimes comments make me laughing. Guys, be a little bit non-americans writing comments... ;)With best regards, Alex. "},{"Title":"Don't take it seriously, it just makes it worse. - contains spoiler","Date":"7 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Before the review, a brief plot summary Mick Crocodile Dundee is living in Australia with his girlfriend, Sue Charlton, and son Mikey.  When Sue's father, who owns a newspaper company in L.A., contacts her and asks her for some help as editor for a while.  Mick, who has recently been embarassed when he and an assosiate named Jacko fail to capture an enormous crocodile, agrees to come with Sue to America.  While Sue works on a story about the third in a series of bad movies, Mick is appearing as an extra, and discovers that this film may be part of a smuggling plot.This film involves Lethal Agent III, a third (and worst) in a series of unsuccessful Lethal Agent films.  Crocodile Dundee in Los Angeles is the third (and worst) in a successful series of films about Crocodile Dundee. It seems rather a silly big time span from CDLA is from CDII. Thirteen years, while the time span from CDI and CDII is two years- in the late eighties.Before I saw the preview for this film, I was beginning to wonder how many ideas Hollywood where going to rip off or remake or sequel, as the boys up there seem to just be running out of ideas.  My question was answered when I saw this. CDII was satisfying and was a well end to the series, but if they would make such a sequel, it would have to be around 1990.The plot is silly, as well.  The plot of a foreigner coming to America raises a smile and still helps us realise how messed up we are, but it is a bit unoriginal by now.  It gets slightly predictable near the end, and just when the plot starts getting somewhere interesting, the film ends.  And I never heard any children laughing throughout the film, only a few adults chuckling.I'll give it credit for a few things.  It keeps the original cast (as old as he may be, Paul Hogan is the only Crocodile Dundee), and the acting is not bad.  The plot isn't great, but if you relax and don't take it seriously, it won't be as bad and maybe even mildly entertaining.  It also preaches to children a moral you usually don't see No sex before marriage, and (mild spoiler) at the end of the film, Mick finally weds Sue. As well, the climax on the movie set is fun and enjoyable to watch.However, no matter how seriously you do or don't take it, there is one plot hole you can't overlook.  In one scene of Lethal Agent III, where Mick is posing as an extra, a monkey refuses to do his job, so Mick whispers a few things in his ear and he astounds everyone by pouring a mobster a drink. Well, there are no monkeys in Australia.  And that scene looks like a reject scene from Ace Ventura Pet Detective.  And Australians have never seen a drive-through before?The plot etc. is a throaway for critical adults, but don't think about showing it to your kids yet.  The language is quite strong, and young Mikey even looks after a rollerblading woman telling his father that she has a nice a**.  In fact, she earlier tried flirting with Mick and called him gay (which of course he responded saying I'm usually quite happy).  Mick and Jacko visit 'The Cowboy Bar' which turns out to be a gay bar.  As they leave the bar, junkies on an acid trip drive past with guns and try to rob them, but of course they beat 'em up with ease. The word a** is used as is some television profanities.  And parents will object to Mike Tyson's cameo meditating in the park in a Buddha position.Since it is really not for kids, adults can view it if they don't take it seriously.  My rating would probably be a 5.4 out of ten for those people. "},{"Title":"How many times can you be a fish out of water?","Date":"1 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie, while mildly entertaining, has absolutely nothing new to offer to the franchise.  The plot is completely formulaic.  You have your constant, Mick Dundee thrown into a scenario he is unfamiliar with.  He uses his Abo skills to outwit dim thugs and international smugglers.  It's basically ((Croc1 + Croc2)-originality)/90 minutes.  If your kids have never seen Crocodile Dundee or a Subaru Outback commercial, it's worth a matinee price (provided at least half of the party sneaks in).  Otherwise, wait for it on video.  And even then, don't expect much for your money. "},{"Title":"Mildly entertaining","Date":"24 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Unfortunately, I found this movie to be only mildly entertaining. Paul Hogan revises his role in this comedy drama as the Australian crocodile hunter Mick Dundee. His real life wife Linda Kozlowski also joins him taking the role of his girlfriend Sue Charlton. I found the plot line to be weak, although some of the humor was good, particularly the parts dealing with cultural differences. George Hamilton makes a cameo in the movie as does Mike Tyson, both of which are complete surprises. This movie is matinee material at best and only if you have 90 minutes to waste. Younger children should not view this movie as there are some questionable situations. "},{"Title":"the wait was way too long","Date":"23 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  1989 would have been a better year to make this film. 1990 or 1991 would have been ok, also. But put a thirteen year gap between the second film and the third film, and you'll be able to feel it.Other than that, this film was pretty good. It was not a masterpiece by no means, but it was way better than most films out there today. The laughs were steady enough to keep my attention, and the ending was in the same style as the others (including the freeze-frame of the last shot). But don't expect nothing really new from Mick Dundee... except for the fact he has a son and he's no longer a crocodile poacher, he just catches them and lets them go.But, really, do you want anything different? His consistency is really what makes these films work...Please, though, if your gonna make another sequel, Hollywood, don't wait until 2014... 7 1/2 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Acceptable film but no comeback (quick review)","Date":"22 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Fans of the first two films will probably like it, but not love it. Yes, there are the occasional chuckle but it is a rather dry film compared to the first two films in this series ; The best scenes are shown in the trailer and the official site and the comedy is rather tired and labored.If I had to rate the film, I would say it's a five on ten ; The ending was rushed, the confrontation in-between Mick Dundee and the villains being quite short. Definitely no Crocodile Dundee II but a good rental (or purchase if included in a trilogy).  "},{"Title":"Good try, but the trailer has it all...","Date":"14 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Yeah, I like Mik Dundee. Saw the first 2 flicks when they premiered on TV and enjoyed it. Surprised that a 3rd one was coming out so long afterwards, I curiously went to the cinema to watch it. I must admit, it sort of dragged on a bit for me. The Audience rarely laughed at all - in fact it was just about dead silence right through it (I think it was because the funniest jokes had already been seen on the trailer). Full marks to George Negus's son though, who plays Mick Dundees son in this film. He is well cast and is rather cute in the film, but despite the odd chucle every half hour, I feel the film has little to offer. The Plot? Well, Mick Dundees wife Sue gets a job in LA and they move there. Thats just about it. There is a brief subplot about stolen paintings that does not start until the last half hour, and it seems that was just put in as an afterthought to give the film some sort of storyline.Not a bad try, Hoges, but the first 2 are miles above it. Croc 1 is funnier, maybe because it was original, I felt croc 2 had a good plot throughout, but croc 3 gets a bit tired. In fact, at times I thought the feature was just a 'directors cut' of the trailer! "},{"Title":"Crocodile Dundee in Los Angeles","Date":"3 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I remember seeing a short trailer on TV for this third instalment, I said to someone that it was meant to be rubbish, it was only years later I realised that was true to life, from director Simon Wincer (Free Willy). Basically Michael J. Crocodile Dundee (Paul Hogan) and girlfriend Sue Charleton (Linda Kozlowski) have settled into a life living in Mick's home country of Australia, along with their son Mikey (Serge Cockburn). Sue has been contacted by her father who owns a newspaper, and he needs her to return home to America to help on an article, and Mick with Mikey in tow come along with her. They are now in Los Angeles, California, where the newspaper article leads Sue to a sleazy film producer, and Mick gets a job as a monkey wrangler at the Hollwood studio he owns. This is obviously an undercover thing, while at the same time there are the small occasions where Mikey and his father are the fish out of water like before. The big cover looks like a big drug deal, and it involves some pricey paintings, and in the end Mick foils the plan and stop the gangsters, and Mick and Sue with their son return to Australia to officially marry. Also starring Jere Burns as Arnan Rothman, Jonathan Banks as Milos Drubnik, Alec Wilson as Jacko, Gerry Skilton as Nugget O'Cass, Steve Rackman as Donk, David Ngoombujarra as Arthur, Aida Turturro as Jean Ferraro, Paul Rodriguez as Diego, Mike Tyson and George Hamilton. With the second film being made thirteen years before, and Hogan being sixty two years old, it was pretty obvious this might not work, it is a ridiculous story that repeats all the once charming laughs with the out of place outlander, and I agree not even the catchphrase No worries, mate sparks a smile, a boring and pointless comedy adventure. It was nominated the Razzie for Worst Remake or Sequel. Poor! "},{"Title":"More trip to  the cashpoint than comedy","Date":"30 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":" While great comedy should often appear effortless, that doesn't mean that the word should be taken literally, though on one level Crocodile Dundee in Los Angeles can truly be said to be an effortless comedy. Absolutely no effort whatsoever has been made it's in focus and the microphone never creeps into shot as uninteresting things happen in the most uninteresting way possible while the cast are given uninteresting things to say to bulk out the running time to the contractually agreed length, but that's about it for exertion. That the 'plot' revolves around a smuggling operation financing a movie studio producing a guaranteed flop third episode in a dead franchise could possibly be seen as a moment of post-modernism, but it's probably just a desperate cry for help from the screenwriters. All the charm and wit of the first (and to a lesser extent the second) film has vanished, taking the characters and goodwill with them Paul Hogan is starting to look a leathery as the crocs themselves and the most interesting thing about Linda Kozlowski here is trying to pinpoint the plastic surgery through the soft focus filters she's often shot with and work out how much of her disengaged performance is down to boredom and how much to Botox. Both are saddled with characters that simply aren't believable at their age anymore even if they do now have a rather bland son to acknowledge the passing years. She's a primary school play version of a reporter while somehow Mick Dundee seems to have suddenly become a complete simpleton with no memory of all the things he encountered in the first two films in the hope that the audience will find his newfound ignorance funny rather than simply bewildering - it's not even as if his character took a whack to the head in a contrived plot point, it's just plain lazy writing. Things improve slightly to become vaguely watchable in the last half hour, but that's not exactly a recommendation. Belated threequels are usually desperate attempts from faded stars to revive their career and bank balance, but this is so utterly disinterested in doing anything but visiting the cashpoint that it practically qualifies as a non-film. It's just a void. Avoid. "},{"Title":"One too many? Maybe... but still fun.","Date":"1 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This movie has been out for 8 years and I still have fun watching it. Sure, the whole 'fish-out-of-water' thing was done in the first one, but now it's about LA and the love story has already been established. The first was a romantic comedy about a city girl and a fish out of water in the city. The second was an action comedy where we got to see a lot of Mick's Outback survival skills. The third is a comedy based on the same old fish out of water story with a twist... not only is Mick out of his element, he realizes that he's aged; An old bushwhacker with a bite on his leg. This movie falls in line with a lot of sequels and even some movies in that you got to take it for what it is. Even Hogan himself said that all he really wanted to do with this third installment is get a laugh and I think he accomplished that. "}{"Title":"Not Good, Not Bad...Just OK","Date":"29 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"    I have seen all Crocodile Dundee films and I have to say that this one is the worst. It has its moments, but not enough of them. Pretty much a remake of the first film, except this time the setting is LA and Mick has his kid along with him. If it's on TV, and you like the first two, then by all means watch it. But if you have to pay to see it, pass and rent one of its successors. "},{"Title":"It's a Croc Alright","Date":"21 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  When over 10 years passes between sequels, it's generally not a good sign. For every The Color of Money, there are several Two Jakes, pointless sequels made for a quick buck that may or may not materialize. Go ahead and toss Crocodile Dundee in Los Angeles into the pointless category. I guess you could watch this with your kids for harmless fun. But if your kids are old enough to remember the first two films in this franchise, they're too old to enjoy this one.Aside from showcasing the adverse effects of prolonged exposure to the sun, there was zero reason to drag out leather-skinned Paul Hogan for another installment of The Croc. A silly plot, flat jokes, and some of the laziest acting this side of Con Air make this film entirely unnecessary.For humor, you're better off hitting an open-mic night. And for that old Australian charm, hell, you're better off at Outback Steakhouse. And that ain't a compliment to Outback.Pass. "},{"Title":"Fun for everyone (5/10)","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  So, this is it. Hopefully the last Dundee ever. I was actually quite suprised, to see this one beeing this good. Yeah, the story was kind-of far-fetched, but don't let that get in the way of the fun. Except for some of the typical Australian jokes (note that I am from Austria, Europe NOT from Down Under) there were a lot of laughs in the audience. If the weather is bad, and you don't know what else to do, go see this.  "},{"Title":"How one can use sheer human ingenuity to outsmart...to survive in the outbacks as well as in the concrete jungle!,","Date":"13 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I have watched all the three Crocodile Dundee movies in the theatre as well as their re-runs on cable TV at home - Crocodile Dundee I; - Crocodile Dundee II; - Crocodile Dundee in Los Angeles I am very impressed by the hilarious antics of Mick Dundee (Paul Hogan). I also like his charming, down-to-earth character. What I have enjoyed most in watching the three movies is that, I have learned that one can use sheer human ingenuity & creativity to overcome obstacles, no matter how intimidating they are...some life-threatening ones, too! Just watch how Mick Dundee (sometimes with his side-kick) out-thinking all the predators &/or bad guys in all three movies...in the treacherous hot outbacks of Australia & the mean streets of New York (When a mugger poked a small knife in front of his face, Mick took out his jungle knife & said That's not a knife. This is a knife!)...& mercilessly cold concrete jungle of Los Angeles. On the whole, I have enjoyed watching again all the three movies, each with its own engaging story & romantic notion of adventure. As a strategy consultant/success coach on life (survival) skills, I have added these three movies to my resource repertoire. "},{"Title":"Awful, Horrible, Terrible, Wretched... Get the Point?","Date":"8 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"   This movie was surprisingly terrible. I knew it would be a bit bad, but this was awful. Paul Hogan's character Mick Dundee worked in the first film, but now he has long overstayed his welcome. The jokes are getting old, the routine repetitive, and the characters and dialogue are getting thin. This film could have been a refreshing satire on LA, and could have cleverly spoofed the film business. We caught a glimpse of this kind of rare humor during the backlot tour session. Unfortunately, not even that sequence was funny because (wait for it) THEY SHOWED IT ON THE TRAILER! And then, the very end is completely thrown together in a haphazard way. I was confused - is the film taking itself serious or is it tongue-in-cheek? Either way, the ending did not work for me.But needless to say, none of the other moments were memorable, and even the cameos can make up for how bad this trash was. Disappointing, Hogan, very disappointing. No wonder you've no more films lined up right now.1.5/5 stars -John Ulmer "},{"Title":"They don't get any better with time","Date":"2 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Crocodile Dundee in Los Angeles, a delayed reaction sequel 15 years after the original film, continues the antics of Dundee in Hollywood with no better results than the first sequel. An apparent attempt to make a few bucks before getting too old to play the macho croc-hunter, this flick sees Dundee in L.A., none the worse for wear,  with his lovely main squeeze, a kid, and a buddy/nanny from down under getting into one trite and silly situation after another - all obvious attempts to show the humorous culture clashing which made the first flick popular. The film has too many faults to itemize. Suffice it to say it just doesn't have the magic and charm of the first Dundee flick but still  it might be worth a look for Dundee (Hogan) fans. (C-) "},{"Title":"Boring Junk","Date":"7 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  One of the worst movies to come out this year.  Not much of a plot. Not much humor.  Poor script.  It is certainly not worth paying to see this junk. I wouldn't even recommend renting it.  Very boring to sit through this poorly done movie. "},{"Title":"I couldn't bear watching it!","Date":"8 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  It's hard to feel patriotic about Paul Hogan, when you watch this movie! Paul was always considered as Australia's treasure, but now he is reduced to leftovers. Crocodile Dundee in Los Angeles lost all the charm from the previous two movies. The plot is horrendous and so is the acting. Avoid this move at all costs!!! "},{"Title":"A complete flop. An embarrassment.","Date":"5 October 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This pathetic waste of film stock should never have been made. Untalented, sad, unfunny, tired, boring, stupid. Not even these words can describe how weak this movie is. Old Dundee - what was he thinking?  He's too old now to pull this role off. Anyone out there who worked on this garbage should never admit it. The director should commit himself to a retirement village, the writer should change his name, the crew should join a suicide pact and put themselves out of their misery. "},{"Title":"What a Crock!","Date":"9 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Paul Hogan has been The Austrailan in terms of the American viewpoint that he was fresh,new and quite a different comedian. It seems that he was told he could make a  A Million being that funny That's A Knife character. Well, I am not looking forward to Crocadile Dundee 4. Dundee 2 faded and Paul Hogan in Los Angeles might as well been Crocadile Dundee Tries to pull the Wool. The script and acting belongs on Ripley's Believe it or Not. I personally got very bored waiting for something funny to happen. Hogan is talented as is, his wife, but give me a break! It smacks of Lets see how much we can get away with. It obviously was a lousy idea and indeed, a Bomb movie. "}{"Title":"s**t!","Date":"16 September 2001","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  How was this movie ever made? Truly one of the worst films I've every seen. The only reason I paid in to see this movie was for a laugh, you know the kind of movie, you know its bad, but you think it might be so bad that it could be funny? Boy was i wrong on that count, its so bad its bad. Save your money and go see Space Cowboys, thats awful aswell but a masterpiece thats full of laughs when compared with this tripe.  "},{"Title":"This is SOOOOOOOO 80s!","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I quite enjoyed the first CD movie and liked the second one. 13 years after CD II, there's now CD III and only two things you could possibly expect - it is phenomenal. they had so much time to work on it and spent it very weel, finely crafting every little thing - it is bad Although it's not half as bad as other movies I've seen (Scream 3 for instance), it's still hopelessly out of date. Everything looks, feels and acts as if we're still in the 80s. There's a number of rather good punch lines in there, but that doesn't really save the film.As an Aborigine says to Mick right at the beginning By the way, Mick, it's the 21st century.So he knew it and made an 80s film nevertheless. Pity, he could've done much more. Stayed in Australia, for instance, I enjoyed the movie until he had to go to LA for a rather far-fetched and uninspired reason. Hogan can be genuinely funny but only very rarely is in this flick.The worst bit, BTW, is the end titles music. You guessed it - Men At Work 's Down under - Rather unnecessary.  "},{"Title":"Urgh...why oh why?","Date":"18 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Why did they have to make Crocodile Dundee 3 ? they should have just left it after the second one.  This movie is lame, boring and totally unfunny.  2 films was enough the third has ruined it.  Crocodile Dundee is no James Bond afterall.  Bond is the only non-american hero that Hollywood can stand. "},{"Title":"A sequel too far","Date":"20 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  First one? Excellent. Second one? Good. This one? A turkey. If it's free on TV and you have nothing better to do, it's amusing in places. If you are paying (we were) don't waste your money. My twelve year old thought it was amusing but the plot is puerile and the actors seemed to be only interested in the money.  "},{"Title":"Lame!","Date":"21 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Paul Hogan has an engaging screen presence but he really should have shelved the Dundee idea after the first film or spent the money to hire good writers.  While not awful this comedy is at best tepid and predictable. Strictly for the die hard Hogan fans.  I give it a 4. "},{"Title":"Lame!","Date":"21 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Paul Hogan has an engaging screen presence but he really should have shelved the Dundee idea after the first film or spent the money to hire good writers.  While not awful this comedy is at best tepid and predictable. Strictly for the die hard Hogan fans.  I give it a 4. "},{"Title":"The funniest part was Paul Hogan's new face","Date":"18 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Crocodile Dundee was one of the most successful Aussie movies ever. It showed Aussie's could make a decent movie, crack the US market and make a funny comedy. It also put Australia on the map, getting our name out there more than anything else had ever done.It also spawned an okay sequel, Crocodile Dundee 2, and then this cash grabbing beast. Strapped for ideas, Hogan decides to base a film around a pretty thin plot and write lots of jokes about how crazy American things are to him. His other big idea is to add a son, Mikey, who looks cute and says cool about 400 times in the movie. There's also a totally out-of-place Mike Tyson cameo.Just a weird movie that leaves you feeling sad Hogan could never come up with anything as successful as Crocodile Dundee without being a sequel. This guy was one of the first great sketch comedy stars in Australia, writing some brilliant stuff, but he never matched it again with anything on the big screen. Not only that, some of the movies he's been in should be burnt and destroyed eg Almost and Angel and Strange Bedfellows, or you could use them to show the great divide between a good movie and a bad movie. "},{"Title":"Unnecessary, unimaginative, unfunny and just plain bland","Date":"20 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":" With the Outback becoming more and more of a tourist attraction rather than the great outdoors it once was, Crocodile Mick Dundee agrees to go to LA with his son when partner Sue gets offered a job involving film journalism in LA. Despite being an adult and having spent a significant amount of time in NY, Mick is still bemused by modern society and his young son is not much better than him. Meanwhile Sue gets involved in a cheap and nasty film sequel called Lethal Agent 3 &#150; supposedly being made in Eastern Europe to appeal to that market but Sue smells a rat and Mick agrees to do whatever stupid job she requires to find out more information.If the majority of it wasn't so poor I would have thought that the plot about an unnecessary and pointless second sequel would have been a really clever and edgy piece of self reference set within a better than expected comedy. However, the film is so average and unnecessary that it feels more like the writers were perhaps so disillusioned by their assignment that they decide to see how much taking the p*ss they could get away with. Almost totally ignoring the irony of the plot, the film sets up an idiotic thriller involving the smuggling of lost paintings into the US but only really does anything with it in the final 15 or so minutes. For the rest of the film we get lots of jokes about how different LA is from the outback of Australia.- gay bars, fast food, traffic; all stuff you would have thought Mick would have been a bit sharper on after two other movies in this environment. It is not awful, but it is just rather average and lacklustre without ever producing any laughs.The cast are fairly poor. Hogan looks happy for the payday and does seem to be enjoying himself back in his own famous role &#150; I wonder was it as surprising for him to be funded for this third film as it was for me to find out someone was making it! Kozlowski does the bare minimum and didn't impress; meanwhile the addition of the obligatory cute kid seems to have been only done to extend the innocent abroad joke. Meanwhile the support cast features a collection of video premiere regulars including turns from Wilson and Banks.Overall this is a very poor third sequel and I really cannot understand why it was made considering the joke was getting thin even in the first sequel. It must really irk any filmmaker trying to get their project off the ground to see this sort of stuff getting given a big bag of cash &#150; god knows it bothers me that someone took the decision to do it but not do anything clever or different with it. Not a terrible film by any means just a totally bland and unimaginative one that is a waste of time. "},{"Title":"Awful","Date":"5 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I very much enjoyed the first Crocodile Dundee with Paul Hogan as it was funny. CD2 was less funny but still enjoyable. CD3 sucks. Everyone in the picture acts as if they're just going through the motions, and lackadaisically at that. Save your money, folks, this string has played out. "},{"Title":"Ham with Crocodile","Date":"11 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  It's such a pity that Crocodile Dundee in LA just missed being very good not because the story line was bad or the script wasn't funny it was mainly due to the hammed up acting of the stars, Paul Hogan and Linda K. Why? Indeed.  Linda K is a very good actress was charisma and style but it seems that in the years she's been married to funny guy Paul Hogan her talent as an actress has evaporated away. Paul Hogan was very funny in C.D.1 and 2 but in this 2001 update his timing seemed poor and the funny script fell flat on it's face. I've seen them both be very good and charismatic on screen so what happened here?  Perhaps the director had no sense of humour! "}{"Title":"Swimming Westside.","Date":"12 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Linda Kozlowski gets a call in Australia from her father to do a story in Los Angeles about a shady movie studio run by comic-book-styled bad guy Jere Burns. She finally decides to do the story, with Paul Hogan (in the titled role) and their young son (Serge Cockburn) joining her on the journey. Soon Hogan's croc-out-of-water antics come shining through once again as L.A. is definitely a weird and strange place to him. As time progresses, the silly situations continue and eventually Hogan even goes undercover as a stunt man at Burns' studio. Cash cow (or crocodile) piece was supposed to bring in those seeking the nostalgia of the original from 1986, but there were few takers as the movie tanked. The movie is not terrible (it is a lot better than the second installment), but really all the creativity and intelligence of the series were used up a good 15 years earlier. 2.5 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"I was bored, like the cast","Date":"6 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  There were a couple clever gags, but they were just variations of the same ones that were in the first two films. The first movie was good mainly because it was original (at least to North Americans), the second one was pretty good because it was the first movie in reverse, and this one goes back to remaking the first. Maybe that's why the cast looked so bored.Hogan and his wife put in disinterested performances, the bad guys were cardboard cutouts, and the wacky outback characters only get brief cameos. Paul Rodriguez seems to be the only one interested in making this movie. The only reason I rented it was to have something my 7 year old could watch, but he wandered off halfway through. I kept watching to see if it would get better. It didn't. Don't bother. "},{"Title":"Skank cap!!!!","Date":"7 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Quite possibly the biggest blockbuster for the last 20 years!!!!!!!!!!. Seeing Paul Hogan after his triple bypass is a sight for sore eyes. He also looks like Al the care taker at Ward Design (the slave trades biggest secret). Crocodile Dundee 3 starts off like any other hardcore film with gratuitous full backtulls. Paul Hogans left quad is abnormally ripped and you can tell from the scars that some varicose veins have been removed from his weathered forehead. The final confrontation between P.Hogan & The Legend, Hulkster the Bollywood Hogan aka Clarence Bodicker aka Francis Dollahyde, rocks.The fully CGI battle between the good & evil versions of Paul Backer Hogan is up there with Superman 3. Crocodile D3 is the absolute mutts nuggets. Maximum bacon rind. NEAL BEFORE ZOD KING OF THE BONERS.!!!!!!!!!!!!!?????? "},{"Title":"Half a dozen laughs - separated by an entire movie.","Date":"12 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  In his interview discussing why he made this film, Paul Hogan said he made it because he could. I'm sure he had fun making this, but there isn't enough new ideas warrant an entire movie.The film isn't bad, it simply lacks any qualities that make it unique in the trilogy of films starring the great croc hunter.Don't waste your money at the theater, but by all means watch it on video or on TV late one night. "},{"Title":"Lame sequel to a lame sequel","Date":"3 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Nothing new at all here - just more of the same old tired fish-out-of-water jokes and going-through-the-motions performances from all concerned.The first Croc movie worked in 1986 because it was original, but when the 1988 sequel offered very little in the way of new ideas, the whole concept began to wear thin very quickly. They should have left it at that, because this third attempt made nearly a decade and a half later is just an embarrassment. No surprise that it bombed. I have to say though that Paul Hogan still looks remarkably lean and fit for a bloke of his age and deserves great credit for not letting himself go to seed like a lot of folks do. He could be an example to us all there.I'm feeling generous so I'll give it 3 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Pleasant but unremarkable","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The series is definitely tired.  The jokes are dumb and obvious, and we've seen them all before, but Hogan pulls them off with a lot of charm that makes it easy to forgive.  The plot is perfunctory, but every once in awhile there's an exciting or genuinely funny moment.  Worth a rental if you're bored and the video store is out of anything better. "},{"Title":"I can't say it was a disappointment...","Date":"17 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":" because I had fairly low expectations from the start.Is it just a sad attempt to recapture the charm of the original(which seemed rather drab the last time I saw it), or to once again reap a cash bonanza like that of the first film, probably the latter, but I can be a bit of a cynic when it comes to the motivations of Hollywood producers.The jokes in the script seemed rather dated, almost to a point where it seemed that it was written in the late 80's. Currently it has a 4.6 rating, which seems 2 point too high. Maybe someday it will sink to the bottom of the IMDb swamp where it belongs.2/10 or 1/2*(out of 4) "},{"Title":"My reasoning behind a vote of 1","Date":"3 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie is so god-awful that I cannot bring myself to watch it. That's how bad it is. Why do they make such twaddle? I really think that the people who come up with ideas like Hey, let's make another Crocodile Dundee movie! should be tortured for the rest of their days. But Carey Embry's is good as the cow-girl, I must say. "}]