[{"Title":"Not as bad as most viewers say","Date":"4 April 2003","Score":"14 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Deuces Wild has gotten a lot of unfavourable comments by viewers and critics. I didn't think it was such a bad movie, especially considering the budget the producers and director had to work with. With the limited funds to make this film, the scenes were filmed with very few takes - giving it a 'play' feel.The story reminds me of The Outsiders and West Side Story - which I found to be one of the down sides of the movie, but I still liked it overall.Stephen Dorff gives a great performance as Leon, the Deuces leader. Supporting actor Mr. Renfro did not impress me however. A couple of the actors from The Sopranos play supporting roles. Drea De Matteo looks awesome in this film.Rating 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"very drastic","Date":"8 February 2003","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I liked this movie, it was very unrelenting and dark - The fight scenes are pretty intense especially the last one.  A good story about an exploding gang rivalry, there are good performances from Fairuza Balk, Brad Renfro, Drea DeMatteo and others but the two actors from the Blade series really stood out here.  I'm talkin' about Stephen Dorff(Blade, Judgment Night) and Norman Reedus(Blade 2, Boondock Saints), they were great in the rival roles of Leon and Marco, they really brought their hatred for each other to life, good job...  "},{"Title":"Not highly memorable...","Date":"26 October 2003","Score":"12 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Don't you hate it when you're standing in the videostore and you already saw all movies that there ? Those are the moments that you rent movies like Deuces Wild...these kind of titles are never high on your list but you take them anyway because the synopsis doesn't sound too bad and you know the washed up actors in it from their earlier - more glorious - roles.The stories of these movies are never highly original. We've all seen it before. The only thing movies like this can do is provide the story with a few interesting twists, cool characters and some good looking settings and locations. And, I'm not being too harsh today, Deuces Wild succeeds in doing so. The story takes place in the 1950's. After he lost his brother to an overdose of Heroïne, Leon ( Stephen Dorff ) founds the Deuces. A steetgang that tries to keep the Brooklyn neighborhood clean. Opposite to this, is the Viper streetgang. Their leader is about to get released from jail and he ( Norman Reedus from Boondock Saints ) wants to take revenge because he thinks Leon framed him. It looks like a war between both gangs can't be avoided even though the true king of the Brooklyn streets, Fritzy ( a small but great role by Matt Dillon ) , strongly warned them not to fight.Deuces Wild contains a lot of decent actors who never really reached the highest status. You've got the ones I already mentioned, but also known names like Fairuza Balk, Brad Renfro and Deborah Harry. The cast also includes a few upcoming names like James Franco and the annoying ( in my opinion, of course ) Frankie Muniz. They also deliver pretty decent acting jobs but the show gets stolen by the nice and good 50's settings. We're talking old-timers, juke-boxes and lots of hairgel.  You're never touched by the story or the characters and that's the biggest disadvantage of this movie. You don't really care who wins or who loses. You never feel involved in the story, but you don't mind watching it. If you ever come across it on TV or at your local videostore...give it a go. It stands for an hour and a half of fun.  "},{"Title":"Intense action!","Date":"4 May 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie was basically just a good guy vs. bad guy movie. Its one of the best that I've seen since the Outsiders! Its definatley a movie that should be seen on the big screen! The acting was awesome, and the writers did an excellent job on the script. There are really no upsets in this movie, and no sex or nudity. This is just a good movie that i reccomend! "},{"Title":"Very Disappointing","Date":"26 September 2011","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Hmmm... a tremendously talented young cast, tried and true subject matter and Martin Scorcese producing. A sure thing, right?Nope. Not even close. Before seeing Deuces Wild, I'd read all the mediocre and bad reviews on here but decided to give it a shot anyway, because I've been pleasantly surprised in the past. But not this time. The film is weak in every possible way, except perhaps for the setting and art direction. The story is nothing but one cliché after another, with zero originality and very little to hold your interest. The director managed the clever feat of getting horrible performances from excellent actors, although the writers deserve some credit for that also, as the script seems to have been written by a middle school class that was locked in a room with a DVD of West Side Story and a crate of doo-wop albums as their only reference material.I honestly couldn't even get halfway through it. I have no idea how Scorcese could have attached his name to this project, even as a producer. Did he even read the script?It's just a really unfortunate movie. If you're an absolute die-hard '50s addict, I suppose you'll find something entertaining in there, but other than that, steer clear. Not worth your time. "},{"Title":"The Outsiders The Next Generation.","Date":"15 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Deuces Wild is a gangland movie that pays homage to other gangland movies, with the most evident being The Outsiders. Matt Dillon even has a supporting role. This is not as good as The Outsiders, but isn't bad either. As I said, it is a homage movie that is a great watch.Deuces Wild's most parallels are from The Outsiders as I mentioned, but what makes this more unique from The Outsiders is the characters. Stephen Dorff is protagonist, Leon. Leon is the fierce leader of Brooklyn street gang, The Deuces who keeps control in the neighbourhood. The late, great Brad Renfro plays his hot-headed little brother, Bobby. The Deuces are rivals with another Brooklyn gang called The Vipers, and chaos spews when Bobby falls in love with one of the Vipers' sisters, who is played by Fairuza Balk. That makes situations worse when the Vipers' leader, Marco (Norman Reedus) is released from jail. Each character in this is great and would have been a nice addition to The Outsiders. Leon is like Dallas Winston, but Leon is more respectable and there's more visible goodness in him. I can just imagine Bobby being being an Outsider too. Marco would have been a great addition to the Socs, as they were missing the vicious counterpart that would have balanced out the war. Bits and pieces have been stolen from On The Waterfront, Rumble Fish, Bad Boys and The Outsiders. But the entire cast all do mighty fine. This is Dorff's best role and one of Renfo's best. "},{"Title":"Some Lines Should Never Be Crossed","Date":"13 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" In the sweltering summer of 1958, the Deuces, a gang of Brooklyn toughs, find their turf threatened when the leader of a rival gang, the Vipers, is released from prison. Leon (Stephen Dorff), the Deuces' leader, tries to guide his boys through bloody brawls to keep the Vipers out. But when his brother (Brad Renfro) falls into a sultry - and dangerous - relationship with Annie (Fairuza Balk), the sister of a Viper, and his own girlfriend is brutally attacked, Leon and his gang are plunged into an all-out war to save his brother, his girl - and his neighborhood! according to the DVD sleeve description. This is definitely no Basketball Diaries.Think of it as West Side Story getting hit over the head with baseball bats and steel pipes, stickball having left Brooklyn with the Dodgers. Deuces Wild has some cool Hollywood sets, 1950s cars and soundtrack songs; and, much of it is nicely photographed by John A. Alonzo. The story and direction never get beyond these strengths, which enables the film to peak during its opening minutes, and proceed downhill. The cast looks good when you read the credits, but translates into an ageing, flabby mess of phony pompadours, blood, and Brylcreem&#x85; and one fright wig. A sense of sadness and regret permeates the production.*** Deuces Wild (5/3/02) Scott Kalvert ~ Stephen Dorff, Brad Renfro, Fairuza Balk, Frankie Muniz "},{"Title":"2 hours of my life have been wasted..","Date":"13 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  It was awful plain and simple. What was their message? Where was the movie going with this? It has all the ingredients of a sub-B grade movie. From plotless storyline the bad acting to the cheesey slow-mo cinematography. I'd sooner watch a movie I've already seen like Goodfellas, A Bronx Tale, even Grease. There are NO likeable characters. In the end you just want everyone to die already. Save 2 hours of your life and skip this one. "},{"Title":"Really mediocre. Worth a look for a great Norman Reedus performance","Date":"24 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Deuces Wild isn't a great flick, and not even a really good one at that. It's an interesting, eclectic effort though, one that's maybe too hectic and unfocused for its own good. It's cobbled together from other similar stories like The Outsiders, The Warriors and the like, and feels too committed to derivative motions to come up with anything unique and all it's own. Yet still, the cast alone and the antics they get up to, separated from plot cohesion and an overall view, are enough for a casual glance. It concerns an New York street gang called the Deuces, running amok in the streets and causing all kinds of trouble with rival hoods, powerful neighborhood bosses and the ever corrupt legions of New York's finest. Leon (Stephen Dorff) and Bobby (Brad Renfro) run the Deuces and are determined to keep drugs off their turf, while a rival gang called the Vipers wants to flood the streets. Bobby takes up with the sister (Fairuza Balk) of a Viper, and the gang also deals with Fritzy (a laid back Matt Dillon) a senior executive in the crime underworld. The plot is a rambling mess with way too many characters running about inanely, some of them played by James Franco, Drea DeMatteo, Vincent Pastore, Deborah Harry, Louis Lombardi, Johnny Knoxville, Balthazar Getty and Malcolm in the middle. The performances ate all pretty forgettable except for Norman Reedus as Marco, a positively evil rival gang member with bloodlust for the Deuces. He doesn't show up until well into the film, but injects it with some much needed virile menace by staring down and stabbing everyone he can. Like I said it ain't the best movie, but the cast will keep your attention and there's a few moments of tension to keep it going. "},{"Title":"Amazing!","Date":"4 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I don't understand why people say this movie is terrible! Being a fan of Stephen Dorff, I saw this movie in the movie store and decided to rent it. It is an amazing movie and I was hooked in the first twenty minutes.The acting is awesome. Norman Reedus (Prior to the Walking Dead) and Stephen Dorff do an amazing job in their roles. The late Brad Renfro is awesome as well. The other actors are as equal as the others. For it taking place in the 50s, it honestly does feel like the old times. The fighting scenes are perfect and I wouldn't give this movie anything less than 8 stars. "}{"Title":"Mediocre Gang War","Date":"2 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" In a nutshell the movie is about a gang war in the 1950's. Leon, the leader of the Deuces, starts the gang after his brother OD's on junk. He vows to protect the neighborhood. The leader of the rival gang is just getting out of prison and wants revenge.The movie didn't really do it for me. The Good Guys weren't any more good than the Bad Guys. Very little was shown to suggest that the Deuces really cared for the community. I suppose the writers were going for realism here, but I just didn't care which side won. None of the characters were likable, or even capable of drawing my sympathy.On the plus side the courtship between Annie and Bobby had some snappy dialog, and the acting overall was well done. "},{"Title":"Had a few good points to it.","Date":"27 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I wouldn't recommend this movie, other than on a rainy day. It was basically a hyped up hormones, macho-ism worshiping film about local hoods in Brooklyn. There was the typical clichés, boy meets girl, etc. However, there are a few things that went well 1) The bad guy was creepy. He was jealous and bitter, like a lot of wannabe hoods who did hard time.2) The older brother was trying to be sedate and practical, while the younger brother was naive and reactive.3) They lived with their mothers, who were going mad. Probably pretty close to true.4) There was no escape from the hood. You were stuck there, and in that environment.5) The fights were not phony. They really did beat each other up, and the last ones standing were the winners. For once, they make the fights look realistic. It wasn't as though they were great fighters, but they fought until they dropped. It was very realistic.However, don't expect too much depth in this film. It was just something to watch on a rainy day. "},{"Title":"Deuces Wild The Way it use to be!","Date":"25 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie had a lot of truth behind it,if you grew up in the streets of Brooklyn such as myself and not in the state of Alabama like the user mister person in this website you can understand this movie. I don't know if mister person who made that negative comment on the movie even knows what a street gang is living in Alabama, but a lot of people who grew up in or around N.Y.C. know what I mean. I don't want to make any real comments on the movie in case you did't see it as of yet, but this I can say if it's street gang movies that interest you with some truth behind it you should see this movie. A Bronx Tale is also another good one about growing up on the streets in the Bronx,N.Y. "},{"Title":"Grease and West Side Story for men!","Date":"6 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  WARINING SEMI SPOILERS!This film depicts the violent confrontation between two rival gangs in the late 1950's. One gang, The Deuces, is a group of tough but good hearted guys, lead by Leon, a goodhearted hero who is (Stephen Dorff, in a phenemonal performance) the toughest of the tough but a good guy and his younger, more impressionable brother Bobby (Brad Renfro, former Teen idol of Tom and Huck fame). Their rivals are The Vipers, a gang of vicious, bloodthirsty bad guys. Their leader, Marco(Norman Reedus), a sadistic, villianous killer, has just gotten out of prison thanks to Leon putting him there, so he swears vengeance on Leon. Marco's mission is to put drugs into the neighborhood that the Deuces run, which Leon is dead set against for personal reasons. This all leads to a violent showdown at the very end in which Marco and Leon go toe to toe. Meanwhile, Bobby has fallen in love with a Viper's younger sister. However, unlike his West Side Story counterpart Tony, he has not forgotten where he comes from or where his loyalties lie. This movie is very rough and vicious and it is quite clear that this is not a movie for the ladies. The performances are top notch, however Stephen Dorff pulls off the best performance. Having seen him play the evil Deacon Frost in Blade, I was eager to see if he could pull of a role as far from Deacon Frost as possible. And he clearly can. He pulls of his part wonderfully, portraying a good guy who stands up for the innocent. He, and the rest of the cast, pull off good performaces. However, the film itself is a little rough at times, so don't bring the ladies along fellas. A pure guy film all the way.3 out of 4 stars. One star goes for Dorff's acting. "},{"Title":"Is it possible to give a film a ~ negative ~ rating","Date":"4 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The only thing worse than this movie is the fact that I spent 90 minutes out of my life watching it! It's a shame, too, as there is so much young talent in this flick that is gone to waste. That being said, I think the biggest problem with the film is that it's overacted, but what can you expect with a poorly written script.Why do they continue to put little Stephen Dorff in the role of tough guys and bad asses? As great as he was in Backbeat he's equally poor in this flick. He just can't get over in the role of the tough guy. No muscle tone and a puppy dog face will do that to you.Has Matt Dillon ever taken an acting lesson? If he did, who was mentor, Eric Roberts?I also don't understand the concept of Scooch getting a bike from Marco, then suddenly turning up at the brawl, wanting to fight, and tossing the pipe to Leon. Big plot hole.Poorly made film. No other way around it. Next time, kill the cheesey Brooklyn accents. "},{"Title":"Worthy Fantasy","Date":"16 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  It's Once upon a Time in America meets Sue Hinton!! everything from West Side Story (Romeo & Juliet) to the Sopranos (Pussy in a Hassock) Deuces Wild rocks out!!! this little number has taken our not so gracefully aged Matt Dillon and made him a Godfadda in a neighborhood you would expect to see the Wanderers strolling down instead of these homicidal escapees from a Guys and Dolls Matinée.  Throw in a demented script and we are given a world of 1958 which is just as improbable as Streets of Fire with much more action! Made for a new generation this scrappy little number doesn't let you down, fights on the docks, shootings on the stoop and even executions by cinder-blocks it has something for everyone...I guess maybe it could have been animated "},{"Title":"One word Awful","Date":"1 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I am left with a question at the end of this movie What? I wonder if anyone actually read the script before or even during shooting this film. There's really no way to go wrong with a 50s greaser gang film if it's done right. But, come on, heavy metal guitar solos during a fight scene!? Booooooo! "},{"Title":"The Outsiders meets West Side Story...and it works.","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Ok. This movie is not the best in the world. The plot has been done, although I don't think it's been done enough times for people to get tired of it yet. The story strays from the main theme once or twice. And the overused thunder and lightning effect every time something shocking happens is too old and tired to be in a movie made in this day in age. But what Deuces Wild has going for it is a strong cast, great performances, awesome fights scenes, and a somewhat surprise ending. The movie is very gritty and anybody who thinks this is just another West Side Story, you're WRONG. I don't think the Jets or Sharks dropped so many F-Bombs or broke peoples faces with bats and steel pipes. I give this film a 6 out of 10. That's a pretty good score for me and I think it's worth buying if you can get it for less than 20 bucks, which I did. Otherwise rent it. It's not groundbreaking but it is a good time. And as for the references to Fight Club. Sha..right. Not even close. Fight Club is my fav movie and this one doesn't come close. If you liked Fight Club, don't expect anything on par here. This movie definetely has a rushed feel, but it is still good. I imagine that if the makers of this film had spent a little more time on the development, we would have had something special. If I had to rank this with other 50's gang films, I'd make it #3. 1 being A Bronx Tale and 2 being The Outsiders. Trust me, if you liked the other 2, at least check this movie out.  "},{"Title":"Not as Good as I had Hoped","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The trailers to this movie looked good. Maybe they should have released the trailer as the feature.It seems that a rite of passage for all young, white, male actors is to play an Italian or Irish street tough from Brooklyn (or Jersey or Boston or Philadelphia or Chicago, or Detroit). Any large industrial city where the actors can get away with putting on a stereotypical accent.But that's not all that bothers me about this movie. There are the tired, clichéd lines like ...and the streets of Brooklyn where red with blood and If I see you talkin' to him again, you're out in the street. You and your old lady.Fairuza Balk is the only interesting actor in this film. She has some clichéd lines just like the others, but she also has most of the movie's original ones. I especially liked ...and before that, I crawled out from between my mother's legs. Got any more questions?Brad Renfro is a decent actor, but he should stick to what he does best. The misplaced, naive and/or clueless kid like he was in Ghost World and Telling Lies in America.Steven Dorff is not a good actor, period. In this movie, he comes across as a wannabe actor high school jock trying to play Stanley Kowalski. But at least it wasn't as bad as his portrayal of Candy Darling in I Shot Andy Warhol. There he came across as a frat boy in drag for the homecoming talent show.Frankie Muniz is cute, but that's all.Matt Dillon is tired as his typecast role of the tough guy. He should do the opposite of Brad Renfro and go back to taking risks like he did in Something About Mary.I have a fondess for urban, period drama. But the script has to be orginal and the casting should be based on more than just looks. "},{"Title":"impressively disappointing; disappointingly impressive","Date":"20 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I had no expectations for this movie.  I saw it because my flatmate has a huge crush on Norman Reedus, and figured it would be a Boiler Room/Fast and the Furious type teenage boy flick.  I was wrong.  The acting and script were very strong, borrowing the absolute best plot points from movies like West Side Story (love conquers gang lines) and A Bronx Tale (movie title, name of hangout, soundtrack, emotional depth).  With the addition of strong sibling relationships and even stronger female leads who do much more than just sing and dance about a place for us, there was some serious potential for Deuces Wild to be a smart, important film.  Surprised me!  However, this was buried deeply under pseudo-Matrix, Fight Club-wannabe testosterone b.s. Last time I checked, CGI wasn't necessary to show bricks falling through the air, and it left me cold with wasted potential. "}{"Title":"A darker West Side Story","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Deuces Wild is, in a nutshell, West Side Story with a punch. Leon's (Dorff) brother, Bobby, slowly falls for a girl in a rival gang. When things get ugly, the fights go down, and loyalty and love are put to the ultimate test.As seen in Sleepers, the movie starts out with the narrator explaining their lives in 1950's Brooklyn. Some basic story elements come to light, such as the origin of the Deuces gang. As the story progresses, we learn the darker side of their lives. Kalvert does an excellent job with directing as he portrays hate and violence alongside love and friendship.The plot and some elements can be said as cliche, or overused, but all in all its a pretty nice job. Stephen Dorff and Fairuza Balk give the performances of their lives, and director Scott Kalvert gives a stunning introduction film for his career. Not to mention, my favorite child actor, Frankie Muniz, does a fairly good job as the local kid.All in all Deuces Wild is a great fight movie, but not much more as the story goes. Some amazing performances and directing make up for the mundane story. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Terrible","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  It never ceases to amaze me that such crap is put to celluloid over and over again. Deuces Wild is a shining example of such crap. The plot is full of recycled storylines, the script is laughable at best and the directing is confoundingly bad. Why so many tired slo-mo scenes? And do we really need to see another showdown in thunder and lightning? And, despite the fact that this movie is set in the 1950s, the score sounds like it came from an episode of Miami Vice! Unbelievable. Anybody associated with this abomination should do everything in their power to ensure that nobody else sees it and, furthermore, should never speak of their role in the production of the film  "},{"Title":"Nice to look at, but rushed and thoughtless...","Date":"22 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  When I saw the trailer for this movie while the Spider-Man hype was going on, it seemed short and mysterious, so I was hoping for a hidden gem. Besides, I've always liked movies set in the 50's. What it turned out to be, even from the beginning, was a cheap adaptation of a book I have called The Brooklyn Gang Summer of 1959. However, the movie was mischievously set in the summer of 1958. The cinematography is good, but the flow comes off as choppy and flashy, and there are many trite moments that make you just want the movie to end already. Stephen Dorff overacts, Matt Dillon hangs, and the rest...blah.  A rumble in the park during a lightning storm? Wasn't that in The Outsiders? Come on. All this left in me was a cheap thrill with a frustrating urge to fix all the errors. Well, It might have been good with some extra editing, and I did end up listening to rockabilly later that night. Pass, dude. "},{"Title":"Slow moving.. Horrible soundtrack","Date":"15 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Wow, I was really disappointed.  I wasn't really planning on seeing this movie in the theater, and I wish I stuck to that plan.  It really should be a made-for-tv movie.  I was kind of excited to see it, as I'm a big fan of Fairuza Balk, but this movie didn't do her justice.  Infact I'm a little disappointed with the acting all around.  What a horrible cover up of Fairuza Balk's tattoos, it bothered me every time I saw her shoulder. There was no flow to the movie, it was very hard to get into it. One scene we get angry, hyped up, we want blood, the anticipation rises, just then the director takes us to another scene to show the love between Annie and Bobby.  It would have been more enjoyable to follow if it was broken up into three sectional sunday paper comic strip.There was also little logic behind the characters chosen to play some parts. The gangster leaders were scrawny guys, not very believable.  Matt Dillon head of a mobster organization?  Come on, give me a break.  There was just no intimidation there.  The soundtrack.. wow.   I think this is one of the worst musical scores I've ever heard.  What awful guitar solos, my god.  The sound of my teeth grinding was more pleasing to my friends, I'm sure. Anyhow, there is one positive comment I'd like to make about the movie.  The settings were nicely done.  I liked the colours, a good job conveying that time period. "},{"Title":"Street gangs and Greaser Fans will be proud once again.","Date":"13 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  It's just like the other greaser movie but I think it has something more...Great fight scenes. Decent actors, And bricks being dropped on a car!! "},{"Title":"Very Good Movie!","Date":"12 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  One Friday I was reading movie reviews and Deuces Wild seems to have gotten a bad review.  Now, I've been wanting to see this movie since last year because Frankie Muniz was in it and I just love him and also Brad Renfro who's also a great actor.  I had plans to go and see it Saturday night. That Saturday I walked into the theater thinking I know I've been wanting to see this for such a long time, but is this really worth my money? Turns out after I saw this movie I loved it.  Though the plot was a little confusing at times, the acting was great.  The tagline really got to me, too. Before they had guns, they fought with guts.  Also, there was ALOT of violence.  That's another thing I didnt like about it.  I know I know, that was the type of movie that just needed violence in order for it to make sense, but some of it was extremely gory.  I give this movie a **** out of *****. "},{"Title":"This is now my favorite movie!","Date":"11 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I don't see how any of the people out there who commented on this movie saying it was horrible can actually say that they are exciting people. This movie was one of the best I've seen in theaters in awile.  The camera shots and angles were great, and the music set the mood for the scene perfectly. Besides the fact that it WAS closely related to the plot lines of other movies like it, it still kept me guessing as to what was going to happen next.  Personally, I think this movie was great and I would love to go see it again. I also would recomend this movie to anyone out there who enjoyed movies such as The Outsiders, West Side Story, etc. "},{"Title":"Wheres the rest","Date":"10 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie had really great points in it and overall was a pretty good film. The only draw back was that it was missing part of the story.  it felt as if there where parts left out that could have made the movie go smoother. it seemed like they took the movie from a book and had to leave key parts out, and im not sure if there is a book. I did enjoy the last 20 very much; this movie could have been great if it did have the missing areas. "},{"Title":"Angst, Action, and Well Worth the $7.50","Date":"7 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  To be perfectly honest, I was surprised. I can't believe I liked this movie as much as I did. I really liked it. I walked in the theatre expecting a remake of every street gang movie out there. In some ways, as many others have said, that was right. But let's face it, a movie about street gangs isn't going to be entirely original. Even West Side Story was a retelling of a story- Romeo and Juliet. So sure, many parts were predictable and have been used countless times. We already know the story. We're not talking rocket science here, but there was definitely some really nice chemistry.Is it hard to remember each of the gang kids, sure. Norman Reedus was positively creepy and slimey. The same for Balthazar Getty. Louis Lombardi was a real putz, but he plays them so well (Hello, Suicide Kings). Frankie Muniz was the typical kid who wants to be in the gang but they all shove him away because he's too little. Matt Dillon was, well, Matt Dillon. Nothing we haven't seen from him before. I hardly recognized Brad Renfro. Should he ever be a romantic lead? No. The stuff with Fairuza Balk was stiff and awkward, but his brotherly scenes with Stephen Dorff played well. I felt like I was seeing my big brothers up there when Dorff was at his best. He was overprotective, tough, and made me like him, even if he was living in a little world of denial about the way the world really works. At his worst, well... Let's just say he really shouldn't do crying scenes, but it was nice eye candy anyway. In all, it was nicely acted.Some shots were awfully contrived (Norman Reedus in front of the exploding car for far too long before the cut like he was just standing there waiting- Explode already!- It takes an eternity longer than it does in the trailer, believe me). I liked the use of the slow motion, superspeed, and other cute little editing tricks, however. It was just a little change of pace instead of the usual bounce from one fighting pair to the next with just abrupt cuts. If you're squeamish, you probably won't like the sound effects during the fight scenes. I couldn't always tell if it was the actors or the audience doing the groaning from some pretty sickening sounds. (Oh, and can they smooch any louder?)The power guitar soundtrack was nice and angsty; It was nice to hear music from the 50's that hasn't been used in every other movie about the 50's.All in all, it was worth the $7.50 to see it on the big screen. It's not going to garner any Oscars, but it was a good popcorn kind of flick. For the ladies, it was nice to look at. For guys, there was an abundance of testosterone and use of all variants of the f-word. If you want to see a movie with action without all of the fancy special effects (aren't we getting enough of that with Spiderman and Episode II, et al), this one fills that category. It was a pleasant surprise that I will look forward to seeing again on DVD. "},{"Title":"Not convincing","Date":"6 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  While this may have been nicely shot, it never succeeded in evoking a sense of 50's Brooklyn.  A few visual cues gave away its west coast shooting location nowhere in Brooklyn will you see shipyards like that, a beach with a pier closely resembling the Santa Monica pier, the same set/building that doubles as a courthouse in Judging Amy, everything was just a little too clean. I found myself watching for silly continuity or production errors (one would hot have used a medicine bottle made of brown plastic with a white cap in 1958 and it's generally a good idea to make sure your magazine covers are spelled right....Photosecne?) instead of following the characters or the story.  Also, fighting harder to actually get 50's music for the sound track would have greatly increased the sense of the era.  High tech music and crunching sound effects cannot make up for the lack of the brutal reality of an actual New York street fight in the era. In many ways, West Side Story did a much better job although honestly and unabashedly a musical. It was filmed in the area now occupied by Lincoln Center. Perhaps, this film reflects much of what is wrong with studio productions high production values, low filmic quality. By contrast, Spiderman was a lot more fun and did actually resemble New York to some degree. "}{"Title":"Re-living the 50's West Side Story style...","Date":"5 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I personally loved this film...a fun, exciting,50's gang flick has not come out for a long time...and it was a good change compared to the same old stuff coming out these days...the story is detailed and very interesting throughout the film with excellent, adreniline pumping fight scenes(fight club fans will enjoy this). The story starts out as two brothers begin a gang(deuces) to protect, and keep junk off of their brooklyn block. The leader of the Vipers introduced too many drugs to the third brother, who overdosed three years earlier, causing an interesting story of revenge,love,trust,and guts. "},{"Title":"I spent money for this?","Date":"5 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Maybe it was the fact that I saw Spider-man the day before I saw Duces Wild, but I do not think that there can be any excuse for this movie being as bad as it was.  The cast was there to do it, but it seemed as if once they found them selves with a decent cast they had to try and make them fit into the movie.  The only problem was that they did not fit.  I did not like any of the characters and the story was sketchy at best.  I left wondering why i spent my money on this movie. "},{"Title":"An energy-charged gangster picture, filled with fun.","Date":"4 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I was pleasantly surprised by this movie.  I went in expecting a bunch of leather-clad unlikable tough guys to engage in senseless violence, but what I got was better.   The theme is similar Two rival gangs fight to rule the same turf.  It's not the first time it's been done, and it won't be the last. This movie has most elements of gangster movies that we've all seen, but in it, lies a lot of heart.  The characters fight for their family members, friends, and even little ones getting picked on by abusive parents.  They do all of this with heart. There are some graphic fighting scenes, but the guns are surprisingly scarce; fists and clubs dominate the fight scenes. This allows for a much bigger audience to relate to the film, and thus cheer them on.  The two gangs here are The Deuces and The Vipers  We are shown the life of Brooklyn several decades ago through the eyes of primarily The Deuces.  These are the ones we end up siding with.  Each gang confronts the other with everything from cold stares to surprise attacks. During all this , there are moments of comic relief as well.  Two in particular stand out in my mind.   This is a wholesome gangster picture that will have you on the edge of your seat as you become emotionally involved with the characters and their motives. "},{"Title":"Kalvert does it again!","Date":"4 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I just saw Deuces Wild yesterday (opening day here in Seattle) and I have to say I was impressed.  I only saw this movie because a)I loved the basketball diaries (it has the same director) and b)it has Stephen Dorff in it.  I went into the theater thinking this is going to be so dumb, but hell! I'm avoiding seeing spiderman at all costs! To my surprise this movie was horribly entertaining.  I was glued from the beginning to the end.  I must say though, the prolific presence of one Brad Renfro is really getting on my nerves.  The poor lad speaks as if he's been hit in the face one too many times (even without the brooklyn accent.) I don't understand why he kept being so abusive to his poor, drunken mother.  Anyway, overall it was very enjoyable.  Good script/character development, great direction.  Scott Kalvert really knows how to get actors to be their best.  Great, great acting (even for the usually mediocre Renfro).  I recommend that everyone see this movie rather than spiderman.  Definitely. "},{"Title":"A great...","Date":"4 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  OK, Deuces Wild isn't going to win any academy awards...but it is an entertaining movie. When I first heard about it, I was pretty convinced that it would be your average release filled with fighting and sex; but after viewing it, I can see the reality and truth behind it's sometimes gritty portrayal of 1950's New-York. Many reviewers criticize the down and dirty fighting that occurs in the film, but all Scott Kalvert is trying to do is give us a realistic view of gang warfare. Things weren't all shiny and glossed back then, they were rough and dirty and that's what we are shown. We should not put down the images that are seen, or the sometimes mob style speech. We should instead commend Scott Kalvert and all those responsible for the film for finally giving us a realistic and often thought provoking view of what it was really like to live and die in 1950's New-York!! "},{"Title":"One of the best gang films to come along in my lifetime.","Date":"1 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Although the direction isn't perfect, the performances and the screenplay are top notch.  I want to see this again!!!  The fight scenes are like nothing I have ever seen and the overall look of the film, is a romantic memory for all people who have lived through the 1950's.  This one is a winner and should prove to be strong, even against SPIDEY.  Way to go guys!!! "},{"Title":"why did they waste the money","Date":"1 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Wow! i think they made this movie to torture people. there are no words for how much i hated this film. I could have been cleaning my room instead. i love bad melodrama as much as the next person but....come on! "},{"Title":"Full of cliches yet enjoyable at the same time...","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is not a great movie, but definitely one that should be seen on the big screen. It is full of cliches and familiar plot lines, however, the fighting scenes are well done, and you feel yourself genuinely caring and rooting for the heroes.  Fans of Fight Club will appreciate the visceral violence displayed on the screen. Overall, this is just a good guys vs. bad guys story, with a great visual look and feel.  "},{"Title":"Deuces are Mint, Buddy!!","Date":"28 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Make more of these mob movies! We love them! This picture captured the feel of the 1950's, unfortunately there was a relatively small budget for a period picture, so you are confined to the studio lot. Great young actors in roles that are unforgettable. Fairuza Balk is on the money as the South Brooklyn Street Trash girl. Never saw this because of the bad reviews, but then again Casino, got bad reviews, and that movie is the Mintedest!! Direction is good, writing is good, although the sound effects guy must have been taking drugs, how much thunder and lightning cracks can you lay on a track?!? The director commentary on the DVD is pretty lame, he sounds like he is asleep. Another problem, the movie needed more nudity, didn't people have sex in the 50's? "},{"Title":"positive report","Date":"12 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film while having a cliche of a storyline, really take the opportunity to highlight talented actors.  I have never been a Brad Renfro fan but I definitely would vouch for his role in this movie.  He plays a younger brother trying to live up to the expectations set by his past circumstances. He does this well without the old teenage angst.  He is explosive and impulsive, therefore very entertaining.  Stephen Dorff, a wonderful actor, portrays a character we at times love and hate.  He is strong, but his soft side greatly plays into the story.  And as for Norman Reedus, one of my favorite actors, he is so easily hated that you have to respect him for that level of acting.  If you leave an open mind to the drama that each character is experiencing, the story actually flows together very well. "}{"Title":"Powerful, tragedy of gang-related, white-on-white crime.","Date":"19 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Premiere actors Stephen Dorf, Norman Reedus and Matt Dillon show you how it's done in Deuces Wild, a powerful, tragedy of gang-related, white-on-white crime. Dorf performs a role worthy of his mettle as the complex protagonist fighting to keep heroin out of the 'hood. Reedus, in flawless compliment, is evil incarnate as the determined drug-pusher. Dillon is deftly understated as the head thug in charge of them both.   When this May 2002 film didn't walk off with an armful of Oscars next year (including best director and best picture), it was clear something was rotten in Denmark. "},{"Title":"There is no zero?","Date":"26 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Worst pile of drivel to date! Everyone involved with this production should be ashamed of themselves. Not one single element of the movie was anything slightly like an original idea. A first grader telling you a story about nap time is more entertaining. "},{"Title":"Another West Side Story but much more entertaining","Date":"20 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I had been waiting quite a while for this movie to come out. Mainly, because I was waiting to see what work Brad Renfro was doing now that he's out of jail. I was happy with the cast. Almost everyone seemed fit for their part and did a wonderful job. However, I thought that Brad's love interest, Annie, (Vicky Valencourt from The Water Boy) didn't really fit the looks of what I thought she would be. She was too dark looking to be the popular girl on the block. She looked like she should be joining the gang fights instead of watching. The movie focuses on Leon (Stephen Dorff- Blade, S.F.W) who, after his brother's death from a drug overdose, vows to keep the streets clean and creates a gang called The Deuces to make sure it stays that way. Aided by his kid brother, Bobby, (Brad Renfro- The Client, Sleepers) Leon is able to put the city's biggest drug dealer, Marco (Norman Reedus- Gossip, Blade II) in prison for 3 years, and the streets remain safe. That is, until the day Marco gets out and vows to make Leon pay for his 3 years of hell. Meanwhile, Bobby has fallen for the sister of a Viper, the Deuces' rival gang, but promises he doesn't care about what turf she lives on, only what he feels for her. Although Leon objects to the couple and tries to remain calm to keep non-violence as long as possible, Marco makes sure that he tortures Leon to the point of no return, at which point, all hell breaks loose and blood is shed on both sides of the gangs.Wonderfully acted on all parts. Stephen Dorff is wonderful as the hero, although it's still hard for me to picture him as anything but evil after his magnificent performance in Blade. Brad Renfro has finally gotten his act together, and I'm happy to see him working again. He is a superb actor and this film lets him shine. Norman Reedus somewhat portrays his character from Boondock Saints as he stalks around as the revenge seeking villain and pulls it off very well. I'm a big fan of his. Matt Dillon, although hardly seen, gives an excellent performance as the sleazy head mobster tearing at the underbelly of the fair town. And finally, Frankie Muniz is adorable as Scooch, the somewhat adopted son of Leon whose dream is to become a Deuce. Overall, this was a very entertaining and intriguing movie. It was definitely worth the wait, and I highly recommend it. ******** 1/2 /10 "},{"Title":"Brad Renfro is terrible, terrible, terrible.","Date":"12 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  It has more slow-motion, motown-music flashback scenes than hugs from an episode of Seventh Heaven. Really, I'm not quite sure what the director of The Basketball Diaries was trying to do here. He flagrantly ripped off just about every street gang film to date. West Side Story and Romeo and Juliet all over again, only much less interesting. And I can't emphasize this enough...Brad Renfro, the younger brother Bobby, is horrible in this movie. I think I might rather watch Liza Minelli in a 2000's remake of Cabaret than watch this guy act. At least in this movie. He seemed to fit the part in Bully, where he was semi-credible. Steven Dorff is watchable, but not enough to star in the movie. And the director should've had the insight to take all of Renfro's screentime and give it to the likes of Drea de Matteo who plays Dorffs girl, and James Franco (Tino) who stays in the shadows the entire film, except for one 2 minute scene, improvised on apartments steps with Dorff (one of the only enjoyable scenes at all). And please don't compare the fight scenes in Deuces Wild to those of Fight Club, Vady. Anyone who went to see this movie and sat thru its entirity, you did what most of us couldn't do. This movie wasn't even bad enough to be good. "},{"Title":"A film with a lot of potential, but...","Date":"4 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I had wanted to see DEUCES WILD when it was out at the theatres, because who wouldn't want to see a film about rival gangs in 1950's Brooklyn? But I had to wait for it to come out on DVD and VHS.  After viewing it, I was kind of left with mixed emotions. On one hand you've got Stephen Dorff giving an awesome and intense performance looking like a young Bruce Willis (DIE HARD not Moonlighting). And you've got an equally impressive role from Brad Renfro, who has come along way since his last role as a New Yorker in SLEEPERS. On top of that you won't be able to take your eyes off Drea de Matteo, who looks even hotter than she does in The Sopranos. But despite these great points I just couldn't get that bad taste out of my mouth, which was a result of all those damn cliches. Cliched characters, cliched dialogue, cliched plot structure, etc. The film ultimately comes off like a silly cross between THE OUTSIDERS, STREETS OF FIRE (you remember that Greaser movie with Rick Moranis and Wilem Dafoe?), and of course WEST SIDE STORY. I also think there was a small case of miscasting here, I mean with the exception of Matt Dillon and Balthazar Getty what are these guys supposed to be Italian, Irish, what? Anyway the film is only mildly entertaining because of its rather brutal fight scenes. Other than that it just could of been so much better with a couple more rewrites of the script and someone else to play Marco. By the way, I'm really getting sick of these movies that get you all hot and bothered and then fail to deliver the goods.   "},{"Title":"AWESOME!!!!!","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is movie is awesome!  I love the fighting scenes, their much more intense than the  fighting scenes in The Outsiders.  And all the scenes with Bobby and Annie are SOOOOOOOOOO sweet, especially when Bobby defends Annie in front of Leon.  Plus Brad Renfro is so adorable in this movie. I just love that everyone's favorite word is F**K ..... it's funny. Also, this movie made me cry when Leon died.  I love this movie!  Again, it's AWESOME!!! "},{"Title":"needed more verisimilitude","Date":"17 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  There is promise here. The screenplay works. The characters are real, the stakes are real, the momentum is there, but the thing I was most missing is that it didn't quite bring me back to the fifties. There were insertions of history, like the Dodgers, the soda fountain prices, the costumes, and sets, but I kinda felt like I was in a cartoon version of the fifties, not the real fifties. More research could have added more details, more references to what was going on in the world around them at the time, and I might have believed I was in that space and time. But I didn't. Still, like Greek tragedy, the dynamics work and I was riveted to the screen. So I think I'm gonna watch Paul Kimatian & Christopher Gambale and see what they do next. "},{"Title":"If you enjoy hating yourself for buying a movie ticket you will like this movie.","Date":"5 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This must have been one of the top ten worst movies i have ever seen. IT was certainly the worst movie i have seen all year. This movie made that masterpiece of a movie Double Take look like The Godfather. IT was seriously amazingly bad. The fight scenes are set to terrible musical selections and often times the lack of character identification makes it hard to see who is on whose side. The only real redeemable thing about this movie is the terribly obvious product placements of a popular soft drink brand and a suntan lotion company. I think the only thing that would have made this movie better would be...well...damn...nothing would have made this better. IT was terrible. Please do not go see this if you love yourself or you friends and family. I cant believe i live in a country that would allow this movie to be made and shown to its citizens. "},{"Title":"bland nostalgia trip","Date":"5 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Only those nostalgic for nostalgia are likely to be very impressed by `Deuces Wild,' a film that seems somehow more attuned to the &#145;50's-crazed 1970's &#150; a time when popular culture was embracing backward-looking fare like `American Graffiti' and `Happy Days' &#150; than to the era in which it is actually set.  That happens to be Brooklyn in the summer of 1958, when the streets were overrun with denim- and leather-clad hoodlums who smoked cigarettes, drove cool cars, and strutted around looking for fights to protect or extend their seemingly God-given `turf.'  `Deuces Wild' feels like it is about 25 years out of date, especially since it adds nothing new to a well-worn genre that can pinpoint its beginnings as far back as 1961's magnificent `West Side Story.'  In fact, this is little more than `West Side Story' sans the music and dancing.  Although the Jets and the Sharks have been replaced by the Deuces and the Vipers, we still have all the other elements from that earlier, better film  the challenges, the rumbles, the ineffectual and almost nonexistent parents, even a pair of lovers from opposite gangs caught in the inter-neighborhood warfare.  The boys are utterly interchangeable and indistinguishable from one another, the dysfunctional parents beyond belief (one mother is so far gone mentally that she celebrates Christmas all year round and even believes in the existence of Santa Claus), and the action so pretentiously filmed that half of the dramatic scenes come replete with studio-generated thunder and lightning designed to lend tragic `significance' to what is, essentially, pretty silly, garden-variety hooliganism.  The closing rumble scene is so confusingly shot and edited that it takes the voiceover narration to straighten out for us who got killed and who didn't.The cast of mostly youthful actors does its best with shallow, stereotypical roles, but one should at least pity poor Frankie Muniz, that charming young star of TV's `Malcolm in the Middle,' who delivers a surprisingly dorky performance in the extremely sketchy and underwritten part of Scooch, the neighborhood `good kid' whom Leon, the Deuces' leader, takes under his wing.  Hopefully, Muniz' film career will get better from here on out.About the best one can say for `Deuces Wild' is that it is one hell of a good-looking film, thanks to John A. Alonzo's rich cinematography, which enhances the film's fine period décor.   A pity that little else about the film merits similar commendation.   "},{"Title":"If you enjoy pain you will love this film.","Date":"4 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie was probably the worst movie i have seen since the great Orlando Jones and Eddie Griffin starred in Double Take. This was in a word, CRAP! I went out on my birthday to see this film and by the end of it was trying to figure out ways to turn the chair and drink holder into projectiles to hurl at the screen. The only redeeming thing about this film may be the incredibly bad product placements by both Coca-Cola and Coppertone. I thought that this movie might be entertaining in a way that The Fast and the Furious was entertaining, but it only made me sad. I was sad because I realized I live in a world where a movie like this can be made. Please if you love yourself and care about your friends and family at all, do not go see this movie. "}{"Title":"terrible, just terrible....","Date":"4 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  this must be the worst movie i have ever seen.  i think they should classify it as a comedy.  my friends and i could not stop laughing throughout the entire movie.  i thought it would just have a few cliches, but literally every single twist in the plot or piece of dialogue was so predictable. the acting was terrible, i have no idea why all of these famous actors actually did this movie.  don't pay any money to see this movie.  girls will only like it for the men. "},{"Title":"Cliches Wild","Date":"3 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Imagine every stereotypical, overacted cliche from every movie and TV show set on the streets of Brooklyn between 1930 and 1980.  Populate it with a cast of interchangeable caricatures instead of actual characters.  Throw in a mix of period music and wailing electric guitars during the rumble scenes.  Then pass the time trying to figure out (or care) which of the Deuces is going to be killed in the (anti)climactic final rumble.I'll give this movie points for not being just another romantic comedy, teen slasher, explosive action movie, teen sex comedy, kiddie musical, or Oscar-nomination vehicle.  But bringing something new or interesting to the street-gang tragedy genre might've been nice. "},{"Title":"I've never walked out of a movie until now.","Date":"3 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The cliches quickly filled the theatre leaving me no room to sit comfortably, so I left.  The war of the two street gangs ( the deuces and the Vipers) begins when the vipers give the deuces youngest brother some bad smack. He dies, the bad guy goes to jail. 3 years later the deuces (led by Dorff) have made it their goal to keep drugs off the block. But now the bad guy's getting out of Jail. And while he's in jail he has to say that he's going to kill the guy who put him in there. Oh my god, really? Because we had absolutely no idea he'd do that.The movie is filled with on the nose dialogue pointing out things that we already know and are plainly obvious. I didn't care about the characters and nothing mildly interesting happened.The worst part was the big fight scene where the deuces whip out their knives and chains as we see them slashing the air in slo-mo. Then they rise up over a hill with fog in the background and 80's production music guitar riffs play as they fight the vipers. Both gangs dressed in their leather jackets so we have no idea who's who. I think I vomited in my own mouth. No wait I laughed.The movie is filled with mostly B actors but they're on the line between A and B,maybe B+ I mean they've done some good flicks, but Matt Dillon should have stayed in his trailer and even Brad Renfro was lame.I dont know what happens at the end because I left and It's probably some great twist ending, oh wait no, it's probably predictable and cliched.Oh yeah and Basketball Diaries was 50,000 times better. "},{"Title":"started bad, only got worse","Date":"30 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I saw a sneak preview of this last night.  About 1/2way through the film, my buddy said this is bad.  I agreed, but I had hopes that it would have to get better.  It didn't.  The late 1950's setting, some vintage cars, and watching Debby Harry dance to XMas music was all this lousy film had to offer.  Wasted roles for Vincent Pastore and Johnny Knoxville, too many worthless fight scenes, and a horribly underdeveloped & misused plot made this film a major disappointment in my book.  With the loaded cast, this film should have been much better.  Save your $... "},{"Title":"*** out of 5","Date":"31 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Anyone who has seen The Outsiders, Goodfellas, A Bronx Tale or Last Man Standing doesn't really need to watch this film because you've already seen it. The line up here includes a very promising cast of Steven Dourff as Leon, Brad Renfro as Bobby, Matt Dillon as Fritzy, Frankie Muniz as Scooch and Johnny Knoxville as Vince. But with all those characters comes very little character developementand leaves us with a full cast of characters that we don't care about with the small exception of Leon. We start the film with the death of Leon's brother and the imprisonment of Marko, the rival gang leader who gave his brother the drugs that killed him. Fast forward three years, Marko is out of jail and all hell is breaking loose on Leon's once peaceful block, Marko is also making a deal with Fritzy (the head of the block) to get his drugs back on the street and Leon's brother Bobby is becoming involved with the sister of a Viper. This film has everything, the rival gangs (Outsiders), the big show downs (Last Man Standing), the gangster who is in charge of everything (Bronx Tale) and the drug dealing (Goodfellas). But because of this the flim is robbed of any sort of self identity and becomes rather bogged down and boring, leading up to a conclusion that is inevidable because we have all seen it a hundred times before, just better. This film could have been a masterpeice were it put into the proper hands, but Scott Calvert is no Martin Scorsese and Matt Dillon is no Robert De Niro, so we are left satisfied to some extent, but still feel robbed of something. The lackluster direction and enormously cliched script don't help matters any. It's clear director Scott Calvert tried his hardest to be clever but his annoying camera tricks don't suit this movie well at all, in fact some of them are, at time, very hard to watch. The fight scenes are plentiful but lack any excitement due to the horrible choreograhpy and again cheesy camera movement making it hard to tell who is who. Matt Dillon show plenty of promise but is only given four scenes in the whole movie, Johnny Knoxville is a nobody that serves no importance and is hardly noticable and Frankie Muniz hardly mutters a word the whole time. I have always found Steven Dourff to have possessed a certain degree of talent but he has yet to be given a role where he can break free and show us what he is really made of, but he is still, by far, the highlight of the film. Now don't get me wrong, the movie is not a total waste and there are probably lots of people that this sort of thing will appeal to but its lack of originality cancels out any power of emotion and even though we have a cast of characters that I really didn't care about except for Leon, it's an hour and a half of my life that I don't regret.  "},{"Title":"A good weekly rent.","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" A movie that goes along the tradition of Goodfellas(1990) or something like it, alas, in a whole different league.The whole finished piece ends up almost like a B-movie, there is no doubt that , in some country like Australia most probably , Deuces WIld will never be screened to the cinema. Alright, aside from that , this film still manages to entertain , i mean we have to expect something from the guy who directed the gritty Basketball diaries(1995).with the usual plot of a rigtheous gang that will stand againts the odds , no doubt  cinema geeks have seen this before , i call it a blend of Rumble fish (1984) and the Young and Dangerous series (Hongkong Productions).Stephen Dorf plays Leon, the righteous gang leader who still cleans the mosaic windows of churches, probably as an act of redemption, Bad kid Brad Renfro plays his younger angry brother, who also acts as the narrator of the story. Somehow Renfro's acting reminds me of his character in Bully(2000) , still grunting around as usual,and looking more and more beefy, this is the tyke who appears in The client(1993), Dorf performance saves himself from being a miscast character, the crew cut  really exposes his lack of hair, i guess he is getting old, and damn, he is just too skinny  despite the DVD commentary said that he undergoes rigorous weight lifting. Norman Reedus the annoying scuddie from Blade 2 plays Marco Vendetti the villain, well it seems that he have to be supported with a shiv and non-stop utterings of profanity to be a real bad ass, almost a bad job.Not really a crucial role here, but James Franco as one of the uber deuces looks like a reincarnation of the original Rebel without a cause fella...have to see to be believed.None of the female characters in here seems to be presented as at least a decent accountable character; One alcoholic mother, one nuts mother, a girlfriend only acts as the-chick-of -the-badass played by Madonna look alike Drea De Mateo, and yeah....talking about the most mismatched coupling,  A teenage Renfro with close to thirty-ish Fairuza Balk.SInce the budget seems to be constrained, audience with keen sense of frame could possibly tell that most of the scenes was shot in a backlot set.In a film like this violence is expected, however oftenly becomes an annoyance as we see packs of Elvis/Dean haired brutes pulverizing each other for five minutes(which is a long time), some of them wield butterfly or flip knifes, amazingly none of them managed to get stabbed. The bone crunching sound effects also add  mild bittery aftertaste.Folks , like i said, this is an alright film , which manages to entertain if you feel  violent because somebody ruin your haircut, however an act of purchasing is highly questionable.2.5  outta 5 stars.+2.5 for the entertainment value.-2.5 for all the Balderdash already seen so many times. "},{"Title":"pure excitement","Date":"18 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Deuces Wild is about two rivial street gangs the deuces and the vipers.The vipers want to put drugs on the street while the deuces never want drugs on the street.The leader of the deuces Leon brother died of an drug over dose Leon thinks the leader of the vipers gave it to  him.The leader of the vipers has been in jail for three year and is soon to be free.These two gangs are going to face off after 3 years of no fighting.Deuces Wild is pure excitement that keeps you watching until the end . "},{"Title":"I love this film","Date":"7 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Deuces Wild gave me my violence fix.  The action scenes with the bats, knives, etc is intense.  The story keeps one's attention, and the style is well done.  The plot lacks at the ending, I think the mob would track the money down, but I don't want to ruin the ending.  Well, any 80's man would love this film. 7/10. "},{"Title":"Are you kidding?? Douches Wild Rots","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The best thing that can be said about this godawful movie is that it's so unbelievably horrid that it's actually hilarious--unintentionally. It's like the Plan 9 From Outer Space of its time a purely dreadful, poorly done movie that takes itself completely seriously.I can't believe someone can even mention Fight Club in the same sentence--the same ANYTHING--as this movie. Talk about opposite ends of the spectrum cinematically.Douches Wild is horrid, horrid, horrid--but hilarious to behold. "},{"Title":"Low budget West Side Story, but Romeo and Juliet live happily ever after.","Date":"13 July 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I'm a fan of both Stephen and Brad.  But was not impressed with this offering.  Brad is getting fat in his old age.  Stephen never seems to change.  The story starts out with a touch of West Side Story (aka Romeo and Juliet), but dribbles off into  perdictables.  The parts were definitely over emoted through out making it difficult to enjoy. Every body got to swagger to demonstrate the egotism of the character.  The language and a  couple of bare breasted scenes gave it the R rating, but added nothing to the over all significance of the movie.  I gave it a 4. "}{"Title":"Good Movie","Date":"17 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I seen this a few times. It is the new version of Outsiders. I am kind of ticked with people that come on here to do a review on a movie, and they don't even rate the movie with the votes. It is no point to be on this site if you don't even use it. Just because you say you give 1 or up to 10 out of 10 still does not count towards the movie rating. So learn how to give reviews for the ones that don't do it. You know who I am talking to. Not really much to say about this movie, because it is so close to being like outsiders. If you seen outsiders then there is not much here that you would see different. Gangs fighting and killing. Matt Dillon from outsiders is in this for very short time. I have to add more for this because it won't post. I already said this is not much different than outsiders. "},{"Title":"A good film for the boys","Date":"30 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" It's the summer of '58 and a Brooklyn neighbourhood becomes a battlefield for two street gangs to settle old scores. Leon (Stephen Dorff) and Bobby (Brad Renfro) formed the Deuces after their little brother died from a hot dose of heroin,and vowed never to let the drug hit their streets again.The lethal dose was supplied by the Vipers' leader Marco (Norman Reedus) who after three years' prison time, comes back to the neighbourhood to seek vengeance and get the powerful backing of mob boss Fritzy (Matt Dillon)to sell heroin on the streets.Marco believes it was Leon who snitched to the police and the violence begins with a bloody fight in the park. Fritzy warns the hoodlums that no one gets hurt without his say so, but the hatred between the two gangs is deep and Marco attacking Leon's girlfriend (Drea de Matteo) forces the latter to take the Deuces into a battle they might not walk away from.Kalvert plays safe with a location seen in many stories from a New York neighbourhood, with greased hair youths hanging outside pizzerias and the lido, talking about baseball and other anecdotes of their generation. This type of film always has me humming, Lollipop, lollipop&#133; by the Chordettes, but despite some jazzed up MTV editing and library stock music to build up action scenes, you are drawn in to a story that teenage boys should love.Dorff performs without any sign of an inflated ego and is superb as the street tough stuck between church and protecting his block. His fiery temper and flashes of violence are fuelled by the guilt he feels for his deceased brother. He's haunted by flashbacks of finding his corpse and his mother's anguish at seeing him walk through the streets cradling his lifeless body.The tension between the gangs is heightened when Bobby starts dating Annie (Fairuza Balk), the sister of a Viper. This relationship borders on West Side Story (1961) territory, but both actors possess the ability not to deliver their declaration of passion like a soppy love poem. Renfro convinces as the impulsive younger brother wanting to get out of Leon's shadow and wage war against the Vipers. He is the narrator of the story, and therefore should be the lead actor, but the hero role is written for Leon and Renfro continually struggles to outshine the older actor.Although Deuces doesn't have the boast of Robert De Niro directing, it is superior to A Bronx Tale (1993), in that it concentrates on the youths at war, rather than a portrayal of the neighbourhood wiseguys.Dillon became famous as the youth with a tortured soul but shows little interest in offering his experience to the new generation of urban tales; seemingly stuck in auto-pilot as the pill-popping Mafioso whose greed leaves Leon staring death in the face.Cashing in on the popularity of The Sopranos (1999) was a clever move, with Drea de Matteo as the standout performer from the heavily represented cast. While many of the actors in this film were watching their careers slide further away from the top level of American cinema; de Matteo further evidenced her progression from television to a respected film actress.The final act sees the climatic fight between the Deuces and the Vipers,with the advantage continually changing, as double crosses and last minute rescues leaves you guessing who's going to come out on top. Life in a street gang rarely ends happily and the parting of the ways is inevitable for the Deuces.If you are still young enough to remember the thrills of teenage rivalry and like your films to mix good fight scenes with angst and passion, then you should sit back and reminisce about your adolescent fantasy as the cool gang leader who didn't take sh*t from no one. "},{"Title":"A Full House where Dueces aren't wild...","Date":"17 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Are the Deuces a true violent gang, or does MTV just portray them that way? As I sit here struggling to connect my words for this pathetic attempt of a gang turned Shakespeare's tragedy film involving the ever buff Stephen Dorff and the slowly decaying Brad Renfro. This is a story, not unlike others that we have seen done better, about violence, drug problems, and falling for the girl that you least expect. It is Romeo & Juliet, fixed up like West Side Story, with fights that would no doubtingly see the award ranking at that year's MTV Movie Awards. I cannot say if that is what made this film at times unbearable to watch, or if it is what pulled me into watching it a second time to see what the director had to say about his actions. Either way, I made it through two viewings of Deuces Wild and before I hear usurped gasps from the peanut gallery, I must say, this is definitely not a film that get better with age.Using whatever leftover table scraps The Sopranos wanted to throw, coupled with a storyline recycled from every Hollywood recreation of this genre, Deuces Wild begins haphazardly and continues along the trend for the next 96 minutes. Is it brother's vengeance? Is it due to rival gangs making sure that their territory is never advanced by the other? Is is because of money? Is it because of love? I mention these questions again because I believe these random unanswered questions, which lead into a convoluted violent ending, are what hurt the overall picture of Deuces Wild. From the beginning, we do not know the true motives of our characters. Dorff, the obvious leader, seems more like the lover instead of the fighter, but when it is time to do what is just, he apparently turns into a machine with fists that could take down a passenger train. Renfro, the hard-boiled little brother, doesn't seem like the obvious choice to swoon the possible leader of the all-girl group. His second-grade reading and interpretation of the script, makes him seem more like muscle instead of brains. I believe that if Dorff would have taken control of Renfro's character and vice versa, perhaps a better film would have come from this conclusion, but alas, we were stuck with what was the final product. Balk, who plays Renfro's love interest, is annoying and void of emotion. Her true nature is never revealed, and it is up to us to realize that these two lovers happened to be at the right place at the right time, the action surrounding them is just static.For 96 minutes we were stuck with these characters, so I watched, hoping that perhaps the cinematography would take me to a far away land &#150; perhaps the language would reintroduce me to the genre, or maybe the story would sweep me away. Well, I wanted something to distract me from the characters, but alas, it never happened. The story, as mentioned before, was recycled. The visions seemed like they belonged on stage instead of on screen. After listening to the audio commentary, the director seemed to agree as well since most of the budget couldn't take them to an actual location, but instead a sound stage in LA. The angles seemed short and the people seemed tight in every scene. I am surprised that we didn't seem cameras in every shot. I felt claustrophobic in every scene, even when the gang was fighting. I have to pause and laugh now, because the fight sequences were possibly the lightest element in the film. Does lightening have to spring into the scene just to make those known that the air has grown angry? Lightening and fight sequences, is it the match-up that we have been waiting for all of our cinematic life? In this film, the answered question is yes.Poor acting, poor cinematography, cheap dialog, why does this film rate so high among film watchers? Some claim that it is the darker side of West Side Story, which I could argue against. There wasn't a dark undertone to this film at all. The choreography to the fight sequences made me laugh, the themes of which the characters drew themselves upon were simple, never quite the complex characters that we anticipated. There was no logic to this film, just remake followed by recycling, followed up by further cheapened cliché's that can be found in any other film of this genre. This is not Goodfellas, so let us not try to make the comparison. Did this film accurately depict the era that it attempted to represent? To me, the answer is no. Well, I have officially become to bitter to continue this conversation. I wasn't happy, nor can I suggest this film to anyone with a straight face. Nothing was put together well, the voice of the film seemed amateur at best. Skip it &#150; you will be happier! Grade ** out of ***** "},{"Title":"Undue Credit","Date":"4 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Obviously some of these people who saw this movie didn't think too highly of it. Well if you take into account that this is a movie set in the 50s...and we are watching it 50+ years later then you should probably take into account that the whole good guys vs. bad guys routine was all they had going on back then. Some of the so called clichés that were in the movie are only clichés to us in the here and now. It was written authentically for the time period. The actors in the film did a hell of a job in showing the passion and conviction of their characters. The writing was in fact a little underdeveloped but the overall story really pulled through.Deuces forever. "},{"Title":"Ongoing saga of Matt Dillon in Rumble Fish type movies","Date":"4 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" It seems just appropriate for Matt Dillon to be the older gangster, the ruler of the neighborhood in this movie. He's been in so many others as the little brother of the chief hood, it just seems right for him to be calling the shots. Whether dope should come into the hood seems almost too naive to believe anymore, we've become so corrupt.The scenes of the O.D.ing of the brother and most especially, how the mothers of these losers is portrayed makes this movie unique. Usually the parents are either non-existent or the father is horribly abusive. One of these mothers is mentally ill, and the other is a boozer. Why there are no black people in this movie is an enigma to me. Maybe it's Dorchester or Southie, as opposed to Roxbury, where the segregation is as real as if though it were law.You really feel as though you are part of the neighborhood, and understand how they are able to use the roofs of the buildings as part of their artillery. Pretty ingenious, actually. The lack of policemen on the scene is a little strange, however. This must have been before Bratten put the cop back on the beat. Or they got in the way of the plot, one or the other.Since I'm mounting a Matt Dillon Retrospective, I find it amazing that he can go from the schizophrenic in Saint of Ft. Washington to the hardened criminal in Deuces Wild and represent two polar opposite characters. Great actor. Movie's OK. "},{"Title":"An very familiar story gets power from an very interesting cast.","Date":"29 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" When gages ruled the streets of New York City in the Brooklyn area in the late 1950's. When a tough but an good hearted young man by the name of Leon (Stephen Dorff) tries to control his younger out of control teenage brother by the name of Bobby (Brad Renfro). Since Leon is the leader of the gang called the Deuces. Deuces are the opposite of a dangerous gang, known as the Vipers. Leon tries to keep drugs off the streets that killed his brother, When the leader of the Vipers (Norman Reedus) is out of prison for being there for three years.Since he wants revenge, because someone did rat him out to the cops. Bobby falls in love with an attractive care-free older woman (Fairuza Balk)-which he dangerous no good drug addicted brother (Balthazar Getty) is part of the Vipers. When the leader of the Vipers, who wants to sell Drugs and Thigns are about to change. When the Deuces and the Vipers are starting a war against each other for fighting the peace of the streets. Keep drugs off the block, even if it's comes to Violence.This underrated film is stylish, tough, passionate and good looking brutality strong gang drama. Which it does capture the life vividly in this little seen flick. Directed by Scott Kalvert (The Basketball Diaries) did an fine job, which does have a terrific cast (IncludingMax Perlich, Drea de Matteo, Vincent Pastore, Frankie Muniz, Matt Dillon, Deborah Harry, James Franco and more) with an expectational cinematography by John A. Alonzo (Star TrekGenerations, The Guardian, Scarface). Which it is sadly Alonzo's last film as Director of Photography. The movie is quite flawed at the some of the key moments (Especially uneven in one surprise moment in the film, which is never resolve in the flick) but it's strong enough to keep this film, fast moving and it's also hard to disliked.DVD has an terrific anamorphic Widescreen (2.351) transfer (Also in Pan & Scan) with an fine-Dolby Digital 5.1 Surround Sound. DVD extras are good-includingan ingraining commentary track by the director and editorMicheal R. Miller (Both admitting that the movie is flawed, trying their best to make it entertaining as possible), Photo Gallery and Theatrical Trailer. Do not miss this interesting small one of a kind movie. FilmmakerMartin Scorsese is uncredited as a Executive Producer. This film was a Box Office Bomb in theaters. The film might have life on DVD. Filmed in 2000. Panavision. (*** ½/*****). "},{"Title":"Best comedy of the year","Date":"14 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Why they have this movie listed under drama I'll never know. For the first 30 minutes I thought it was pretty funny, then I looked it up in the database only to find that it wasn't supposed to be a comedy. Ruined the rest of the picture.One of the funnest lines was a kinder-hood commenting one evening on the Christmas music playing in the background. Christ, it's gotta be 115 degrees. The next day (presumably still at least 100 degrees) we see him wearing his leather jacket. Great gag! You can see why these kids are so tough, though. Why they have a chip on their shoulder. They come from a tough neighborhood - only one pool to go to. What satire!It is easily twice as good as a comedy as it is a drama. On a scale of 10* I give it a rock solid 1/2* as a comedy. "},{"Title":"Brotherhood, loyalty, courage, honor, love... all in one!","Date":"21 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" What a great movie! Trying to catch the feeling of honor, loyalty, courage and brotherhood all in one film isn't the easiest thing to do. Yet, in my opinion, they succeeded very well. Feelings we all had to some extent when we were groing up. Above all, they also gave us a lovestory that wasn't cheesy or corny, but true and honest (and no, I'm not a girl nor gay...). Furthermore, there is this kind of 'cool' that slightly reminds me of Tarantino's reservoir dogs. Not the film, but the feeling you had. Off course, a lot less mature feeling of cool. But hey, it's there.Refreshing cinema, proving that it doesn't have to cost a lot of money to produce great films! "},{"Title":"The acting is poor, the story is tired..","Date":"8 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Deuces Wild is one of the worst movies that I have seen in quite a while.  It is basically a story of cliches taken from other (better) movies and thrown together to make this lame excuse for a movie.  It is even more painful because it stars a bunch of second-rate actors trying to make this thing work.  Not a single actor is even able to pull of a halfway decent Brooklyn accent, so how can they be expected to carry this awful script into a watchable movie?  Exactly, they can't.Do yourself a favor and avoid this movie at all costs.  Watching it is a painful experience. "},{"Title":"Almost too awful for words .....","Date":"25 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" ..... but I'll try.The film's about a Brooklyn gang called the Deuces, circa 1958, and centers on two people, Leon, the gang leader, and his younger brother, Bobby.  A third brother died of a drug overdose years before and Leon's sworn to keep the neighborhood clean.  The dealer who sold his brother the smack comes back from prison looking for revenge and partners up with the local mob boss, played inexplicably by Matt Dillon.  The war is on for control of the street.The script is awful.  The dialogue is right out of a comic book.  And the actors do nothing to elevate the film.  Fairuza Balk gets my nod for the worst performance of the year.  She's ten years too old for the part of the teenage sister of a rival gang member, and her makeup and Brooklyn accent are an affront to the senses.  Stephen Dourf and Brad Renfro are a couple of lightweights cast as the two brothers.  Every cliché about Brooklyn street gangs is paraded in front of the viewer, right down to the Catholic priest trying to get the boys to stop fighting each other.  There's even a young kid, Scooch, an angelic wannabe that looks up to Leon.  I almost expected Pat O'Brien and Billy Halop to pop up any minute.This turkey belongs in the trash bin. "}{"Title":"Great movie, less than perfect ending","Date":"12 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The first time i viewed this film I caught it half way through but loved it, except for the final scene where Bobby drops the cinder-blocks on Frizzy's car.  To me, wrecking a man's car is not good redemption for my own brother's death.  So, that part really stuck out.  Nevertheless, I forced myself to rent the movie to see it from beginning to end.  And i have to say, the costumes, accents, and demeanors accurately represent a 1950s Brooklyn neighborhood, making this a very believable script.  The rest fell into place nicely, incorporating solid acting with effective uses of slow-motion and other tactical fighting scenes.  Nonetheless, after viewing it a second time, the ending still stuck out as a less than perfect finale to a very good movie.  Personally, I would have felt better had Bobby done nothing in retribution, or went all out in killing Frizzy.  Granted, it's the writer's option.  So from the standpoint of acting, directing, and production, the movie sits atop my favorites of this year and gives me a much great appreciation of Stephen Dorf, beyond the less than average Blade II. "},{"Title":"Really Not that Bad","Date":"26 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I just wanted to say that dispite bad reviews... I mean *really* bad reviews, this movie is not all bad. The directing looks great. It's not as cliche as the critics like to say it is. The acting, particularly by Fairuza Balk is wonderful. I say check the movie out, judge it on your own, and don't listen to what other people tell you. "},{"Title":"Good movie..","Date":"18 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie was great.. Despite all the other negative comments I really can only be positive about this movie.. Now i'm no movie critic and I sure don't have enough time to critique every little detail, but this movie really kept my attention and i found myself routing for the good guys the whole time..  Finally a stinkin movie that the bad guys loose and the good guys win... Not enough of that if you ask me..  Go check it out for yourself...Its definately worth your time, and hell I dl/ed this movie first and now i'm actually going out to buy it....8/10 "},{"Title":"Mediocre Film Making","Date":"14 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a classic example of bush league film making.  The direction is extremely cliche'.  The plot is very thin and the character development is , well, cliche'It has a the feel of a first-year film student. "},{"Title":"The director is a deucebag","Date":"10 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  When I went to see this movie with 4 of my friends, I had no idea i would be witnessing the death of human salvation. This p*** poor travesty of a film made me cry then puke then cry again because my jeans got dirty. The very idea that this movie would take itself seriously places our country at great risk. I mean for Christ sake the 2 gangs have their own sides of the local pool! Aside from the ridiculous displays of coolness from the poorly developed characters, the Deuces Wild gave no indication of a plot much less any redeeming semblance of value. I now cry at births. The director had the brilliant idea to cast prankster Johnny Knoxville as a gang member this motion picture that some people actually call a movie. I have seen satan bleed and it is this movie. Make sure you call all your loved ones and hide all sharp objects before watching this movie.You may not make it out alive. "},{"Title":"Candidate for Worst Movie Of The Year","Date":"15 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"     This piece of dreck is completely unoriginal; stringing together every cliche from every gang movie, forbidden love movie, and revenge movie made in the last 20 years.  There isn't one original line or situation; not one moment of insight, not one scene containing wit or intended humor.  What a waste of some fairly good actors.  What a waste of the talent and money that went into its production.  Please don't waste your own money and time - your video store has a thousand titles better than this piece of cheese.   "},{"Title":"Medicore Mafia Movie","Date":"11 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This isnt a BAD mafia movie...leave that to Corky Romano.  I always like mafia movies that take place in the early 60's era, like A Bronx Tale, because there aren't enough of them.  This movie really isn't that bad, but could be a lot better and be a little more realistic. C, 6/10 "},{"Title":"Exciting And Enjoyable","Date":"27 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Deuces Wild is a story about running the streets and protecting your neighbourhood. Three years ago, Leon's brother was killed due to overdosing on heroin. Leon( Stephen Dorff) blames Marco (Norman Reedus) for selling him the drugs and sends him to prison. Now three years later, Leon and his other brother Bobby (Brad Renfro) and a bunch of other guys have formed a street gang called The Deuces and will do anything to protect the neighbourhood. Marco is about to go back home after three long years in prison and is ready to get his revenge on The Deuces, especially on Leon. Bobby has fallen in love with his new neighbour Annie, played by the beautiful Fairuza Balk. But that is another problem because Annie is related to Jimmy Pockets. Jimmy is friends with Marco and is part of his gang, The Vipers. When Marco arrives, the bloodbath begins and the movie becomes exciting and enjoyable. I would give Deuces Wild 8/10 "},{"Title":"A crappy wannabe gangster film","Date":"15 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I wanted my dollar back after seeing this in the dollar theatre. Drea De Matteo is the only worthwhile part of the film. She is stunningly beautiful and the only non over actor. The rest of the film tries to be stylistic and ends up looking ridiculous. Watch for misplaced jump cuts and crap canted angles, straight out of junior college film school. Also watch for the ridiculous way they portray the Italians and the old Italian neighborhood where the writer clearly never has been or researched. Also watch for things they pull to make you care, like mental illness and mean mob men. Or dont and just watch Goodfellas  "},{"Title":"Deuces Vile","Date":"12 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Call it West Side Story without the music, good acting, and entertainment. The film starts out as a gangster who's brother just died of drugs, and the drug dealer is sent to jail. (No spoilers in this one, so you can keep reading. Things start to go bad (as if they haven't gotten already, the movie goes all downhill from here) when two new gang members move into the town, and when the drug dealer who killed the gang members brother comes out of jail.There are no good performances in this movie. All we here are annoying, fake Italian accents, and sexual references. Deuces Vile is a more accurate title. And then you wonder why actors go on strike more. Grade F "}{"Title":"Horrible!","Date":"10 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This one left an incredibly bad taste in my mouth.  When I saw the previews for this one, I, like everyone else thought it would be cool, I mean, a 1950's movie about two greaser gangs duking it out with a whole trunk load of familiar supporting actors (Norman Reedus, Matt Dillon, Brad Renfro, Stephen Dorff, that chick from the Sopranos, and 'Big Pussy', also from the Sopranos).  I don't usually listen to critics, but when they unanimously slam a movie with horrible ratings and actually tell you to stay away from it, then I tend to listen and usually wait for the dvd to come out if my curiousity still remains, or if there isn't anything else to rent.  I hate to say it, but I should have listened to those damned critics afterall.This movie is horrible!  I can't state this any clearer.  The whole story is nothing but one big fat cliche after another...absolutely nothing original at all.  The problem is, is that you don't feel for ANY of the characters which is what makes this movie fail so badly.  You just don't give a crap about any of them or what happens to them.  The acting (except for the always good and sinister Norman Reedus and Matt Dillon) is pure crap, especially coming from the more credible big star turned indie-flick/b-movie stars like Renfro and Dorff.  Agh, this movie is sooo painful to watch, because it goes nowhere, has nothing new to it, nothing exciting and nothing worth while.  Basically the plot is that Dorff's brother dies of an overdose of heroine so he vows to keep the streets clean with his gang.  Basically, the rival gang's leader is just getting out of jail and wants to exact revenge on Dorff's character for putting him away.  So, all we get is one poorly directed fight scene after another, stupid and one-dimensional stock characters and pointless 'drama' that is supposed to make us FEEL for these losers?  To the Producers of this film  If you want me to FEEL something other than rage for being duped by your deceiving marketing scheme, then give me my 3 bucks and 90 minutes back from my life!To anyone else who is interested in watching a good gang flick, look else where, this ain't West Side Story, Once Upon a Time in America or Goodfellas...oh no no no.  This is horrible Hollywood drivel that got a chance at the big screen because of all of the semi-famous actors in it that you can tell thought that this movie might be their big break back into the lime light.  Boy were they wrong.  Norman Reedus, star of The Boondock Saints, one of the greatest movies ever, deserves much better than this, and much better than his character in Blade II for that matter.  Avoid this one like the plague!!!2/10 stars only for Norman Reedus and the hot chick from the Sopranos showing off her 'talents'. "},{"Title":"Forgettable","Date":"4 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I did not expect much from this movie, but I rented it mainly because it had such good actors as Brad Renfro, Stephen Dorff and James Franco in it.  But their talents were put to waste.   The script is hard to follow and has few moments of interest, and the direction is horrible --one scene suddenly ends, another begins, and there's no segue!  No reason!  Even during the fight scenes, with all members of both gangs dressed and coiffed almost identically, you see one guy hit another, then suddenly you're watching another fight, and just as suddenly, you're back to the first one.  It is easy to lose track of who is fighting whom, what the hell this movie is really about, or why it was even made.  3/10, and that's because I gave it an E for effort. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I loved this movie. Personally I thought that it was gonna be a total rip off of The Outsiders , which no movie can beat. But Deuces Wild had it's own originality. The movie was heartfelt , touching , the fight scenes kicked ass , the movie was awesome. If you didn't like it then something is definately wrong with your taste in movies.  "},{"Title":"biggest dissapointment of the year.","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" when i started seeing the previews for this movie on tv, i was REALLY pumped up to see it, i love anything having to do with the 50's, and it looked GREAT...it wasn't..at all.here is a brief plot outline..2 groups of kids live across the street from each other. the deuces and the vipers. they dont like each other. they fight. the end. there are no likable characters on either side, and i didn't care what happened to any of them. before i say what was wrong with the movie, i'll say what i liked about it. right from the get-go, durring the opening credits, you knew that this was a different kind of movie..and a much darker movie than i was expecting. i will say that they don't make many movies that look like this, or have this kind of feel to them. i thought they did an outstanding job protraying that time period, that was a big plus. the other plus was that that one kid..brad renfro, his acting was real top notch in this movie. very good.  but again, didnt care about his character or what happened to him. just not likeable. there are no good guys or bad guys in this movie, well i suppose the deuces are supposed to be the good guys..but they don't do anything good. the fight scenes are really good, but the lighting is soo dark during them that you can't tell at all who's winning or losing. it's just some kids fighting. not being able to see who just got punched in the face got really annoying by the 3rd or so fight scene. there isnt too much to tell about this movie. it's really boring, and really dissapointing. like i said before, full of unlikable characters who fight each other. i never got tired of the fight scenes, but i could have gone without seeing that one kids arm get busted in THAT much detail. all in all, you can skip this movie. you'll probably still watch it out of curiousity after reading this, but after you do, you'll be telling your friends to skip it also. "},{"Title":"Low rent Mean Streets/West Side Story tale","Date":"11 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Scott Kalvert's take on rival gangs facing each other on the same street in the lat 50's falls flat more than it succeeds and too standard to be easily enjoyed- a kid dies from heroin OD and his brother and gang vow to not let smack back on the street.  But three years later, the truce is seeming to start to break up, much to the dismay of a priest (Vincent Pastore playing against type) and a mob boss (Matt Dillon who should've had more screen time).  Some interesting elements, like Munoz's character and the cement block scene, but overall it doesn't amount to much.  C+ "},{"Title":"About as intimidating as The Bowery Boys","Date":"6 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  DEUCES WILD (2002) *1/2 Stephen Dorff, Brad Renfro, Fairuza Balk, Norman Reedus, Baltahzar Getty, Matt Dillon, James Franco, Drea de Matteo, Vincent Pastore, Frankie Muniz, Max Perlich, Joshua Leonard, Johnny Knoxville, Debbie Harry.  Dreadful melodrama set in sweltering Brooklyn circa 1958 centering on rival greaser gangs with disastrous results on all counts. Specifically Dorff - the poor man's Kiefer Sutherland - being required to be a tortured he-man; Renfro - whose dese dum and dose accent grates as much as his character being a completely annoying moron - should drop out of show biz all together and the off-set direction by Scott Kalvert with his ill-advised slo-mo/fast-mo editing montages during fight sequences.  Ditto seeing Harry as Balk's nutsy mother who sings nothing but Christmas songs (!)  "},{"Title":"So many other bad films out there to see; why this one?","Date":"4 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Stephen Dorff, with his receding hairline, is playing a teen.  That's integrity in the casting.  Why shouldn't a young guy be already angry and follically challenged?I think awards should be given for trailers that remind you of other movies.  For this one, I thought that the studios had re-released The Outsiders.  But no, new money was spent on this guys-bashing-guys flick.  I'm sure that frat boys will get lots of laughs watching this as some ritualistic indoctrination.  But for real people, go and rent something that won't kill your braincells instead. "},{"Title":"hot guy central...and some good action too","Date":"14 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  OK LADIES, THIS ONES FOR YOU....if you want to see a movie with hotties in it that will entertain your men, see deuces wild.  you've got things to look at, and your men will enjoy the fight scenes.  and for girls like me, who like to look at hotties, but also like a good fight scene, will enjoy this movie even more!  i liked it.....you may too! "},{"Title":"The first guilty pleasure of the summer","Date":"7 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  If you're not in the mood for a big budget action film this summer then Deuces Wild is the film for you. The film has a talented young cast in everyone from Brad Renfro to Johnny Knoxville.The fight scenes and cinematograpgy are all good and Scott Kalvert has made a film on par with his first one. "},{"Title":"A well shot drama that rivals The Outsiders","Date":"5 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Where do I begin.Well first of all I have only heard negative things about this film they are wrong.  Its a great drama with a heart to it unlike most gang films you would tend to see. Stephen Dorff is the Perfect gang leader as Leon and portrays his character with a sentimental ferosity which you dont see very often. Brad Renfro trys his best to keep up with an all star cast and falls short but not to short. The fights are incredibly well done they creep you out but make you also want to fight just like the Greasers and the socs in THE OUTSIDERS. A fun movie although not for everyone Any teenager will love the plot and connect with the characters.  IGNORE THE CRITICS. "}{"Title":"GREAT MOVIE!!!","Date":"4 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I loved this movie! I saw it last night and I thought it was awesome! Steven Dorff and Brad Renfro were brilliant in their roles. The movie was very real and gritty. I felt like I was right there on the side lines in the 50's. It was great! "},{"Title":"","Date":"13 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the greatest movies of all times. It definatly make my top ten maybe even my top five. This should win the best picture. Anyone who dislikes this movie should be commited to a disturbed ward. All of the actors were excellent on this stunning film. "}]