[{"Title":"What an unexpected surprise!","Date":"7 December 2001","Score":"24 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Novocaine is a very strange film. It doesn't make up its mind whether it's a take off on a genre or is it playing straight. That said, the story has a lot of laughs and it was a complete surprise given the negative comments one had heard about this film. David Watkins' script and direction give this film a different look of what Hollywood is giving us lately. Steve Martin is a very difficult actor to cast and he has to have the right vehicle and direction in order to excel, as he  does here. Sometimes Mr. Martin comes across rather shallow in some of his screen portrayals, but as the dentist at the center of this comedy, he is at the top of his craft. Laura Dern is just perfect in her role. She keeps getting better all the time, whether it's comedy, as it is here, or her other film this year, Focus. She's an actress who doesn't repeat herself. She's a true original. Helena Bonham-Carter is perfect as the junkie that appears in Steve Martin's life. Quite a change for her image, better known for her appearances in serious films. This must have been quite a turn around for this actress, better remembered for her work in serious English drama. The most remarkable scenes are those of the great Kevin Bacon as an actor tailing David Keith in preparation for an upcoming police film. He is hilarious as the method actor in search of ways to interpret the real life detective in the movies.All in all, this is a very satisfying comedy.   "},{"Title":"Steve Martin Surrounded by Brilliance","Date":"12 December 2001","Score":"23 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I would never have seen Novocaine had it not been for my love of Steve Martin.  But what amazed me in this film were the genius performances by the other actors a terrific character turn for Laura Dern (didn't mean to rhyme).  The always-charming Helena Bonham-Carter playing a role reminiscent of (but NOT the same as) her Fight Club character.   Elias Koteas' quirky, stupid take as Steve Martin's younger brother.  Kevin Bacon making a cameo in one of the only roles I've EVER liked him in.But most of all, Laura Dern.  This woman can act.  She absolutely stole the show.  A character who seems at once timid and sweet, then sends me spinning with her karate fanaticism.  I will not tell you anymore about her performance (of which there is MUCH more to tell), because you need to discover this film for yourself.The filming is an absolute masterpiece, as well as the writing, both done by David Atkins.  The music is a wonderfully stylized score by Danny Elfman, calling forth 'film noir' memories.  And there couldn't have been a more thrilling cast to watch on screen.Novocaine is a suspense thriller, as well as an extremely funny movie. See it for Steve Martin, though you won't be watching him for long. "},{"Title":"Strangely intoxicating","Date":"21 December 2002","Score":"17 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  To start with, any movie in which Helena Bonham Carter gets naked is a good thing.This is a weird weird movie, but good pacing and casting saves it. A more disciplined director could have turned it into a cult classic.Steve Martin is convincing in a challenging part. He is a fine actor.He brings just enough comedy so the movie doesn't descend into the land that light forgot. This edge gives the film strange believability.Laura Dern is also exquisite walking a fine line to achieve a balance between farce and drama. Her character, blondness and 'hard body' look contrasted effectively with HBC's petite, auburn wickedness.At the end, I wanted to watch it again to appreciate the fine points I missed the first time through.I would describe it as a darker  The Whole Nine Yards. "},{"Title":"Impressed with Steve Martin all over again.","Date":"22 August 2001","Score":"23 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Steve Martin has great taste and gets some of the best stories in the industry.  I don't think he's made a bad movie and this one is stellar. Novocaine is a little along the lines  of Spanish Prisoner and reminds me of Memento.  The plot was complex, the acting superb,  it was well crafted, surprising, and even funny.  When it started out I couldn't help but squirm in my chair due to the horrible decisions the dentist was making. Nevertheless, let me assure you that in the end we all went away feeling fully entertained and pleased.  The crowd at the advance screening loved it as well.  I continue to be impressed with Steve Martin.  How many actors or artists can you honestly say that about?  What a great show! "},{"Title":"Totally Surprising and Brilliant!","Date":"20 October 2001","Score":"13 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I was lucky enough to get to go to an advance screening of Novocaine (I won tickets).  I LOVED it!!  I always loved Steve Martin but was really impressed at what a great actor he is as well as comedian!  I don't want to give anything away, but this movie totally surprised me, part thriller, part drama part comedy.  Nothing like Martin's done before but still very Steve Martin.  Helena Bonham Carter plays a role similar to her Fight Club role, very mysterious and brooding.  I was also happy to see Laura Dern in a great role.  She's different in every movie and is especially strong in this one. The movie is such a mixture of twists and turns that it's hard to rave about it without giving anything away.  But I definitely recommend this movie to everyone, perfect for a date or with friends.  Even the score is phenomonal too. I can't wait to go again and see it in the theatre the first weekend it comes out. "},{"Title":"excellent suspense","Date":"7 May 2002","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The suspense of this beautifully written plot manages to keep you squirming while the actors dazzle you with comic flourishes, thick sexual tension, and all-around excellent performances.  A great film.  Steve Martin has proven that he has a knack for suspense thrillers with this film and The Spanish Prisoner. "},{"Title":"Good performance....seriously flawed film.....","Date":"21 October 2008","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Steve Martin is believable as a dentist who sees his life spiraling out of control after a series of cascading lies sets him up as a murder suspect. What is not believable is the script, which seems to overlook common sense. Cops that fall asleep while guarding a suspect, and worse yet handcuffing a suspect to a flimsy bench in the court house. After an intriguing set up, everything has less and less logic. The proverbial happy ending is totally unbelievable, as is the supposed motivation for the entire storyline. If you want to see a pretty good Steve Martin performance and can overlook Novocaine's many flaws, it is definitely watchable. - MERK "},{"Title":"Laura Dern gave us a real surprise at the end.","Date":"8 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Whatever Steve Martin is in is probably going to be good, and this one was. It was a slow starter but it finally got off to a fast moving film. Steve, the dentist, was taken in by a drug user and when he gave her a prescription for 5 pills, he learned that she had added a O to his figure and made it 50. Once he started lying, he had to keep on lying to cover up the other lies. He was apparently an innocent victim and didn't know it for a long time. There was one murder of the addicts brother, and another murder of Steve's brother. He finally figured out the one person who could get all the information together and and set him up to be convicted. When he pulled his own teeth and replaced them in another false set, we could really see the sense of it all. The end was the greatest surprise of all. "},{"Title":"A movie with many twists....in the vein of The Spanish Prisoner","Date":"20 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  If you are expecting a typical Steve Martin comedy, then don't see this movie.  However, if you are looking for a dark comedy with many twists and turns, and with great acting, then this movie is for you.   I liken it to The Spanish Prisoner, another fantastic Steve Martin movie that contained many unexpected plot twists.  I give this a 10. "},{"Title":"Unusual but highly entertaining thriller","Date":"11 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I must say that about halfway through this movie I thought about bailing out on it.  Steve Martin's character kept making SUCH bad decisions that it was painful to watch and you could easily see where it was going.But I'm glad I stuck with it.  Martin did a marvelous job of playing a terribly upstanding character who does things even he thinks himself incapable of, when he meets someone who finds his buttons and keeps on pushing them.  *** SPOILER FOLLOWS ***  You'd expect him to end up wishing he'd never met her, yet ultimately their meeting is the one thing that saves him.  Sure some of the plot twists are a little implausible, but it's well-acted, told from an unusual point of view and a lot of fun.  7 out of 10. "}{"Title":"The worst thing to happen to a man is to lose his teeth.Unless of course,he pulls them out himself.","Date":"30 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" With a friend mentioning to me that she was interested in watching a Comedy movie,I decided to pay a visit to a local DVD shop.Getting near the end of a shelf,I was happy to spot a Steve Martin title that I remember seeing lots of ads for when it came out,which led to me getting ready to pay the dentist a visit.The plotLiving a care-free life,dentist Frank Sangster finds himself being taken out of his comfort zone by new patient Susan. Despite having kind-hearted Jean Noble by his side,Sangster finds the danger Susan offers to be irresistible,which leads to them having sex in Sangster's dentist chair (talk about getting a filling!) Getting dressed,Susan pushes Sangster to give her a prescription to drugs that she is addicted to.Turning up at his practise the next day,Sangster discovers that the buildings entire drug supply has been stolen.Quickly telling Nobel that he got rid of the drugs due to them running out of date,Sangster sets his sights on tracking down Susan.As Sangster enters Susan's brutal,drug hazed world,Nobel begins to pull the teeth of Sangster's hidden secrets. View on the filmStuck with terrible, misleading promos,debuting co-writer/ (along with Paul Felopulos)director David Atkins (who has not made a movie since) leaves any sign of light Comedy behind,to deliver a murky Neo-Noir with a tough black Comedy edge.Drilling into a Neo-Noir atmosphere,Atkins & cinematographer Vilko Filac expose the rot setting in on Sangster's life with dazzling tracking shots,which along with revealing the chaotic state that his dental practise is falling into,also subtly shows Sangster to be in such a frantic mind that he is unable to spot the games getting played. Initially giving the title a light appearance, Atkins pulls up black Comedy roots which give Sangster's walk into the Neo-Noir world a glistering bitterness,as blood sprays over Sangster's pristine life.Ripping Sangster's life wide open,the writers superbly pull any clean teeth in sight,as the whirlwind,dangerous femme fatale Susan drags Sangster out of his relaxing life with shady deals and lustful temptation.Ending the movie on a wonderfully weird bonkers note,the writers bite down on the viewers expectations with a raw intensity,thanks to delivering sharp, clever twists which reveal Sangster relationship with perfect Jean Noble to actually be more dangerous than the one he is having with Susan.Hiding her English accent, Helena Bonham Carter (who also appears naked) gives an excellent performance as femme fatale Susan,with Carter's guitar twang giving Susan an oddly alluring quality,whilst Carter's stilted body language brilliantly capturing the burnt to a crisp life of Susan.Going up against Susan, Laura Dern gives a great performance as Jean Noble,with Dern joyfully ripping up Noble noble image,as Dern transforms Nobel into a hard-nose Neo-Noir dame.Stuck in the dentist chair,Steve Martin gives a terrific performance as Sangster, with Martin burning up Sangster's likability as he drills the Neo-Noir loner into him. Striking his exchanges with Carter with a chilling gasp of desperation,Martin carefully balances a dry dark wit,with a clutching at straws desperation,as Sangster starts to become numb. "},{"Title":"Steve Martin at his best.","Date":"10 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I always love to be able to use the term hidden gem in my reviews, since those are the kind of movies I seek out most, and this Steve Martin vehicle totally qualifies. The plot is original. The ending is surprising. Steve Martin plays his character perfectly. I don't dislike Steve Martin, but this is the most I've ever liked him in a movie, since he usually can't seem to stop his acting from going too far over-the-top. I don't want to give anything about this unique film away, so I'll only say that this is simply a terrific mildly-black comedy, and I confidently rate it a solid ten. "},{"Title":"The anti-Roxanne","Date":"14 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I rented Novocaine because I like Steve Martin and Helena Bonham Carter and also because I knew nothing about the movie. I enjoyed it and it never bored me at any moment.The movie seems to be characterized as a black comedy, but I felt it was more of a satire. I think Novocaine is commenting on the struggle we all quietly face between living a safe, conventional life and pursuing our fantasies. Frank Sangster (Steve Martin) seems to have it all, money and a beautiful fiancé, with the only glimpse of discontent being and old French movie he plays for the patients, but which is probably more for him. When the sultry Susan (Helena Bonham Carter) sits in his dental chair, his fantasies are suddenly triggered. While most men (all?) would sympathize with Frank for his temptation, we are led to believe its cause is more of a gigantic moment of weakness, not because he's unhappy with his fiancé, Jean (Laura Dern). Also, while Frank is certainly a victim, there's nothing particularly noble about his actions during the film and you don't completely sympathize with him. And even when he achieves his fantasy, it is so clichéd and paid for at such a high price, the movie doesn't ennoble Frank's fantasy. On one hand, the movie seems to be about pursuing one's dreams, but it's fairly cynical about it.One of the best aspects of the movie is the effort given to the minor characters. It felt like they tried to give everyone something interesting to do. Even Kevin Bacon shows up for a small, but very funny part. Some of the movie is predictable and implausible, but there were enough surprises to keep it interesting and if I want complete believability I'll watch a documentary.If there was any weakness in the movie, it's that, while we can understand Frank falling for Susan, there's not enough effort given to make it convincing that Susan had really fallen for Frank. This may have been on purpose early in the movie, to keep you guessing about Susan's intentions, but there should have been one scene before the movie is over which tells you why she wants to be with him. And the movie is a bit thin overall on the motivations and personality of Susan. She is apparently a drug addict and having a difficult relationship with her brother, but this is passed over too little.If you want to watch something a bit different, sort of an anti-Roxanne, this might be worth renting. On the other hand, if you fear going to the dentist, you may wish to take care. "},{"Title":"As the title says - not painful, just numb","Date":"6 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Fine cast, but they couldn't do much with this flat script from writer and first-time director David Atkins.  It *seemed* like it should be good, but in the end (as a political pundit once said) there was just no there there.If you get the DVD, watch the making of segment for Steve Martin's remark on why he signed on to the film.  His deadpan explanation (He had enjoyed working with David Mamet once in the past, heard that Novocaine was directed by someone named David, so he figured he should do it...) is somehow funnier than the rest of the DVD.   "},{"Title":"Simple, fun and easy-to-watch.","Date":"8 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" A very, very fun little film. It's got a pretty simple noir story but it executes it so flawlessly. It's pretty quick paced, so you never lose interest, but it isn't quick enough to where it loses the audience. I've always enjoyed Steve Martin's comedic talents, but it was great to see him in a much more mellow role. Helena Bonham Carter was absolutely amazing, as always. It's pretty hard to make me fall in love with a drug addict, but she did exactly that. Easily the most, well only, adorable drug addict I've ever seen. Laura Dern is, of course, also great. In what I've come to expect from her, she becomes so immersed into her character that you don't even realize she's acting. Elias Koteas was very good as well. I also really loved the twist. It had a great, mysterious build up to it throughout the film, and was completely unpredictable. One of the rare times that I was genuinely shocked by a twist in a mystery. But, for some odd reason, they felt the need to completely spoon-feed you how everything happened...about 15 minutes after you know everything that happened. My only other complaint were the very gimmicky x-ray shots used throughout. They felt extremely unnecessary and really drew me out of the film. Other than those two things though, I really loved it. Just remarkably fun and easy to watch. "},{"Title":"Steve Martin as a dentist again!","Date":"25 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I think a lot of people don't mind seeing Steve Martin again playing a dentist after his role in the 1986 version of Little Shop of Horrors, although of course his role in this movie is quite different.Novocaine is a movie that is using all of the classic film-noir ingredients but above all the movie is a comedy. A black-comedy but a comedy nevertheless. And it's a rather well made and written one. The movie has some nice twists but never forgets to also entertain.Steve Martin shows why he is still a much asked actor for comedies, even though his best roles are long since behind him, he still knows how to handle the genre and time things in his performances, without ever going over-the-top with anything. Helena Bonham Carter is a great femme fatale for this movie and Laura Dern also plays a surprising role. The movie also has solid supporting actors in it such as Lynne Thigpen, Elias Koteas, Keith David and Scott Caan. The older Scott Caan gets, the more he starts to look like his father, also acting-wise. Kevin Bacon also makes a totally fun cameo as an actor who is doing research for a cop role.The great and typically wacky musical main titles for the movie were composed by Danny Elfman, which set the tone for the movie really. Most of the rest of the score was composed by Steve Bartek, who normally works as Danny Elfman's orchestrator. The story is enough to draw you into the movie. It has some unexpected twists, although these all occur toward the end. The movie perhaps does become a tad bit too serious at times, which doesn't completely suit the movie and its atmosphere. Thankfully the movie is mostly just fun. It's good quality entertainment to watch and better than your average film-noir/comedy crossover attempt, which is mainly thanks to the great cast of the movie and the solid written story.7/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Fun twist between black comedy and thriller","Date":"13 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Steve Martin is a great comedian but,usually,he does not choose his projects well.But,sometimes,Martin leaves the mediocre comedy and he participates on something serious and way better like The Spanish prisoner,Shopgirl or Novocaine,the movie I'll talk about on this commentary.This is a fun black comedy which is combined with a thriller story.I have to say it's really a pleasure to see Martin on a serious role like this one.He should participate on more movies like this one.The best thing about this movie is that there are so much unexpected things that anything can happen and it kept me in mystery.The cast is very wellI explained Martin is great,Helena Bonham Carter is a great actress and her performance is at her level,Keith David has a short but hilarious performance,Laura Dern is great but the great Kevin Bacon steals the show.He does not appear too much but he's brilliant and hilarious.The plot has original things,too.Novocaine is not a great movie but I have to say it kept me very fun. "},{"Title":"This WASN'T meant to be a comedy...","Date":"17 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This review is for all of the people nagging and complaining that this movie wasn't very funny. Ummm, hello! Earth to the idiots out there... It's a DRAMA. That's spelled D-R-A-M-A (Without the hyphens for you real idiots out there). It was a great movie, where Steve Martin actually uses his acting ability and does so with triumphant impact. Just like The Spanish Prisoner, this is another not so typical Martin role. Watch the movie for what it is. A dark, witty, twists and turns mystery-drama. Enjoy, because I sure did. 4 *'s out of 4 *'s.  "},{"Title":"On a scale from novocaine to laughing gas...","Date":"2 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" ...this comedy rates a mildly amusing. Yes, it is wry and clever; but it is not particularly innovative. There are plenty of plot twists to keep you guessing. But every comic action is played down, as if the director were afraid that if he made it too funny, it wouldn't work as a thriller or mystery. And all the tense bits gets played down, too, by the odd insouciance of every character--especially our hero--as if the director was afraid to get the comedy too dark.I have to think that 'Novocaine' is either a perfect Steve Martin vehicle, or that somehow Steve Martin lends a peculiar flavor to all the movies he appears in--a sort of overpowering blandness that makes all the comedy seem somehow flaccid, and all the romance seem flat.Better than a root canal&#133;but not as good as a hit of nitrous oxide. "},{"Title":"Very dark comedy, doesn't quite hit the mark.","Date":"11 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I had not yet decided if I wanted to rent Novocaine when I found it for free at the local library. I like Steve Martin in almost everything he is in, and I figured I'd like this one. It is the kind of movie that, as it unfolds I find myself thinking why did he (or she) do that? It is the kind of movie that you just have to give the director and actors a chance and hope it all comes together at the end. This one doesn't, even with a great cast, I found the end to be a bit anticlimactic, to say the least.SPOILERS - DON'T READ FURTHER IF YOU HAVEN'T SEEN THE FILM YET. The story is not revealed in this straight-line manner, but the dentist (Steve Martin), a by-the-book guy, has a younger brother (Elias Koteas) who is envious of his wealth, and an assistant (Laura Dern) who is also his fiancee, and she with the brother work out a scheme to have the dentist framed for a murder and get all his wealth. They lure an addict (Helena Bonham Carter) to town to catch his eye, steal his drugs, and fiancee will frame him for murder by biting the victim with an impression of the dentist's teeth. In the end fiancee shoots brother, dentist finds him in chair, pulls all his own teeth after a shot of novocaine and places them in his dead brother's mouth, sets the place on fire, authorities think the dentist is dead, he and the girl end up in a foreign country, he's juggling, she's pregnant, he said I never did feel like I belonged there.The writer/director has a father and two brothers who are dentists, and he always wanted to write a script basd on denistry. He did, it isn't very good. The film doesn't really come off like a comedy, although Laura Dern acts a bit over-the-top most of the time. And it doesn't really come off like a good drama, although Steve Martin is very good. I don't think most viewers will like Novicaine. The DVD is very well done, the picture is sharp, the extras mildly interesting. Better than a 3, not as good as a 7. "}{"Title":"Mixed feelings","Date":"13 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  OK, so I have to give this movie points for originality.  How many films involve a dentist protagonist?  I watched the featurette on the DVD and director David Atkins explained that he wanted to throw a curve ball at the audience by having Steve Martin play the main character in a dark comedy--since audiences are probably expecting something much broader.  I didn't get any laughs out of this film; just some mild chuckles.  But whether it's a dark comedy or a mystery-thriller, it doesn't quite gel.  And ultimately, the film left a bad taste in my mouth--no pun intended.  It's watchable, and at times quite intriguing, but it's definitely not a memorable film that I would watch on repeat viewings. The cast is spirited.  Steve Martin never ceases to please, whether he's playing a broad comic role or the straight man.  Here, he plays more of the latter.  But I wasn't surprised he was able to pull it off.  If anybody has seen Lawrence Kasdan's Grand Canyon, you know Steve is a versatile actor who can easily pull off a serious role.  This isn't his first time playing the straight man.  Laura Dern is amusing as Steve's neurotic, obsessive-compulsive, karate-kicking wife.  Helena Bonham Carter is sassy and sexy, a totally convincing femme fetale.  Elias Koteas has some nice moments as Steve's black-sheep brother.  And last but not least, Kevin Bacon has an amusing unbilled cameo as an actor researching murder cases for his upcoming movie.Danny Elfman's opening theme is wonderfully haunting.  There are certain elements of Novocaine that I liked, it does have its moments (the twist ending totally caught me by surprise!!), but it just doesn't come together. My score  6 (out of 10)     "},{"Title":"Lots of spoilers to follow","Date":"2 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" if it's possible to spoil something that's already in tatters. This is a plot script, meant to show off the cleverness of its writer, in the grand tradition of Agatha Christie and Arthur Conan Doyle. For this to work, the writer must actually be clever, and the plot must make sense. This one, alas, is riddled with holes.It also shares another fatal flaw with earlier second-raters like The Getaway (Alec Baldwin, Kim Basinger) and The Silent Partner (Elliott Gould, Susannah York) even the characters we're expected to sympathize with have the moral sense of garden slugs, and no real virtues beyond the fact that they're good-looking.Steve Martin, a dentist, has a gorgeous, charming, loving fiancée and assistant in Laura Dern, yet somehow he instantly and implausibly falls for rude, bratty, drug-addicted Helena Bonham Carter. When he discovers that she's conned him into prescribing her some drugs, he lies to cover it up. When he discovers that she's robbed his office of his entire supply of drugs and the DEA wants to know where they went, he lies to cover it up. When her psychopathic brother trashes his office, he lies to cover it up. This is the Idiot Plot Syndrome--at each move, the entire audience is cringing at the stupid mistake made by the protagonist, but each of these mistakes is essential to keep the story going, since doing the self-evidently right thing would clear up the mess and send the audience home.Martin's childish lies eventually allow someone to frame him for murder. The cops allow an actor (Kevin Bacon), researching a role as a cop, to do the questioning. In a deus ex broken armrest, he escapes effortlessly, and immediately returns to his druggie sweetheart, even though the police are watching her.In the end, the loving fiancée turns out to be the villainess, having hatched the whole plot in order to take ownership of his business. (A dentist office? Some motive.) She had talked his accountant into rearranging his corporate structure to make her plot possible, yet when his accountant, on the chair for some tooth drilling, began to spill the beans, it was he, not she, who insisted that the accountant shut up and submit to the nitrous oxide.Her original idea had merely been to frame him for drug dealing, yet somehow she had had the amazing foresight to make a denture copy of his teeth, for the purpose of putting incriminating bite marks all over a dead body that only at the last moment intruded unexpectedly into her plan. In the end, she commits a second unnecessary murder, and is filmed in the act by an office video camera she knew all about. Martin, however, manages to fake his own death and abscond to France with his loser girlfriend (now miraculously cured of her addiction, and full of his child), even though it is now completely unnecessary that he run away.I'll stop here, not because I can't think of any more flaws, but because it's pointless to do so. Maybe there's a decent Sherlock Holmes on the tube. "},{"Title":"derivative, self-conscious, predictable -- and brilliant","Date":"25 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Detour meets Fight Club meets American Beauty (with other obvious nods to Little Shop of Horrors and Il Postino).  Novocaine is this year's love letter to Hollywood.  Snappy writing, superb acting, and engaging editing. The opening credits alone are worth the price of admission.  I doubt anyone who sees it will be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Not good... it's GREAT.","Date":"10 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This might be biased since I'm an undeniable fan of Steve Martin, but this isn't just a movie for his fans.  All in all, it's a film for people who like to watch good movies.  Everyone turns in a great performance and David Atkins does a wonderful job directing his great screenplay.   Looking forward to seeing this again when it's released in November. "},{"Title":"Comedy or suspense film?  Hard to tell...","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This was a good movie, but there were several plot holes you could drive a truck through.  I found myself saying No one would really do that over and over again.  It seemed as though the director wanted to do a straight suspense film, and Steve Martin wanted to do a screwball comedy, and in the end, it's neither one.  The characters are well played, and Helena Bonham Carter did an especially good job with a big departure from her previous roles as refined British noble women.  At times, the actors got very close to being caricatures instead of characters.  All in all, an enjoyable film if you aren't expecting the quality of The Spanish Prisoner, which I think is still Steve Martin's best film ever. "},{"Title":"Novocaine or Sleeping Gas??","Date":"14 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  In my opinion, Novocaine had a brilliant trailer, but the film was a big disappointment. The first time I saw the trailer on a video rental, I knew I had to see Novocaine. I was expecting a Cohen Brothers style film of sharp wit and beautiful surreality. What I got was 'try hard' wit and ridiculous implausibility.Now this really p****s me off because I love Steve Martin, I love Laura Dern, I love Helena Bonham Carter and I love Kevin Bacon. I really expected more from a cast of very talented, very experienced actors. This basically means that the fault didn't lie with the cast. It lay with the severe implausibility of the story . SPOILERS IMMINENT!! REPEAT, SPOILERS IMMINENT!! At the film's beginning, Steve Martin's engaged to Laura Dern (what more could an average Joe want?), he's got a good job, he's got a very nice home, he's portrayed as a stable, even tempered middle aged dude. Suddenly Helena BC appears, asks for a script to be filled and Steve allows her to scam 10 times the amount of drugs from a local pharmacy! Two or so scenes later, when Helena BC steals the entire drug supply from Steve's dental surgery, Steve coyly makes up a paper thin story to the authorities that wouldn't stand up to detailed scrutiny by investigators!! This is when Novocaine jumped off the rails of plausibility and `Plot' gave way to `Series of Events'. To anyone out there who thought these scenes seem logical, do you realise how big a crime Steve's committing?? How much senseless risk?? How much all the drugs which Helena stole cost?? If Steve wanted to have some sex on the side, it would have been much, much cheaper and much less stress to go visit a high class lady of the night every night for several weeks.  And as for the climactic scene in the film from which the title is derived, I was physically disgusted and really couldn't believe that an tempered, stable middle aged dude would be capable of taking out all of their own teeth, as well as those of a corpse. Come on!! It felt like the writers thought of that one scene first and tried to create a movie around it. Overall, not too badly directed, but very immaturely written. Looks like a student film. Steve, Laura, Hel and Kev all should have known better. 2/10  "},{"Title":"Almost there...","Date":"9 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  *some minor spoilers*Novocaine has some original touches to it, but doesn't come through all the way by the end of the film.  Steve Martin is good in the role though he isn't given many chances to really craft the role so much as emulate a thousand other regular guy in trouble types in the same situation. The voice over falls flat and only occasionally makes an appearance in the movie, making me think it was either an afterthought or greatly cut from its original length.  There are some trying moments in this film, cliches you've seen a million other times (ventilation duct escapes), but if you stick around there's something frightfully funny or original soon after (who wouldn't want to shove their dentist into their trunk?). Helena Bonham Carter acts circles around everyone else with what she's given and I think that fact alone keeps the film from being completely typical.  Editing and cinematography should also given credit for lifting this film from average to above average. "},{"Title":"Freaky","Date":"19 March 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This has been a quite entertaining movie. Not really a top notch movie, not really working as a comedy, but still pretty entertaining. It started out veeery slow and boooring - it took a little too long for it to evolve. But when it started to it got better and better. There's that very freaky story and a wrecked Bonham-Carter (she's good playin such characters ;-) adding most to this film. However the ending was a little too fantastic since it shouldn't be a problem for the forensics to ... no, I won't spoil hehe.My favourite scene was Martin's call where he spoke to that guy who answered the phone with barbie's bakery. it's mr. muffin man speakin. LOLMy overall rating is 6.5/10 - if you're not sure what to watch, try this one. It works pretty well as entertainment.  "},{"Title":"Steve Martin/Frank Sangster- BE MY DENTIST!","Date":"25 October 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I loved this movie. I love Steve Martin's work. I been a fan of his since.... A LONG TIME! See this movie. It is great. Well, it's about a person name Susan Ivey who suduces Frank Sangster(The famous Steve) by having you know at the dentist place. Because this all starts out, he has a great life, no bad things happening, until his 730 patient (you know Susan) is at the dentist with HORRIBLE TEETH!!! Well when he is checking out her teeth, she asks him if he wants to do it. Well, your going to have to see the rest. I dont want to ruin it. It does have some nudity, but not as bad as the violence. see this movie. YOU WILL LOVE IT!!!!!! Its a kind of a Crimody movie. Some comedy, and some crime, barely drama. Steve Martin, I have seen every single 1 of his movies, not one is dissapointing, they are all entertaining, I got them all. I got all his books, cds, even his autograph! But please see this movie November 16, 2001. STEVE MARTIN ROCKS!!!!  "},{"Title":"X-Ray, then Drilling","Date":"10 May 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Spoilers herein.How quickly have we moved into an era where virtually every movie is self-referential.-- We have a side character who is a film actor (the ultra-recognizable Kevin Bacon), studying `reality.' He asks, `how does the audience know it is a movie?'-- A common thread is the notion of an x-ray, a film image that reveals the inner truth.-- The final framing is via a video.-- The fantasy in the film is set up as `Il Postino,' which slowly blends from the office screen into the action of the film.The effort at self-reference was rather over the top. Wish there had been as much attention given to all of the other elements of the project.But I must admit that I am usually charmed by Ms Carter. Her approach to acting is different than what one expects. She challenges the audience to break through her skin. It is opposite from the Emily Watson (Nic Cage) method where she splays her guts so that you can admire her commitment. Here, she cajoles you into drilling into a shared space that is ever so more intimate because you have made the commitment to film sex, rather like Martin's hapless character. (`Have you ever done it in a (theater) chair?')He spends all day in people's mouths, yet is captivated by this urchin. She works that enticement extraordinarily well in herself and her character --  and I am sure it is her idea and not the director's. "}{"Title":"Decent black comedy","Date":"9 August 2003","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I hesitate to call Novocaine a film noir, for those knowledgeable cinema buffs out there may harass me and tell me film noir is usually set in the forties, and so on and so forth. But the core of film noir is really the essential idea of the Everyman thrust into incomprehensible situations, not aware of what is happening, why, or how to stop it. Film noirs usually show our hero caught up in framed murder. In Novocaine, a dentist is thrust into a world of lies, deceit, sex, drugs, and murder. And if that doesn't tickle your fear, then maybe the fact that the dentist is Steve Martin will.Film noirs are a tricky thing to make correctly. They can fail very easily, such as the incredibly disappointing D.O.A. They can stumble, mess up. When the rare Who Framed Roger Rabbit? comes along, it is time to rejoice. I must admit that when I went to see Novocaine with Steve Martin, I did not expect very much. I had already heard bad news about it, seen little previews for it, and generally expected it to be a bad movie. Steve Martin in a film noir about a funny dentist? Fortunately, I instantly realized I had made a mistake.Our tale begins with Dr. Frank Sangster, a mild-mannered dentist (isn't that how it always is in film noirs?) with a fiancé/co-worker, Jean (Laura Dern), and a generally nice, peaceful little world. But that world is shaken when a sleazy, lusty woman named Susan Ivey (Helena Bonham Carter) walks through the doors. She wants Novocaine, but Frank doesn't know this. After a night of passion in the dentist's chair, Frank agrees to give her Novocaine for pain she is having. But the next day, when he thinks he may have gotten away with everything, he finds out that Susan has increased the amount on the prescription he gave her from about 1 to 100, or something like that. Soon Frank is being checked out by the Three-Letter Government Corporations, and, unable to come up with excuses for the missing Novocaine, tries to find Susan and confront her about it. Before long he is caught up in a web of deceit, murder, perjury, all the stuff I said before.Novocaine is a sweet ball of darkness, laughs and film noir. It numbs you, leaving you breathless. It is as if the film itself is Novocaine. It isn't a terrific comedy, or a terrific film noir, but it is a heck of a lot better than you have probably been led to believe. Steve Martin is about the last person you'd expect to see in a film like this, but my favorite comedian pulls it off. His character, Frank, has no idea what is going on. He isn't experienced in the world of greed, lust and so on and so forth like Susan is--he is new to it, stumbling forward unsure of where to go next. As situations catch up with him, he runs farther, searching the darkness, trying to find answers.This is a fun movie to watch, the kind of movie I've been looking for. The beginning credits, which show X-rays of the human mouth, set the tone for the film--it is a dark movie, and leaves you feeling dirty throughout. It is the type of movie where you want to sit back, shake your head and make ticking sounds with your mouth. It frustrates you, it leads the characters into wrong decision, and you want to yell at the screen to stop them from doing what they're doing. But when the dirty feeling of the film kicks in, the small laughs along the way provide a balance to the darkness. Novocaine is a very well-done film noir. When the credits start rolling, you will feel surges of anger, frustration, laughter and sadness, and then the numbness will kick in on the ride home, and you'll feel like you've just been given a dose of Novocaine. "},{"Title":"Not your average Steve Martin comedy...","Date":"19 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" While labeled as a comedy Novocaine is not your typical Steve Martin comedy. And while there are elements of comedy throughout the movie this was actually more of a crime mystery. And it was actually a quite nice change of pace for Steve Martin.The movie is about Frank Sangster, a dentist whose life is rosy red and dandy. When he, against his better judgment, prescribes Demetol to an unusual client, he suddenly finds himself under suspicion and murder. One thing leads to the other and Franks is well in over his head.The storyline was actually quite good and well thought through, keeping the audience guessing at what is going on. Director David Atkins actually managed to put together a very entertaining movie.One of the things that really lifted up this movie was the impressive cast, which included Steve Martin, Laura Dern, Elias Koteas and of course Helena Bonham Carter. There is also two great cameos by Kevin Bacon and Keith David.Novocaine is a unique Steve Martin movie that should definitely be seen if you enjoy Steve Martin movies. "},{"Title":"Martin Pulls Teeth.","Date":"16 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Novocaine (2001) Dir David Atkins / Cast Steve Martin, Helena Bonham Carter, Elias Koteas, Laura Dern, Scott Caan Very disturbing and sometimes unpleasant black comedy about dentistry with an underlining theme of numbing pain associated with the job and symbolic with the screenplay. Steve Martin plays a dentist engaged to his hygienist until Helena Bonham Carter plunks down in his chair. She is obviously bad news and when her brother storms in threatening his life he realizes that he has gotten himself in too deep. It gets even more complicated when he discovers a dead body in his house. Intriguing concept full of plot twists with director David Atkins exploring the world of dentistry. Martin is seen as a guy who apparently took his ordinary life for granted until it spirals out of control leaving him with no other choice than to begin again. Carter is wonderfully mysterious whose motives are not always clear until the conclusion. Laura Dern is well cast as the sexually aggressive hygienist. Elias Koteas plays Martin's drunken brother whose initial appearance conceals alternative motives that lead to severe consequences and disturbance. Scott Caan plays Carter's enraged and violent brother who confronts Martin at his practice and threatens him. Intelligent dark comedy about careless risks and consequences as well as supplying a useful dose of dental knowledge. Score 8 / 10 "},{"Title":"not funny, slow crime noir","Date":"1 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Dr. Frank Sangster (Steve Martin) is a straight-laced dentist engaged to his assistant Jean Noble (Laura Dern). Pat (Lynne Thigpen) is the office manager. Then sexy patient Susan Ivey (Helena Bonham Carter) comes looking for prescription drugs. He prescribes 5 pills but she scrams 50 out of the pharmacist. He constantly tries to bail out his slacker brother Harlan (Elias Koteas). Then Susan comes back pulling him into a web of danger and her handsy criminal brother Duane (Scott Caan).This one didn't make me laugh once. It could have been an interesting crime noir but this needs to strip away the attempts at comedy. It also needs to be darker and more intense. Director David Atkins's amateur skills aren't good enough. Also Frank's lies don't make much sense either and his narration that he wants to see Susan again doesn't really solve it. It's just constructed poorly. "},{"Title":"Different, but lacking","Date":"7 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is billed as a dark comedy, and on that front, it fails miserably. There are no parts in this entire movie that get more than a mild chuckle out of you, making you wonder if this movie was really intended to be funny. This movie, however, was a pretty decent suspense/thriller with a couple of nice twists. Steve Martin is a dentist who seems to have everything going for him. He is engaged to a pretty and intelligent woman, Jean (Laura Dern), he is a respected part of the community, and he is making a good living. But the grass is always greener, it seems, as he begins to lust for a trashy junkie who ends up in the dentist's chair, Susan (Helena Bonham Carter). She convinces him to prescribe her drugs and things start to spin out of control. Soon he is suspected for the homicide of her brother Duane (Scott Caan). Overall, this movie is well acted, headlined by Steve Martin and Helena Bonham Carter. I totally buy Steve Martin as the straight guy as he slowly loses control of his life and what is there to say about Helene Bonham Carter? She is a great actress, there is no doubt about that. This part may have been a little bit beneath her level of talent, but she puts all that she can into it. She is a perfect seductress and plays Martin's character right into her hands. Scott Caan and Elias Koteas do a good job in smaller roles. Kevin Bacon, in an uncredited role, definitely steals the scenes that he is in though. He plays an actor studying the role of a cop for an upcoming movie. He plays it so seriously that they are easily the most humorous parts of the movie.Overall, this movie is not bad, but it could have been better as well. Tuning in, expecting to see a dark comedy, I was anticipating a little more humor than this movie produced, but it does satisfy as a suspense/thriller and was a pleasant surprise for a movie with a couple of stars that did not get a wide theatrical release. I recommend it as a movie that is worth at least a rental. My rating 6/10 "},{"Title":"Darkly entertaining...","Date":"21 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I just watched this for the first time last night, and I have to say that I really enjoyed it. Steve Martin is a dentist whose life seems to be perfect - granted, he's getting sick & tired of dealing with his screw-up brother Harlan (Elias Koteas) but otherwise, his life's great. He has a beautiful fiancee (Laura Dern, who is super), a successful dental practice and then...In walks Susan Ivey (Helena Bonham Carter) and the good doctor's life is turned completely upside down. He's pulled into a seamy underworld of illegal drugs, illicit sex, and running from the law. Laura Dern is great as Jean...the scene where she finally snaps and starts shouting that she's tired of being a codependent is her defining moment in the film. This isn't Steve Martin's best work,  but it's definitely not his worst. All in all, I give Novocaine ****** out of 10. "},{"Title":"Steve Martin plays it straight and I like it","Date":"22 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Let's get something clear real quick - this is NOT a comedy. Don't try to watch it as a comedy, don't try to laugh at things that are not supposed to be funny, and don't complain if you didn't laugh a lot.Now, I like to see an actor take a chance and do something out of his/her comfort zone. I like to see an actor expand his/her range, explore other genres, flex their actual acting muscles once in a while. And, I like to see an actor want to do a script that might not score them points either in the box office or with critics, so long as they feel they can bring something to a role. (Tom Hanks is the best example of this; Michael Keaton is close behind, and even Bruce Willis falls into this category, in my humble opinion).That said, this film is fairly good. A pretty tame dentist is drawn into a downward-spiralling vortex of sex, drugs and murder. He is clearly over his head as his world crumbles down around him, and he doesn't suddenly become an action hero at all.This movie has some classic femme fatale elements but does not pursue that vehicle to the common extreme. However, it also captures some film noir ideas - the first-person narrative, the slippery-slope downwards, the protagonist who just can't stop himself from falling under the spell of the vamp who's bad news from the word go...It's not Double Indemnity or Sunset Blvd, but hey, for what it is, it was somewhat engaging. "},{"Title":"Expectations....","Date":"10 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  First of all, do NOT set preconceived notions about how Steve Martin does comedy only.  Actors are actors and one shouldn't forget that they play character roles.  I.e. People like Tom Hanks and Jim Carrey doing dramatic stuff from a comedic background.  Novocaine set up a metaphorical analysis of a life crisis through the eyes of a dedicated dentist.  Imagine if all you ever thought about were teeth and the only way you could describe things in life were in relation to teeth (Lies are like a tooth decay...). Steve Martin was at one time considered to play the lead role in Eyes Wide Shut because Kubrick loved the way he acted.  And let's not forget his background as a previous dentist in Little Shop of Horrors (tangent, but relative in a way).  There were parts of the movie that sort of dragged, when you felt like Oh now this is going on...now what...  But overall I felt that in this pseudo Twilight Zone movie, it had remnants of classical suspense movies where critical situations were totally embellished and overanalyzed (something to the extent of Body Snatchers - 1956).  Therefore, if you want something in a dark comedic tone and want to venture into a new realm of Steve Martin, then take a shot of Novocaine (ha ha..no pun intended).  "},{"Title":"VERY slow start","Date":"24 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This has a really slow start. I turned this off after about half an hour. After reading some of the other comments I wonder if I was watching the same movie, I didn't laugh at all and thought it was just bad. The only reason I lasted that long was because my wife chose the movie and I didn't want to upset her. "},{"Title":"Among Those Who Liked It","Date":"28 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I'm in the camp of those who liked this movie.  I agree with the statement made by a previous poster that you will not enjoy it if you expect a typical Steve Martin comedy.  In fact, I wouldn't call it a comedy at all, dark or otherwise.  But I did find it entertaining, and it kept my interest - the mandatory qualities of any movie I enjoy.  Set aside your expectations for a Steve Martin comedy, and I think you'll enjoy this one too.  "}{"Title":"I don't care what people say, I enjoyed it","Date":"13 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is a heck of a lot of fun as long as you like dark, subtle, and quirky elements in your movies.  Steve Martin is about the opposite from the wild and crazy guy he once was, playing more the straight man, but he pulls it off very well.  Yes, his character is rather pathetic and does some stupid things, but if he didn't there would be no movie.  And hey, ever since Fight Club I can't get enough of Helena Bonham Carter either. Martin calls this a thriller with wit.  It's not a typical comedy, but I did find myself laughing many times.  Just go with the suspension of disbelief, and enjoy the plot twists as the craziness of the decay takes its hold. Rating 8/10 "},{"Title":"Steve Martin meets Double Indemnity... subtle & hilarious!","Date":"16 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  If you like Film Noir and/or Steve Martin, you'll like this film, kind of a light-hearted Blue Velvet (even a few Rubenesque women dancing in a bar). Martin's nuanced comic ability and straight acting are perfect, and the plot has enough twists to be entertaining without being too distracting. Terribly underrated (all the wrong people reviewed it). Rent it, open wide, it won't hurt a bit....   "},{"Title":"An average Steve Martin movie","Date":"8 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I like most of Steve Martin's work, and I also liked this movie, but I was not impressed.Novocaine has it's moments where it is really funny, but there are also some periods where not much is happening. It's not a typical Steve Martin movie where you laugh all the time, Novocaine has some serious and thrilling moments that we don't see in most other Steve Martin movies.The movie is a different Steve Martin movie, but there are still some good moments in Novocaine. I think this movie deserves 6/10, it is worth watching. "},{"Title":"A noir without much bite.","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Steve Martin has had an interesting career.  From zany stand-up comic to well-respected dramatic actor, he's managed to make canny decisions in the roles he's taken and the direction he's headed.  As a result, he's become one of the more respected performers out there, believable in either comic or dramatic roles.  When he's good, he's very very good.  When he's mailing it in - he's in Novocaine.On the surface, Novocaine has a lot going for it.  Martin plays Frank Sangster, a dentist with a thriving practice and a beautiful, perfect fiancee, Jean (Laura Dern).  Everything starts to unravel for the doctor after a new patient, Susan Ivey (Helena Bonham Carter) sits in his chair and starts a chain of events that lead inevitably towards disaster.It's the most familiar of film noir plots - innocent and law-abiding man meets a girl that's a far cry from his perfect ideal.  Afterwards, he starts making poorer and poorer decisions as he's led astray from his normal life - all while scrambling to hold onto what he's losing.  And it starts off promising enough, as Sangster finds himself drawn to this woman who is nothing like the anal-retentive and bland Jean.  Susan is something different, wilder and less-restrained.  It's a similar role to Carter's turn in Fight Club, though not as extreme (still a far cry from her Merchant Ivory days). The setup is fine, and seems to stir the pot quite nicely, giving the conflicted Frank a web that he starts to get lost in.  The problems arise in the second and third acts of the film, where the plots and conspiracies start to be revealed.  This is normally where the tension would start to build and where the rules are thrown out the window.  But there really isn't much tension in Novocaine - nothing beyond the natural squeamishness you might have while watching dentists at work.  The forces arrayed against Frank are bland and unimaginative - it doesn't take much thought to figure out who's doing the double-crossing, and every supporting character in the film is a complete cardboard cutout off the background character assembly line.There's not much thought here, and even the theme is a bit confused.  Is this a serious thriller, where paranoia and betrayal rule the day?  Or is this a sly wink at the genre, adding elements of the absurd to a very familiar formula?  It's a question the filmmakers don't seem to have a ready answer for, and the whole movie suffers as a result.Many of those involved are incapable of truly bad performances, and Novocaine isn't really a bad movie.  It's just not an inspired one.   "},{"Title":"Unusual Steve Martin.","Date":"15 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film did surprise me, even though I can't really give it many stars.  The best part was to see Steve Martin in a little bit different light then his usual comedy roles.  The film is about a dentist which gets himself into trouble with too many stupid decisions.  He has lived in rather protective environment which in few days turns into hell.  This is meant to be a thriller, and maybe one can have fun guessing the plot throughout the film.  But what is lacking is action or suspense.  The film crawls from one scene to the next, leaving you uninterested in the outcome.  Finally when the plot has been revealed the film is finished for the viewer.  I don't know where they came up with the ending which was in no relation to the rest of the movie due to how unreal and fantasy like it was.  The breath of the film was also none, with the whole thing taking place in three places.  I suspect that this was originally a theater play, and would have done better as such.  5/10 "},{"Title":"Oddball suspense movie","Date":"1 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is a quirky film noir which does not have too much noir, just alot of noir music.  There are oddball characters, but many of their odd behaviors does not play much into the movie, it is there just to make the movie strange.  Some weird effects like X-ray or dental related views are intersected between scenes for the sake of being there, not really adding anything.Although some of the movie's twists were predictable, the final whodunnit was a surprise to me, along with what our dentist's solution.All in all, a watchable film, but nothing to go out of the way to see. "},{"Title":"Difficult as it is to imagine that a great cast and great concept can be mal-delivered, Novocaine proves it possible.","Date":"28 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Steve Martin has either grown more talented and brilliant with age or we are now having more opportunities to witness this.  His subtleness and incredible face are alluring.  The entire cast deserves kudos for a great ensemble.  On the other hand, the writing and directing do not.Unlike the cast members who were top rate, the direction was simplistic, not in a minimalist fashion, but in a puerile attempt  first this happens, then that, now everyone act vaudevillian. The direction appeared to be confused between stage and film.  The writing was weak with annoying one liners and non-clever phrases.  Not enough credit was given to the intellect of the audience and too much was spelled out for us.  None the less, I managed to finish the film and was rewarded with a unique and sweet ending. "},{"Title":"Uh, people...","Date":"30 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a cross-genre movie to be sure. Film noir meets Todd Solondz meets Fight Club meets American Beauty meets Steve Martin. That pitch won't get me too far! Anyway I loved it. It definitely had it's absurdist twists and plot holes BUT it worked overall. I suppose it's one of those movies you love or hate. It definitely is reflexive in that it is a movie about the movies in a way. I kept being reminded of Double Indemnity with Fred McMurray and I think that is the movie it most closely resembles. Story of a man going to hell added with the classic triangle and an almost Shakespearian set of panties. Plus definite on-edge acting from Steve Martin makes this a movie worth seeing if you can suspend your disbelief enough to enjoy it. Good writing and stellar acting. "},{"Title":"Sit tight- you won't feel a thing.","Date":"24 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  *Minor Spoilers* NOVOCAINE starts off slow, opening into the world of Dr. Frank Sangster (Steve Martin). When he is seduced by a sexy patient of his (Helena Bonham Carter) into prescribing him drugs, he finds himself a murder suspect when her brother (Scott Caan) turns up dead. The supporting cast includes Laura Dern, Elias Koteas, Keith David, Lynne Thigpen, and Kevin Bacon even has a small, uncredited cameo. This is a wickedly entertaining film that keeps you on the edge of your seat. There are numerous twists contained and you are never sure of who is bad and who isn't. While the film isn't really laugh-out-loud funny, it does have a biting sense of humor. Black humor. See NOVOCAINE if you are in the mood for an entertaining new movie that will keep you on the edge of your seat. This one is great. NOVOCAINE 5/5. "},{"Title":"Less than the sum of it's parts.  Vaguely irritating.","Date":"21 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A successful dentist is entranced by a flaky, obviously dangerous woman, and framed for murder.  Tries too hard to be Tarantino or Elmore Leonard, without the plot, script or direction to back it up.  To be fair, most people in the screening seemed to enjoy it.  Not me though.*And now for SPOILERS*Direction fine scene-by-scene, but I hated the look-I'm-so-clever scene transitions which were overly contrived.. and what was going on with the X-Ray moments!? They made for a decently creepy opening, but didn't fit in with the film (which was more in the Chevy Chase mould), and kept cropping up at odd moments - a bit like Ahnuld in the jungle would suddenly be seen through 'Predator-vision'(TM).  Vary Jar-Jarring.Plot I am a sucker. Most of the time, I will be taken completely by surprise by simple plot-twists and revelations, but I was a good 60 minutes ahead all the way through this (which made the last hour especially dull).  It's Scooby-Doo obvious.  For God's sake, when a thriller involves a dentist, does it HAVE to have the same tooth-swapping ending (a la 'Whole Nine Yards').Characters Steve Martin, although a decent lead in other films, is woefully miscast.  All the comedy moments are more 'Police Academy' than 'Pulp Fiction', and plays being 'investigated by the DEA' and 'framed for murder' as if he's recording a sequel to Parenthood (which is a good film).  Totally implausible actions at every turn, but I guess that's not his fault.. Laura Dern did pretty well (acts nice, sexy, looks great - why would you cheat on this woman?), until 20 minutes in when the director/scriptwriter decide to hammer you with clues for later, and she becomes almost a different character. Helena Bonham-Carter appears to have taken this role to pay some bills.  It's pretty obvious (both in her clothing, and her topless scene) that she's supposed to be alluring, but she was 1000 times better (with a similar role) in Fight Club, and you get the sense she knows the film is a turkey, or at least lowering her standards.In summary - Novocaine passes the time, but I'd only recommend renting it (and only if a friend is sharing the bill, and you're fans of the cast). "}{"Title":"Not a Comedy","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Do not rent Novocaine if you are hoping to enjoy a typical Steve Martin comedy. This film is NOT a comedy. It is an average to good, lightweight Crime Thriller. If you expect anything more from this movie you will be disappointed.  "},{"Title":"ANOTHER BLACK COMEDY THAT MISSES THE TARGET","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Novocaine reminded a lot of Nurse Betty...not plot wise but as a Hollywood high budget black comedy that fails. I liked all the actors in Novocaine but disliked all the characters not in a good way like a good black comedy should offer but in a bad way that a lousy script offers.I like Steve Martin . I grew up watching his stand up routines and laughing at his skits on SNL and enjoying films like The Jerk...I even enjoyed his book Cruel Shoes. I wish he would start doing safe Hollywood films ,like Eddie Murphy in Dr. Dolittle, so my kids we grow up seeing him doing comedy. I'm sure the paychecks would be more than generous and he could produce and direct his own films on occasion that would allow his older fans to see his comedic genius shine. I would still recommend this movie to die-hard Steve Martin fans but tell them only to expect a glimmer of his brilliance. "},{"Title":"No Pain,No Gain","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Not really a comedy as much as a How to movie.How to get Fleeced while Wearing White.Or some such nonsense. But in Steve Martin's defense it IS worth watching,and quite tolerable,if not somewhat of an irritant.Starting out on the upscale side,showcasing his fancy Dentists office and the accoutrements within,especially long lean and now mean Miss Svelte Dealt Laura Dern as dental assistant and key figure,both literal and figuratively speaking offering up her blend of better watch-out Bub,nastiness and snarl.She cuts a sexy shape and long-legged femme fatale approach to her almost non-existent comedic timing.If only the writers woulda put in her father Bruce's -Know what a mean.And used it in every scene or some such thing to uplift her already pushed out pretty front,maybe she wouldn't have to use other front,as diversion of sorts,as much.But the story moves along with the usual Martin Hi-Jinks,only not as frequent or with as much verve,given his age and station in movie,a Dentist,really expensive one at that.Their not suppossed to go around getting into fisticuffs and showing off their silly side,being disciplined in the practice of looking into one's mouth and getting the final laugh,anyways.And another good chuckle when bill is tallyied-up.tee hee hee.But the chuckles are few and far between in this one and the pain pretty numbed,but the unravelling storyline is interesting,only given the cast and the possibilities.With a different set of actors,this would have bombed.Especially given the quirky final scenes,which are quite typical of Hollywood these days,where virtually anything,and I mean anything can be implemented to give cast and crew working room.No such thing as a cliff hanger or next to impossible situation,anymore.Anything can be written in,around,over the top of,and even blunder dunderheaded to pull wool over the eyes of an increasingly anesthetized audience of willing to have pain and no gain,almost every week, the new release rentals hit the shelves.Would I watch this movie again,depends.Would a Bear go hunting for Salmon in the off-season ?.Maybe,they got's real good sense of smell,I hears tell.But,being a mere Human,and not prone to too much seasonal offerings,I may just pass up offer to ever again watch this movie.Unless of course the new and updated version has extra footage and Laura blurting out every other scene-Know what A mean,just like pops woulda done.He'd a been proud. "},{"Title":"Numb Indeed 4/10","Date":"27 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  At least it's ambitious, but sadly it's also tiring.  The problem isn't with the acting, in fact the casting choices for Novocaine are quite inspiring. Steve Martin has never been better playing it straight, and Helena Boham Carter is eloquent.  I just felt the story was too much a rehash of superior film noirs.  The film has a nice style, but the story needed serious work. Completely bland. "},{"Title":"You'd have to get me hooked up to tranquilizers to get me to see this one again...","Date":"26 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I should say that I was amused by the movie enough before I saw it Helena Bonham Carter as the vampy mystery woman, and Steve Martin as the lead, a Dentist who is caught up in said mystery?  Good enough for me on a Wednesday night.  Yet, this film is too problematic and unconvincing to amount to much of anything.First there is the script, which, despite being completely random and aimless at times with dead-end narrative points including incest and unexplained motivations, could have been salvaged into something more than a high-grade B-movie by some inventive production and decent performances. Unfortunately the production is lossy, relying on hypothetically tactfully-placed wipes and effects based on the use of x-ray vision (since he's a dentist, GET IT?).  Camera angles are off, with the exception of a few nice steadycams and zooms, not helping the mood, and come off as anything but immersive.Carter's drug-addled performance is standard fare for her.  If anything, it's a short step sideways from her similarly drug-addled role in fight club.  Which isn't to say that she doesn't look good as a tarty suductress with excessively raccoonish eye makeup, because she does, but she doesn't bring much more than eye candy to the table.  Despite gratuitous nudity (one of the high points, my girlfriend would disagree) on her part, there is no chemistry between her and Martins character.  Instead of providing the suspense and mystery for this tale, she becomes as irritatingly heavy-handed as Martin's constant voice-overs.Martin himself gives a wooden performance which, in a very Parents-esque manner, refuses to reveal if he is meant to be funny or not.  This could have been a real coup for him, moving from amusing (but schlocky) fare such as the Jerk to a hipper, more ambitious role (as Bruce Willis' transformation from tackling traditional meathead roles to the recent dramatic ones).  Yet he does not run with that ball in the least. Supporting performances are similarly troubled Dern is a square peg forced into a round hole, while Sean Caan is about as menacing as a frat boy if you knock over his beer.  The one exception is the surprise presence of Kevin Bacon, who has only a bit role, but manages to be genuinely funnier just acting off-the-cuff for a few minutes than anybody else in the film.To sum, the twist ending isn't one (complete cheez-wiz), the plot developments are mired in cliche, and the performances are alternatingly forced or transparent.  Leave this dog on the shelf, as it should have been put down a long time ago.  "},{"Title":"A BAD MISS","Date":"26 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I would have thought that the best thing this movie had going for it would be the simple presence of the usually competent and funny Steve Martin. But he is terribly miscast as the framed dentist and sleepwalks through a poor unfunny performance in this non-mystery. Carter is beautiful as Martin's junkie patient, turned lover, whom his brother, Koteas, sets up to frame him for her brother's murder. It turns out that Martin's 'goody two shoes' fiance, Dern, is behind the whole thing. It is actually more ridiculous than it sounds and believe it not Kevin Bacon steals what little there is in this movie as an famous actor studying police work. Three Stars out of 10 because it did make me drowsy. "},{"Title":"This one has bite; an odd, eccentric black comedy with Steve Martin as a bourgeois dentist framed for murder.","Date":"24 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Some high-calibre casting, controlled bad taste and satiric jabs at middle-class success keep this one mostly enjoyable.  Everything's moderately over the top and the humor is often creepy and sly, with just the right edge.  I much prefer this type of sophisticated situation comedy.  The very nature of dentistry gives this film an insidious atmosphere that works very nicely in context.  Sex, drugs and root canals. "},{"Title":"The Cinematic Equivalent of a Trip to the Dentist","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Good lord, how could this movie be this bad? It has everything going for it -- a top-notch ensemble cast at the top of their games, a somewhat interesting premise, and a great first twenty minutes. But then everything starts to go down hill, really fast. The story starts to mimic every other suburbanite neo-noir murder-mystery ever made. One of the film's many problems was how the characters were under written, by the time the surprise twist hits you at the end of the film, do you really care? There was not one character that was even REMOTELY interesting throughout the entire film -- with the exception of Kevin Bacon's mildly amusing cameo. Steve Martin was dull. Laura Dern was too over-the-top. Helena Bonham Carter wasn't weird enough. Scott Caan over acted too much. Elias Koteas was under used. Like aforementioned -- Kevin Bacon was the only remotely funny player in this train wreck. I went into this film wanting to like it. I expected to see a totally messed up and twisted dark comedy in the vein of Peter Berg's Very Bad Things or Danny DeVito's under appreciated Death to Smoochy. What I got was an under written, poorly performed C-Movie that should have debuted on Cinemax and starred Don The Dragon Wilson or Andrew Stevens.The film's other main failure was that it was neither funny nor shocking. I couldn't decide if this was supposed to be a black comedy or a neo-noir thriller. I was disappointed when it wasn't either. There was nothing remotely shocking or disturbing in this film, and the surprise twists are lame.I wanted to smack the director so many times. His constant use of X-Ray wipes and bizarre dental-related dissolves really got on my nerves as the movie progressed. It was neither clever, nor artistic, but annoying. It's because of the aforementioned artistic style that poseur film buffs will rant and rave about how this movie is so avant garde and therefore brilliant. So, would I recommend this movie -- no. If you're looking for a good Steve Martin flick, rent The Jerk or Bowfinger, do yourself a favor and stay away from this wretched pile of trash.Out of a possible **** stars, I have to give this one a * "},{"Title":"couldn't get past first 20 minutes!","Date":"17 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Steve Martin is over the hill. He shouldn't be playing stud roles, and while his comedy timing is usually flawless, this movie has him playing a stud-muffin dim-witted dentist who would write an illegal prescription for 5 not five tablets of demerol and not expect it to be bumped to 50, not report it to the police when he found out and subsequently have sex with the flaky broad in his dentist chair and all the other stupid things he does in the first 15 minutes of the film and not expect bad things to happen. If he had thrown in a Tim Conway needle bit or anything remotely funny I would have kept on watching but fast forward showed it going from bad to worse. This should beat Sly's worst film of the year.     "},{"Title":"A very good dark comedy worth checking out if you can find it!","Date":"10 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  For being a first-time director, David Atkins handles this film like a pro and provides one of the funniest dark comedies in recent years. Steve Martin is usually on, but every once in a while, the SNL curse hits and he makes a bomb. This is not the case. He is believable as a dentist who gets caught up in a dangerous doctor-patient romance. Although you never look at him and forget he's Steve Martin, he does a fine job in the role. Equally impressive are the leading ladies, Helena Bonham Carter and Laura Dern, who are more complicated characters than they appear. With the addition of Scott Caan (son of James) as a psychotic brother to Carter and Kevin Bacon as a clueless actor doing a character study, the cast is solid and well rounded.There are a few unanswered questions at the end, but that is most likely intentional to make the audience think a little.   Martin's deadpan humor fits well into this morbid, yet humorous movie. His longing for an escape from his boring life is apparent and seems pretty likeable, despite his flaws.  Although considered by some as an art house film, this shouldn't scare away the multiplex crowd. It may not be one to take the kids to, but it's not too complicated to where it's confusing to the general public.If you're looking for something that's funny, yet dark, you might just enjoy this well-acted multi-genre film. If you're a Steve Martin fan or not, go see it at the theater if you can find it, otherwise make sure to look for it at the video store.  "}{"Title":"The BEST movie of the year!","Date":"7 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I LOVE THIS MOVIE! It is by far the year's best film. Steve Martin gives the BEST performance of his entire career! As a viewer, you will laugh over and over and over again. This is one of the funniest films ever made! If you're a fan of good cinema then Novocaine is just what you're looking for! "},{"Title":"Novocaine misfires","Date":"26 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A lot of the actors in this film HAVE made some very good movies, but here they are corralled by a painfully overwraught script without purpose.  Novocaine is so determined to earn your sinister affection but finally qualifies as neither guilty nor pleasure.  Steve Martin's dentist fails to pull us into his plight -- are we really expected to share in his sympathy for his crazy brother?  Laura Dern's martial arts and Scott Caan's violent tick never materialize as the quirky character fringes they're intended to be that populate every crimedy since Tarantino.  And the plot?!!  The biggest problem with this film is its insistence on notching-up the violence-as-slapstick-o-meter every ten minutes to cover up the fact that at no point whatsoever does any character do anything resembling the world we the audience inhabit.  An inspired rewrite would strip everything in the movie except Martin's everyman dentist and Kevin Bacon's Hollywood cameo in an original story about an actor shadowing an extraordinary mundane existence to prep for a movie roll.  Alas, we are handed this uncomfortably bad film.  Think 1999's brilliant Election, minus the perfectly familiar characters and laughs, plus blood.  "},{"Title":"My Review Novocaine","Date":"20 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I came out of this film with a really happy feeling. I enjoyed it *very* much. Steve Martin shows us (again) what a truly great actor he is. Also, the story was very original and interesting. I hope that many, many people see this film so they can experience the greatness for themselves. "},{"Title":"Um ...dentist","Date":"18 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Does this have anything to do with Little Shop of Horrors. Steve Martin played a dentist in that. That was a good movie... so based on my having seen Little shop of Horrors I'm going to say this is a good movie as though I've seen it and then never watch it anyway because I feel like I've already seen it.(if you take this seriously you're crazier than I am) "},{"Title":"hmmmm..","Date":"16 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ What was Steve Martin thinking? ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ "},{"Title":"Crap","Date":"12 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Well, Its been awhile since I saw this movie.  It was back in August when i saw this, and I am pretty sure that it was a rough cut.  It was a preview screening for critics, and it sucked.  It tried to pass some of the worst ideas off as humor.  I personally don't find seeing x-rays of people chewing food disgusting or funny, unless I missed something like relevance.  The movie was your basic film noir and such, but done horribly.Normally, I'd say that the cast should be ashamed of themselves for even agreeing to do this dreck, but they were taking risks, and for that I applaud them.  I do like Helena Bonham Carter, she is an interesting actress.  So, anyways, the cast sort of walked its way through the mess and eventually they found the end.  Its not like the director even seemed to be looking for a performance, but maybe that was the point.  But, as a friend once told me, when I tried explaining The Doom Generation to him, Just because they meant it to be like that, doesn't mean that it is good.Maybe the director was competent, maybe that was what he wanted, maybe he purposefully misdirected the whole sham.  I dunno, I just know that only *spoilers**Spoilers**SPOILERS* a few scenes were funny the biting of people with dentures from somebody else's mouth, the pulling out of your own teeth, and i do believe one other one.  *END Spoilers*  But don't see this crap otherwise.2/10 "},{"Title":"huh?","Date":"24 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  thank goodness for the cast in this directorial mishmosh that only seems to work because of Laura Dern and Steve Martin giving it their all and a great little turn by Kevin Bacon.  Flashbacks and narration try to make up for slipshod directing these wonderful actors who I think my pet gerbil could've directed.  Luckily through spit, glue, and either the editor, studio or producers, the film staggers to the end. Maybe some people will find this edgy and funny.  For me, only the actors kept me in my seat. "},{"Title":"Painful disappointment","Date":"11 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Most stars have made a film they regret. I fear this will be the one for Steve Martin, Laura Dern  & Helena Bonham Carter. Martin stars as a popular dentist, engaged to his office manager (Dern). One evening when he's alone in the office a mysterious young woman (Carter) comes in and convinces him to give her a prescription for pain killers, promising to come back for treatment the next morning. This one mistake of his sets off a series of intrigues and doublecrosses with a satisfying ending. So why am I so disappointed in the movie? For one thing, the story has holes that no amount of dental work can fill. And the movie is filled with gratuitously painful-to-watch scenes of dental work... starting right from the beginning. This is definitely not a movie to eat popcorn by and, in spite of the satisfying ending, everyone at my screening left the theater feeling sickened and extremely disappointed in Steve Martin. "},{"Title":"Is It an Author's Revenge on a Dentist ?!","Date":"6 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" A lot of questions will accumulate in your mind after this movie  is it the biggest miscasting ever ?, did (Steve Martin) find no comedy to do ?, or did he desperately want to be an actor more than a comedian ?, or the movie's low budget just selected him simply ?, is it one of the weediest noir movies ?, moreover what's the meaning of this title anyway Novocain ??, is it an add for it as an anesthetic ?! ..And finally what could be loved in here ? Well, the thing that I'm sure about it (other than this movie's fact as not my cup of tea !) is that ugly truth which the movie enjoyed showing through its dark world and its mysterious atmosphere  don't trust in the ones you love ! In fact the movie confirms in a rare time that your happiness and your own true love are in your caprices ! So the one who you really love (his fiancée the doctor), along with the nearest and dearest (the bum brother) are the actual unfaithful yours ! Therefore the main concept of this little noir is to rely on the one who lies on you a bit not the one who lies on you that much otherwise you're living the Novocain ! I loved some of the thrill, the performance of (Helena Bonham Carter) which was exceptional, and that I didn't pay any money to rent it..Thank god for the TV ! I think I answered the most important questions, and as for the most earlier one; I think after watching (Martin) as a dentist who uproots all of his teeth one by one by himself qua the only solution to runaway.. I'll give the title's question a full YES ! "},{"Title":"Take a bite of life's bountiful harvest","Date":"19 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Novocaine is a watchable mystery/drama/film noir/comedy. The performance of Steve Martin is very good, he proves once more that good comedians know a lot about timing and pacing. It's really a delight to watch him. And Laura Dern is even better! She plays a truly interesting role of a high octane, hyperactive maniac of a woman.Basically, the movie is about people who'd rather like to be somewhere else. The locations in clean, antiseptic no-man's land somewhere in the USA and the main character's fantasies about romantic French rural life (has ceased to exist a long time ago, I'm afraid - if it ever had existed) help to get that message through beautifully. "}{"Title":"Terrific black comedy","Date":"23 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Steve Martin stars in an usual kind of movie and the expectations are failure, but this is not true and the movie is great. The story follows a dentist getting in deep troubles with a whore while he is married.Well, the movie has many merits. It has great thrills, great suspense moments and of course black humor which is something I liked a lot and I believe Novocaine wouldn't have been the same movie without it. It's just Martin and you connect him with humor and laughs and I really started respecting him as a comedian after watching his classic roles in The Jerk and The Lonely Guy. His acting is superb while his role is casual. More of those characters that are on the line between positive and negative, but after all interesting for the audience.The movie itself as I said is indeed something to remember and something fresh, mostly cause of the successful mixture between most entertain kind of movie genres and of course every day life drama scenes which are of course garbage, but the movie is not supposed to be a drama after all and this is why I close my eyes for the failed try of dramatic influence over the viewer.Rating8/10 "},{"Title":"even an average movie is good for Steve Martin nowadays","Date":"31 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Steve Martin plays Frank Sangster, a boring dentist whose life begins to unravel after he prescribes some drugs to Susan (the stunning Helena Carter), who outright seduces him later. Which leads him on an odesy of sex, drugs, and murder in this black comedy that sadly seems to skimp on the comedy aspect. Laura Dern seems miscast as Franks put-upon fiancé. One bright spot is Kevin Bacon. This movie isn't bad, it's not good either. It's just... there.My Grade C DVD Extras Director's Commentary; 'Bitten' (a 9-minute featurette about dentistry); Getting the Shot (a making of featurette); 5 deleted scenes; 6 excerpts from the musical score; Production Notes; Cast and Crew bios; 2 Theatrical Trailers; and Trailers for Dr. T and the Women; the Rambo Trilogy; Good Advice, Van Wilder, and the first season of Twin Peaks Easter Egg one more deleted scene; out takes of said scene; and a Storyboard to screen comparison can be found be highlighting a stuffed toy in various places Eye Candy Helena is fleetingly topless "},{"Title":"Lame and Tired","Date":"19 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" The DVD cover shows Steve Martin just as he was in the Little Shop of Horrors but there is nothing funny or original in this movie. Its just a no-laughs action movie. The movie is hard to believe as we watch Steve fall madly in love with a pathetic, homely drug addict and Steve makes one self-incriminating move after another. The tangled web he weaves is so contrived. And his moves are so unintelligent. Like it doesn't take any brains to get a dentist license. The ending is just bad-Hollywood and has little credibility. Better to watch commercials on TV. Laura Dern is somewhat watchable though. No wonder this movie was not advertised. "},{"Title":"Kevin Bacon steals this movie","Date":"12 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" You could see it and enjoy it for no other reason than to watch Kevin Bacon as an actor preparing for a role. The man knows how to play parody. Even in a small (and uncredited) appearance he does amazing things.The rest of the movie is not bad, but predictable and unexciting. Steve Martin does a good job taking on a different kind of comedic role, less broad, and with a darker edge, but the movie doesn't support him. It takes itself too seriously to really laugh at, and it's too silly to take it seriously.Without giving anything away, the initial plot devices that get the story moving do not seem motivated by the characters. In particular, Steve Martin's character's actions early on are not behaviors I can really believe, but once it's done, the plot is underway, and you have no choice but to accept it or immediately take the movie out of the machine and return it to the video store.Scott Caan fans will also appreciate his presence. He was good.Bacon rules! "},{"Title":"I should have listened to the other reviewers....","Date":"26 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Not much else to say.  Carter is miscast and totally unbelievable as a skank drug addict with whom Martin falls in love.  There is absolutely no chemistry between them.  The rest of the movie is similarly misguided and empty-headed.  Dern and Koteas basically sleep-walk through their roles (except for an over-the-top outburst by Dern at the climax of the movie.)  I was quite surprised to discover that there is a Special Edition of the DVD, since the plain, old movie does not seem worth making into anything special.  As I feared, the additional material on the DVD (including the deleted scenes) adds nothing to your enjoyment of the film.  Not funny and definitely not worth renting.  Go rent a real film noir instead. "},{"Title":" Treating the Viewing Public with the Contempt they think we Deserve...","Date":"15 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Just seen by me on cable,and having read in the film mag that Steve Martin led the cast,I expected a funny film, or at the least, an interesting one.I was wrong. And all this picture does is suggest that some of the people who control feature films are a bunch of selfish, perverse and greedy egotists.Apart from 'Royal Tenenbaums' which for me is one of the unfunniest movies of all time, Novacaine comes very close to out-ranking it.The plot Dentist has a female drug addict patient whom he fancies, leading to a whole series of bizarre and ridiculous events, mainly because of her addiction.Not only is the female lead totally mis-cast,most sane people would not, nor could not, in the context of the way this film is made, find anything remotely funny about drug addiction, quite apart from the nonsensical killings and unnecessary violence in this picture.I got the impression that whoever wrote and directed this film has no idea whether to create a comedy or a drama, as from my perspective it was neither........ just a total mess; looking to me like it was made up as it went along, wholly uneven,lacking any merit, humour or sense, and the actors much of the time suggest they are ad-libbing with mostly half-hearted performances. 1 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"I thought it was funny...","Date":"17 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I seem to be part of the minority that liked this movie.  Well, actually I just liked Elias Koteas and Kevin Bacon.  The rest of the film did sort of frustrate me because it seemed like Steve Martin's problems were just so preventable, and he kept doing things to make the situation worse.  But that aside, this film is worth renting just to see Elias Koteas sticking that camera thing down his pants.  Hee hee.  And Kevin Bacon is just laugh-out-loud funny; he's perfect for this part.  I thought it was nice to see Steve Martin doing something not so family-friendly "},{"Title":"Not a comedy, but not unamusing.","Date":"9 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  About a 7/10. It's not a comedy, as it's billed, but it's oddly entertaining once you (finally) get into it. It's strange, it's dark (all good) and it's a little unpredictable (not real good, because I couldn't care much about the actors).There's still something oddly appealing about this movie. It may not be one to rush out and rent tonight, but if someone else is already grabbing it, grab a seat. "},{"Title":"Pretty pointless film.","Date":"24 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The box-office failure of Novocaine is not hard to explain. Apart from Steve Martin's excellent performance, there simply isn't another reason to recommend this picture it has few funny moments, few surprises and almost  no tension. After a relatively offbeat start, it travels to routine Hitchcock innocent-man-wrongly-accused territory, before finally arriving at a very strange and very gruesome ending. Besides, Helena Bonham Carter's miscasting throws the whole film off balance; for the plot to work we have to be willing to believe that an affluent dentist would be willing to give up his entire life (which he himself describes as perfect) just to be with this one woman, but Carter isn't seductive or appealing enough in the role.  The other supporting actors fare much better, but most of them are underused.    (**) "},{"Title":"Darkly entertaining...","Date":"21 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I just watched this for the first time last night, and I have to say that I really enjoyed it. Steve Martin is a dentist whose life seems to be perfect - granted, he's getting sick & tired of dealing with his screw-up brother Harlan (Elias Koteas) but otherwise, his life's great. He has a beautiful fiancee (Laura Dern, who is super), a successful dental practice and then...In walks Susan Ivey (Helena Bonham Carter) and the good doctor's life is turned completely upside down. He's pulled into a seamy underworld of illegal drugs, illicit sex, and running from the law. Laura Dern is great as Jean...the scene where she finally snaps and starts shouting that she's tired of being a codependent is her defining moment in the film. This isn't Steve Martin's best work,  but it's definitely not his worst. All in all, I give Novocaine ****** out of 10. "}{"Title":"Good, but","Date":"15 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Basically its Steve Martin in a modern film noir, only in color.  If you were wondering about Helen Bonham Carter's performance in fight Club, here it is again.  It sags a bit at times, never really builds momentum. Acting was great, story is good, definitely worth seeing, but not as good as it could have been.  Interesting Kevin bacon turn as an actor researching a film.  Best quote  this isn't a movie, it's real life. "},{"Title":"Good, but","Date":"15 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Basically its Steve Martin in a modern film noir, only in color.  If you were wondering about Helen Bonham Carter's performance in fight Club, here it is again.  It sags a bit at times, never really builds momentum. Acting was great, story is good, definitely worth seeing, but not as good as it could have been.  Interesting Kevin bacon turn as an actor researching a film.  Best quote  this isn't a movie, it's real life. "},{"Title":"Steve Martin defeated by clumsy script and first time director.","Date":"5 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This was director David Atkins first film and is a demonstration of the benefits of using a director with more experience.It is generally acknowledged that casting can make or break a film. Here Steve Martin has fallen for the the classic temptation to `broaden his range' by playing a successful dentist, but his comic gifts are underused as he grapples with a script that is clumsily inept.Laura Dern, who plays his hygienist girlfriend, is strangely styled both in appearance and performance to be, one imagines, a Barbara Stanwyck pastiche. Helena Bonham Carter is all at sea as a drug addict/seductress/thief for whom Steve Martin falls, and her brother Duane is a ludicrously over the top thug. As is that weren't enough, one has Elias Koteas hamming it up as Steve Martin's disreputable brother. Finally one has Kevin Bacon demonstrating how much he owes the directors of other films in which he has delivered fine performances; here he runs amuck, Everywhere one sees the tell tale signs of thespians out of control, and a director who is unaware of when to rein them in for the good of the picture.Much of the staging, likewise, is inept, with clumsily staged camera moves which any camera operator worth his salt should have nixed, and which any editor worth his salt should have chopped apart and reassembled to make them work.Presumably it was in the final edit that an attempt was made to pull the film together. For instance, the X ray device, amusing when used sparingly, is repeated until one is sick to death of it, a `pop video' moving purple strip marks scene transitions, and a voice over by Steve Martin is also intermittently overlaid. However, like all band aids, these devices merely draw attention to the weaknesses beneath.Try as hard as one can, and with fond memories of Steve Martin at the height of his comic powers in such films as The Jerk, it is difficult to be entertained by a film whose unlikely story line totters uncertainly between weak comedy and nasty violence, "},{"Title":"Decent movie.","Date":"3 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie was enjoyable though at times it was a bit predictable.  I'd like to add, however, that I didn't predict the ending!  Overall, it was a little quirky as might be expected from Steve Martin.  A must see for Steve Martin fans.   "},{"Title":"Novocaine 4/10","Date":"9 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Steve Martin has once again proved himself worthy by acting very well in a comedy. The movie itself, however, doesn't do as well. You see, Martin is a dentist named Frank Sangster who is quite successful. He has many people and hygienists working under him, including his girlfriend Jean (Laura Dern). However, one day Susan Ivey (Helena Bonham Carter) wanders into his office, needing a root canal, but gets lots of drugs instead. Frank is getting scrutinized for, supposedly, selling drugs to patients. Soon, he gets involved in murder and falls in way over his head.The major flaw of this movie? Not funny. I laughed a couple times, but I suspect almost all of them were forced, because I thought they were humorous, but not enough to make me chuckle, or even snort. Martin is, of course, best in comedies, but to make them work, he needs more than his name and face. He does have great comedic timing, but he just couldn't pull it off. Not to say he wasn't bad at acting, he just didn't make me laugh. Carter, though nowhere near her performance in Fight Club, did a very good job, and she seemed to have chemistry with Martin. Dern, however, seemed to be out of place, and just went in and out of the movie at times. That brings me to my next point, which is a good thing. Many of the events that occur early on in the movie that you wouldn't even remember come back later and become involved in the story.There were lots of scenes, with cool transitions in between them, with a few of them being X-Rays of the characters as they are moving, but others are a purple bar that sweeps across. Very cool. Martin provides a narration that is scarce and would have been better if it had been more widely used or not used at all. And, many of the plot developments were somewhat heavy for a comedy (no matter how dark). Novocaine relied on mayhem to make us laugh, which I didn't buy.I also thought it seemed like Martin was trying to reach to an older audience (more than the teenagers) by constant swearing that was not necessary. It also had many grisly images that I didn't think needed to belong there (also included is that teddy bear&#133;brrr). Maybe it would have been better if Martin had made this as a drama (which would have worked), because of its dark comedy style that seems to overtake it sometimes. Many secondary characters were unnecessary.I did, however, like the mystery that overtook the story. I found it more enjoyable than the supposed humor. The ending, nonetheless, had everything explained and wrapped up in a nice little package and express shipped to our hearts (well, maybe not that last part) and was unsatisfactory. If it had been more ambiguous, it would be able to be more believable. I was thinking, all the way through the movie, that everyone tried way too hard to make a substantial comedy. A character's breakdown at the end didn't make be believe him/her.`Pretty funny, huh?' a character asks during the movie, when another gives a negative response. I couldn't agree more.My rating 4/10Rated R for violence, sexuality, language and drug content. "},{"Title":"Steve Martin plays it straight and I like it","Date":"22 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Let's get something clear real quick - this is NOT a comedy. Don't try to watch it as a comedy, don't try to laugh at things that are not supposed to be funny, and don't complain if you didn't laugh a lot.Now, I like to see an actor take a chance and do something out of his/her comfort zone. I like to see an actor expand his/her range, explore other genres, flex their actual acting muscles once in a while. And, I like to see an actor want to do a script that might not score them points either in the box office or with critics, so long as they feel they can bring something to a role. (Tom Hanks is the best example of this; Michael Keaton is close behind, and even Bruce Willis falls into this category, in my humble opinion).That said, this film is fairly good. A pretty tame dentist is drawn into a downward-spiralling vortex of sex, drugs and murder. He is clearly over his head as his world crumbles down around him, and he doesn't suddenly become an action hero at all.This movie has some classic femme fatale elements, it also captures some film noir ideas - the first-person narrative, the slippery-slope downwards, the protagonist who just can't stop himself from falling under the spell of the vamp who's bad news from the word go...It's not Double Indemnity or Sunset Blvd, but hey, for what it is, it was somewhat engaging. "},{"Title":"I don't care what people say, I enjoyed it","Date":"13 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is a heck of a lot of fun as long as you like dark, subtle, and quirky elements in your movies.  Steve Martin is about the opposite from the wild and crazy guy he once was, playing more the straight man, but he pulls it off very well.  Yes, his character is rather pathetic and does some stupid things, but if he didn't there would be no movie.  And hey, ever since Fight Club I can't get enough of Helena Bonham Carter either. Martin calls this a thriller with wit.  It's not a typical comedy, but I did find myself laughing many times.  Just go with the suspension of disbelief, and enjoy the plot twists as the craziness of the decay takes its hold. Rating 8/10 "},{"Title":"NO to Novocaine","Date":"26 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Greetings again from the darkness.  Great cast and interesting synopsis caused me to pick this up at video store.  I think Steve Martin is very underrated as an actor and I wish he would work more.  This movie could have been wonderful in better directorial hands.  First time director David Atkins provides us with a disjointed mess that seems to continually strive to show us how artsy he is.  Some nice scenes especially between Martin and Dern, but Helena Bonham-Carter seems to walk through her role ... as if flashing a breast is enough.  Elias Koteas as Martin's brother is overplayed into a laughable character.  Scott Caan and Kevin Bacon are so over the top in their roles as to not even bring a chuckle.  Never believed Martin's character would risk his lifestyle for a ride with a wild patient.  How can he concerned about the cleanliness of his suit in one scene and not care about his license in the next.  Absurd.  Still not a bad rental, just watch with low expectations.  Danny Elfman ... Please find a collaborator and stretch your musical tastes.  Every score does not need to sound like Batman. "},{"Title":"Not exactly what I'd call comedy, but still an enjoyable ride with a few twists!","Date":"25 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I just got done watching NOVOCAINE, and it was definitely not a laugh out loud comedy like I thought it would be.  Steve Martin and cast did an excellent job in their roles, and the question of who the bad guy is, is concealed very well until the final climax.  This film is definitely worth seeing, if not for Steve Martin's unusual, yet entertaining portrayal of a dentist caught up in sex, drugs, murder and being annoyingly questioned by a hippied Kevin Bacon!!!  Scott Caan is truly a gem in this piece, entertaining through being a complete nutcase.  This guy's goin' places! Overall, I give NOVOCAINE a rating of 8/10! "},{"Title":"Should have been better","Date":"23 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  In Novocaine, a lukewarm cross-genre flick which isn't dark comedy but which does have a tan, Martin plays a dentist who finds his successful but bland lifestyle somewhat like pulling teeth and murder follows. The principals turn in better performances than writer-director Adkins who steers this mildly entertaining flick schizophrenically through the genres and into some awkward situations especially the whole dental thing in the end. Worth a look if expectations are kept low. "}{"Title":"Far fetched, gory, and ludicrous.","Date":"5 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" What exactly was the point? For the first hour it didn't seem so bad and it made me wonder why the critics panned it. But it went downhill fast after that and became so far fetched it must have tested all the actors' skill to do this one with a straight face. Steve Martin needs to stick to comedy,and Helena Bonham Carter should get back in her corset, we've seen enough of her. A talented cast was wasted on this. The ending made me wonder if this wasn't just an attempt to spoof film noir. If so, they should not have packaged it as a comedy. No one seems sure of the genre, it's often listed as a comedy and a drama..(?) Films which try to mix genres often fail in my opinion. The audience is left confused and disappointed... "},{"Title":"NUMB COMEDY NOIR","Date":"19 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  NOVOCAINE (2001) **1/2 Steve Martin, Helena Bonham Carter, Laura Dern, Elias Koteas, Scott Caan, Kevin Bacon, Keith David, Lynne Thigpen.  Neonoir/black comedy about put-upon dentist Martin (seemingly miscast yet game nonetheless) who finds himself up to his neck in blackmail, deceit and murder when mystery woman Bonham Carter disrupts his novel life with illicit sex, drugs and murky subplots.  The storyline stumbles along as it unwinds with pedestrian by-the-numbers machinations yet is surprisingly fun in the process to watch Martin sweat out one extreme mistake to the next.  Bacon has a humorous cameo as an actor studying his next role as a homicide detective.  (Dir David Atkins) "},{"Title":"Novocaine is either a toothache or even more localized pain.","Date":"9 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Maybe a touch of laughing gas would have helped me understand if Novocaine is supposed to be a dental black comedy, film noir, or just a mouthful of decay. The last item is where I lean-I longed for the Marathon Man's clean horror, not this weak plot with turns barely qualifying for twists.Even the recurring x-rayed mouths chewing food serve little for horror.  However, Helena Bonham Carter on the loose to bilk dentists like Steve Martin of their drugs is the best fear generator of the film. Though why Martin would be overwhelmed by this one of hundreds of Dr. T-like patients is the bigger mystery for me. Or why his deadpan delivery, in life or voiceover, should get her overheated is another mystery.The film-noir touch of a man's life spiraling out of control is a redeeming quality.  Martin's conflicted dentist and Bonham Carter's trashy, trouble-making femme fatale are a disappointing contrast with darkly noir Billy Bob Thornton and Frances McDormand in `The Man Who Wasn't There.'  Where Thornton's barber is cool in the face of his fates, Martin's dentist has no cool, only bemusement or confusion.  Dentist Martin reminds us the worst thing that could happen to a man is to lose his teeth. This movie is not a tooth loser; it's just a toothache or a pain in the butt.  "},{"Title":"the first movie that we watched on our DVD player","Date":"15 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Steve Martin in a suspense thriller?! Is that really possible? Yes it is. And it's not all that bad. Martin plays Frank Sangster, a dentist who gets into an unpleasant situation. I wouldn't call this one of Martin's best movies, but it's worth seeing, if only once. I preferred his Little Shop of Horrors dentist.The best part, in my opinion, was the rabbit. They take a mold of Frank's teeth and put it in a rabbit doll, turning it into one creepy rabbit. Interestingly, Novocaine was released around the same time as Donnie Darko, which also had a weird rabbit. I guess that the days of cute little bunnies is long gone. "},{"Title":"Haunting Tale of Drugs, Incest, Murder and Adultery","Date":"4 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I just finished watching this movie for the first time and all I can say is Wow.  This was not the Steve Martin that I am used to.  This was darker than the most evil version of Father of the Bride that you could possibly imagine.  You will never think of the dentist the same after watching this movie.  If the summary line doesn't peak your interest, then this isn't the movie for you.  This is NOT a comedy!  This is a dark thriller focusing on tale of deception that will leave you on the edge of your seat constantly wondering what is going to happen next.  This is definitely worth watching if you are into this type of movie.  8.5 Stars.    "},{"Title":"It does hit it's mark, but leaves it at that (a solid B)","Date":"6 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Everything in this movie starts out realistic.  Then that all changes after the murder, when you can't take it seriously anymore.  But it's still fun, and pretty damn funny too.  I liked a lot, and would reccomend this dark comedy. B, 7/10 "},{"Title":"Anyone who thinks this is a comedy is insane.","Date":"17 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  If this movie had been labeled A disturbing modern film noir, I would not have been expecting to be amused or entertained, and it would not have ruined my evening the way it did.  True, I admired the direction and production values even as I loathed everything else and almost everyone in it.  After about ten minutes I said, I hope I stop hating this pretty soon, and after another twenty minutes I just quit trying to watch it. If I'd had any reason to suspect that I would be seeing a creepy violent Blood Simple or Red Rock West type of drama instead of a comedy of any kind it would have been a different matter entirely.  I knew a Steve Martin movie was a crapshoot but this possibly interesting and obviously well made crime drama was appallingly mislabled.  BEWARE!!! "},{"Title":"This is my review, too.","Date":"8 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Not really what I had expected.  The plot leaves you feeling like the initial characters are not who you expected them to be.  Not as funny as I thought it would be, but a neat little bit of video entertainment.  Some may love this film, but I just sat there and thought, that was ok, what's next - then I watched Wonder Boys. "},{"Title":"horrible.","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  That's really the only word for this. What a travesty, to take such a great concept and make such a piece of crap. A noir comedy should be exactly my cup of tea, too. But the comedy was too uneven, and the noir touches were mixed into a modern-sensibilities romantic plotline that indicates the director doesn't understand noir. The plot contained holes in areas that were just too vital - the ultra-shocking climax turns out to have been completely unnecessary in the denouement. I liked the visual gimmicks though; wipes using an X-ray effect, and intercuts of animated X-rays at key moments. It was visually good - reminded me a bit of Suture. But altogether one of the most disappointing films I've seen in a while. "},{"Title":"painful","Date":"2 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Now that Steve Martin is no longer funny I can understand him wanting to branch out in other directions, but Helena Bonham Carter and Laura Dern have no such excuse. I didn't believe a word of the script and the acting was too hammy for words. I've seen better TV movies than this. Root canal work would be preferable to watching it. "}{"Title":"Avoid this bulls**t... or not!","Date":"22 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  heh.This film sucks so much, you wouldn't believe it. Great for seeing all the well-know actresses and actors, and to laugh hard, though. Very hard. If you're up for that, go rent, if you expect a good and serious thriller, spare your money. "},{"Title":"Title Says It All-- It'll Leave You Numb","Date":"8 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  	Rarely does the title of a film say as much about it as this one does; because by the time you get to the end, there's a good chance you're going to feel quite numb, as if you've been given a body-size shot of novocaine.  And it's not because there's so much wrong with this film-- it's just that there's not too much right about it; it's seemingly beyond the help of even it's high profile cast, and that's even if they were, indeed, trying to help in the first place.  Unfortunately, the evidence-- with regards to one of the stars of the project, at any rate-- inexplicably points to the contrary, and it leaves `Novocaine,' written and directed by David Atkins, somewhere out on a limb; a precarious place to be, considering that the tree itself was not strong enough to take root in the first place.  Simply put, this one's on such shaky ground that you'll be convinced that there has to be a fault line running along beneath it somewhere, and while you're trying to figure out where, you just might miss the point of the whole thing, which is something along the lines of `If You Play With Fire You'll Get Burned.'  Or better yet, pick your own platitude and fill in the blank.  Either way, there's not going to be any getting around the numb thing.  Just accept it, and try to move on.	Frank Sangster (Steve Martin) is a dentist with a successful practice, a beautiful finance, Jean (Laura Dern), and a future that promises more of the same.  Until one day out of the blue, Susan (Helena Bonham Carter), a new patient, shows up at his office with a toothache.  And before it's over, he gives her a root canal, and she gives him the `works,' which includes wheedling a prescription of Demerol out of him.  Can it be she has a drug problem?  Can Frank smell scam?  Apparently not, because the next day the entire drug supply in his office is missing, and so is Susan.  She does leave one of her more personal items behind in the office, however, and when Jean gets wind of it, Frank-- to paraphrase a famous line-- has some &#145;splaining to do.  And in veritably a nanosecond, the life of one Frank Sangster is turned upside down, and that old gravity, reality, begins it's pull on him; and there's only one way it can possibly take him  Suffice to say, it isn't up.	Bringing a feature film to the screen is no easy task, and it must be especially challenging to make the attempt while wearing two hats (writer and director).  And from all appearances, this is where Atkins gets into trouble, as the problems with this film (and there are many) begin with the screenplay.  Writer Atkins simply doesn't give director Atkins much to work with, and it just may be that he was too close to his own material, which prevented him from seeing it objectively.  And that objective viewpoint is something this film needed.  Badly.  With the exception of a pivotal element of the climax, there is nothing original about the story at all, and that single element is too ludicrous to be effective, or believable.  And therein lies the basic problem with the film  Even if you manage to suspend disbelief while watching it, you would still need an imagination with a Gumby-like flexibility before any of it would seem convincing or the least bit probable.  Given a best case scenario, the story just isn't plausible at all.  The dialogue is poorly scripted (For instance, as it unfolds, no less than three characters ask Frank, `Can I ask you a personal question?' which is about two times too many to be credible), the execution of the material lacks the fine-tuning it needs and, inexplicably, the actors fail to bring any definition at all to their characters (they needed help, `direction,' and obviously Atkins-- for whatever reason-- was unable to supply it).  Filmmaking is inherently a collaborative enterprise, and when a project lacks that cohesive unity, it invariably has a negative impact on the final product.  And it certainly does here.	Steve Martin turns in what is arguably the most convincing performance of the film, but it is far from his best work.  His portrayal of Frank lacks the nuance he usually brings to the characters he creates, and the result is a fairly nondescript protagonist.  And, though Frank comes across as `real' overall, Martin fails to really get into his skin or to explore the motivations that drive Frank on to doing what he does; and because of all that precedes it, as well as the way in which it is presented, what would have been merely a ridiculous ending becomes absolutely ludicrous.  Martin has a good go at it, but in the end he barely manages to keep his Frank afloat, and under closer scrutiny, the credibility slowly begins to unravel.	Helena Bonham Carter, meanwhile, gives a performance that doesn't hold up to a casual glance, let alone close scrutiny, and it's one of the biggest surprises of the film.  The usually reliable Carter-- who is a terrific, versatile actor-- winds up with possibly the most unrealistic character she's ever created.  For this film to work, the audience must believe that Susan is an addict; But there is nothing in Carter's portrayal to confirm, or even indicate, that this is the case.  And here, more than anywhere else, is where the credibility of the entire film dissolves, negating any of the more positive aspects in the balance.  It's a one-dimensional, one note character, and it takes it's toll on the whole picture.	Laura Dern has also done better work-- though, as Jean, she looks good, and certainly brings a lot of energy to the film.  A decent effort, but it's not enough to save `Novocaine,'  and-- like the audience-- she gets little return on the investment of her time here.  3/10.  	       	   		      	    "},{"Title":"Liked the ending","Date":"23 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie was OK, but nothing that really stands out. In the end, we get the surprise twist as to who is the good vs bad guy or in this case gal.  I still liked the way it ended because everything works out. This isn't a comedy. So, since it was supposed to be serious, why would a dentist not tell the truth when all his drugs get stolen. That wasn't believable.  It also has one really gross scene when Steve Martin pulls out his own teeth.FINAL VERDICT Worth a viewing if you have 90 minutes to waste. "},{"Title":"What has become of Steve Martin?","Date":"30 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I watched this movie on cable and I don't know why I did. Maybe I saw it because I used to like Steve Martin or because I had nothing better to do, either way, this is a horrible movie. It's one of those dark comedies that you know could have been good, but it isn't. The filmmakers seem to think that profanity and violence is funny. Now violence and profanity can be funny if they are used correctly. Heck, anything could be funny if it is used correctly. Steve Martin who I loved in FATHER OF THE BRIDE, THE JERK, ad BOWFINGER seems like he's running out of roles to play. He also seems to be running out of talent. He has talent yet it isn't shown in this movie. Although it's not just him, no one shows talent in this movie. They seem like they all would like to be in another movie. Though the acting and the script are really lousy, the music is pretty good. 3/10 "},{"Title":"Steve Martin has been the best thing in many films.  It's just the opposite here.","Date":"28 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" The most remarkable thing about this poor film is that the enormously talented Steve Martin is, by far, the worst thing about it.Novocaine is a mishmash of film noir and humor. Frank Sangster (Steve Martin) is a successful dentist who is engaged to his hygienist Jean (Laura Dern), a seemingly All-American blonde. The only burr under Frank's saddle is his no account loser of a brother, Harlan (Elias Koteas), who's moved into Frank's house. They have the sort of relationship where the good brother always feels a little guilty that he's better off than the bad brother. Jean and Harlan don't get along but other than that, Frank's life seems quite squared away.That is until Susan (Helena Bonham Carter) shows up in Frank's dentist chair one morning. Susan does have a bad tooth, but what she really wants is to scam some drugs out of Frank. He knows that right away, but goes along with it because he is instantly and irresistibly attracted to her. Susan and Frank have sex, she gets even more drugs out of him, and then Susan's incestuous and violent brother Duane (Scott Caan) gets involved. Frank also has to deal with a federal agent who shows up and wants to see the drugs Susan and Duane have stolen, but Frank doesn't want to turn Susan in. Then someone shows up dead in Frank's house with Frank's teeth marks all over them and Frank has to figure out who's framing him and what he can do about it.Steve Martin is simply bad in this movie and I don't have the slightest idea why. The man can certainly act but he gives a wooden, shallow performance here that undermines the whole film. There is one moment, when someone Frank loves turns up dead, where Martin shows some believable emotion. For the rest of the movie, though, it's like someone is forcing him to play this character and he's just going through the motions to get it over with. The noir hero has to be a bundle of lust and fear and anger and shame and there's none of that in Frank Sangster. And since the audience needs to really care about Frank for anything else in Novocaine to work, none of it really does.Of course, very little of Novocaine would work even if Martin gave the greatest performance in noir history. There's no real rhyme or reason to the mystery of this story, though it is well constructed. As more and more things go wrong and Frank gets deeper and deeper in trouble, everything fits together fairly well. The problem is that there are moments of comedy, black comedy and even slapstick comedy laced throughout the movie and it completely ruins any attempt at creating a tone or mood. It's as though this script started out as either completely serious noir or as an overtly comedic take on the genre but as things went along, someone decided it either needed more funny stuff or more serious stuff and just crammed it in wherever they felt like it. For example, there are two scenes where Kevin Bacon, of all people, shows up as a Hollywood actor tagging along with the police investigating Frank. Those scenes serve absolutely no purpose other than getting the audience to say Hey look! It's Kevin Bacon! This weird dissonance extends to the two lead actresses. Laura Dern plays this very broad, deliberately mockable character that could have fit in with Christopher Guest's Best in Show or A Mighty Wind. But Helena Bonham Carter plays her character relatively straight, trying to be genuinely dramatic and all that.It also doesn't help the film that Frank's supposed to be completely screwed up over Susan and Bonham Carter just isn't sexy. She's certainly pretty and she certainly can act but she does not have sensual charisma on screen. I've seen her in other roles where she does a fine job in other respects, but there's always something cold about her and she's positively frigid here. She even goes topless in Novocaine and it still doesn't help.Elias Koteas probably gives the best performance in this movie, but his character is barely more than a plot device that's introduced at the beginning and then forgotten about until needed for the end.Novocaine also has the worst voice-over narration since Blade Runner. You know, that narration that Harrison Ford supposedly read badly on purpose so they wouldn't put in the movie, but they used it anyway? That narration that was eliminated from all those special edition director's cuts of Blade Runner they've churned out? The narration in Novocaine is that bad. Steve Martin could have been reading out of a an instruction manual for all the emotion and energy he conveys.Novocaine is one of those bad films that would've been better if it had been even worse. There's nothing here so egregiously horrible you can enjoy making fun of it. Unless you fancy seeing Steve Martin do probably the worst acting job in his career, that is. "},{"Title":"Disappointingly boring, contrived and formulaic *SPOILERS*","Date":"16 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  *SPOILERS* I was quite excited to see Steve Martin's newest flick, and I feel somewhat let down. Steve Martin is (in my opinion) best suited for quality comedy or quality drama. The funniest thing in this movie is Steve Martin slipping in blood. Whatever happened to banana peels?. Actually, I must confess, I have always wanted to make a movie (horror) where the characters were slipping because of the copious amounts of blood on the floor. Anyhoo, back to the movie! This movie was a sort of slightly darker and deeper version of an over used formula. The whole murder mystery with the guy getting framed and then finding out that he was set up by the people closest to him. So everything goes bad and then he (steve martin's character)fakes his own death by putting his teeth in the mouth of a corpse and setting it on fire, leaving the teeth as the only clue as to whose body it is. I know this was in another movie but it is escaping me at the moment... maybe you know the one I am talking about. And in the end he has his silly fantasy happy ending where him and his knocked up ex-junkie turned house wife move into his dream home, a small villa in France with cheerful sunflowers growing around it and bright green grass and blue skies... of course all facilitated by the money he made from his new best seller book Novocaine which he wrote telling the story we just witnessed. How many movies was that in? Saving Grace is one... there is another one but I can't think of it right now. How unoriginal. I would not buy his book Novocaine if it really did exist. I also would not have wasted the money renting this boring movie if I had a time machine and could go back and warn myself! It was so boring that when my girlfriend went to the bathroom right as the conclusion was about to happen she didn't ask me to pause it! And when she came back, as the end credits were rolling up the screen she told me not to rewind it for her either. I briefed the ending for her anyway and she (a girl who loves happy endings no matter how stupid)didn't even care how it ended. The happy ending did not redeem this movie, neither did the great cast.  This movie was boring... skip it! actually, there was one funny part, the panties in the dentist's office (left behind by the other woman)and later, they were hanging out of Steve's pocket and his secretary is like oh, your hanky is hanging out your pocket and he says,what hanky and she yanks them out of his pocket, only to discover that they are red panties. How awkward! That was sort of funny... I guess.  "}]