[{"Title":"Let yourself be great","Date":"23 October 2005","Score":"44 out of 71 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I actually vomited and pooped out the wrong holes while watching this film. After I awoke from my epileptic seizure caused by the line uttered by Jessica Beil (Let yourself be great), I found myself imprisoned in some sort of Russian Gulag. I was beaten and tortured day and night for two years, but this pain could not compare to that which I experienced while watching this film. After being released from the Siberian Prison, doctors told me that I am now slightly retarded, not from the malnutrition of the forced labor camp, but from (as you may have guessed) watching Summer Catch. I am married now and my children were born with flipper fins because my wife and I conceived our children while watching this movie. I have enrolled them in the institute for children with mutations caused by Summer Catch also known as ICMCSC. I have started selling bracelets similar to those created by Lance Armstrong to help fund ICMCSC. They read Summer Catch Ruined My Life. An alternative slogan, that was later rejected, read Let Yourself...Summer Catch Sucks. Till my dying day I will never forgive those who have taken so much from me. I have made peace with my alcoholic abusive father, I have forgiven that one guy who stole my car and then ran me over with it, I have even buried the hatchet with my cousin who actually lit me on fire and then peed on me to put it out, but since he had so much alcohol in his system, it actually further engulfed me in flames...but I will always carry the hate for those who made, starred in, and produced this Godless abomination of a film. Have a nice day. "},{"Title":"Biel and Summer Catch are Hot....","Date":"11 May 2003","Score":"21 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I grew up on Cape Cod. First of all Summer Catch was filmed in North Carolina not the Cape. One Crazy Summer (John Cusack/Demi Moore) was filmed in my hometown on the Cape but I hear the unions make it near impossible to film in Massachusetts now. Some of the pictures of fields and buildings were really from Chatham however. Much of Summer Catch rings true. Very few Cape kids actually have ever played in the Cape League. It is elite baseball. The summer on the Cape is full of babes and booze just like the film shows. The rich of the rich have summer homes on Cape Cod (like Rand in the film)and I was a lawn boy just like Freddie Prinz back in the 80s but not good enough to make the Cape League baseball. I could relate to this film and enjoyed it thoroughly. It brought me back to the parties and warm summer nights on the Cape that have a feeling like no where else on Earth. Rent it or catch it on HBO like I did. As for Ms Biel I am a fan for life and I hope she has a great career and maybe comes down to the Cape and parties with us sometime. She burns up the screen. I saw Scooby Doo before this film so seeing Shaggy catching and Fred pitch it made movie a little funny and I ws waiting for Scooby to run on field. Final Analysis...Summer Catch is a Grand Slam!!!  "},{"Title":"A delightful interlude of no redeeming value.","Date":"9 January 2004","Score":"19 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A care free movie about the love of base ball and the opposite sex. Well, Freddie Prinze is the hot shot pitcher trying to make his mark in life while mowing lawns. Along comes Jessica Biel and he is head over heels in love.  Playing base ball and making the big time is his goal, but the super rich father of the opposite sex has other diabolical plans and doesn't want the guy who mows the lawn involved with his daughter.  But as happens, love congers all and Freddie and Jessica are united in the end. Ad nauseum.  Predictable.  But a lighthearted movie and  worth the time to watch.  "},{"Title":"Young Girls will love it!","Date":"18 March 2001","Score":"13 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Unfortunately, I'm not a young girl! (although I am still in the target audience).  This utter mess of a movie is so mundane, so poorly acted, written, and directed, that I was literally squirming in my seat as to when the movie would finish.The basic plot of Summer Catch is Freddy Prinze Jr. has some emotional crisis going on because he messed up a chance at 'making it', although that was never clearly explained.  See, Prinze is a less-than-minor league pitcher, and he pitches good (those 50mph fastballs strangely clocked on-screen at 95mph!!) but once his mind gets clouded he folds on the mound. So, 7th Heaven star Jessica Biel comes into the fray to win Prinze's heart so he'll be that great pitcher that we all know he can be!Prinze gives his usual cute boy who smiles a lot routine, and Matthew Lillard also gives his usual side-kick to Freddy Prinze Jr. routine. Although Lillard is hilarious in some scenes, I can't figure out why he didn't have more screen time.  Wilmer Valderama (Fez from That 70's Show) gives a great performance, although I don't think I saw him for 10 minutes total in the movie!?  Marc Blucas (Buffy the Vampire Slayer) also has a memorable performance, although again his talents are avoided to give Prinze and Jessica Biel more kissing screen-time.  I'd say that whenever the story's focus goes back to Prinze's overcoming-oneself-to-make-it over-used plot, the movie comes to a complete hault.Lack of pacing, no story, bad acting, bad casting, and a combination of washed up actors (Brian Dennehy, Jason Gedrick) and new talent, makes it impossible for me to recommend this movie. "},{"Title":"stupid, horrible, but it has Biel","Date":"9 July 2002","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm gonna make this short and sweet. Stupid, inane dialog, ridiculous stereotypical characters, predictable story, horrible acting. I would have given it a 1, but Jessica Biel is worth 2 points by herself so I gave it a 3. She is the only reason to watch this awful excuse for a movie. "},{"Title":"The worst movie I have ever seen - and that's saying something","Date":"2 January 2002","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I did not plan to comment on this movie. In fact, I planned to stay as far as possible away from anything remotely concerning it. But after seeing comments praising it I feel I must say something.This film is like three different films. A mushy teen romance that not even I (a teenager) could fall for, a sports film, and a porn film - none of which seem to be connected in anyway. My friends and I went to see this because a friend of mine loves Freddie Prinze, Jr. She spent days apologizing profusely for it.We can't talk about plot holes because there is not a plot to find holes in. Perhaps a more feasible exercise would be to try and find the places where it made sense. The dialogue was corny and crude by turns - jerking back and forth between the two with no apparent attention whatsoever. Trying to summarize the story now in my head, I can't do it.I am not a big fan of sports, but I do like sports movies. I love Tin Cup and it doesn't even take much inducement for me to watch The Mighty Ducks once in awhile. But in Summer Catch, even to someone who understands the game (what was it again? baseball?) would be entirely lost.The sex scenes, inserted at random moments are so perverse that I will not go into detail. Just thinking about them now makes my skin crawl. Of course the thought of Freddie Prinze, Jr. in a thong doesn't help matters much. (If you're a teenaged girl you might think differently - trust me, from one teenaged girl to another it's not a pleasant sight.)The theater was practically empty except for my group of friends and another group of people whom we knew who happen to be actresses (I go to an arts school). We were all shell-shocked for weeks afterward, and any time we come even close to the subject of bad movies, this one is always first to come up. After leaving the theater, we told everyone we could find, We just saw the WORST movie ever made.One good thing - I laughed more in it than I've ever laughed in anything. The writing, acting, directing, editing, even the costumes were bad. Amidst my revulsion, I simply couldn't help laughing, it was so horrible.Any respect that I may have had for anyone involved in this movie has gone down 100%.I gave it 1/10 but it deserves less. And by the way, my friend doesn't love Freddie Prinze, Jr. anymore. "},{"Title":"Worn plot, tepid romance","Date":"19 January 2002","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  `Summer Catch' gets points for trying hard, but it is saddled with so many liabilities that it crashes and burns without getting much altitude.  The script is a mish mash of tired themes.  Small town boy makes good meets boy from the wrong side of the tracks meets baseball underdog gets big break.  The film tries to bill itself as another `Bull Durham' but it has none of the subtlety, comedy or insider perspective of that film.  Mostly this is just another lightweight Freddie Prinze, Jr. romantic comedy where Jessica Biel is the catch of the day.Prinze plays his standard romantic hero role and tries to throw in some baseball.  He is fair at both but keeps getting outshined by his supporting cast.  I've never really understood the big sensation over Jessica Biel.  She shows in this film that her acting is far inferior to her looks.  Biel and Prinze interact like marble statues, nice to look at but no chemistry whatever.The best performances were given by supporting cast members.  Fred Ward does a terrific job as Ryan's dad.  Brian Dennehy is always fabulous in supporting roles and does not disappoint as the coach of the A's.  Brittany Murphy does a fantastic wild thing, with a provocative earthiness that is simultaneously seductive and cute.There is not much substance here.  The baseball scenes are weak and the romance is tepid.  The film has some endearing moments but fails to distinguish itself except that it gets goofy far too often.  I rated it a 5/10.  Fans of Prinze and Biel will enjoy seeing them look sexy for an hour and three quarters.  Others might want to miss it.  "},{"Title":"Baseball is better without the romance","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Summer Catch is a romantic comedy about a local college baseball player (Freddy Prinze Jr.) playing in the Cape Cod baseball league, who falls in love with a rich girl, Tenley Parrish  (Jessica Biel), who is home in cape cod for the summer and is going to leave to San Francisco to work for her rich uncle because her father told her to.  The Cape Cod Baseball league is a league of the finest college baseball players who are bought together to play in a summer league using wooden bats.  These players are usually close to making the Major League and getting paid.  It is said that 1 out of 6 major league players has played in the Cape Cod league.  Many scouts come to watch these games.  Prinze plays the baseball player Ryan Dunne who is a Dr. Jeckle and Mr. Hyde type pitcher.  He always starts the game well but ultimately comes to the point where he loses his focus and blows it. Prinze is always seen as a failure to his father and his brother.  They think that he will end up cutting grass for his father for the rest of his life. Jessica Biel, has rich parents and can have whatever she wants.  She falls in love with Ryan Dunne and is caught between choosing her fathers wishes, moving to San Francisco and working for her uncle, or staying with Ryan whether he makes it to the big leagues or not. At first Ryan is not a hit with some of his teammates such as the Dodger Blue, Eric Van Leemer, who turned down a 2 million dollar contract.  Eric acts kind of a character foil for Ryan.  They are both off the wall pitchers, Eric has a glove that is different colors and has flames, while Ryan just blows up on the field but Ryan found his success in the end by working hard at it.  Eric just always had the talent and never had to look deeper to find his pitching groove.  But Ryan becomes good friends with his other teammates such as Billy Bru Brubaker, Miles Dalrymple and Mickey Domo Dominguez (Wilmer Valderama).  The movie does have its funny moments such as the times that Ryan and Bru wear the thongs or how Domo's baseball mother loves the young cape cod baseball players and gives Domo his own private show which involves a cucumber (lets leave it at that).  But baseball and love stories do not mix.  The movies ending is horrible, just as the final baseball game gets to its climax, Ryan is 2 outs away from the baseball Mecca of achievements for a pitcher, a no-hitter, he leaves it for Tenley Parrish.  I just feel that he should have at least pitched the no-hitter instead of taking himself out.  In the end, Ryan Dunne did make the Major Leagues for the Philadelphia Phillies, and ironically, he still has the destruction point in the big leagues because he gives up a homer. After watching this movie, writers have found a way to turn the American pastime game of baseball into a chick flick. "},{"Title":"Is There Love In Baseball?","Date":"29 September 2004","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The movie Summer Catch is a love story that combines the trials of a college baseball player trying to make the majors. The movie takes place in Chatum; it is a town where baseball is life. Every year college players come to the Cape League to get their chance at the major leagues. This year Ryan Dunne (Freddie Prinze Jr.) is getting his chance to play for his hometown the Chatum A's. When Ryan has any problems, he takes them on the field and does not pitch as well. He stopped playing baseball for Boston College, because his mother died and he could not focus. Then he got kicked out of junior college, because he got into a fight with a teammate. During the Cape League season, he faces many problems balancing his old friends with new ones. He also faces problems with his father and his girlfriend, Tenley Parish (Jessica Biel). By the end of the movie, he learns to leave those problems off of the field and that he loves Tenley. He realizes that he will do anything to be with her. Also he receives a contract with the minor league team, the Muckdogs. This leads to him starting for the Phillies.The film's intent is to tell the viewer about the troubles that Ryan goes through in his life. It teaches the viewers that some times they need to leave their problems behind and move on. It is also a love story about two people from different worlds and the troubles that their relationship goes through. The movie accomplishes these points very well. It lets the viewer see into the mind of Ryan and lets them feel like they are part of the movie. It also has a suspense level letting the viewer wonder if Ryan and Tenley's relationship will survive. This movie is a very good movie for someone who likes love stories, but there is also the baseball element for the guys. This is also a great movie for a couple to see, because they both learn a lesson from the movie. I would recommend seeing this movie many times.  "},{"Title":"Matt Rhoades","Date":"1 March 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I like this movie because i can relate to it and it is a baseball movie.. this is what all baseball players wish to do is to play in the cap code league in the summer after collage baseball season ends. so i like it cause it is a dream i and most baseball players can dream for and this movie explains what the cape is like. also it is somewhat of a romantic movie and the girl that the guy falls in love with is pretty smoking hot.. which is a plus while you are watching the movie. another reason why this movie is good is because it is funny at some points and you feel good for the guy when he is pitching. so this movie is a plus for me and fun to watch on summer nights "}{"Title":"The best Freddie Prinze movie I've ever seen! *SPOILERS*","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Well, this IS better than SHE'S ALL THAT and DOWN TO YOU, right? After reading all the harsh words here slung at SUMMER CATCH, I had to contribute some levity.  Yeah, the baseball scenes are edited to avoid showing actual baseball mechanics, but does that really matter in a movie like this?  Some of the baseball action with Freddie Prinze was almost exciting, and this is the first time I can honestly put Freddie Prinze and exciting in the same sentence without inserting not between them. (Please note, I wrote almost.) Let's now get the negativity out of the way.  First, I couldn't believe all the sex play in this PG-13 movie (which replaces COYOTE UGLY on the top of the Jack Valenti Wall of Shame).  I'm no prude, but this movie deserves an R-rating for its lewd beer-pouring moments alone.  And speaking of sex, while Beverly D'Angelo cucumber-loving den mother looked fantastic in this movie, her role here was an uninspired retread of similar characters from BULL DURHAM and YOUNGBLOOD.  And what was with that guy who dug, well, a whole lotta woman?  He made some comment about admiring guys' butts, but that quasi-queer angle never made a second appearance.  Yep, SUMMER CATCH is PG-13.  (And ALMOST FAMOUS gets an R.  Someone please explain this inconsistency!) So, anyway, besides all that, there's also the laundry list of ancient clichés  Overcoming parental loss, losing one's virginity to an older woman, the stoner peanut gallery, the cute kid, love crossing class boundaries, climbing from despair to victory, winning the Big Game, and, finally, Freddie Prinze is a Really Nice Guy while Sidekick Matthew Lillard Provides Comic Relief.  And who could sleep while being soaked by a sprinkler?  And the diction of Freddie's brother for some reason reminded me of Steve from SEX AND THE CITY;The soundtrack is filled with forgettable rock tunes and a score inexplicably reminiscent of the music in THE LAST SEDUCTION.  And with all the product placement here, was this movie sponsored by the Samuel Adams brew company? So, why don't I hate this movie?  I dunno, maybe since I watched the sleazy SWORDFISH earlier in the evening and most any movie would look better after that crap.  Or maybe because of the unexpected Hank Aaron, Ken Griffey and Beverly D'Angelo cameos (Ellen Griswold never looked so fine), or since our hero made his big-league debut with Philadelphia (I was raised in South Jersey and will always be a Phillies Phan).  Like I already said, some of the baseball stuff is kind of fun despite the sleight-of-hand direction. And, hey, I'm the guy who likes THE FAN; maybe I just cannot totally trash any baseball movie.  No, not even FOR LOVE OF THE GAME, which resembles SUMMER CATCH in that both movies should have kept their stories on the field and dropped their goopy romantic subplots. 4/10 "},{"Title":"Don't touch it.","Date":"5 November 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I generally consider She's All That to be my least favourite movie of all time. I caught Summer Catch on a plan trip, and in comparison to She's All That, it's worse.Congratulations, Summer Catch!Where to begin? The plot? Oh, that! The main plot has the poor Freddie Prinze Jr trying to overcome the hardships of being a poor gardener's son to become a great baseball player. Meanwhile, he falls for rich girl Jessica Biel. Uh oh, here comes a clash of cultures! I'm sure Jessica's father would not approve!There are a bunch of subplots relating to the rest of the cast being wacky baseballers, including Marc Blucas falling for a fat girl, Fez from that 70's show having a The Graduate experience, and Matthew Lillard doing whatever it is that Matthew Lillard does in movies. I liked Scream, but the boy needs to stop. There's also a little girl who does something. You'll notice that I'm calling the people by the actors' names, and not by their characters' names. That is because there is not a single memorable character.No redeeming qualities. At all. This movie simply should not have been made. Unoriginal, uninspired, nothing more than a moneyspinner, and it failed. It won't stop these movies being made, but perhaps it will stop a few from watching them.On a side note, Brittany Murphy you have talent. Go elsewhere.1/10 "},{"Title":"one of the worst movies ever made","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  ok, so i'm a sucker for cheesy romance movies but summer catch is probably the worst thing ever made.  the movie introduces partially introduces each character and then all of a sudden, the two main characters are dating. they meet once and then the next time you see them, they know everything about each other.  there is no logic behind it.  it just happens.  at the end, you really don't care what happens just so long as it ends.  the acting is horrible, especially jessica biel.  freddie prinze jr needs to branch off from these romance flicks and try some real acting. "},{"Title":"Another Teen Movie, Just Like The Rest","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Freddie Prinze Jr. only knows how to do teen movies.  I mean he's going to be labeled a teen heart throb forever, even when he is old and gray.  I don't think he knows how to do any other roles than that of the teen hunk who gets the girl.  Okay, so I guess that's why he said he'd do Summer Catch.  Yeah, so he gets to be a baseball player in the movie.  That's supposed to shed his teen hunk image?  I think not.  Love stories.  Every single teen movie is a love story.  And every single movie Freddie's been in has basically been that... a teen love story.  In Summer Catch he plays Ryan Dunne, aspiring baseball player.  What do you think happens?  Ah yes, young Ryan falls in love with the rich Tenley Parrish (played by Jessica Biel).  What do you think happens?  Lots and lots of heartbreak followed by lots and lots of love.  That's the same situation in all of these teeny movies.The thing I don't get is that Jessica Biel says she wants to get away from these teen type images like in 7th Heaven, yet look who she plays in Summer Catch.  And Freddie?  Well he's probably going to be seen playing the dumb hunky jock in She's All That Part 2 or The Dinner Club.  Ah, let's not get started.  He might actually take me seriously.3/10 "},{"Title":"a sorry excuse for a romantic comedy","Date":"22 June 2002","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I love romantic comedies. Most of them. Especially if they're actually, um, ROMANTIC. And if the humor is good.I thought Summer Catch had a cute plot, and a good title. So I popped in the DVD and watched it with my mom. Well, as it turned out, I had to sit and blush through an hour and a half of unoriginal thong jokes, makeout sessions between two characters that produce no chemistry whatsoever, and bad acting. I didn't laugh at loud once, which is rare for me, and I didn't even buy Ryan and Tenley's relationship, which is rarer. About the bad acting, Freddie Prinze, Jr., was never an award-winner. But in this flick, I don't believe a word he says. And Jessica Beil is pretty good most of the time, but at other parts she is monotonous. But they are both really cute, so it's appealing more to the eye than the mind.The only thing that makes this movie worth watching (if it even is) is Matthew Lilliard and Brittany Murphy. Lilliard plays Prinze, Jr.,'s hyperactive sidekick who eventually falls for Murphy, the outlandish but likable town tramp who pours beer in guys' mouths from bottles between her legs (one of the few priceless scenes). If you're looking for a funny movie, this is an okay choice, but not if you're looking for a romance. "},{"Title":"Corny beyond belief, but strangely enjoyable at the same time, it's got a weird charm that is hard to resist.","Date":"23 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" (Plot) A very skilled, but troubled pitcher falls in love with a rich girl (Jessica Biel) The family of the rich girl doesn't approve. Can Freddie Prinze focus to achieve his dreams of pitching in the majors, and win the heart of the woman he loves? OK. So sue me. I actually had a fairly good time with this movie. I am by no means a fan of Freddie Prinze Jr. He is tolerable here though, and didn't embarrass himself at least. The story is very predictable. You know the drill with these types of films, but it's done in an enjoyable way, so it doesn't really matter in the whole scheme of things. Most Rom-Com's are recycled these days, so I just kick my brain to the curb, and try and enjoy them. What else can you really do? Jessica Biel is great to look at, and does decent as the love interest. I wouldn't say she was great, but she held her own. Matthew Lillard steals some scene's he is in as the loudmouth buddy. Brittany Murphy has a hilarious scene with Freddie Prinze. I won't spoil it, but she was terrific.Final Thoughts I don't remember a whole lot about this movie, but I remember enjoying it much more than I thought I would. The cast is game, and I couldn't help but like it. It's not great, but you could do a lot worse for Rom-Com's; worth a look!6/10 "},{"Title":"No home runs here","Date":"1 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Not too sure why prominent co-star John C.McGinley isn't credited for his appearance in this film, nor Beverly D'Angelo's minor role, but if it's because this is a load of bilge, then I'd totally understand.Mr. SMG plays uber-talented pitcher from a lower socio-economic family whose ambition doesn't extend to chasing the dream his talent could achieve, a self neglect that his brother admonishes (having been unable to fulfil his own such dream) but his father only takes in his stride. When he falls for summer-holidaying rich girl (Biel), he's suddenly faced with the prospect of both a glittering career and a stunning girlfriend, but how will the two opportunities successfully coalesce? Brian Dennehy, Fred Ward, Bruce Davison, Brittany Murphy and the aforementioned performers comprise a substantial cast that is wasted in this bubble-gum comedy romance disguised as a sporting rags to riches tale. A mammoth one hour and fifty minutes of precious life will slip through your fingers, no refunds just a massive non-event. "},{"Title":"Freddie Prinze JR deserved an Oscar...(SLIGHT SPOILERS)","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  because of that emotional speech he had with his friend about always going to see him play baseball and Freddie considering giving up his dream of being paid to play baseball. I mean, Freddie even throws out a couple of cuss words to prove he's really upset about sucking at baseball. Of course, I'm being facetious in case you can't figure it out. This guy is one of the worst actors ever. He plays the same role in every film and has this wooden, expressionless demeanor.  Not only is the acting and dialogue atrocious in this, but I didn't like all the fat jokes and then adding the minor subplot of the kid who gets taught a thing or 2 by the lady he's staying with.  THe whole cucumber thing was just too stupid.  Were these type of cheap jokes the only thing they could think of as filler?FINAL VERDICT  This movie sucks, but what else would you expect from a Freddie Prinze Jr movie. "},{"Title":"Why does Freddie Prinze, Jr. keep getting roles?","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Upon seeing this movie on video over the weekend, I struggled to decide if this movie or Ghosts of Mars was the worst movie of 2001.  Now that I have had time to think about it, there is no question in my mind that Summer Catch is the winner.It was hard to decide where to begin with this turkey.  But since this is an obvious Freddie Prinze vehicle, let's start there.  In all of his movies, Freddie wants us to think that he is more than just a pretty-boy jock with styrofoam popcorn jammed into his brain cavity, despite the fact that his acting ability always leads us to think even less of him.  It is impossible to make Freddie appear like a sympathetic character to the audience as Freddie delivers his hackneyed lines without passion.  This movie is no exception. Why do writers, directors, producers, casting agents, etc. think that they can pass this nitwit off as a sympathetic character?  In short, he's terrible.Next, the plot.  Not a bad initial idea for a movie.  Freddie is the local boy who makes the local team in the Cape Cod Baseball League (a premier amatuer league for college players) and gets one last chance to make it to the big leagues. But that's where the good ideas end.  The writers (I'm assuming it was a committee of marketing reps who wrote this movie) introduce us to so many tired conventions that we soon lose track of them rich girl, poor boy love story; dead mother; drunk father; aloof brother; prior opportunities for glory blown...etc. etc.  Freddie has to overcome more obstacles than Job.  Each one of these story lines is presented in a predictable way that leads to over-acting and mellowdramatic slop.  There are many other tired cliches, some that work better than others.  There is the grizzled coach (admirably played by Brian Dennehy), the loony sidekick (well-played by the talented Matthew Lillard, why does this guy continue to team up with Freddie?), and the annoying little sister (who shouldn't have been included in this story at all).  While a formula like this sometimes works, it is just too forced in this movie.I was going to continue writing about this, but I feel now as though I'm wasting my time.  Do yourself a favor and pass this one over and go rent Bang the Drum Slowly if you really want to see a baseball movie. "},{"Title":"Poor Jessica Biel","Date":"10 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of those movies, like Center Stage, where you have to see the PREVIEWS, only once, and you'll know how the entire movie will go. I remember reading this article where JB was complaining that the only reason she hadn't gotten Mena Suvari's part in American Beauty was because she had a nice girl reputation from 7th Heaven, and the producers or directors or whoever was turned off by that. Yes, Jessica, keep telling yourself that. And in the meantime, grab ahold of whatever crappy role is actually offered to you, overact the hell out of it and say that proves your point.Which is clearly what she did. I don't know where FP Jr. wants his career to go, but he better stay away from these types of movies or he's never going to be able to do anything else. It may be too late already. I would like to say that while he is in no way Oscar material, I've usually enjoyed his performances. However, he really needs to start actually finding out what the movie is about before he signs onto it. By the way, am I the only one who thinks that his romance with Sarah Michelle Gellar is a total lie?Amd Matthew Lillard does in this movie what he always does--provide some much needed comic relief. I like that guy. But, with the exception of Scream, it would appear that no one wants to put him in a movie unless they can put FPJ in it...which is odd to me, cause ML is the better actor of the 2, in my opinion.I didn't say much about the movie because anyone who has heard of this movie, whether they've seen it or not, knows the entire story.5/10, and I'm being generous...just thankful that Tenley Parrish was not played by Jennifer Love Hewitt. "}{"Title":"Not for REAL baseball fans","Date":"30 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Definitely geared to the under 25 set. I was willing to give it a 'not awful' rating, until the end. I think any knowledgeable baseball fan would be disgusted by the ending. Acting adequate, humor weak. Freddy Prinze Jr. just doesn't look like a pitcher--a middle infielder, maybe. "},{"Title":"Too Much of a Not-So-Good Thing","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Summer Catch was not the worst movie I've ever seen, but it could have made it there with a little more trying.  The best actors in the movie were either given little to work with in trite, cliched roles, or were not given enough screen time to showcase their abilities.  Bruce Davison, Brian Dennehey, and Jason Gedrick, as Jessica Biel's snobbish father, the gruff coach with a heart of gold, and Freddie Prinze's older brother, who settled for a career as a bartender instead of aspiring for more, are, respectively, the former.  The latter include Marc Blucas (Riley on Buffy the Vampire Slayer), Christian Kane (Lindsey McDonald on Angel, also Love Song, Crossfire Trail, Broken Hearts Club), and Wilmer Valderrama (That 70's Show).  All three do get to show some of their stuff on the diamond and appear to be athletically talented.  But they are wasted otherwise. Freddie Prinze Jr. and Jessica Biel don't seem to generate any real sparks.  The little girl (Tenley's little sister) who wants to be the team mascot is cute, and Fred Ward acquits himself well as Freddie's father.  Beverly D'Angelo should never, never have participated in the excruciatingly bad imitation (perhaps parody should be the better word) of Susan Sarandon in Bull Durham. However, I will buy this when it comes out on video because I can fast forward through Freddie and see just the parts I want! "},{"Title":"Uninspired","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's an average movie that you should watch if there is absolutely nothing to do.  The characters are not well developed, and the movie lacks emotion. Seems like the editing department cut out a lot of the footage because a lot of conflits about the lead character are only briefly discussed and not examined.  It does have one plus side young women flaunting their bodies....that makes it all the worthwhile for this movie's target audience young males without a job! "},{"Title":"Just another romantic Freddie movie.","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Just another romantic Freddie movie, but this time he's managed to win over 7th Heaven's Jessica Biel. But if there's a bad script out there Freddie can find it. But Jessical Biel, who tried to break her goodgirl streak by posing topless in Gear magazine, may have succeeded in the new Aerosmith video, wearing barely nothing and dressed in black. But in the movie world she's still little Mary Camdan, until 7th Heaven goes to hell. As much as I love Jessica Biel and support her, I just don't think she's ready for the big screen, until she's out of t.v heaven. "},{"Title":"Oh no not another rom com","Date":"19 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The ads for the film looked alright so I thought I would give it a shot because I like Freddie prize junior . I love romantic comedies but this is just so predictable. How many more movies do we have to put up with where the main character has to achieve something great and/or is soul searching. Then suddenly they find all they are looking for in a gorgeous member of the opposite sex. Then they face some huge problem and then just right at the end all their problems disappear. Does that sound familiar to anyone? But basically for anyone who hasn't seen the film its about a guy Ryan (Freddie) who wants to succeed at baseball. He has some problems at home with his dad and brother. He meets Jessica Biel and they fall in love. Her parents have some problems with him as he's poor but in the end they decide to stay together. "},{"Title":"Shallow, lame, poor...","Date":"15 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Shallow characters, lame story, poor movie. Freddie Prinze, Jr. is the same pretty looking guy like he was in every movie he played in; his acting has little or no effect on final outcome. He's not bad actor, but with this script even Sean Penn wouldn't pull this movie out of the gutter. You might say Hey, it's an average 'romantic comedy' not Academy Award Winner!. That's right but it's not funny at all and romance is weak... Anyway, I must give this movie 2 out of 10 just because of Jessica Biel's corporal beauty (thank director for these scenes). P.S. Lucky for me, I saw it on TV for (almost) free and saved money for the ticket...  "},{"Title":"badness on just about every level","Date":"12 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Badness, badness, badness.I can't stop laughing from all the hilarious comments from people thrashing this disposable excuse for teen entertainment.  From the guy who shut it off three minutes before the end to the transcription of the final scene, these reviews are just killing me.Was Freddie Prinze hypnotized to play baseball for this movie?  I've never seen anyone with such a vacant a stare.  Every one of his closeups he looks like he's dreaming about cashing Sarah Michelle Gellar's Buffy residual checks.  Doesn't it bother anyone that Freddie's problem is supposed to be that he got kicked off his college team cause he has a temper but he doesn't get in a single fight with anyone or anything?  And what's with Freddie calling his dad and brother failures?  It's not like his dad or brother wanted to be baseball players and flunked out, right?  They never say that his dad and brother aren't happy doing their jobs?  It's honest work, right?  What the hell's wrong with running a landscaping business or managing a bar?  It's shocking how lazily this was thrown together.I feel bad for the people who like this movie, because whether you realize it or not, you deserve better.  Believe it or not, it is possible to make formula teen movies with Tiger Beat coverboys and TV actresses that aren't this lame. "},{"Title":"Usual plot, usual movie","Date":"5 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Yesterday I watched this movie in Pay-TV - okay, it just happened because of Jessica Biel, and in two scenes... whoa!The movie is a mixture of an usual Teenie-Lovestory and an usual Sports Drama. All of it you have seen a thousand times in other movies and when you watch the first five minutes, you know how this movie ends.I'm rating it 5/10. "},{"Title":"The worst Baseball film ever?","Date":"3 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have just seen SUMMER CATCH on video(it was never released in cinemas here) and i think it is the worst baseball movie i have ever seen. Freddie Prinze jnr once again delivers a dreadful performance in the leading role and Jessica Biel is just horrid as the love interest.The saddest thing about this film though is the number of great people who have ruined their reputations by starring in this rubbish-Brian Dennehy,Fred Ward,Marc Buffy Blucas and worst of all Brittany Murphy all have roles in this film and all of them should hang their heads in shame.The only decent thing about this film is Matthew Lillard but even he cant save this film this time.So is short this film is a pile of crap and to be quite honest i suggest you avoid this like the plague...in the meantime i am off to watch field of dreams "},{"Title":"Pretty much of a miss","Date":"18 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"     Well, it's a movie about a summer baseball league on Cape Cod, with some different camera angles on the diamond action, and Curt Gowdy's the team's announcer, and Prinze and Biel are attractive leads (particularly Biel, as when she's mowing Prinze's lawn in a cut-off t-shirt).  If those elements are enough to satisfy you then you're in luck, because that's about all the good stuff you're gonna see.  The wrap-up defies credibility even for this sort of refried light romantic comedy. "}{"Title":"one word....ugh","Date":"9 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  When i saw this movie, i thought it was gonna be great, i went to the theater with my friends and we were all set to see it and be amazed by Freddie Prinze Jr., when we got out of the theater, we demanded a refund, this movie had a stupid plot, bad acting, and it was a bad job choosing the actors for the parts of the movie. "},{"Title":"one word... yawn","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I litrelly jumped out of my seat for joy the nanosecond I saw the first credit! the plot was way to jumpy and non sencical I found my self reminsing on by past get togethers to entertain my self! I left the room three times during the movie once to just put a cup in the sink! I am sorry if my reveiw has little to do with the movie but I know five pepole who have seen this move (six incuding me) and not one liked it!  "},{"Title":"Nothing great but not horribly bad.","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Although this movie was no gem it wasn't a complete waste of time. The whole movie centers around Ryan Dunne (Freddie Prinze Jr.) who is a pitcher dreming of making the big leagues. During the summer Ryan plays for the Chatham A's (a minor league baseball team) and hopes to do his best in front of scouts). There are some pretty good parts in the movie but unfortunately the entire love mess between Prinze and his rich neighbor Jessica Biel is extremely annoying and drags the movie down. The best performance in the movie in my opinion) was frm Gabriel Mann who played one of Prinze's friends. Matthew liliard is also pretty good but Freddy gives a pretty poor performance. While there are some good moments in Summer Catch, There are also some very bad and poor ones. In the end Summer Catch hits a double to left field...however the runner is left stranded at 2nd (sorry for the baseball analogy) OVERALL 5/10 "},{"Title":"Don't let the grumps scare you away","Date":"30 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is not a great film in the tradition of Bull Durham, but it will provide some good laughs and a pleasant diversion. I have seen films that were, in fact, a colossal waste of time and Summer Catch isn't close to being in that crowd. Is there anything really new? No. You have seen variations on this theme and plot before. So what? The leads and supporting cast are fun to watch, even if Freddie Prinze Jr. doesn't come close to looking like a professional pitcher. Couldn't believe one reviewer referring to Brian Dennehy and Jason Gedrick as has-been actors. That alone caused me to question the objectivity of the rest of the review. Go ahead and rent it. My wife and I both enjoyed it. "},{"Title":"Attractive Cast, Funny Scenes, Then Why is it so PLODDING?","Date":"24 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  `Summer Catch' is yet ANOTHER `coming of age' movie, albiet with a attractive cast and some pretty funny humor.  Freddie Prinze, Jr. leads an attractive, talented cast in a story which is one third `Bull Durham, one third `Porky's' and one third `every boy from the wrong side of the tracks meets rich girl movie you've ever seen.  Considering it's pedigree, it's surprising this movie was made within the bounds of a PG-13 rating.  Perhaps, that's part of the problem.  Just when you are expecting it to open up and get REALLY raunchy, it backs away.  Certainly, there is NO problem with the cast.  Freddy Prinze, Jr. is quite earnest as Ryan Dunne, the `yard boy' turned pitcher; however, despite the slight accent, he's not particularly believable as an Irishman. As Prinze's love interest, Tenley Parrish, Jessica Biel brings the same qualities to the screen as Jamie Lee Curtis, in more ways than two.  Once you get past the stunning figure (well showcased, briefly, in a bikini), you realize she's a real person, and a quite likeable one.  Matthew Lillard is very funny as Billy Brubaker, as is Marc Blucas as Miles Dalrymple, Gabriel Mann as Auggie and Jed Rhein as Pete.  Brittany Murphy makes an appropriately local bar tramp, and Beverly D'Angelo (an incredibly well preserved 48) as the movie's `Mrs. Robinson'.  Zita Gray is cute as Jessica Biel's little sister, Katie.  Even Randi Layne makes a favorable impression in a VERY small role as Jessica's mother.  Please don't let me forget the contributions of Brian Dennehy, Fred Ward, Bruce Davison and Jason Getrick.One of the BIG problems with `Summer Catch' is the repetitiveness of the subplotting.  You don't get just ONE example of the `boy virgin meets &#145;Mrs. Robinson,' you get FIVE.  The same goes for the `big talk about your career problems scene,' `local bar tramp causes the jock to miss his appointment,' etc.  Perhaps that's why the movie seems overlong, which is a killer for a comedy. HOWEVER, I can't remember another movie I've seen recently in which I can remember the names of so many of the characters.  That counts for a lot with me...  "},{"Title":"Could have been better than what it was","Date":"2 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  As some users have commented, the crude jokes were a bit much, and indeed they were.  They were quite out of place in the movie - it was almost like watching two different movies at once - not in a good way. There was quite a bit of needless dialogue and interaction, almost all of it dealing with the crudeness and offensive jokes mainly directed at women. The other parts of the movie were not bad, and I wish there was more of them.  The interaction with the father could have been expanded, as well as the brother.  The scenes with Jessica were good, and the baseball scenes were ok, and quite well made. Unfortunately, the plot was a bit predictable, with my girlfriend shouting out what she thought would happen next, and she was always right. The crude parts and predictable plot drag the rest of the movie down.  I debated whether to give it a 4 - thinking I slightly disliked it, or if I was neutral and would give it a 5.  In the end, it had to be 4. "},{"Title":"Poop on a stick","Date":"6 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Honestly, this movie would be all right in my book if they would have taken out all the jokes making fun of overweight women and the gratuitous sexual content. It would have been a nice family movie. But no, they had to go and make it crude, and now I've lost all respect for Brittany Murphy! When will they make a movie that's suitable to watch with my little sister? Probably never. "},{"Title":"Well, I'm a teenager....do I feel satisfied?  Absolutely not.","Date":"5 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I hate Freddy Prinze jr.  And this is no better then all his horrible movies.  He is just no good.  I have seen other teen's comments saying on how only adults dislike this movie.  I have news for all those girls I am not an adult, and I HATED this movie.  Notice how the trailers clearly say If your hot, then you'll like this movie!  Ok, that's wrong.  What they meant to say is If your a ditzy airhead, than you'll love this romantic comedy made my people who don't even know what they're doing.The plot is predictable, the acting is horrible, the directing sucks, and Mathew Lillard is a loser.  Sorry, but it's the truth.  It's the worst movie of the year, and it will be forgotten faster than you will forget this comment.I'll spare you the explanation, just don't ever waste your money, ok?0/10 "},{"Title":"Stupid,Poor,Boring... probably the worst baseball movie ever","Date":"23 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Freddie Prinze Jr. is a good actor who does horrible movies like this one, Head over heels, and Boys and Girls. I think the only movie i actually like by him was She's all that. This is a movie about a boy, Prinze, who falls in love with his rich next door neighbor, who is just here for Summer, is played by Jessica Biel. Prinze also dreams one day about becoming a major league baseball player. I am very disappointed with a lot of films that have came out this year so far... Scary Movie 2 is one of them. This has to be on the worst list of 2001. I was very disappointed with this film, i mean i almost fell asleep watching this stupid, dull, poor, boring movie. I tell you highly, do not see this film. It is not worth spending your money on. I really was disappointed.I give it *1/2 stars out of ***** stars.  "},{"Title":"Boring -- even for my 12 year God Daughter","Date":"26 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Is it fair to capitalize on the whims and confusion of adolescent girls?  Is it right to continue capitalizing on the success of actors - even after they die? Freddie Prinze Jr. is never going to be an actor.  He is where he is because (go with me) Mom pushed him into the business to capitalize on the name.  Speaking of which, was he born with that name or did mom change it somewhere along the way, (maybe when she ran out of money)  Of the thousand hopefuls, educated at theatre schools across the globe -- why does  this kid gets a chance at being a superstar?I have seen him in three movies.  He's never been good. He's wooden and expressionless.  Naked chests do not an actor make.  With regards to young girls and their dreams, the good thing is that someone new comes along every 5 minutes and so I say to you, in 5 years we won't remember this movie, this person or his 15 minutes of adolescent fame.  Except maybe, when we're dining at a posh restaurant and he's there with pencil in hand to take our order....................................... "}{"Title":"Freddie Prinze Jr. does it again.....","Date":"17 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Yes, Freddie Prinze Jr. has done it again.  He has made another monstrosity of a movie.  In all fairness, however, it would be unfair to place all of the blame of Prinze himself.  There are of course other people to blame, for instance the screen writer and the director.  But Prinze and his co-stars have to take a lot of the blame as well.First of all, what to say about Prinze.  This is another fantastic performance in the fine tradition of his other great works, I Know What You Did Last Summer, Wing Commander, the absolutely horrid Boys and Girls, and about anything else he is in.(The House of Yes, and She's All That, are exceptions)  First of all he can't act.  He is supposed to have an accent, or he isn't, I'm not that positive because it comes in and out.  In certain scenes it is very evident, and in others it is non-existent.  And in any scene that requires real emotion, well, I challenge you to not burst out in laughter.  It is hard.  His main co-star, Jessica Biel does little here to further her career.  She cries a lot, and spurts out cliched dialogue that should drive anybody up the wall.  The rest of the actors, Lilliard, Blucas and Valderrama are sorely underused.  What dialogue they get isn't important to anything that goes on in the movie.  And I'm not sure about Brian Dennehy.  I saw him talking, but I'm not sure if he was acting or mourning the death of his career.  Either way, I'm sure he was only in the movie because he needed the money.  Poor poor Brian Dennehy.The story is executed in an absolutely horrible manner.  The movie has scene after scene, which just ends up feeling more like unrelated event after unrelated event.  Everything was choppy.  The romance between Prinze and Biel was excessively choppy.  The baseball scenes were some of the worst I may have seen in my life as well.  All of the characters are underdeveloped, and there are just way to many characters as it is.  The ending is horribly predictable, but by that point you won't really care anyway.The direction was some of the worst I have seen of late.  The acting was bad, and the director should have done something to clear that up.  There were way to many slow motion shots, and way way way too many 360 degree camera shots.  The actors always seem a bit distant and everything feels a bit forced.  There is no tact, it all just happens because, I figure, it says in the script that something is supposed to happen. On the upside, some of the acting and dialogue are so bad that you are bound to get a few good laughs out of the movie.  But you laugh for the same reason you would laugh at Godzilla, because it is just soooo bad.  No matter how you look at it though, all I can say is poor poor Brian Dennehy.  2 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Another Bomb, and I'm not talking about the homeruns.","Date":"1 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Summer Catch, a film from Mike Tollin (one of the cronies from Brian Robbins production group) directs a usual list of people teenie boppers adore and a couple of people also put in to make the parents who bring they're kids to this drek think, hey, maybe Brian Denehey isn't totally sunk yet. The film takes place in Cape Cod, supposedly, but in my point of view it could've been filmed anywhere and just said in the script it was Cape Cod (if I'm mistaken, I apologize, though not to the filmmakers), where a summer baseball league takes place where young hot shot baseball players play to see if they can be the next big thing in baseball.  Freddie Prinze Jr. plays a pitcher who could be the next big, uh, thing, except for some problems.I guess it's not a totally terrible movie (I can't say a movie is totally terrible where in which a woman sticks a cucumber in her most intimates), but it is not worth the money, time, or brain power to follow either.  It's a cliched, stupid, usually cast film that shows that a good baseball film hasn't been made since Major League.  Oh well.  D "},{"Title":"This is a bland exercise with points of interest.","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The first aired previews of Summer Catch only showed the bits with Freddie Prinze , Jr. and Jessica Biel and those did not interest me. Only when I saw that the movie cast included Matthew Lillard, Marc Blucas, and Brittany Murphy did I even want to see it. I had low expectations from the outset and so I wasn't disappointed when the bulk of the movie centered on  two very attractive, terribly blank actors such as Jessica Biel and Freddie Prinze, Jr. Mr. Prinze seems like a nice enough guy, but he does not project real emotion. Ms.Biel is appealingly American in her stance but her acting lacks conviction.    The script for the movie is pretty banal. The viewer doesn't really care about the primary and secondary struggles of the central characters because we absolutely know that things will work out just fine.    The parts that showcase the rest of the cast are pretty fun. Matthew Lillard is fabulous. Marc Blucas is  charming with his affection for chubby chicks. Brittany Murphy is great, as ever. It was nice to see Brian Dennehy, Fred Ward, and Jason Gedrick, though the inconsistent New England accents were kind of pointless.     "},{"Title":"Boring","Date":"15 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What can we say about this... Let me see... UNBELIEVABLE BORING STUFF! How many movies have we seen that have almost the same story? Well thats many! And this film is done a lot worse than the average! If you have not see this film before, don't you dare see it. NEVER! "},{"Title":"I love baseball, however...","Date":"2 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is awful.  Is there any way Jessica Biel could be any worse?  I think not.  I hope not. I suppose I should add I believe this movie's target audience was high school or younger, which I do not fall into.  Moreover, I do not think that even a teen-ager would really like this film.  None that I know did. "},{"Title":"Freddy was nice...but movie sucked!!!","Date":"31 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Whoever wrote this script needs to be shot. Either that, or Jessica Biel just sucks at acting. I went and saw this movie the other night thinking it would be a cute chick flick to see with its cast of hotties and such, but the overall movie got to be really really really slow. The script sounded really lame, and the actors sounded even more lame acting it. Overall, it was a big dissappointment. The only bonus was getting to see Freddy's hot body for 2 hours (he looks AWESOME in this movie), but even that got old by the time the movie was over. "},{"Title":"Ouch","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Quite possibly one of the worst movies of all time. I was looking at the worst 100 list, and MANOS THE HANDS OF FATE is easily better than this, which seems to me to basically be stock footage off all the other teen sex romps of the past ten years spliced together and repackaged to pay for some studio exec's new mercedes. For your own good, dont see this movie. Read a book instead. "},{"Title":"a by-the-numbers summer romance for mature audiences","Date":"22 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Summer Catch is a by-the-numbers summer romance for mature audiences because of the abundant sex and booze.  The attractive stars do their best with this overlong story set in Cape Cod, Massachusetts.  If you've seen the trailers, then you've seen just about all of the best parts of the film.  A lot of veteran actors will be seen in throw-away performances.  "},{"Title":"worse than another players strike","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Summer Catch is, by far, the worst film I've seen since Exit Wounds.  It made me ashamed to watch movies and if I ever saw it again I would surely take my own life.  I will not even dignify this flick by summarizing the plot.  All I will say is I have seen better writing on cancelled UPN sitcoms.As far as the acting is concerned, Freddie Prinze Jr. is the worst young actor this side of Britney Spears.  The thing that saddens me most is that it took me a while to realize that.   Jessica Biel is hot and always bra-less and horribly melodramatic.  After the Tremors sequels, I didn't think Fred Ward could be in a worse movie.  John C. McGinley is the only good actor in this movie but his part is so small (yes, there are small parts) and badly written that even his acting skills couldn't save it. Now I have some questions.  How did they get Hank Aaron in this movie?  I'm a huge baseball fan and having him play a tiny part in it is a disgrace and irresponsible.This film proves to me that the Hollywood machine in this N'Sync driven society of recent years will take any lame script and any young bankable named actor and waste a perfectly good opportunity to make a quality film. Next time Hollywood producers, save your money, and leave Hank Aaron out of it. "},{"Title":"Youth antics, baseball and romance with Freddie Prince Jr. and Jessica Biel","Date":"12 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Released in 2001, Summer Catch stars Freddie Prince Jr. and Jessica Biel, the former a Cape Cod baseball prospect with hopes for the Major League who lands a gig playing for the Chatham Athletics, the latter a rich girl pressured by her pompous axx father (Bruce Davison) to move to San Francisco and work for a firm. Brian Dennehy plays the no-nonsense coach while Matthew Lillard, Brittany Murphy, Corey Pearson and Wilmer Valderrama play various youths. Fred Ward and Jason Gedrick are on hand as the baseball hopeful's father and brother.This is essentially a baseball version of 1999's excellent Varsity Blues and 1993's solid The Program. It's not as good as the former, but it's at least as good as the latter. Everything clicks for a quality 'coming-of-age' flick &#x96; the cast, story, acting, locations, cinematography, music and editing. The babe factor is strong with Biel leading the way with her stunning bod (actually, blowing all others out of the water); and Beverly D'Angelo still sizzles at 49 years-old in a small role. I'm at a loss as to why Summer Catch rates only 4.9/10 on IMDb when it's at least a 7/10 film.The film runs 108 minutes and was shot in Cape Cod, Cincinnati and Southport, North Carolina.GRADE Borderline B/B+ "}{"Title":"Not A Catch On Any Season.","Date":"10 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Summer Catch (2001) Dir Mike Tollin / Cast Freddie Prinze Jr., Jessica Biel, Matthew Lillard, Fred Ward, Jason Gedrick Stupid dreary teen comedy bent on corrupting young senses with sex scenes. The catch represents both baseball and Jessica Biel. Freddie Prinze Jr. plays an amateur baseball player who will romance Biel after he mows over a rose garden. His father is widowed, his brother is a bartender. His best friend is unable to cope with aluminum bats just as I am unable to cope with the entire running time of this film. This garbage is about as exciting as cleaning toilets. Mike Tollin does well directing the baseball footage while the rest looks as if he was half asleep, which would not surprise me given what the film is. Another horrible performance by Prinze Jr. with Biel featured for no other purpose than to rise bikini clad out of a swimming pool much to the delight of young hormones. We do not care about this romance nor do we care about anything else associated with the story. Matthew Lillard plays Prinze's frustrated best friend who may be even more frustrated when he realizes that this garbage will never be labeled a classic. Boring farce with sex scenes involving beer bottles between thighs. That is about the height of the creative energy within this film. Next time, instead of a rose garden, why not introduce this film to the lawn mower blades. Score 1 / 10 "},{"Title":"annoying characters, cheesy writing, and pathetic jokes","Date":"17 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Local boy Ryan Dunne (Freddie Prinze Jr.) has been mowing lawns and baseball fields for his father Sean (Fred Ward). It's an important time for summer Cape Cod Baseball League as college kids like Billy Brubaker (Matthew Lillard), Miles Dalrymple (Marc Blucas), and Mickey Dominguez (Wilmer Valderrama) come to show their skills to major league teams. It's the first summer that Ryan is going to play despite any distractions from Dede Mulligan (Brittany Murphy). However he has a tendency to self destruct after the death of his mother. John Schiffner (Brian Dennehy) is the coach. One of Ryan's job is for the rich Parrishes with daughter Tenley (Jessica Biel). His big brother Mike (Jason Gedrick) missed his chance and is now the local bartender.It's suppose to be funny but it's just stupid. Everything is a joke to these characters. If they don't take it seriously, then why should the audience. Freddie Prinze Jr. is annoyingly brash. In the first ten minutes, he shows himself to be a whiny idiot. With his big chance on the line, he's got one girl and then chases another. Jessica Biel doesn't have much heat or any chemistry. She's got a beautiful body and that's the only thing on display here. She has one of the cheesiest lines. They get together right away losing any courtship heat. Brittany Murphy has more energy and it would have been interesting for her in the lead. I know it's a rom-com. The problem is that the rom is a bore and the com is pathetic. The jokes are basically hot guys strutting around in a thong. There is also a bad baseball faux-pas when coach Schiffner commented that he's pitching a no hitter. It's just one more thing that annoyed me. "},{"Title":"The movie equivalent of a cheap, tepid domestic beer on a hot summer day","Date":"4 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This isn't the worst movie ever but it has nothing going for it. It is weak as a baseball film and it is weak as a boy meets girl chick flick. The characters are stock, the acting is uninspired, the plot is predictable, and there is just nothing about this film that draws the viewer in. It passes the time. It fills a void. Others have probably said it better than I have above, though.I just want to point out that as any baseball fan worth his weight in pine tar knows any young man who throws left-handed and can reach 96mph on the gun is going to get repeated opportunities in professional baseball. Even an organization with the most pessimistic view of his prospects would wonder if they could turn him into a LOOGY.It's a small issue but the movie is full of things that make it crappy. This silly detail about his ability to throw hard is just the cherry on top of the sundae for me as a baseball fan. "},{"Title":"Such a shame this wasn't better.","Date":"2 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" How could a movie with Freddie Prinze Jr. and Jessica Biel be so bad. The script was pointless and apart from the very occasional chuckle there wasn't too much going for it. It was bittersweet seeing Brittany Murphy though as she was her true bubbly vivacious self in the movie. A factor that increased it's star value for me.Maybe a better soundtrack could have helped heaps. It is amazing that a catchy song can make you think you are enjoying a movie more than you really are. Then again perhaps it really was just a poor script and nothing could have saved it. Such a shame it wasn't better because I really wanted to like it even after seeing the low ratings. "},{"Title":"Jessica Biel's hotness makes Summer Catch worth seeing.","Date":"13 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The film Summer Catch, on its own, is, let us acknowledge it, no great shakes. The male actors, including (sob) Brian Dennehy, give shallow and inept performances, the characterizations are un-dimensional, the dialogue is outright phony, and the picture, as a whole, just meanders along, with hardly any signs of genuine life. That hardly in the last sentence was intentional. Summer Catch's saving grace, the factor that alone--repeat, alone--makes it worthwhile is Jessica Biel. Her stylish beauty, her sizzling sexiness, and her effortless poise make Catch worth catching. To see her, as she does here, sashay around in a skimpy bikini or a tight white T-shirt easily makes you absolutely willing to forgive and forget the flick's blatant amateurishness. No question about it It is Jessica Biel's unyielding babeliciousness that, by itself--by itself--is the reason to see, and savor, Summer Catch. "},{"Title":"I saw it for the late Brittany Murphy, otherwise it isn't a particularly good movie but Murphy was a delight to watch.","Date":"18 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Even if this had been a better story I probably would not have enjoyed it very much because of Freddie Prinze Jr. in the title role. He is Ryan Dunne, a talented college baseball pitcher in a Massachusetts summer league. If he makes a good showing then he will get a good pro offer. But Ryan is so annoying all the way through the movie as it drew to a close I found myself wishing he had been an old world gladiator and now he was being thrown to the lions for their dinner. I don't know if it was because of Prinze's acting style, or what the director wanted. No matter, he was very annoying. Jessica Biel is pretty and rich Tenley Parrish, just graduated from college and her father wants her top go to the west coast to work with a family friend. But of course she falls for Ryan and he falls for her, so that complicates matters. Especially when her dad finds out, because Ryan and his father are the local lawn guys, and he wants better for his daughter.Fred Ward is good as always as Ryan's dad, Sean Dunne. Brittany Murphy is Dede Mulligan, local ditsy girl who always wants to have a good time and loves the guys. It is refreshing to see her healthy and in good form, quite different from the Brittany Murphy we saw in her last film made right before her tragic death.A good movie to see Brittany Murphy, otherwise not too much there to enjoy. "},{"Title":"Catch this little flick, if you are a romantic drama fan; otherwise, you should pass it over","Date":"11 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Ryan Dunne (Freddie Prinze, Jr.) has lived on Cape Cod all of his life. His father (Fred Ward), a widower, runs a lawncare business for the wealthy residents of the area and his brother, Mike (Jason Gedrick) tends bar. But, it is Ryan's dream to become a major league baseball player so, although he helps mow lawns, he has earned a position on the Cape's exemplary local team. Everyone knows that many a well-known ballplayer has gotten his start on the Cape, including Nomar Garciaparra. As a pitching prospect and a groundskeeper, Ryan has little time for distractions, including sometime galpal Dede (Brittany Murphy). Also, Ryan has a black mark on his past, having been let go from another ballteam for serious fighting. His new coach (Brian Dennehy) makes it clear that he will brook no nonsense from the young pitcher. Into this tense existence comes a beautiful young woman, new Ivy League graduate Tenley (Jessica Biel) whose father's (Bruce Davison) lawn is cared for by the Dunnes. Spying Tenley at the pool, Ryan is transfixed. However, the lady's father is not about to let a blue-collar wannabe romance his little girl and he makes plans to ship Tenley off to San Francisco, where an important job opening awaits. Two things matter. Will Ryan make it to the bigs and will Tenley ignore her dad and open her heart to the young pitcher? This was a fairly predictable romantic drama that will most likely bore anyone who is not a fan of the genre. Yes, the cast is fine, with Prinze and Biel making an attractive and talented couple and Ward, Dennehy, Gedrick, Murphy and all of the others offering good support. The scenery on the Cape is very lovely, the costumes are fetching and the movie looks quite nice. On the other hand, the script is only fair-to-middlin and the direction lacks some punch, although it is not below par. In summary, you should catch this flick at the store or on television, all you who love star-crossed love tales. But, if you are not into romance, just pass it over and save yourself some grief. "},{"Title":"Summer Catch- Flies Out & Hits Foul Ball **","Date":"10 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" There is really no chemistry between Jessica Biel and Freddie Prinze, Jr. in this 2001 movie.Prinze's father in the movie has been around before and he is usually the urban embittered person who knows how to hit the bottle. Not so in this one as he cuts the grass with his son, the latter played by Prinze, who aspires to be a baseball pitcher. There is also an embittered brother tending bar, and Jessica Biel, as a rich girl from the other side of the track. Prinze and dad cuts the grass for her high society parents, the father played by a sarcastic, snob Bruce Davison.The picture is generally cliché but the ending is ridiculous where Prinze gives a no hit bid with 2 outs to go in the ninth inning to pursue a fleeing Biel. Come on. What were we going to sing Take me out of the ball game? "},{"Title":"Summer Catch is not much of a catch.","Date":"14 June 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Enjoyable. Yes.Predictable. Yes.Nothing much here but a nice little movie about baseball. Yet another film that looks and sounds like it was supposed to be a made for TV movie. The movie's saving grace is eye candy Freddie who looks great in - and out - of uniform. Make this film a drinking game down a shot every time the writers find another way to get Freddie naked, shirtless or running around in his underwear.Lots of minor characters with uninteresting story lines. The trailer makes this film seem like another teen sex romp but it really is more focused on baseball. "},{"Title":"Summer Catch Is Innocuous Teen Fare","Date":"12 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A few minutes into this movie, we see Freddie Prinze prancing through water sprinklers wearing Brittany Murphy's thong and we know what kind of movie this is going to be and the empty-headed audience it takes aim at. The slow motion scene of Jessica Biel's swim suit bottom confirms this. There are two cute kids, one poor and one rich, who are going to fall in love despite the usual complications of class distinctions, parental control, and confusion about what each other wants in life. The film is fairly predictable and boasts a strong supporting cast, which actually makes the film watchable. Brian Dennehy is Prinze's hard-nosed coach. Fred Ward is his working class dad, and Bruce Davison is Biel's controlling dad. Matthew Lillard provides much needed comic relief and Curt Gowdy is on hand as the press box announcer. John C. McGinley appears as a pro scout, and Beverly D'Angelo has a funny cameo as a sex-starved house mother hosting the Wilmer Valderrama character (in his film debut). Director Michael Tollin utilizes his beloved Philadelphia Phillies in a brief bit at the end. Former baseball players Hank Aaron and Dick Allen have cameos as pro scouts. Allen's appearance may be an inside joke, intentional, or ironic because he had a troubled career, or it may be simply because he's identified as a former Phillies player. Ken Griffey Jr. appears at the end. Innocuous teen fare. ** of 4 stars. "}{"Title":"Poor","Date":"29 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was just thinking about the ending of this movie so that I could go out and catch some fresh air. The film's setting looked cheap, the acting wasn't too good, (Prinze's mundane roles, Jessica Biel's 'rebellious' teen roles, Mathew Lillard's 'dumb' roles...). If you want to make a film about achieving your goles and making your dreams come true (aka Rocky, The Karate Kid, Center Stage) you have to do it with class, and great actors. This is just a typical American Teen movie. Jessica Biel's performance was yet another way of showing the world that she is not as innocent as one would think of her on 7th Heaven. All this made it difficult for me to watch, maybe the love scenes were a bit creative, and the soundtrack was OK too, but that is not what it takes to make a good movie. It lacks inspiration to the viewer. I think this film is a minus 5 thumbs down! Only 11-year-olds would really enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Is the movie a catch? Not so much...","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  There were four things I loved about this movie Matthew Lillard, Gabriel Mann, Brittany Murphy, and the fact that the friendship between Matt and Freddie seems so real, considering that they're good friends off-screen. Maybe I'm biased because I love Matt Lillard and I think he's absolutely hilarious, but I agree with one of the previous reviewers most of the movie falls flat when Matthew is off-screen. He is a scene-stealer and I'm guessing he always will be. I didn't like Jessica Biel at all, no offense to the actress or her fans. I just can't describe the lack of care I had for Jessica and Freddie's relationship in the movie. I went to Blockbuster with my best friend and our original intent was to buy Rat Race, which we did. However, it was buy two movies, get one free, so we also purchased Extreme Days (which I highly recommend, as it is one of the most hilarious movies I have ever seen) and Summer Catch. We had both planned on seeing Summer Catch, but we had decided to watch Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back instead (which I thoroughly disliked). I knew Matt Lillard was in this movie, so I grabbed it off the rack and paid for it. We watched the movie and we ended up grabbing magazines and flipping through them throughout most of the movie, paying no attention to it and only looking up when Matt was on the screen because of craziness and hilariousness. That was the first time I watched it. Now, on June 16, I was going to the late Scooby-Doo movie, another Freddie and Matthew movie (which, may I add, Matthew completely shined in as Shaggy), so I decided to watch Summer Catch again. I enjoyed it much more than I did the first time, to tell the truth.I still found myself not caring about the Tenley/Ryan relationship, but it interested me a little more. Gabriel Mann was awesome and his friend was cool, too. I think the relationship would have gotten me more revved up if both Freddie and Jessica put some more emotion into their roles. Although, I've got to admit, and this may be considered a SPOILER Freddie and Matthew both being victims of having to wear Brittany Murphy's character's undahwears? Simply hilarious. So, I would give this movie a 6/10. It is mostly saved by Matthew, Brittany, and Gabriel's performances. I would give it a letter grade of C+ or a B- and although I may not completely back the movie up, I would recommend it to someone just to make sure they soak up every bit up Matthew's comedy act. If you're going to watch the movie, just make sure you don't miss a bit of his scenes! "},{"Title":"crusie control movie","Date":"30 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ok, so this movie has some issues.  The story is weak and the dialogue is terrible in places.  This movie still works.  Why?  Because its good clean fun for the most part.  You can watch and escape reality for an hour or so.  There are no guns or bloodshed.  If you don't like baseball or at least understand baseball, this movie is not for you.  The love story between Freddie Prinze and Jessica Biel is not strong enough to carry the the non baseball fan.         6/10 "},{"Title":"Like a Cut Fastball to the Kidneys","Date":"10 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Late one night Summer Catch turned into a gauge measuring how much personal punishment I could withstand before breaking.  I watched the entire movie except the closing 3 minutes or so, that was my breaking my point. Never have I watched an entire film and just turn off the ending because I couldn't take it anymore.  As a baseball fan and Red Sox junkie I find the majority of the playing unconvincing; so few shots actually have Prinze actually delivering a fastball to home plate. Instead we get weak cutting and ostentatious slow motion or CU's of balls hitting the mitt or exasperated Prinze mannerisms which grew cringe-inducing after 4 minutes. Please, please, please- attempts at the New England accent should just stop. Unless you grew up here you arent going to have it.  Even Williams couldn't pull it off in Good Will Hunting, and it's an embarrassment watching Jason (Rooftops) Gedrick, Freddie, and a good actor like Fred Ward trying to pull it off.  Also, as they shot the movie in NC there is little feel for what the Cape is actually like in the Summertime.  Good for laughs (unintentional), and maybe as an alternative to Tylenol PM. "},{"Title":"I want my hour and a half back...","Date":"10 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  My wife made me watch this movie last night and I'm still trying to figure out why I gave in.  Maybe I was hoping that it would be a least half way decent since it was about baseball.  Unfortunately I was wrong.  The plot wasn't very interesting and the acting was horrible.  The only thing that this movie did was show me that Jessica Biel's bad acting is not limited to 7th Heaven. "},{"Title":"Summer Catch makes me want to take a crap on my carpet...","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"   I wanted to see Summer Catch for the sole purpose of seeing Matthew Lillard play a catcher, which I am one myself. HE did brilliantly, with wonderfully funny comments sprinkled all about the movie. I could say less for the main heartthrobs, Jessica Biel and Freddie Prinze, Jr. They were your standard, Class B love story, of rich girl and poor boy. I won't bore you with all of the poorly written speeches of I know you can do it, I'm always there for you crap, but if you're not a Matthew Lillard devotee,(like me), then you would be better spending your money on, let's say, a new pair of underwear for your cousin's ex girlfriends father.   "},{"Title":"The typical chick flick","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm a girl, and i even thought it was a chick flick. i'm a valley girl ditz too. if that will help you at all. but even though it was a chick flick it doesn't mean that its a bad movie. i enjoyed watching it. i thought it was sweet and romantic, even though i was painfully aware that it would never happen in real life. "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies ever","Date":"12 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Need there be anything more to say.  This movie has a god-awful plot with terrible performances by both Freddie Prinze Jr. and Jessica Biel. The so called story-line about a struggling ball player and his troubled romances are standard for any teeny-bopper movie , and the ending is one of the absolute worst that I have ever seen.  Let's just say that the movie finishes with one of the most air-headed comments ever caught on film. final grade 1 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Great Fun!!!","Date":"19 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Summer Catch was a really fun sports movie. Mike Tollin directed the movie well. Brian Robbins also produced the movie, and he directed Varsity Blues which is my favorite movie. I knew that when I heard that the guys who made Varsity Blues made Summer Catch, that I had to see it. Freddie Prinze Jr., Jessica Biel, Matthew Lillard, Brittany Murphy, and Zena Grey were all great. I give Summer Catch a 10 out of 10!!!!  )  "},{"Title":"Better than Most of Freddie's movies.","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  First, did anyone realize this is the same director that did Varsity Blues a few years ago, which was a movie that should have made more money than it did.  The acting was good, it seemed some characters were not as developed as they could have been, but there were enough sub-plots to make it interesting. I was really surprised, I didn't expect much going in, and I am not part of the target audience, but I really enjoyed it.  I didn't think it went slow at all, fairly predicable but that is nothing new for movies now a days.  I would be curious how the test screenings went on this one if there were any.   "}{"Title":"It is Awesome!!","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  First and foremost I would like to begin with the fact that most critics are ADULTS who have no IDEA tha kinds of movies that satisfy the average teenager. I would like to contradict the ratings of those adults who give SUMMER CATCH a 2.5 and say it has bad acting. If you didn't like the movie you are crazy. I am a frequent movie goer and I think the SUMMER CATCH is one of Freddie's best movies. A group of 35 went with me to see this movie, our parents went early and bought tickets to the opening day.The acting was great. Prinze and Jessica Biel took the spotlight, and kissing, romantic scenes are supposed to be in the movie. It is called a ROMANCE. I am backed by the people in Shreveport Louisiana, because it was sold out by three for the 7 o'clock feature. I will probably end up seeing this movie 5 times and I will enjoy everytime just as much,as the last. So, here's to all ADULT critics, open your eyes and look around. Who goes to see these movies? Teenagers do, I think that there need to be more TEENAGE critics, who have a more open and uncritical mind. Thanks, and I recommend Summer CATCH as well as give it a 10 and going!!!  "},{"Title":"A swing and a miss... strike three.","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"   I will say this much, at least Freddie Prinze Jr. seemed to try in this film. He trained hard to look the part of being a baseball pitcher. Matthew Lillard is okay as the team's catcher and Prinze's friend, but Mark Blucas (Riley on Buffy), Christian Kane (Angel), Wilmer Valderrama and many others are completely wasted.       The story is typical for Prinze's movies, he goes through a change of heart throughout the film, and then must make some life changing decision towards the end. In Summer Catch Prinze falls for a rich girl (Jessica Biel, in a flat and unfunny role) whom he and his father mow the lawn for. Of course the girl's father finds out of this relationship between Prinze and his daughter and he must of course be the typical jerk about it and forbid Prinze to see her.     There's nothing new in Summer Catch just a lot of wasted possibilities. If each cast member had been given just a little more screen time this might have been a decent teen flick. But instead it's the same tired teen romance that Prinze has become famous for doing, but none of them, including this one, were very good. The scenes between Prinze and Biel are, for lack of a better word, bad (and that's being nice, in my opinion). This is probably due to the fact that at least Prinze can act, but Biel displays no real talent while on screen, though this is the first time I've seen her in anything, I'm sure she could do better than this, but maybe not. Anyway, Prinze needs to stop doing these silly teen flicks, because besides She's All That, none of his other teen comedies have done very well at the box office. This one will likely make a decent amount of money, but no one will probably remember it 2 months from now. Summer Catch strikes out in almost every aspect of filming. *1/2 out of 4 stars. "},{"Title":"Completely Dissapointing, Not funny at all, and stupid romance","Date":"28 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"               What have they done for this movie. This is a very corny film with no laughs at all. I think that Matthew Lillard should just quit acting. He's not good and he's a complete pervert. This is also a bad romantic movie that doesn't follow the movie very well. It's just like all those other romantic movies when someone meets a person, then has a deep relationship with them. Also Brian Dennehey is a good actor but shouldn't of done this movie. But why i did like about this movie were the baseball games. They were pretty cool, but this won't change my idea of the movie. I think the director needs to think a little bit better on movies like this.4/10  "},{"Title":"This must be as bad as it gets...","Date":"6 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Teen flick about local baseballer Prinze jr. playing some important tournament. Now here's what I did't likeHim falling in love with Biel's character (and vice versa)... I mean, why? What do they have in common? When did they have fun together? When did they connect, and why? There's nothing there... they just meet, so they 'love' each other. Uh-huh.His old stupid friends. They just sit and watch every game with a beer in their hand. Ok, that's cool. So why did they have to turn all fuzzy and 'supportive' at the end? Why oh why did it have to get so mushy?His new stupid friends. They think about sex. Sure, what teen boy doesn't? But I don't want to hear it. I don't want to hear how one guy has sex with an old woman and another one with a fat chick. It's got nothing to do with the movie, so why put it in there. For fun? Ehm... I guess NOT.The brother. I get sick and tired from older brothers supporting their younger brother. 'You can do it kid, you have a gift... Make sure you don't f*** up like I did'. Yeah, right.The father. His wife died (why that's in the movie I have no idea) and he turned a cynic. But then it turns out he really loves his son. Yuck.The girls parents. They want her to go to work where she doesn't want to. They want her to marry a guy she doesn't want to. They don't like Prinze Jr. because he's poor and they're not. Now where did I hear that before...The cocky rival. But of course the Van Leemer guy is irritating and cocky. What else, something new and original? Surely not!The final match. Oh what a surprise Prinze Jr. has to pitch the last, all-important match. Oh and he does a great job and earns a contract! That's what I stayed up for...The ending. It's just... so stupid. A person named Pugmalion said it all on the message board. Check it out, it's really funny. Overall 1/10, BOMB, whatever. "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"22 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I bought this film as I buy all teeny bopper films. This was a good film overall as I like baseball films as a whole. The cast were a cast of many I like including Freddie Prince JNR and Christian Kane. This film could have had a bit more action in as at some places it was a bit slow but I enjoyed it. "},{"Title":"what has romance to do with baseball ?!","Date":"3 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Easy answer, nothing... Baseball is not inspiring romance or love. It is just a weak background for a stressing story where rich and poor people are treated differently. Maybe this was another Romeo and Juliette tryout, with nice actors, but the screenplay could have been better. Or... worst, these days we are used to that. "},{"Title":"Summer Flu","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Spoilers herein.A screenwriter has a rather big back of bag of tricks. Poor writers rely on only one or two of them. Here, the one trick is structuring around big speeches. You know the kind each character in turn gives a pseudoShakespearian moment where grand expositions are made of life and the situation.These speeches are pretty dreary and doom the film well before the inept actors get them. "},{"Title":"Had boring moments but was very funny!","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Yes as most people have said, this movie had its dull moments but it was very entertaining! And dont think that it is all about romance because it is not. It is about a young man (played by Freddie Prinze Jr.) trying to succeed in a career in baseball. The movie has many funny moments which mostly came from Matthew Lillard's character. There were also some very familiar faces in this movie including Jessica Biel (7th Heaven), Marc Blucas ( formally off Buffy the Vampire Slayer), Christian Cane(Angel), Wilmer Valderama(That 70's Show), Gabriel Mann(Josie and The Pussycats), Britany Murphy(Clueless), and a small but funny role by Beverly D'Angelo (National Lampoon's Vacation). So go see 'Summer Catch'- it isn't as dull as you think it might be. "},{"Title":"One time entertainment","Date":"18 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" So I've just watched Summer Catch on TV. I've already seen Freddie Prince Jr. in I know what you did last summer and I still know what you did last summer and in one episode of Friends and I have to say that I kinda like him as an actor. This was my first Jessica Biel movie and I've to say that she is really good! And then there is also Brittany Murphy....she is a great actress. I like her since I've watched Say no Word....but she's also excellent in Girl Interrupted and 8 Mile. In this movie she shows us her slutty side...well-done!This movie is very funny but I think that I won't watch it a second time because it wasn't that good... There were also some very emotional scenes which I'd personally liked. One scene was very emotional, the one where Ryan's best friend told him that he's very proud of him and that he's his best friend....this scene was very emotional....very good!The story There's Ryan who works with his father as gardeners in Cape Cod. Cape Cod is famous for his baseball. One year Ryan wants to become a professional baseball player and joins the competition. While he's joining the competition he's still a gardener and works for some rich persons. Then he sees Tenley the daughter of those rich people. He fells in love with her and they have a great time together....!Very Funny! The scene where Ryan and Tenley are swimming together in the pool and her father sees them....very funny, watch it yourself! If Ryan becomes a professional player and if Tenley goes to San Francisco to work for her uncle you have to watch the movie yourself...I won't tell you the ending....is it a happy one or a bad one?It's not a waste of time but there are many other (better!) comedies, romances out there!6 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"hmmmm","Date":"17 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  With the school holidays coming up, Summer Catch will be the ideal flick to keep the kids occupied. Based around the United States' national past-time, baseball, Summer Catch is a predictable tale about a young up and comer Ryan Dunne, played by Freddie Prinz Jr., wanting to take his chance and head to the big time. Dunne is a star pitcher with a past (sounds like Charlie Sheen's character in Major League) who is wracked with self doubt, mostly caused by his fiery temper. Adding to Dunne's &#145;issues' is his relationship with beautiful Tenley Parish (Jessica Biel), a rich girl whose dad doesn't want her involved with a boy from the wrong side of tracks (anyone remember Karate Kid?). Scooby Doo's Matthew Lillard also features in Summer Catch as a fellow baseballer in the middle of hitting crisis. Veteran actors Brian Dennehy and Frank Ward round out the cast. The baseball action plays second fiddle to Dunne's emotional issues and this is to the detriment of the film. Another problem is the wide variety of sub plots that side-track the movie. Prinz has limited acting skills, Biel (who?) just plays the pretty face, while Lillard, who can be a good comic actor, becomes overbearing due to the lack of balance in the rest of the cast. Summer Catch is directed at the same audience that enjoyed Road Trip and the American Pie movies, but has little of the same great humour that made those films successful. Not a total waste of a film but definitely one for a slow day during the school holidays. Weekly recommended rental Karate Kid (1984) starring Ralph Macchio, Pat Morita, Elizabeth Shue. Similar story to Summer Catch, but different sport and better acting.    "}{"Title":"Excellent!","Date":"9 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ok, Being in the target audience, and a Huge Freddie Prinze Jr. Fan ( one of my cats is named after him!!) I tend to favor this movie. Freddie gives another great proformance, and Jessica Biel is at her peak. The acting is really good. Matthew Lillard is really funny, and you can see he gave this movie his all. Mark Blucas should stick to these action/sports movies, so should freddie P. Nuttin like seeing to very well figured men in sleeveless tops or shorts. No winter movies, you guys, show off your bod!! I totally recommend this movie, and it deserves 20/10!! "},{"Title":"Summer Catch is a HOME RUN!","Date":"20 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  During the past 100 years of cinema, never has a film come along that so accurately portrays the trials and tribulations of the baseball player. Freddie Prinze Jr. portrays his character with a quiet intensity not unlike that of Clint Eastwood.  When Matthew Lillard crouches down behind home plate, he gives one the impression of a jungle cat ready to pounce on its prey with utter conviction.  A fearless film full of natural, unforced performances, summer catch is a true sleeper waiting to delight  those who take the time to look for it at their local video store.  "},{"Title":"Strikes out because of unemotional romance","Date":"1 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie had such potential. It could have been a baseball version of Top Gun - with Ryan (Freddie Prinze) as Maverick and Brubaker (Matthew Lillard) as Goose. But it tried too hard and spent too much screen time on a romance which consisted of Ryan whining and leaving bars and Tenley (jessica biel) chasing him. Who cares? Show me more of that hot Short Stop, Dale Robin (Christian Kane) or that arrogant pitcher (Corey Pearson) - or that cutie Domo (Wilmer valderrama). The story rested in the baseball players but no one - not the directed or writer - realized that in time.Still it is worth renting on video where you can fast forward the crappy love story and concentrate on the short-but-sweet parts where Christian Kane, Corey Pearson, Matthew Lillard, Marc Blucas and the other secondaries take over the screen. "},{"Title":"Guess I take each movie as is and rate from their","Date":"30 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" First there is a fella on this section that said the movie was shot in Ohio and it wasn't because of weather constraints, the ball field was built and shot on in North Carolina, and some shots actually done in Chattam. I have several friend who live in Chattam and they loved the movie and actually understood why it could not be shot in Mass. I really enjoyed the whole movie and thought most of the music was very different but music shouldn't be about a number one hit in film to sell it and the sound track,BUT the music was very stirring in areas and I really had some musician friends who commented that the tracks were awesome for the movie and set the tone of the movie too. Jessica Biel was awesome and HOT and so was Brittney Murphy. I would have figured it to be a lot bigger at the box office cause I have only had 2 friends not like it but they only like sci fi and horror so go figure. I rate it 10 stars and hope they make a sequel. "},{"Title":"Very Watchable","Date":"16 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If one views the film as a romance or baseball film your missing the true intent, the film evolved around relationships focusing on the father and son tandem.  These individuals were forced to deal with their feelings for one another and described how every young son feels when exceeding his parents current level of living.It dealt with how one has to exercise their deamons, ranging from Ryan's trails and tribuations on the mound to his juggling a new life and his past.Watch the film and remain open minded and you will see a little of your own your life on the film. "},{"Title":"I LOVE IT!!!!!!!!","Date":"21 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I love Summer Catch. It is unique, first of all. For teenage viewers like myself, this is a wonderful movie, but it is also wonderful for adults, too. It's funny, sweet, romantic, and original. Being only 15, I can't go into the quality of the filming/photography, nor do I care. No offense to those that do, it's just that most people are looking for a light-hearted, fun movie to watch, and this is it. This movie is really great, and I highly recommend it!! "},{"Title":"Excellent baseball movie","Date":"30 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A great sports movie has the potential to inspire, to make us laugh, cry, think.  Basically, if its realistic, it can impact us.  Such is the case with Summer Catch.Ryan Dunne (Freddie Prinze Jr.) is a landscaper's son living in pictureesque Cape Cod, Massachusetts.  Every summer, college baseball players descend on the Cape to play in the Cape League, a distinguished baseball league that's one step from the minors and paid baseball.  Dunne is the first local in seven years to be chosen to play for the league.  Then, a beautiful summer vacationer, Tenley Parrish (Jessica Biel), comes into his life, and Ryan must battle his personal demons and blue-collar roots to play the game he loves and be with the girl of his dreams.I originally went to see this film the night it opened in August 2001, but the movie theater had technical difficulties, and the movie wound up starting 20 minutes late.  About 25 minutes into the film, the screen went black, resulting in two free movie tickets for everyone who attended the movie that night. Needless to say, I returned a week later with my best friend Kristin (who went with me the previous week) to see it, and I loved it (actually, we both did)!  This is a well-done film that appeals to both females and males, and to baseball and non-baseball fans alike.  For the ladies, there's Freddie Prinze Jr. and a whole team of gorgeous baseball players, and for the guys, there's Jessica Biel and baseball.  I love baseball and Freddie Prinze Jr. and Matthew Lillard, so this movie was very appealing to me.  I also remember reading in a 2001 issue of Teen People that within the first 10 minutes we'd see Freddie run around in an orange thong.  That alone worth the price of addmission, which is $8 at many theaters.  All kidding aside, what comes after that scene is definitely something good.My favorite scenes of Summer Catch were the infamous thong scenes (Ryan Dunne in the orange thong, Billy Brubaker in the blue thong), Ryan and Tenley's nighttime swim in the pouring rain, the climatic scene common to all great baseball movies (which I won't spoil), the scene between the player who likes big girls (and they like him too!), the scenes at the Oasis, the scene where Ryan is cutting the lawn at the Parrishs' house and hits the bird feeder, and the scene where Tenley is cutting the Dunnes' lawn, as Ryan, Billy, and Ryan's dad Sean watch.  I also like the fact that Freddie is a southpaw (a lefty), because I am too, and seeing any left-hand actor makes me happy!For me, this film combines two great elements hot guys and baseball. This was a GREAT film and an excellent collaboration for Prinze and Lillard, who are both enormously gifted actors. Prinze is sexy, and Lillard has a goofy older brother quality that has made him memorable in many of his humorous parts. On screen, their chemistry works, and it makes you want to see more of their joint efforts (see She's All That and Scooby-Doo). Jessica Biel is pretty, and a decent actress (although my boyfriend has other words to describe her).  This is a great movie for a girlie-movie night, or as a date film (my boyfriend and I both enjoy this film and watch it on digital cable on occasion).If you like baseball and/or beautiful actors (and who doesn't like beautiful people?), then this is your kind of film.  Step up to the plate and take your practice swing, Summer Catch is a homerun! "},{"Title":"I usually review art films, but somehow my Tivo recommended this","Date":"22 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  So, I tend to review, let alone view, art-house flicks, I wasn't offended in anyway by this movie.  It is completely neutral.  It has nothing really going for it (Ms. Biel is very attractive) but more importantly it doesnt have anything going against it.  It doesnt really have any cliched jokes, it just doesnt have any god jokes.  That is pretty much the zeitgeist of the movie.  It serves it purpose - commerciality.  Cost $5-10 million dollars and exists solely to catch teenagers with nothing to do on a friday night so they are at the movie theaters and who couldnt get into the better film showing.  Harmless.I am typically harsh when I review, and definitely point out large and minor flaws.  They dont exist here.  Boredom doesnt make for a bad movie though as some others review seem to think.  This moview doesnt fail, doesnt burn, doesnt crash. I gave it a neutral 6. "},{"Title":"Great Movie, excellent cast, outstanding extras","Date":"13 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I felt that this movie was excellently produced and directed. Again Matthew Lillard and Freddy Prince Jr. put out a great performance. Finncannon and Associates again cast outstanding extras and should be commended for their performances as well. This movie proves not only to be a good chick flick but a good distraction for male viewers alike. "},{"Title":"Feel-good sap movie","Date":"15 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Anyone vain enough to think that they're original, needs to take a few history classes, but the plot of this movie is one of the most popular.  Loser from the wrong side of the tracks tries to achieve a dream.  Loser finds inspirational girl.  Brittany Murphy is her usual strangely arousing self, and shaggy is shaggy.  You can predict the outcome within the first five minutes, just like ninety percent of all movies, but you will enjoy seeing it carried out.  Centering the movie around baseball makes it tolerable for guys, and the romance that ensues makes it appealing to the female audience (was that sexist enough?)  Good Sunday afternoon movie. "}{"Title":"sorry I liked it.","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Most of the time I hate movies like this. Just too ........ But I liked it. Baseball, local pretty girls, and baseball. Oh and Jessica Biel. Did I mention that Jessica Biel was in the movie in a bikini. Yah well I liked it. "},{"Title":"If you're gonna shoot on location....shoot on location!","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The entire film is suppose to take place in Cape Cod in Massachusetts. The baseball team is from Chatham, MA. and all of the teams they play are from town throughout Massachusetts including Hyannis. There are several references of Massachusetts colleges such as Framingham and Boston College. There are even a handful of Massachusetts sounding natives that say the words wicked awesome and cah instead of car.  This is all and good, the only problem is that not one scene of this movie was shot anywhere near New England. The majority of this film was shot in Ohio of all places. Now call me crazy, but if you're going to set a movie in New England, shoot in New England. I'm sure the production costs wouldn't have been sky rocketed if they moved the location of the film another 800 miles east. I'd understand if they shot a scene in the deserts of Nevada to make it look like a scene in the Turkish desert, but come on! Maybe I'm just venting, then again, maybe I'm trying to make a point. You tell me......... "},{"Title":"Not what you think","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The previews made it seem like this nice love story between Jessica Biel and Freddie Prinze Jr.  NOT IT.Not only was the love story part cheezy, but the story just didn't really get you involved.  You didn't FEEL for the character Ryan Dunn because maybe he didn't get personal enough with the viewer.If I would have gotten a better love story and see more into Ryan's eyes, then maybe I would WANT Ryan to strive to be good at his game, but as I was watching iT, i could care less if he made it into the pros or not.The love part of the story didn't captivate me because they didn't show enough of them together- so it wasn't that big of a deal that they couldn't be together either. "},{"Title":"Only Good ThingBrittany Murphy","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Brittany Murphy is the one good thing about this movie. I mean I have always said Freddie Prinze Jr is a talented guy, hell he is lucky too as he gets the hotties as co-stars in all his flicks. But it is Brittany Murphy who is the only good thing about this flat movie. Murphy plays a bar waitress tramp who knows Prinze and she plays all her roles to the hilt. But the only other good thing in this flick is Matthew Lillard's comic relief. Was this guy ever a stand up comic growing up? His one liners are a laugh, but whenever he or Murphy are not in the scene, the movie falls flat. Not even sweet Jessica Biel can save it, and that is surprising. Always it is the cast to lures the audience to the movie, not the script, but it seems everytime you make the plot to inclyde the main character in a sport, you have to make it worthwhile. Not in this case, it just does not work. So poor Brittany Murphy lights up the screen in this, she is not in it long enough at all. So if you are gonna watch this, do not have any high expectations. You will be entertained but not to the point you are expecting. Brittany Murphy and Matthew Lillard are the only reasons to watch. Jessica Biel is only in a bikini once and that is all guys.  ( "},{"Title":"Spunky view on life as a teenager","Date":"13 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  We've seen movies where all teenagers do is party, get drunk,and get their hearts broken. We never see anything about the challenges they face growing up, thinking ahead for their future. Well this movie I found great for that example. You have Ryan (Freddie Prinze Jr.) who wants to be a pro baseball player, and is conflicting with the people around him because most of his family members think he's just going to screw the whole thing over. Then you have Tenley (Jessica Biel)a little rich girl whose father is trying to run her life, and is trying to force her to take a job that he set up for her. What Tenley really wants to do is be a Architech. I also enjoyed the other characters such as cutie Matthew Lillard who is just too funny for words, even though every time he talks to someone it's a dis. And Miles, the character played by Marc Blucas, whose tired of all the guy dissin' him about liking fat chicks. The thing that gets me the most was to see the faces of those who once told these characters they couldn't have what they really wanted.  "},{"Title":"Wasn't this a pilot on the WB?","Date":"12 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Summer Catch is not entirely unwatchable.  In fact, it's a pleasant teen romance that will leave you with a good feeling in the cockles of your heart--the feeling of Whew!  The movie's finally over!  *sighs*Yep, it's pleasant all right.  But it's also predictable, corny and hopelessly formulaic.  You can watch this movie with the sound off and it'll have the same effect.  The baseball scenes keep the adrenaline pumping a tad, but overall this movie is just too corny to digest. I couldn't help but feel like I was watching another lame pilot for the WB!  Maybe Hyperion Bay  The Next Generation.  I was waiting for James Van Der Beek to make his cameo appearance.  Speaking of the WB, Jessica Biel is in it--OK, now she's worth watching!  There's a scene where she dives into a swimming pool in a skimpy pink bikini--now that's entertainment!!  But even her undeniable beauty could've pull this schmaltzy romp out of its slump.  I also liked the unbilled cameo by Beverly D'Angelo.  I never knew she looked so hot.  Pacino's a lucky man  )  So we have the dueling fathers  We have the low-class Dad (Fred Ward) in one corner and the high-class Dad (Bruce Davison) in the other.  Let's get ready to rummmmblllllle!!!!  And of course, Ward's son is going with Davison's daughter--how else can it be?  I admire Ward and Davison as actors, and they are good in this movie, but their characters are so thin, one-note and implausible that they're forced to humiliate themselves as gross caricatures.  God forbid the adults in this teeny-bopper flick have any depth!!  God forbid!!  And that's sad, considering Davison was great in Crazy/Beautiful, also playing a wealthy father/Congressman.  But his character in that movie wasn't one-note and you actually felt for him.  In this case, we're supposed to look at him as no more than the snooty, annoying, close-minded, ego-driven father who we're supposed to sneer at whenever he appears on screen.  And I hate it when filmmakers rush the character arcs.  In the beginning of the film, Ward is a deadbeat Dad who has no faith in his son whatsoever.  Halfway through the film, he gives his son a whole monologue about following his dreams.  Why does this happen?  'Cause the script says so!  Ssssh!  Brian Dennehy (who I always admire) has a cliched role as well, as the hard-boiled coach, but he's fun to watch.  I love to see veteran, adult actors bring CLASS into hokey teen trash flicks like this.  Matthew Lillard is fairly entertaining (he always steals the show), but he doesn't have much screen time.  Therefore, he doesn't make as much of a lasting impression as he did in such films as Scream and She's All That. Of course, Freddie and Jessica's relationship in the film is a total cliche--with tons of unneccessary, boring dialogue between the two of them--but I don't need to get into that.  So if the producers at the WB are wondering where their script went for their next teen soap/Dawson's Creek clone went--they made it into a movie and that movie is Summer Catch.  This movie strikes out big time!My score  5 (out of 10)         "},{"Title":"An enjoyable movie","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I am not a huge FPjr. fan but he was really good in this flick. He actually acted instead of just flashing his smile a dozen times. It is a cute movie that is what it is. The relationship between Ryan and his family and the relationship he has with his 2 best friends is touching and real. The supporting cast steals the show though. Matthew Lillard is hysterical and Marc Blucas is a riot. I recommend this movie for the pure entertainment value. "},{"Title":"Another movie that shows the critics are idiots!","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A very enjoyable summer movie. Freddie Prinze Jr. and that gorgeous Jessica Beihl are terrific in this light and fun evening. The critics expect everything to be an academy award winner. This movie is woth seeing you will certainly get your monies worth and have an enjoyable and fun evening. My wife and I love it as did our married son and his wife. It was just simply a fun movie. Critics who look for more should get a real job.. "},{"Title":"predictable, but fun","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  You won't be surprised by anything in this movie other than maybe how funny Prinze can be.  And, perhaps the most objectionable aspect is the love interest character.  Biel has so much on screen charisma, I was disappointed in how trite her character was.  It seemed the only words that came out of her mouth were straight from a self-help book.  Nonetheless, this movie was an enjoyable 2 hours.  The baseball was a little unbelievable, the characters were pretty standard, but the casting was UNBELIEVABLE.  Matthew Lilliard is the perfect goofy hotshot.  Wilmer Valderamma is the perfect naive all star.  Even Marc Blucas, who frankly was a mannequin on Buffy, turns in a great comic performance.  If you are looking for a fun, no-brainer movie then this is the movie for you.  If you walk in expecting genius, you aren't going to get it. "},{"Title":"feel good baseball movie","Date":"25 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  First of all, this is a great movie.  It's about the Cape Cod baseball league and it really caught my attention when it first came out, and I've had the luxury of recently seeing it.  I vacation on Cape Cod every summer with my family and even though the whole movie wasn't shot on the Cape, i greatly enjoyed the scenes that were and there were some nice background shots in Chatham.Freddie Prinze Jr., and Matthew Lillard are cool dudes and I love Jessica Biel. I think she is so beautiful, she has that girl-next door look to her, which I love.Thumbs up for Summer Catch. "}{"Title":"(DO NOT READ IF YOU HAVEN'T SEEN THE MOVIE!!!)","Date":"15 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I am sick of people dissing this movie. I saw it for the first time three weekends ago, and since then my bestfriend and I have watched it 5 times. Why are people so quick to say that it was poorly acted? We happen to enjoy seeing Freddie running in a thong, Matthew Lillard was hysterical as Billy Brubaker, Jessica Biel was brilliantly casted as Tenley Parrish. I rate the movie a nine, with ten being the highest on 1 the lowest. This was on movie that made me laugh, especially when I was going through a hard time. When watching it, I forgot all about my problems. "},{"Title":"I've got a great idea for a movie with Dennehy","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This could have been the worst script I have ever witnessed.  It was as if the producer said to the writers, guys, I'm going to drop a deuce, I want a screenplay on my desk by the time I come back.  Paired with the absolutely atrocious acting of Freddie Prinze Jr., this made for 100 minutes of non-stop laughs.  One theory of mine is that they accidently released the deleted scenes instead of the movie.  This could explain the chopmail storyline and non-sensical dialogue.  Freddie Prinze Jr., besides She's All That, will never be in another good movie, namely because he is a pathetic actor.  He plays the same panzi bum in every film.  I want to know what Sarah Michelle Gellar thinks when she sees one of his movies.  She can't possibly look him straight in the eyes and say, wow, that was outstanding. Although she is an actress, so maybe she does.  Jessica Biel looked good, and seemes to cry a lot.  But her name, Tenley, was dumb.  She was the daughter of an old money yuppie, why would he name his daughter some slap ass hippie name?  Now for that baseball parts.  Hmmmm, what to say.  They billed this movie as an attempt at realism.  I'm sorry, but a guy diving over the outfield wall?  Was this Angels in the Outfield, because I didn't see Tony Danza.  Plus, they labeled Prinze as a pitcher who fell apart during the game.  Come on.  Dennehy has to be the worst manager ever. Throughout the whole movie I think he used one relief pitcher, and that was only because Prinze ran off the field, and Dennehy had no other option. Prinze seemed great to me, as a pitcher. Despite having the pitching motion of a twelve year old girl, he would often have 10 k's and a shutout into the 8th, and then give up 6 runs.  I'm sorry but if you're a starter and give up no runs through 7 that's a damn good job.  It's Dennehy's fault for not hitting the bullpen.  Plus, I thought Dennehy died of a heart attack in Tommy Boy.  What was he doing managing baseball in the Cape Cod league? That is another hole in the plot.  All in all I'd go see it if I were you. I mean, me and the Big Vo were laughing like crazy at the absurdity of the movie.  I know Spencer kept complaining during the movie, but he is a miserable person.  I think Bubba Foley liked it too, but his face was too entrenched in a tub of popcorn to have noticed much of the movie.  Oh, the Vo said Biel could use bigger breasts, although I think she looked just fine.  You're a lucky man LaVorgna.  And Biel, you picked the wrong NESCAC school.  Should have been a Mule, not a Jumbo.  I will be appearing at the Borders Books in the Garden State Plaza for an autograph signing this saturday from 1200 to 1203.  Thank you to all my fans.  8-deuce is out. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as you might think","Date":"23 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm sure that a lot of people have a very low opinion of Freddie Prinze Jr movies. It's been said that all of his movies and characters are similar to each other, but this particular role stands apart. Freddie plays Ryan Dunne, a ball player with a bad temper and its fun to see Freddie explore that (In my opinion he does very well).Matt Lillard is Freddies off beat sidekick as he is in every other movie where they've starred together. His role is short but he still brings laughs to his scenes. Not as much as Marc Blucas does, though. Marc plays Miles Dahlrymple a team player who has a liking for big girls. I wasn't expecting for Marc to be funny (On Buffy the Vampire Slayer, he was anything but) but he made me laugh the hardest.All the supporting actors truly add to this baseball flick and So I recommend it. The love story is a little mushy and as a girl I ironically call this a good baseball movie.  "},{"Title":"Only go see this if your on a date","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I got to see a special sneak preview of summer catch and I have to say that I somewhat enjoyed this movie, there is some really funny lines in the movie, and I think some of the gross out comedy is the only thing that keeps you from walking out early on this movie. I think of one or two gross scenes they could have left out (fat people nearly naked). You start to enjoy and root for Freddie as the Baseball Player I mean you'd think from all the TV ads that this would be a baseball movie, but no no no... they had to F- it up by going to fast pace exciting scene followed by slow slow very slow and sappy romantic stuff. There really isn't much of a story, just throw some teenage heart throbs in a movie watch them make out for a lil while. Don't want to spoil the ending but as you can guess, it sucked, your lead to believe it will end in a predictable fashion, but no, they had to give a twist at the end that really doesn't fit. Great date movie because you have the romantic stuff for the girls, and the sexual humor and baseball for the guys. Girls will enjoy Freddie, and guys will enjoy jessica biel.  "},{"Title":"Freddies Hott!!","Date":"14 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  To tell you the truth i haven't seen this movie yet because its not out but i think it will be really great. Well i hope it is...anyways i just wanted to complement Freddie on his hottness(lol, and yes i know thats not a word) and i would also like to complement him on his acting skills. He was just absolutely adorable in his 1998 hit I KNOW WHAT YOU DID LAST SUMMER. If i sort of sound like a critic its because i want to become an actress and i can always tell if a movie has potential!! Jessica Beil is so great. I love 7th Heaven and i really think her role is awesome and i hope to see her in more movies!! The movie itself seems like it has a unique storyline and i think that the director should get some props for that!!!! "},{"Title":"better than i thought it would have been.","Date":"18 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  the only reason i even rented this was (`Jessica Biel`) i think she`s amazing both in looks and talent. then i was surprised at how good it is it`s not great but it`s good especially for a freddy prinze jr film.F P Jr has never made a decent movie yet untill now, this film is funny as well as romantic i had to laff at freddy prinze jr when he saw (`Miss Jessica Biel`) coming out of the pool he ended up crashing his lawn mower that he was driving because he was mesmerised by her beauty (as would any guy with taste).Miss Biel was flawless in this movie and freddy kreuger jr sorry i mean freddy prinze jr was ok as well i didn`t feel like cringing when i saw him in this movie unlike 99.9% of his other rom/com`s.if anyone wants a movie to watch that doesn`t have Arnold shooting big guns or Van Damme round housing people then this is the movie for you ).chicks will love it for freddy kreuger jr and for the story and the guys will love the eye candy that`s in it and maybe the story as well.rating for this movie 8/10. rating for Miss Jessica Biel 12/10 i hope we see a lot more of Miss Biel in the future A LOT MORE. "},{"Title":"Nice looking actors, but hard to see past the poor script. *1/2 (out of four)","Date":"31 August 2001","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  SUMMER CATCH / (2001) *1/2 (out of four)By Blake French	Summer Catch is nothing but a commercial exploitation of sports, sex, and beautiful bodies. Warner Brothers gives this target audience exactly what they want, but at the same time, deprives them of what they long to watch. It's a late summer release with a lot of hot young stars, clearly aiming for the high school crowd, but it lacks the nerve and edge that other recent teen comedies contain. This one holds back with a PG-13 rating, even though the only remotely entertaining element here is the sex appeal. We have plenty of time to watch scantily clad young women and shirtless young hunks as they tread through a tired, contrived script. The movie ignites our attention as Freddie Prinze Jr. and Jessica Biel make out in a swimming pool half-naked, but never goes all the way. We leave feeling cheated out of some steamy scenes. 	No, this reviewer is not a sex-obsessed teenager who goes to the movies on the sole purpose to watch naked actors, but I do know when a movie has sexual potential. Summer Catch gives us nothing to do but wonder how far it will allow its characters to go. We do not care about the story, the characters, the sports-all that's recycled from already recycled clichés-we just want to enjoy the sights of sexy young bodies. Summer Catch contains all the crude, rude, and disgusting sexual material like American Pie 2 and Road Trip. From bikini-wearing young men, to fat women in bed with horny guys, to cucumbers inappropriately used by Beverly D'Angelo, but the movie is bound to the ground with the studio's gutless PG-13 rating decision. Besides a few decent moments, the sex appeal is the only redeeming element, and the film knows that-but does not take advantage.  	The film typecasts Freddie Prinze Jr. as a Cape Cod resident named Ryan Dunne, who spends his time fooling around with the ladies, dreaming about baseball, and doing lawn work with his father (Fred Ward). Ryan has watched many young men play in the summer baseball league designed to impress professional talent scouts looking for potential players. Now it's his chance to show off his stuff when he joins this year's summer team. It includes a variety of macho players, who bunk at willing local residents' houses for the season. Ryan's mother recently passed away, so it's hard for his poverty-stricken household to make ends meet. He does, however, find a passion with an attractive young woman named Tenley Parrish (Jessica Biel), the daughter of Rand (Bruce Davidson from X-Men), a rich lawn client of Ryan's father. She's also attracted to Dunne, although her father wants her to concentrate on her future, which he thinks holds a much better alternative than the lawn boy. She wants to be an architect, but her father wants her to pursue a different future. Ryan and Tenley both struggle with their class differences as well as their parents hopes for their future. Dunne must also examine both his talent and perception on his life when blah blah blah blah. 	The film goes on and on. At a lengthy running time of two hours plus, the story conceives so many distractions and unfunny subplots we finally become so wrapped up in who's who in the story that we forget how many clichés it actually uses. Surprisingly-considering that Summer Catch is poorly directed by Mike Tollin, and that it doesn't have a single atom of originality, and that the plot is continually explained through tireless dialogue, and that the characters are so deeply stereotyped it's hard to tell them apart-this movie doesn't do a half bad job of entertaining us. The actors play their characters well. Freddie Prinze Jr. delivers a fair performance with his usual cute, boyish charm. Jessica Biel accomplishes a nice play with her character-she forms solid chemistry between Prinze Jr. Fred Ward creates a bond with Prinze Jr. as well. He makes the perfect failure of a father.Unfortunately, it's hard to see past the boring, uneventful script. Externally, Summer Catch may start to attract our senses, but it does not finish its own play and does not even try to touch our emotions. The movie preaches a message about believing in one's self-it should take its own advice. There is potential here, but Summer Catch does not know what to do with it.   "}]