[{"Title":"The little black book of Taoism","Date":"31 August 2000","Score":"29 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Tao of Steve Casanova. Lothario.  Stud.  Whatever the moniker, everyone knows the type a guy with stunning looks, a killer smile, lines that don't sound like come-ons, a silky smooth demeanor, an athletic build, whose only problem is deciding which women's numbers to cull from his rolodex. Why women gravitate towards these men is no big mystery.  Why they are drawn to the Dexes of the world is.  Dex doesn't even cut it as the average guy an overweight, unkempt slacker, he teaches kindergarten, thinks pot is the breakfast of champions, spouts Taoist philosophy and sleeps around enough to be a mattress tester.  His life creed is based upon the Steves  Austin, McGarret, McQueen&#133; men who epitomized cool, weren't afraid to get roughed up, never pursued women and for whom things always worked out.  His entire belief system is thrown into disarray when he meets Syd, a bright, headstrong opera set designer, with a flair with life and a sixth sense for B.S.. Suddenly Dex finds himself in the role of pursuer.Good relationship movies are rare.  Rarer still is finding one that approaches the subject from a male's perspective that isn't steeped in machismo and reeking of testosterone.  Almost unheard of is to find the selfsame movie with a hilarious comedic tilt. Unlike High Fidelity, the recent pre-midlife crisis movie which only skimmed the surface of relationships (but was a brilliant movie nonetheless), or Autumn in New York the shameless Rogue-sees-the-light-tear-jerker, The Tao of Steve is the thinking man's  About Last Night - the intangible mixed with the right amount of brashness.  Tao's success is twofold it boasts a tight, witty script  - how many romantic comedies can you think of that are peppered with quotations from Lao Tzu? - and true to life characters. The hero is largely biographical, based on a friend of the director's who contributed heavily to the script.  The Dexes of the world refuse to ascribe to the accepted maxim of relationships - men chase women get accepted/rejected, repeat if necessary.  By adopting a calculated aloofness (not to be confused with jerks - we'll ignore the whole Bad Boy Syndrome discussion) they engender mystery and curiosity.  Although it sounds ridiculous it actually works - I know two guys who could have been the model for Dex (I don't think there would be a strong reverse correlation however, as men generally don't understand signals- we're a bit thick that way&#133;). Psychology and writing aside, the actors definitely bring the story to life.Ottawa born Donal Logue, pulled a DeNiro, gaining 45-pounds for the role of Dex - now that's dedication to the craft. Having seen Logue previously only in bit parts  - he has over thirty to his credit - I didn't think he could handle a lead.  He quickly dismisses any doubts with his impeccable timing, both dramatic and comedic, which garnered him the Special Jury Prize at the Sundance Film Festival.   Logue creates a likable cad whose deviousness we both admire and despise, making his epiphany that much more enjoyable. Greer Goodman (in her first screen role) is an admirable foil as Syd, the woman who cuts through Dex's smokescreen and smashes his carefully cloistered world. If you've grown tired of all that Hollywood has to offer, or more appropriately, what it fails to deliver, this may be the movie for you. "},{"Title":"Good movie for Sunday night","Date":"19 July 2004","Score":"25 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Dex, the leading male character, has told Syd that he's falling in love with her, and she asks why he doesn't stop seeing other women. He responds, Why? So I can bask in the warmth of your annihilating contempt? The story of this film meanders much like its good-for-nothing hero, Dex, as we follow him through a slacker routine that allows him to do virtually nothing but pick up women and play games with his male friends.He believes that he has the key to life in the Tao of Steve, which is essentially a guide to fooling women into having sex with a fat loser--himself. He exclaims, Why does the American Slacker get so little respect? The clever dialog and the sweetness of Dex's discovery that he actually loves Syd and doesn't really want to be a professional cad all his life makes the movie worth watching. Also fun is the truth in the Tao of Steve with its three edicts 1) suppress your desire--and your agenda of getting her into bed 2) be excellent in her presence and 3) retreat. It's true that going into a relationship with nothing else in mind but sleeping with a woman is a huge mistake, and Dex recognizes the wisdom of being cool rather than needy, but then he uses it the wrong way (or the right way, depending on your perspective). We watch him explain his philosophy, use it to manipulate women, and then have to violate it as he finally figures out that while the Tao of Steve may get him women, it won't get him the one woman he really wants.  "},{"Title":"What Men Want; Logue is fantastically funny","Date":"28 April 2004","Score":"22 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  THE TAO OF STEVE (2000) ***1/2 Donal Logue, Greer Goodman, Kimo Wills, Ayelet Kanelson, David Aaron Baker, Nina Jaroslaw, John Hines, Selby Craig, Craig D. Lafayette.  (Dir Jennipher Goodman) Donal Logue.  The name may not ring any bells but you've seen him before in countless tv shows (including `The X-Files' as an arrogant fellow agent of Scully's and Mulder's) and films (one of Tom Cruise's fellow agents in `Jerry Maguire' and in this summer's blockbuster `The Patriot' as a racist who sees the error of his ways on the battlefield), but his biggest claim to fame seems to be as the greasy, bespectacled chatterbox philosophizing taxi hack, Jimmy The Cabdriver, in a series of promos for MTV in the '90s.  Well all that's about to change in this> starmaking role in a devilishly funny and accurate look at the relationship war between men and women. Logue, who pulls a De Niro by gaining nearly a hundred pounds, stars as Dex, a self-deprecating part-time kindergarten teacher who attends his ten year college reunion in the dusty oasis of Santa Fe, New Mexico where he is told by stunned classmates at his jarringly gone-to-pot visage that he was like Elvis.  `Yeah, well now I'm Fat Elvis,' he says with a hip shake and a smirk.  It is here the journey begins into Dex's eventual chipping away at the wall of sardonic intelligence he's built since attending the university. Dex has a certain acquired charm that he attributes to his own quasi-philosophy, the film's title, referring to the ultimate in guy coolness as being a Steve (as in McGarrett - the Jack Lord character of `Hawaii Five-O', Austin, `The Six Million Dollar Man' and McQueen, the coolest actor of all time, or any suave icon down the pike James Bond, James Dean, et al.) - and the opposite being Stu - and the certain guidelines in wooing the opposite sex wrapping up with his ultimate kwon, `We persue that which retreats from us.'At the reunion he bumps into Syd (Goodman, the stunningly attractive sister of the filmmaker), a fellow alumni who turns out to be one of Dex's apparent number of sexual conquests in which he later learns he cannot recall her at all.  She is equally self-effacing, smart and opinionated and naturally proves to be the ultimate love of the loveless (`I love my dog') Dex.   Here the plot sets into motion the inevitable formula of two people so right for each other yet both guarded, Syd for her share of heartbreaks and Dex for his chronic lying and seductive charisma like some sort of catnip for women including the wife of one of his pals, who he's engaged in a hot affair.Logue makes Dex sympathetic, funny, pathetic, infuriating, likable and ultimately an original character the likes haven't been seen since John Cusack's hey dey in the Eighties and the characters of the 90's indie comedy, `Kicking and Screaming' about arrested development and lifelong search for the perfect love.  Dex is an enigma and the joke is that Dex realizes how unsavory he has become which also is the underlying angst he knows all to well someone with so much potential only wasted by his own hand. Goodman and her sister both excel in portraying women who are smarter than men think and provide the true anchor in a freely funny comedy that also examines one's own frailites and insecurites on a truly appealing level. Co-written by the sisters and Duncan North, the real-life model of Dex, the dialogue rings true in a brilliant string of set ups for Dex to pontificate before he deflates himself in recourse.One of the best films (and comedies) of this year (or any).  And remember that name Donal Logue.  "},{"Title":"Entertaining, Insightful, Funny, Moving","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"19 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Entertaining, Insightful, Funny, Moving.This film was a delight to see. Immediately after viewing the DVD I ran the director's commentary that was nearly as entertaining to listen to as the film was! All of the participants in the commentary (including the director, writer, and both leads) were intelligent, amusing, and and very entertaining I wanted to invite them all over for dinner and play poker and talk philosophy (and of course, the Tao of Steve) until dawn. I take that back, after viewing the stunning photography of the film, I want them to invite *me* to dinner in Sante Fe! I did have to stop the film to look up solipsistic, though <g>.I want to see more where this came from and so will you if you choose to view this wonderful film!  "},{"Title":"incredibly literate truthful funny script supported by great acting","Date":"16 May 2002","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  no wonder this thing snagged donal logue top acting honors at the 2000 sundance festival, but i don't know what the better script could've been. this thing has it all guy talk, girl talk, echoes and resonance, love and respect for all its characters, wit, poignancy, politics, uplift, a tremendous depth and breath of literary allusion, and a substantial dose of digestible philosophy from some of the greatest minds of world thought. seriously, this may be the first movie to quote Kirkegaard and george jetson in the same scene and make them both look wise. it's a movie about love, about wisdom, about fun, but mostly it's about learning real values and gaining all the rest through learning to be the best person you can be. that's a big load for such a funny film, but this one handles it all and then some. this doesn't mention the beautiful sets, the music (original, appropriate, and inventive, though probably the film's weakest suit)the cute kids and the celebration of contemporary gentle-souled hipster lifestyles. AND it's only 82 minutes long, you can almost fit it in on a lunch break but it will last you far longer than that. thanks so much to Greer and Jenniphr Goodman  for their script and direction. from all us steve wannabes, but actual duncan north's of the world, thank you! "},{"Title":"Unseen, Unusual, and Underrated","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a movie that opened my eyes to the world of dating and one-night stands.  It is about an overweight and scruffy-looking dude that is a womanizer.  Dex doesn't fit the stereotype of a womanizer (slick and fast talking, usually well-dressed and clean shaven).  That was the genius behind this film.  This is a movie that a lot of people should eventually get wind of and will possibly see.  Not many critics consider it a classic, but I think qualifies for title of minor classic.  I give it a 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"don't harsh the mellow.","Date":"21 May 2005","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Some have complained that this film doesn't say anything serious about Taoism; others have complained about its dialogue being watered-down from what could have been a super-verbose Dinner w/ Andre. Sorry - this from a film student who abhors my dinner w/ andre - thank God this film ended up as eminently watchable as it was. I avoided seeing it for a long time because I feared exactly the opposite. Firstly, the central observation this film makes about human nature is so spot-on -- namely, that every relationship is comprised of someone chasing and someone being chased -- that almost no direction it could have taken from there would have undermined the essential honesty of it. But framing, as it did, a story of boy meets girl, forgets he slept with her in college, strikes out, becomes desperate, finally gets her back by going against every rule in the book, the story becomes a smart, no-nonsense telling of a quintessential human drama that resonates realistically on so many levels. People have said it's a chick movie; it's not. It's a movie for guys who fear intimacy, its essential message being that a relationship of real value can never be condensed from the vaporous nuance of gamesmanship, slyness, intellect or skill. But at the same time, it demonstrates very realistically how all the above can combine to get the average guy laid far more than he deserves. So not only is it valuable on both these levels, it leaves you nodding your head so many times, mumbling, that's so f*ing true, that by the end you're pretty much ready to write your own Tao of Steve -- a better one -- and isn't that kind of inspiration the loftiest goal of any good and truthful work of art? "},{"Title":"A film that's excellent before its audience.","Date":"20 March 2001","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Tao of Steve tells of a fat slob of a guy who seems to have unusually good fortune in bedding chicks thanks to his Taoist philosophy. Although the flick smells like a young indie, it is fresh, creative, and unique enough to take on a seemingly endless parade of second rate romantic comedies sans the 24 carat glamour and other trappings of Hollywood. The Tao... is a great watch for anyone interested in what independent films are about and an enjoyable watch for most. Kudos to the Goodmans. "},{"Title":"AKA, The Diet of Steve","Date":"28 August 2000","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is that extremely rare blend of guy movie and chick flick.  Every guy can relate to this and most women will enjoy the (twisted) love story.  Dex is the ultimate slacker - part time worker, pot smoker, over-eater and heavy drinker.  His life is based on emulating the coolness of Steve McGarrett (Hawaii 5-0), Steve Austin (6 Million Dollar Man) and the ultimate in coolness, Steve McQueen.  Hence, the Tao of Steve.  Dex has claimed for his own a part of Zen philosophy which has made him remarkably successful in seducing women.  Syd changes everything.  She is an independent, career minded, drum spanking, beautiful woman that doesn't appear to fall for Dex's charms.  The chase is on.  Dex pulls out all stops, until his past catches reaches up and grabs him.  Syd and Dex have a strange relationship that never allows either to fully define the boundaries.  There is an obvious attraction, but Syd's contempt for Dex and his methods always throws up the road block.  Of course, Dex does some soul searching after a health scare (that seems out of place in the movie) and the somewhat predictable ending,nonetheless brings a smile to our faces.  Donal Logue give a brilliant performance as Dex, and Greer Goodman is enchanting as Syd.  Greer is the sister of the movie's director, Jenniphr Goodman, and also shared in the writing credits.  Take note of the soundtrack as it adds a layer to the script, which itself is loaded with great lines.  Go see this movie.  And it will work as a date movie.  "},{"Title":"Ok, needs some work","Date":"21 June 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a somewhat endearing indie flick, but it suffers from an amateurish script and inexperienced directing.  For a movie that has the potential to be pretty funny, it takes itself far too seriously.  The protagonist's 'stoner wittiness' becomes pretty monotonous and annoying preachy.  If the movie concentrated less on being hip and ironic, and more on the characters, the film would be better. "}{"Title":"Flat, listless, badly written and acted romantic comedy","Date":"13 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  After all the accolades, this film came as a real shock-- I was amazed at its mediocrity and flatness. Neither exploring the world of male-bonding (ala Swingers), or that of it's fairly interesting premise (intellectual posturing as a way to avoid intimacy), this film has no life outside its frames-- all I kept seeing was camera setups, unimaginative and amateurish performances and writing, and an atrocious pop score.About 5 funny lines in the whole mess-- if I had chanced upon it without hearing the hoopla I would have easily dismissed it as another so-so indie.  "},{"Title":"Tao of Adam Suess","Date":"6 November 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is just plain horrible. Guess what, not every independent movie is good. The story is about the untalented Logue (who is about as annoying as Will Farrell, Jack Black, and Lisa Ernst put together) who is a kindergarten teacher finding love. Barf! I'd rather watch flies make love.  "},{"Title":"Jon Monsarrat review  Preachy & boring rather than deep & compelling","Date":"5 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" OK, let me start by saying I get it. An everyman protagonist is a little too clever about manipulating women, and one by one he has to break his own rules and find a sincere approach to attract the woman he loves.Nice try, but in my opinion it played out poorly. For one thing, it's tough to identify with the protagonist, who's boorish and a drug user. I suppose he's supposed to be really a nice guy deep down, but it doesn't come through.Having something real to say about how to treat your girlfriend comes through in a heavy-handed formulaic fashion, forcing the plot to meander and there isn't really any romantic chemistry. This makes it unengaging, and the humor is sub-intellectual. Worse, the film takes itself pretty seriously as a drama that will teach you about life... that sort of thing can backfire. If it had been a little campy and fun, the flaws wouldn't have mattered as much.Who should see this film-- nobody, see What Women Want or High Fidelity instead.I am forced to give The Tao of Steve a 2 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Predictable lightweight crap","Date":"18 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The talented Donal Logue is wasted in this umpteenth version of the self-styled Lothario with a hidden heart of gold who thinks he has all the answers to the art of seduction without commitment until he finds himself swooning over (hold onto your hats!) an attractive girl who forces him to reevaluate his empty life when she is somehow able to resist his dubious charms!  Will she see beneath his veneer and accept him as he is?  Will he change his ways to win her over?  Will you care?  It's been done before and it's been done better. This contrived conversation/character romantic dramady has the look and feel of an uninspired film school grad's first effort. Don't waste your time. "},{"Title":"Pretty crappy","Date":"4 May 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Donal Logue as an obnoxious selfish womanizer.  The tao of Steve?  I don't get it.  Although the movie improved at the end, I just found the whole thing hard to sit through.  Especially annoying to me were all these 35-40 year old men saying Californiaisms like dude, bro, and whoa.  Was this supposed to be a joke having them speak like this?  Pathetic.  And then there was Logue's character, presented as some kind of strange model through 3/4ths of the movie, mentoring his gomer/stu rooommate.  Whoo-whoo, let me have this guy as my mentor, baby!  Yeah, what a great way to meet women--Be dishonest, be enmeshed in fear, be able to support yourself in a nice New Mexico house substitute teaching (was that his job?) elementary school.  I don't know, is this supposed to be funny?  I just thought the movie sucked.   "},{"Title":"A good idea not developed","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Tao of Steve is an independent production obviously made on a shoestring budget. Although the cinematography and sound are very good, that's about all that's good about this film. The acting is inferior, the actors VERY unappealing, and the dialogue almost laughable. The point of the movie can be summed up in one sentence Each person is an individual, and there can not be a universal guideline for rules of behavior that will work to manipulate others. It takes over an hour to say this. The hero, a very fat thirty-something man, who SOMEHOW (although it is a mystery to me how) appeals to all women, who want to give sexual favors to him. When he actually falls in love, he has to change his rules to get the woman he loves. Good idea, but the film seems downbeat, talky, and boring to me. Don't waste your money.--------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----  "},{"Title":"Failed first effort","Date":"13 May 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The central idea of _The Tao of Steve_ is moderately interesting, if unoriginal women swoon for an unattractive slacker.  Something got lost in development, though.  It would be a good first effort, if only it had a good director, a good writer, and good actors.  Unfortunately, this movie lacks all three. "},{"Title":"Missed opportunity","Date":"27 August 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A clever premise -- overweight lothario with a formula for getting women meets his match -- is wasted when the screenplay falls back on typical gimmicks that it seemingly is trying to subvert.Part of the problem is we never get to see the lead character, Dex, ever utilize his Tao and see how it fits in his life.  Another big problem is the overly glib dialogue that manages to sound neither realistic nor stagy, just forced (except for Logue, who is nifty).  And I could have done without the big pop culture scene where the guys hum TV themes around the poker table.But the flaw that sinks the movie is the central relationship between Dex and Sid.  At no point in time is there any reason to believe that she would be attracted to him. And the movie engages in the typical things are hunky dory/contrived rift, to keep Dex and Sid from getting together, until much later in the movie.Finally, there is one scene where Sid appears to be totally falling for Dex when she drops a bombshell on him, and the audience.  The nature of this revelation, and her spin on it, is such that it is impossible to believe that  a) she could have even a shred of romantic feeling for him; and, b) being a superficially intelligent human being, she may have wanted to deal with problem a lot earlier.  But that would not have been convenient to the screenplay, and throughout the movie Sid makes a lot of snap decisions that may be a sign of multiple personalities. "},{"Title":"Slight and relying heavily on the cool factor but still an enjoyable little film if it catches you in the right mood","Date":"6 February 2006","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Dex is a ladies man who has a Zen-like art of seduction under his belt. So despite the fact that his belt has expanded since his best days in high school, he generally still has that going for him even if he has generally underachieved in everything else. Basing his rules around the approach of Steve (Steve being the embodiment of American male cool) Dex has managed to get into more beds than his looks really should have allowed him to and generally he is happy despite being a slacker in his late twenties. When he meets Syd though he finds himself feeling a bit more than normal (which is nothing) and genuinely liking her as a friend. Will she make him look again at his approach to life?The title should at least give you some idea of the type of film this is going to be because it manages to sound cool and interesting and a bit hip without really doing a lot &#150; which pretty much sums up the appeal of this as a film. The story is essentially quite a nice romance but it is set in a post-modern word of slackers who have relaxed jobs, relaxed morals, relaxed approaches to life, relaxed houses and generally just shoot the breeze about nothing. I suppose it will depend a bit on your age but, as some in his late twenties (at least, at the time of writing I am) I suppose I am target audience and I must admit it quite won me over. The story doesn't really go to any depth and, at the end of the day it does just what you expect it to do in terms of how it ends but it manages to get passed all this by having the same relaxed attitude of the characters.I'm sure it was not as easy to put together as it appeared but the film moves nicely along with a lot of pop culture references, slacker humour and a touch of genuine humanity in the romance. It wasn't the most convincing story or scenario but I was so happy to just buy into the cool nature of the world within the film that I forgave it perhaps a bit too easily for this. The direction helps because it all looks sunny and chilled, while the use of music is cool without being too obvious. The cast also help and, in particular, sterling work from Logue who manages to take a fat, sexist womaniser and make him into a character who has those characteristics but still managed to make me like him and care where his story went. Goodman gave a good performance and, like Logue, she came over very natural (probably helped by being the writer). Although these two carry the majority of the film the support cast are still pretty good and enjoyably fill in the film and match the mood.Overall a chilled and enjoyable little comedy that drew me in despite being slight and not having that much to it. Probably best watched by older members of the slacker generation or those that have grown up but still look back affectionately, this is quite fun and quite charming even if these qualities are covering up a multitude of sins in the background. "},{"Title":"Shallow attempt  to sell a dating philosophy ........................","Date":"7 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The characters are likable, the photography is gorgeous, but the plot is a one dimensional attempt to sell a dating philosophy. Beyond the initial philosophy lesson, the film really has nowhere to go, and an over simplified script struggles to maintain any kind of momentum. We get it, chase and women will run, run and women will chase. Unfortunately that's it, and as a short The Tao of Steve might project much better than it does as a feature film. Donal Logue does what he can with such minimalist material, but it's not enough. This does not even qualify as a date movie, because women might tend to over analyze it. - MERK "}{"Title":"Slick film shows emotional honesty wins over coolness...","Date":"16 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The first time I saw the Tao of Steve, I was beginning a relationship with a woman. I have just celebrated a 2nd anniversary with this same woman and I have also just viewed the Tao of Steve again. On my first viewing, I was let down by the movie. At that point, the underlying sentiment of the movie seemed too obvious and predictable to me. I was in the midst of wooing a woman and I am also a person that can associate with the main character--overweight, overeducated, and under-achieving. I felt like I was watching a chick flick disguised as an Indie-style vindication of post-modern coolness... Well, time has passed and I have seen the light at the end of the tunnel. (Remember how Altered States ended with a love is the only thing worth living/fighting for bullcrap? I feel differently now about that movie as well.) I think a lot of guys like Donal's character use their intelligence and understanding of coolness in their social life when it really only functions in poker game banter and party small talk. All the philosophy in the world won't make you feel loved. Relationship with God not withstanding, I feel like this movie serves as a signpost for people like myself. And therefore, it is a successful piece of contemplation wrapped in the banter of your favorite drinking buddy. "},{"Title":"Very Good","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Subtle humor. Good acting.  Excellent stories within the story.  What I liked most was the character of Donal Logue (Dex).  He seemed so much like a down-to-earth friend-down-the-street buddy-you-grew-up-with type of guy. Good without being too preachy.  I gave it 8/10. "},{"Title":"A seminar for me.","Date":"1 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Okay, so I've seen this movie 4 times completely. It's worth it. Most of the roles in this movie are so well made that you feel them through the screen... This is a very cute, honest, and funny movie.The hiking/camping scene is worth the price of admission alone! Good story, great messages, and nice backdrop (Santa Fé)! It gets my wink of approval....! "},{"Title":"Hasn't everyone met this guy?","Date":"19 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I know every one of you out there, know or are this guy.  The one who gets the girls even though looking at him, you wouldn't think it could happen.This movie will strike a cord with you.  But let's not leave out the fact that it is one of the funniest movies of 2000. From start to finish it has laughs, and loves, and up and downs.  It is a solid movie. It does have a few flaws but nothing to get into a snit about.  It needs a wide release however.  I don't understand how the big movie companies can widely release complete garbage, ie Autumn in New York ( bleah! I feel like I need to bathe after just typing the name of that horrible waste of film.), and not release this.  This is a 75 million dollar money maker if you release it on 3000 screens. WAKE UP HOLLYWOOD!  To everyone elseGo see it at your independent art house theatre.  Do NOT waste your money on BAIT, or THE WATCHER, or THE CELL. Go SEE THIS. It is good. "},{"Title":"Find religion in another film...","Date":"8 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Armed with a detailed script, chock full of funny anecdotes and clever dialogue. Dex, the bong happy, unlikely ladies-man sets off to nail the one woman who seems impervious to his mojo. Guess what happens next? Hello? Have we seen this before?Donal Logue as Dex could easily be the modern day Chevy Chase. He has the gift. I chuckle, thinking about his cab driver bits on the MTV.As the film progressed, I kept thinking that the director left off scenes in a effort to go for a safe R-rating. Dex's dialogue reminds me of a sanitized version of a Kevin Smith script. I wanted to see Dex work his magic on more than a few of his fellow castmates. Did I like the film? yeah. it was ok. Would Steve approve? Unlikely. "},{"Title":"I want my 950 back! A negative take on THE TAO OF STEVE...","Date":"14 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  You have no idea what a disappointment this movie was for me. I saw the preview a while back, and felt a special kinship with the lead character Dex. I thought, This is going to be MY movie of the summer. The trailer made it seem like it was going to be a headier version of something like High Fidelity, by having the Cussack type character fill his void with philosophical classics instead of pop music. I was expecting quotable dialogue from a character I wanted to be. After wasting 87 painful minutes watching this brilliantly marketed horror show, I wanted nothing more than to hunt down DEX, the writers (Duncan North and Greer Goodman), and the already hated Lemonheads (for providing the title song that has been haunting me for a full three days after) and taunt them, naked (them, not me&#133;.oh what the hell, me too) in the worst way so that they never forget what they did to the unassuming film patron. If you know nothing about religion/philosophy or pop culture, you may enjoy this movie the way that many in the packed house did at my theater. I found THE TAO OF STEVE to be a patronizing,uncomfortable,eyerolling fest that will go on my list right next to WHERE THE BOYS ARE IN '84 as one of the worst movies I didn't walk out of. Do you have to tell late twenties/ early thirties folk who Steve Austin is? NO. SO DON'T DO SO! This movie is for jocks who never had the balls to be slackers.  "},{"Title":"Entertaining, until the ending","Date":"13 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a very clever movie about male psychology, a topic that doesn't get much attention in the movies aside from the most primal, storybook ways.Great writing and some truly hilarious moments mark this film throughout. But the ending gets sappy and predictable and more appropriate for the type of movie that would star Robin Williams these days. "},{"Title":"simple...really simple","Date":"25 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A little too simple.  But, funny.  Steve is great.  I like what he says. Unfortunately, a lot of the film lags.  Especially the love story.  Ididn't really care what happened.  It 's like a bowl of chili that looksappetizing but after a few bites you're like This is kind of nasty. "},{"Title":"Nothing Spectacular","Date":"28 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was kind of flat and predictable. With all the good reviews it got, I expected more. One thing though I have to give credit to is the setting. Santa Fe was a great backdrop and it should be used more in films. With most of the scenes set outside, it brought brightness to what otherwise could have been a really dreary film. The two lead characters were good, though there was this one character with a space between his teeth that was horrible. The scene where they're playing poker and he's asking who Steve McGarrett and Steve Austin were was a testament to not only bad acting, but also horrible cliched screenwriting. 70s pop culture references need to be put to rest. Let's at least move on into the eighties. Overall, I say don't waste your money at the video store on this, though if it comes on TV, watch it if there's nothing else on.     "},{"Title":"Let me say this about Steve","Date":"16 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I feel that while there were some good parts about the film, mainly that it was sweet and sometimes funny, I found it was somewhat overated.  I think that the Dex character (played with maybe just a tad of credibility by Donal Logue) was actually a little dumb when it came to romance.  Dex is a character who believes the best way to get a girl into bed is to make her think that he doesn't want her in bed.  That doesn't make sense.  The chick most of the time knows that when a guy asks her out, it isn't because he is a gay guy who wants to be just friends and not sex, but because he wants her most intimate of places.  Dex is also a liar and fat, which (even with a bit of bad sarcastic charm) usually can not get girls, especially when a guy is more transparent than used Neutrogena.  Not too realistic in my book (even though I'm no one to talk), but, I guess it isn't that bad if you have seen everything else.  Some of the film I found interesting, but the rest, maybe fair.  C+ "}{"Title":"If you have insomnia, rent this video","Date":"20 September 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I don't want to be unfair, some people really liked this film and actually laughed (I suppose). I kept hoping, almost praying that the funny stuff would start. After 2/3rds of the movie dragged past, I realized, Ain't no ha ha comin'.  I whacked off the video and hit re-wind. Maybe it's more a guys film, though some guys didn't like it either. The main character seems to be able to get any girl into bed even though he's fat, because he plays smart and hard to get....yeah, right. "},{"Title":"obnoxiously bad","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  My girlfriend and I reluctantly rented this clunker last night. We'd both kept hearing good to great things about it, but I made the mistake of not checking IMDB first. Reading the comments now, I know I'd have happily skipped it. She fell asleep within 20 minutes, while I watched the whole mess from beginning to end. Bad acting, bad fake fat, bad dialogue, b.s. philosophy, unbelievable situations and coincidences, all wrapped up with a lame, 100% Hollywood ending. Oh, and HORRIBLE music. Almost everyone in the film is a two-dimensional (at best) caricature, and an uninteresting one to boot. The kind of normal guys you see on Friends or some other bad vehicle, but never in real life (at least not in mine, thankfully).Having just seen Swingers again the night before, it was hard not to compare these two renditions of how the mating/dating game is played from the male side. But, of course, there's no comparison Swingers, after another late night at the diner, still clears the fence with ease -- Steve, or Dex, or whatever, rips a bong-hit and strikes out. Booo. "},{"Title":"I can't believe I sat through the whole movie","Date":"23 May 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The story goes about like this a guy who gets lots of chicks meets a girl he really likes and she makes him realize that getting lots of chicks is not all it's cracked up to be so he changes his life (in about the blink of an eye) and gets the girl... happily ever after, the end.  The plot is simple and unoriginal, which would be fine if the movie went any deeper than that. But it doesn't.  Every character is a bad stereotype.  Donal Logue plays Dex (the guy who gets lots of chicks) who acts much more like a whiny, latte-sipping wuss than the Steve McQueen-type he is made out to be.  What makes this movie even more unwatchable is the soundtrack which is a cross between the background music of a soft-core porn flick and an episode of the Brady Bunch.  A couple other things I couldn't get over the pillow stuffed in Logue's shirt to make him look like a fat guy; also, if you're going to play a guy who plays frisbee golf every day, learn to throw a frisbee more than ten feet.  Tao of Steve is a weak, half-hearted attempt at a romantic comedy that would barely give a warm fuzzy to a person whose goal for 2001 is to not miss the 'Friends' wedding.  It would be a shame if Donal Logue's greatest achievement remains his early 90's portrayal of Jimmy the Cab Driver on MTV.  Keep trying, man. "},{"Title":"Didn't make it all the way through - GARBAGE","Date":"1 April 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I rented this movie because of the reviews I read here.Sometimes I just don't understand people.I'll tell you what I saw before I stopped the tape (45 minutes into).  This slacker loser guy (Dex) somehow picks up any woman he wants.  It wasn't fully explained but the idea is make women think they can't have you and they will want you.  That's it, wow now every guy should have a wonderful life with women jumping in and out of their bedsheets.Dex wants this woman (Syd) who seems intelligent and not in desperate need for a guy - since she has this young studly boyfriend.Dex just pulls out a bong and starts smoking it in front of Syd.  That has got to make him SO attractive to her, not.  It was around that point they hitch rides together and Dex keeps getting more women and they get to know each other thru their rides in the car together.It was at this point I stopped my VCR and said to myself....I know where this is going (Dex gets the Syd).......and I thought to myself do I care about this idiot? (no)......did I laugh once up to this point? (no).  So I turned it off and my wife said to me - You have terrible taste in movies.  Thanks, it will be a while before I get to pick a movie at the video store again.A movie for guys only.  I change that - guys who think being a slacker pothead loser is cool.  Hey, it gets you all the woman you can and want. "},{"Title":"The tao of Zzzzzz","Date":"16 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Alright so I did not fall asleep. But only because I watched this movie in the morning and that was virtually impossible after a great night in bed. The Tao of Zzzzz is a movie supposedly based on true events. The story of a man whose attitude leads him to live the life of a Casanova even though his looks should deter any woman from his proximity. While the idea of seeing the extent of the pickup artist mastery is great, in the movie there's really nothing to get a grip on and you end up navigating into a dullness universe where looking at your strawberry jam jar on the table is equally entertaining. If the reason to watch the movie is to see if you can integrate some tips into your pick up routines, then I recommend you read The Game or some other pick up artist book.If the reason to watch this movie is solely for its cinema value good luck! "},{"Title":"Warm, delightful profile, of less than physically attractive slacker cad, who has learned the art of seducing women","Date":"8 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Prior to writing and filming 'The Tao of Steve', director Jenniphr Goodman returned to her childhood home in Santa Fe with her husband after graduating from NYU Film School. There she also lived with one Duncan North, a kindergarten teacher the film is based on. Goodman could not believe how North was able to seduce so many women, given the fact that he was overweight and did not fit the mold of a typical Lothario. She decided to create 'The Tao of Steve' based on North's life, including how he utilized Taoist philosophy and combined it with American pop culture's embrace of a trinity of 'machismo' TV characters including Steve Austin (The Six Million Dollar Man), Steve McGarrett (Hawaii Five-O) and, above all, the ultimate 'bad boy' actor, Steve McQueen.Duncan North is dubbed 'Dex' in the film and is played by Donal Logue, an Irish actor who gained significant weight for the role. Logue is perfectly cast as the unlikely seducer of women and the philosophy his character imparts, is a textbook method for being successful with women. The best part of the film involves how he attempts to coach one of his slacker buddies, Dave, who is completely inept when it comes to finding a girlfriend. Dave believes that if he's simply a 'nice guy', women will be immediately drawn to him. Dex makes it clear that 'nice guys finish last' when it comes to seducing women. He introduces this three part plan of action with women (which Dave initially rejects) 1) suppress your desire to get her into bed; 2) be 'excellent' in her presence and 3) Just when things appear to be going good&#x97;retreat!What's great about 'Dex' is that he first has developed a skill that many men would like to have (the art of seduction) but are unable to follow through on. Dex is so good at what he does, that he eventually seduces a married woman who becomes infatuated with him. Unfortunately for Dex, the woman is married to his best friend, who ends up slugging him in the face when he finds out about his wife's infidelity.Dex finally meets his match in Syd, a set designer who was one of Dex's conquests back in their college days. The fact that Dex can't even remember that he bedded Syd way back then, becomes a sore point in their relationship. Nonetheless, love conquers all after Dex realizes that a deeper relationship with a woman beats simply seducing them, ad infinitum.'The Tao of Steve' is a rare example of an 'indie' film that works! The dialogue is on a high intellectual level (replete with literary references) and the plot is not only entertaining, but educational for clueless males. Greer Goodman, Jenniphr's sister, who plays Syd, is an excellent foil to the cad, Dex. Special mention must go to James 'Kimo' Wills, who plays the 'in the dark' Dave. Tao's ending is a bit sentimental and I wonder if Duncan North actually ended up with a 'love of his life', but you'll nonetheless be impressed with what first time feature director Jenniphr Goodman has done, fashioning a narrative that is both fanciful and decidedly true to life. "},{"Title":"Chick Flick for guys","Date":"3 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Steve worships Steve McQueen, even though he won't admit he's too unmotivated to truly emulate his hero. In similar fashion, The Tao of Steve is too casual to be considered epic or legendary. However, it's precisely that nonchalance which gives this movie its easy charm. It's funny enough for macho guys, sensitive enough for romantic gals, and never too much of either to alienate the opposite audience. It has one of those vaguely effective messages about life and love, but mostly it's a few months in the world of a directionless know-it-all lothario as he gradually realizes he wants to live a better life. The locations in New Mexico are refreshing, and they help keep the movie realistic and grounded. The cast works well together, like a group of lifelong friends, whether exchanging witty one-liners or more serious monologues. Plus, the pacing is perfect for the short running length, since it develops the characters and conflict without rushing, yet keeps it fluid and brief. No, it's not a classic, just like Steve isn't Steve McQueen, but I guarantee you'll smile a time or two before it's over, and you'll probably want to watch it again, or at least recommend it to someone. "},{"Title":"Donal Logue is sexy and that's great acting","Date":"26 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Dex (Donal Logue) is a chubby aimless kindergarten teacher in his 30s. Yet he gets lots of women with his philosophy, and Buddhism & Taoism. He shows no desire for the women which tricks them to desire him more. He falls for Syd (Greer Goodman) at his 10 year college reunion. Only none of his tricks work on her. She challenges him to be better.Donal Logue convinces me of this ladies man character. He is charming, delightful, and even sexy. Syd calling him up on his stuff is brilliant. I do wish that the movie has a bigger actress to play Syd. In the end, it is the performance of Donal Logue which wins me over like the countless women he sleeps with. "},{"Title":"Dex is just bitter because he's never been in love.","Date":"9 August 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I had this movie on my radar, but somehow it fell off. I stumbled upon it again and was delighted.Slacker, stoner, act like you want nothing or no one and you'll never be disappointed. Don't chase after women, and you'll get them.The non-studly types have to have some kind of a formula. Dex (Donal Logue) has Chinese philosophy to guide him and it appears to be working. He is getting laid regularly from a beautiful woman (Ayelet Kaznelson), who happens to be married. No problems with commitment there.Everything appear to be working for Dex until he meets a woman (Greer Goodman) who is not falling for his line and is definitely not interested in him. The philosophy he uses to catch women is catching him and he is falling in love. Now, there will be pain and loss Logue is outstanding in the role of the slacker and is incredibly funny when he is laying out his philosophy. Goodman is spot on as the object of desire for Dex. It was a funny, romantic movie that will be worth watching again. "},{"Title":"I, sadly, am a Stew.","Date":"26 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" How many times have I seen this movie? Somewhere between 25-50 viewings, with an additional who knows how many occurrences wherein I starting watching this movie with the explicit intent of falling asleep to it's indie soundtrack.I was turned on to this movie in the very same way I have discovered most of my favorite films. It's late night, I'm flipping channels, or to be completely honest, I was browsing the DirecTV guide. Most people, including me, still say flipping channels, like we actually take the time to go through all the channels, but we all know damn well that we just cruise through the guide to find something to watch. I guess I'll have to start saying scrolling the guide instead. Anyway, I'm getting sidetracked and I apologize.Like I said, I was scrolling through the guide looking for something comfortable and familiar that wouldn't challenge me too much, and I failed. I had to use that damn info button when I saw the title, Tao Of Steve, so I guess I let my curiosity get the best of me. Thank Science it did.As is my custom, I normally catch these late night gems at some point in the middle of the movie, and I spend the rest of the movie struggling with the decision to either finish what is shaping up to be a great movie that I missed the beginning of, or jot down the title and catch it from the start the next time it comes on. I decided to watch the rest of it, and then just buy a copy on DVD. Does that tell you how engaging and entertaining this movie is? First off, I have a lot of respect for Donal Logue as an actor. He's done a wide variety of roles in several different kinds of media vehicles, from TV to blockbuster movies, and of course, the classic Jimmie the cab driver shorts on MTV. He was spot on in this role, he has that charisma and confidence to be able to convince you he has what it takes to bed down with any human being sporting an XX chromosomal set, unless they are wearing Doc Marten's and a flannel shirt. What can I say, he's a funny actor, and I suppose he's a fave of mine, because I have liked him even in the bad stuff he's been a part of in the past.Supporting cast was full of friends and local actors from the NM area, and while there aren't any household names in the bunch, they more than hold their own in delivering believable characters who are just what they are supposed to be, regular Joes and Janes. I have already mentioned that the soundtrack was indie, and while I am not an authority on indie music, I can recognize it. I can't say whether it was great, good, or bad, but I liked it. I also liked that the band featured live in the reunion scene was from Oklahoma, my home state.The most striking thing about this movie for me was it's beautiful photography and wonderful selection of locations. Although it was been a while since I watched the commentary, I am fairly certain it was filmed entirely in the Taos, New Mexico area, or maybe it was Albuquerque. If you've never been to NM, then GO now, it is awesomely beautiful and full of tons of stuff to do. It definitely scores some cultural points with me, as I am a big fan of the American West. The colors of the landscape truly come through the lens with full strength, and I just love the way this movie looks. I can't help but feel that the physical environment is an important ingredient in the Tao of Steve, which is a real thing conjured up by a real man. In fact, the house where Dex lives is the actual house of the real life person who Dex is based upon. He makes a cameo during one of the poker scenes, and on the commentary he provides some interesting insight into the movie, the character Dex, and of course the Tao of Steve.The plot is actually the only weak part of the movie, as a story, it's predictable, but I think that's okay because I found it more interesting to delve into unanswerable questions concerning the characters, and of course, as a hopelessly single young man who has never been able to get the ladies, I spent much time asking myself, will this really work in real life, &#133;..my life? Well, according to Duncan North, the aforementioned inspiration for Dex, it does work, and he's living proof. So stop listening to Professor Tom Leykis you bitter bastard, and start watching the, Tao of Steve. It has all the lessons you need.THEKEETH, (who is shockingly, still unsuccessful with the ladies) "}{"Title":"Prude or perv... you'll love it!","Date":"4 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Like it or hate it - there is so much truth about dating in this film that it's painful. It's nice to see a movie that takes these games, exploits them and slaps them in the face of everybody who sees this - with a really easy to watch, comical twist. He lays out the rules of dating in a unique, preposterous way. He states what really is the obvious... but nobody wants to admit it. Even the prude, uptight square sociopaths should find enjoyment in this movie and see that there is a huge charade in our society called Dating. It does not matter what a guy looks like... it's all about presentation and Donal Logue nails it! I have even used some of the Tao's rules and guess what... THEY WORK! "},{"Title":"Plot line, dialog and location shots combine to make great movie.","Date":"24 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Great to see a movie with dialog of classy wit, appealing language and a set of actors who seem so real they could be real people. And they have this real life appeal that doesn't have you exclaim at every turn oh, come on now...! And the New Mexico scenery has you go wow! here and there without doing overdoing.As a matter of fact, this movie manages to avoid 'overdoing it' in almost every department where Hollywood typically overdoes it. There are no car chases. There are no extraordinary fights. There is no violence with all sorts of weaponry and there's no foul language whatsoever. I would rate the dialog/plot line as the most exceptional item, given the fact that it uses the concepts of philosophy (a notoriously difficult subject) with such skill that transitions it into a normalcy of dialog not expected from normal folks. Great movie! "},{"Title":"Great in every aspect.///might be spoilers","Date":"16 April 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The script was top-notch as well as the acting, especially Donal Logue.The Tao of Steve is a code that Dex(Logue) and his friends live by for attracting the opposite sex. One must be desire-less, be excellent and be gone. Dex lives by this creed faithfully until he is reintroduced to a college fling he can't seem to remember, Syd(well acted by a sensitive Greer Goodman). Syd proves to be too advanced intellectually to be swayed by the power of The Tao, so Dex must reevaluate his life in order to attract her.Dex is an average lazy, rather obese man that avoids the stresses of life, through smoking weed and practicing apathy. To be honest, I don't know if Dex deserves a second chance with Syd, but I liked the character regardless and rooted for him.A well done comedy that will tickle your funny bone. "},{"Title":"Left me Wanting for More","Date":"27 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was an okay movie, it was witty and it had some funny parts, but I didn't found it hilarious, just kind of appealing.  One of the things that I like most about the film was the great scenery, the place that the movie took place had some amazing shots, and the director took great advantage of it.  The characters were just acting the role of themselves which was great since you don't really need to much acting to play you, so in a away they seem real.  Nevertheless, the character that I thought was really well played was Sid, I actually wanted to go out with her.  Anyway, the movie seemed to go on and on about the whole religious idea of getting girls, which technically was the whole point of the movie, but sometimes it seemed that you were getting hit on the head with it.  I have mix feelings about this film since I liked it but it won't be something that I want to see again.  This is the type of films that you won't learn anything if you see it more than once, but everybody has a different taste.  So if you find this movie on your local library, it wouldn't hurt to give it a try, that's what I did. Oh yeah another thing, the film had great language, which some people might think that it's a great film just because of the dialogue.  Never pay attention to this, since big words do not equal great movies.  "},{"Title":"A small gem","Date":"20 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ignore the flaws. This film is a prime example of a quality indie work, freed from Hollywood conventionality. It manages to be both poignant and funny. In this era of arrested adolescence, a  coming of age movie about 30 year olds is needed. This movie works better in dealing with this issue than the , in my opinion, vastly over-rated American Beauty.I hesitated to make that comparison, though, because this movie has more in common with a Meg Ryan movie than the dark tragic comedy of Beauty. Because it more closely resembles real life , it works. "},{"Title":"sheer brilliance","Date":"19 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I love the notion that there's a philosophy behind everyday life...that people can be figured out, that women can be figured out.  Great writing, great casting and great acting really made this mental comedy. "},{"Title":"Funniest Motion Picture in the last twenty years","Date":"20 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film made me cry. I couldn't contain myself. Maybe its the fact that my name happens to be Steve which is some underlying irony that makes the movie so much more enjoyable. This guy Dex's whole theory on girls is so proposterous that it seems to work on the chicks that are most out of his league. The guy works as a kindergarten teacher who plays frisbee and takes bong hits all day, yet women flock around him. The acting is superb as Donal Logue, who you may have seen on ABC, does a wonderful job acting like the pimp bum. Best factor of this movie is that there hasn't been anything quite like it since I've been alive...The ending will touch you and the writing will inspire you....SEE THIS MOVIE "},{"Title":"The love that can be loved is not the eternal love","Date":"13 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  At first glance The Tao of Steve is a nice little romantic comedy set with an interesting backdrop.  Boy meets Girl, Boy loses Girl, Boy regains Girl. But scratch the surface just a bit and you'll discover that the interesting backdrop *is* the movie.  Living life as life lives itself.The writing of Duncan North and the Goodman sisters is crisp and witty, rivaling Kevin Smith's better efforts. Donal Logue puts in a wonderful performance as a true slacker monk.Double Feature recommendation High Fidelity "},{"Title":"This is one of the best movies ever made.","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  When I first saw this movie, I thought it was going to be very boring, after seeing it however, I went out and bought a copy of it on DVD.  Donal Logue is such a talented actor and is someone who I have made a role model.  I watch his tv show Grounded For Life every Wednesday, and I have never laughed at anything like I do at this show.  Donal Logue should continue making movies forever and I hope that he does, I also hope, maybe one day, I could meet him in person and do a movie with him. "},{"Title":"Great dialogue and performances marred by a standard plot","Date":"16 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Donal Logue is terrific in the marginally-sympathetic role of a man whose zen-like system for picking up women nets him action inconsistent with his actual merits.  A cast of unknowns (at least to me) also does admirable work in support.  The dialogue is clever and well-written (self-aggrandizing, solipsistic ego-queen is my favorite movie insult in years).  The only problem is that the story of the inveterate womanizer who meets the one lady who can make him go straight has been done to death.  I felt creeping dread as the story played out, hoping I wasn't seeing what I was seeing.  But alas, it does NOT veer from this sadly predictable course, which unfortunately defaces an otherwise excellent little film.  I still award it a 7 out of 10 for its considerable strengths, but a ballsier story would have been appreciated. "}{"Title":"Light, Romantic, Nice Photography, A bit incredible","Date":"8 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It was hard for me to believe that a fat (Logue must have worn a prosthetic belly) slacker could actually bed so many pretty women and then have them all meet at various points.   Or that the female lead could really go for him.  He expounds on `The Tao of Steve', of cool role models, guys who were so cool that women chased them.  His love interest challenges him with the example of Don Juan, who was afraid to love and trust (okay, a group of all guys will probably not want to see this talky movie.  I hate to say it, but this is a `chick flick'.  Or for fat slackers who want to see one get the girl.)   It's entertaining (and instructional?) to see the tricks that Dex pulls on various women.  A pleasant romantic comedy. "},{"Title":"Well balanced.","Date":"13 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What a wonderful film for anyone in their thirties, exploring the idea of relationships, karma, and philosophy.  Do not miss the opportunity to watch this film, which really works well on several levels.  Wonderful direction, great character development, and delightful writing.  The script works well, despite some questionable editing choices towards the end of the film, but still a solid body of work. "},{"Title":"a pleasant surprise - I was intellectually stimulated","Date":"10 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I thought this movie was going to be just guys talking about sex and women (ala In the Company of Men). Despite this expectation, I watched The Tao of Steve for the philosophy and was delightfully surprised to find an intelligent romantic comedy that I thoroughly enjoyed. And I loved the philosophical justification of a slacker. This movie is up there with Dream for an Insomniac on my list of best intellectually-stimulating romance movies. "},{"Title":"I loved this movie!","Date":"11 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you want to see an intelligent, adult, romantic comedy, this film is for you. Smart dialogue and interesting lead characters make this little film worth watching. Donal Logue does a great job with the lead character of Dex, and hopefully we will be seeing more from him in the future. I loved this movie!! "},{"Title":"A breath of fresh air (possible spoiler)","Date":"27 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Some of my favourite films are largely about people sitting around and talking a lot (Sex Lies & Videotape, Proof, Metropolitan), and this is definitely in that tradition.  It's truly refreshing to see a film that relies on dialogue and characterisation over SFX, car chases, guns and cheap sex scenes; furthermore, this film is literate without hitting us over the head with its learning.  You don't have to have read Kierkegaarde or Plato to enjoy the humour, which combines the erudite with moments of slapstick (man bumps into something while following a woman with his eyes - audience guffaws!).Donal Logue's performance is pretty special.  The moment when Syd realises that she might have hurt his feelings, he has communicated that brilliantly with the slightest of facial expressions.  And Greer Goodman is bright, human and (if I may be so bold) utterly gorgeous.My one reservation was about the happy ending, which struck a slightly false note - for me, it could have stayed with the final phone call, which would have been more ambivalent, and still given us hope of a reconciliation - I really wanted them to get together!This is an 8 out of 10, and I hope it's at least made a decent profit.  "},{"Title":"Philosophy with friends","Date":"22 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  One of the great things about an enjoyable independent film is that because of the nature of the beast (budgetary restraints) you can usually expect that the things which make the film enjoyable are the basics  good dialogue, good acting, good direction.  The Tao of Steve has all of these elements, in addition to a fabulous, under used setting in the earth and sky elements which dominate the city of Santa Fe, New Mexico.Religious allusions are some of the most popular allusions in all of film and they are abundant in this one.  Everything from Buddhism to Taoism to Nihlism to Catholicism is touched upon.  It is all done with a degree of both cynicism and reverence.  One of the most enjoyable aspects of the film is the intelligence of the writing.  The script uses a group of well educated men in their early thirties to illustrate how concepts of ancient religions can be interspersed with ideas of pop culture and courtship in the twentieth century to create a way of life which leads one to the end they desire.  Although this works for them for a time, eventually this idea is shown to lead one to what they believe they desire but to fulfill only the most basic of needs.  The concept is eventually dismantled through character interaction and dialogue, some of the best examples of the two seen on film in recent years.  Particularly impressive is the way the script has one character build up these ideas using the ideas of great writers, thinkers, and religious figures from the past while another character can strike them down with references which are just as literary and relevant.  The most impressive part is that these intellectual debates never come off as pretentious, we never feel that the any of the characters are speaking over our heads.  With all of the philosophical knowledge that is thrown at us Dex is still our everyman, Syd is still the girl we all had class with in college.The setting is integral to the story, and the cinematography works to convey the philosohpies which are being addressed.  In Santa Fe houses work themselves into the landscape, at the opera Dex's shirt blends him into the scenery, everything in the film blends together and it helps to convey that everything in the world is interelated, no matter how important we think we are we're all a part of the whole.  This intergral lesson is what Dex must learn to achieve his goal, and it is conveyed perfectly throughout the film through the cinematography.In reading the credits one can see the interelatedness of the people who produced this movie and the personal story that the screenwriter told through his script.  Watching this film is like having your closest friends over for dinner, sharing your memories and stories of your current lives. The fact that it opens at a reunion is not an accident, and it carries that feeling of warmth, apprehension and coming home throughout.  When I finished watching The Tao of Steve I wanted to hit rewind and watch the whole thing over again.  It is rare that a film encapsulates a feeling of home and at the same time of such grand philosophical truths.  But it is the familiarity of the characters which makes these truths and ideas easy to digest, and The Tao of Steve such a likeable, easy to watch, thought provoking film.This film reminded me of Committed starring Heather Graham in some ways, with similar settings, similar mystical themes and a feeling of redemption at the end.  I would say that The Tao of Steve is a better film though because it tells the story in a much more simple, straightforward manner. There is no place in this film for a viewer to get lost, but when given deeper thought, there are incredible areas set up for the viewer to explore. "},{"Title":"Tao means The way, if I'm not mistaken.","Date":"17 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This delightful little film proves that you do NOT have to spend a trillion-gazillion dollars to make good films.In a nutshell, Dex (Donal Logue) knows that Men and women both want to have sex, but women want to have sex 15 minutes after us, so if you hold out for 20, she'll be chasing you for five and this is the premise for the movie, if you know Dex's secrets you'll be cool, like all the coolest guys ever; Steve McQueen, Steve (The 6 Million Dollar Man) Austin and Steve (Hawaii 5-0) McGarrett.So Seduction for dummies (or The Tao of Steve) is as follows;1.- Be desireless (Women can smell an agenda). 2.- Be excellent (Everyone is good at something, and you have to be excellent at least in one thing). 3.- Be gone (that's the power of the 20-minute-strategy).With this knowledge Dex keeps scoring with all sort of girls and women, despite being a beer-drinking, dope-smoking underachiever, that is until he meets Syd (Greer Goodman, sister of the director) and in the end HE falls for the girl and has to make a commitment, great film.Go see this one, you will NOT regret it.By the way the Antithesis of cool is being Stu. "},{"Title":"fun film, great location","Date":"4 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If I hadn't had a basic philosophy course or if I were a lot younger, I'll bet I would have missed a lot of the references.  As it is, I probably missed a lot because I'm so old!  Nevertheless, I enjoyed the carefree atmosphere of the story, the great setting in Santa Fe (love the opera part), and the decency/respect that finally wins the day.  A lot better than many of the high-budget, special effects movies that have been produced lately. "},{"Title":"go see this movie","Date":"1 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Do you remember when movies used to have clever and engrossing dialogue? And when characters were well-developed? And when love stories had tension and depth? When plots were interesting and creative? No? Neither did I. Until I saw the Tao of Steve.There's too much and not enough to say about this movie. Just see it. It is fantastic. The characters, the acting... so great. It's a cure for good movie amnesia. "},{"Title":"Finally a story populated with regular people.","Date":"13 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I really liked this movie on two levels.  First as entertainment.  The actors were unknown to me but they did an excellent job.  The character Dex played by Donal Logue has a really tough job because he carries the whole movie.Dex is excellent in his interplay with Dave, James 'Kimo Wills; his love interest Sid, played by Greer Goodman and the other cast members that make up the card game.On the second level, I liked the subject matter itself the tension between our societies values and Taoism's requirements to strive to be an excellent man in all of one's actions.Dex is a really smart guy that bends Taoism into a guide to score with chicks.  Dave is Dex's protege but unlike Dex, Dave's IQ matches his shoe size.The age old formula of boy finds girl, boy looses girl, boy finds girl again,  But in this case the characterisation come across as just average people, like you and I, trying to deal with life and love. "}{"Title":"Are you a Steve or a Stew","Date":"24 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Well.........which is it????The Tao of Steve is the most intelligent movie of this year.  With a talented cast of new faces, this movie looks at a cross section of the United States.  Our hero Dex, lives in New Mexico, and enjoys a carefree life.  He deals with several issues of his life, his weight, his career, his love life, and his friends.  This overweight romeo follows his personal Tao to the zen of romance, and constantly gets women.  This religion, appropriatly named after Steve McQueen, involves three principals to how men should date.  But when he falls for Syd, Dex begins his search to find the real Tao.The movie may not be for everyone, but this film will make you laugh, and think about the Tao of Steve. "},{"Title":"a good evening of fun and insight","Date":"19 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I liked this movie a lot more than I thought I would.  It's both entertaining, and quite insightful.  The best part is that, although it portrays a stereotypical male out to score, it does so with compassion and without bashing.  Men are capable of loving women, not just using them, as this film shows so beautifully.  Worth it. "},{"Title":"The best movie I've seen all year.","Date":"17 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I can't remember the last time that I've enjoyed a movie this much.  These were real people talking like people are supposed to talk in real life, and not acting like they were reciting dialogue concocted in someone's office in a studio someplace.  Even better, the music on the soundtrack was fantastic.I've never seen anything that Jenniphr Goodman has directed previous to this film, but you can bet that I'm going to be watching out for her next film or other work.  What a great touch she has.And this film absolutely has it right.  Steve McQueen was, is, and always will be the coolest guy in the world (Dion DiMucci comes in a close second). "},{"Title":"A rich, wonderful comedy exploring love and seduction","Date":"1 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is required viewing, in my book.  It's a knee-slapper, but its humor is always in service to its rich messages.  It successfully explores the seduction game and the trouble real love presents.  I hope it'll find a wide audience.  The writing, in particular is first-rate, and Donal Logue is a discovery.  I hope all involved with this film will see some real success with this and make many more fine movies. "},{"Title":"Lao Tzu would have loved this romantic comedy","Date":"24 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Here's a well-written, light and funny movie that, according to the Taoist of principles, just keeps it simple. It's probably easier to enjoy if you have a few smarts and know a little about being in your late 20s, falling in love, avoiding love, and a whole range of eastern and western philosophy, but you can just as easily get by if you like a cute story with a few endearing characters. The three lines at the beginning of the credits say it all, Based on a story by Duncan North/Based on an idea by Duncan North/Based on Duncan North.  "},{"Title":"Run to the theatre to see this! 9+ out of 10","Date":"16 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a movie for all 30-somethings!  It had me rolling in the aisle from nearly the first scene and I couldn't stop through the whole film.  This story is ingeniously portrayed.  The acting is great.  The actors are just regular people - no major beauties that we, as an audience, can't connect with.  They are just the average joe's getting through life.  Highly entertaining and very deep meanings thrown into the dialog.The character interaction is fantastic and the events are just so real life and un-Hollywood.  If you like off-beat humor and real-life writing, then this is the film for you!  The whole theme of the movie, as it is revealed, is so complex yet simple - just like real life....Anyway - I give this film my own 2 thumbs up!  Very funny...Very entertaining....Very real... The scenery is fantastic, but I'm very partial to a Santa Fe scene anyway....If you just want to laugh...see this film.... "},{"Title":"Was it really that good?","Date":"14 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  When I walked out of the movie theater, I thought The Tao of Steve was a great movie. It was funny, it was unusual, it had some good points in it. But....Weren't the actors a little too simple? I mean they make Dex sound deep and philosophical, but really is he? Or is he using a couple of really old tricks that seem new? Or what about his follower? The young boy who is trying to be as cool and wonderful as Mr. Steve McQueen. He has no character. He is there to idealize and imitate. Is that really how people act even when they put someone on a pedestal?And of course, the girl. The one that plays hard to get and then falls for him making him, the hero, change his ways. Isn't that a little old? Isn't that what's overplayed in every cheesy romantic comedy ever made?So to sum up, you get a small theater to play a cute movie that does not make it big, you therefore think it's wonderful because it's too good to be playing on the big screen, but you get the same quality as any AMC typical movie. Then we all sit here and go on about how deep and thoughtful this movie was. Was it? I think not.   "},{"Title":"A fun movie...see it","Date":"9 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  My way cool old folks crowd enjoyed this movie. I wouldn't say we were nuts about it, but it sure was better then most of the summer duds like 'Autumn in NY.' Just goes to show you that an acceptable movie can be made without blowing stuff up, using the f word and way-to-close-ups of tongue kisses. Even Dax, the super cool babe layer, refused to be seen naked (we thank him for that.)  "},{"Title":"Good Will Hunting meets Being John Malkovich","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Don't waste time searching for the deeper meaning of Tao. Enjoy it for what it is.  A smart, fresh, creative, and very funny relationship movie. Tao combines the creativity of Being John Malkovich with the intelligence of Good Will Hunting and the sentimental attraction of Sleepless in Seattle.  The Tao of Steve is exceptional because it gives us characters that are compelling, dialog that makes us feel smart, and belly laughs drawn from the universal well of romantic relationship experiences.  Simply put, Steve and Syd are people we want to know and people we care about.The plot revolves around two characters the pot smoking, womanizing but likeable Dex (Donal Logue), and his Cameron Diaz-like love interest, Syd (Greer Goodman).  The Steve in The Tao of Steve is not a single man, but the essence of all of the very cool celluloid Steves McQueen the Great Escape, McGarret Hawaii Five O, Austin the 6 Million Dollar Man, etc. Dex meets Syd at his 10th year reunion but doesn't remember the history they once shared.  Still, he is inextricably drawn to her as `the thing of excellence, `the thing that draws away' and therefore, according to Tao philosophy, the thing that draws us in.  The movie, set in Santa Fe, New Mexico, takes us on an entertaining ride of quality dialog, excellent acting, and palpable attraction.This is a jewel of a movie that will leave you feeling like you've just experienced something special, something you could have easily missed.  So what are you waiting for?  Call a friend and enjoy your time out on the Tao!  "},{"Title":"This movie is FUNNY.","Date":"1 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Laugh your ass off and learn a little philosophy at the same time.  Watch Dex discover that his whole life has been spent hiding from the truth. This movie will make you laugh and groan at the same time.  If you like unconventional movies that very nearly follow the 'romantic comedy' formula then you will absolutely love this one! "}{"Title":"Distilled Reality.","Date":"30 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Quite simply, there are two types of guys.  Those that believe in the methodology set forth in 'The Tao of Steve', and those who do not.  This movie will likely appeal to those that do, and will likely repel and confuse those who do not.  Women will take notes, and refer back to their dog-eared copies of 'The Rules'.While the philosophy in this movie is not new - having been addressed to a greater extent in 'Swingers' and to a lesser extent in 'Barcelona' (via maneuver 'X'), it is shone in a new light and strength via the severely obese protagonist, Dex.  What the other reviewers have failed to see is that his technique actually works on Syd, and he plays her with a deft hand. What Dex finally realizes is that he's finally playing the game to win, and not just to play.  Which provides for a cheesey, and somewhat disappointing ending.But make no mistake, the methodology is not on trial here, it's the results the viewer is left to wrestle with - as the methods tend to perpetuate themselves, and leave a messy and clear trail.  I found the movie to be spot-on in terms of honestly depicting the ruthless, counter-intuitive, and humorous rituals that men perform, and appreciate it not being dumbed down for political correctness.  And I'll bet most people will end up liking Dex in the end - see, he got you, too. "},{"Title":"Excellent dialog but could've used a better ending","Date":"20 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was a clever and tastefully created movie. I would recommend this movie to anyone who enjoys good inspiring subtle dialog.The hasty ending however cast a retroactive superficial fluff over the rest of the movie's beautiful balance of humor and serious subject matter. From what I understand there were 3 different endings that needed to be decided on for the final release. I wish the producers had chosen a different one.All and all though I wish there were more movies like this. "},{"Title":"Smart and funny; one caveat","Date":"14 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  THE TAO OF STEVE overall is pretty enjoyable with some smart dialogue which should fill up the quote page nicely.  Plenty to laugh out loud about, and Donal Logue does a terrific job.  (It should be interesting to see him in other roles to determine if he was typecast; he's that perfect for this part, padded belly notwithstanding.)The story is pretty creaky and, in plot and character arc, it's EXACTLY what you think it will be going in.  I could understand that being problematic for some, but the sheer good will generated by Logue (who carries the film) nearly steamrolls the objection.  (Though Dex blatantly stating the moral for his roommate Chris at film's end was pretty awful; even its staging was clumsy.)Do I recommend it?  Oh, yes.  As another poster said, it may be worth seeing a second time to pick up the dialogue missed while the audience laughed. Nice job overall, and if it errs, at least it's on the side of humanity. "},{"Title":"Go see this movie","Date":"9 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a great, funny movie.  I saw it recently at the Seattle International Film Festival.  I hope it is released wide, because a) everyone needs to go see this movie and b) I want to see it again.The movie is about a guy named Dex who is incredibly successful with women.  Dex is overweight and a bit of a slacker, but he makes up for these shortcomings by basically being incredibly cool.  His technique is a blend of Eastern philosophies and acting like Steve McQueen (hence the Tao of Steve.)  Dex is flummoxed, however, when he meets Syd who is beautiful, intelligent, and impervious to his charms.This movie is intelligent and insightful and very very funny. "},{"Title":"Chubby man adored by women","Date":"15 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The only reason we saw most of it is that we dozed off and on through half of it. Normally when we end up with a dog of a film we simply stop watching it. When we had enough of this sorry story we were lucky it suddenly and somewhat surprisingly ended. Plain obnoxious. A fat guy has all sorts of women swooning over him. Supposedly because he displays such a detached attitude and is so non-possessive. He's a mentor to a younger friend throughout the film. We couldn't figure out what could attract women to this fatty. Nobody does much in this idyllic Santa Fe except mostly party, open the refrigerator, eat and drink. Nobody does much work. Didn't get this one at all. Don't bother. "},{"Title":"Entertaining, but shallow, philosophically","Date":"26 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Anyone who watched this thinking they would receive a healthy dose of the principles of Taoism or Confucianism would have been sorely disappointed. And rightfully so. You don't tune into what is essentially a date flick to become enlightened.Anyway, I actually enjoyed the film, almost from a guilty pleasure perspective. It was more than a bit too cutesy in parts and the hipness of Dex's friends seemed all to contrived for the most part.For example, The guy with the bandana on his head looked like some frat boy who, with the help of a rag to constantly cover his frat boy haircut, attempted to come across as some earthy, genuine Deadhead. Too transparent. This is but one example.The story itself was decent enough, though certainly not ground-breaking or original in any way. It was engaging enough to manage to keep me watching all the way through, even though we all pretty much knew what was going to ultimately happen the first time Syd and Dex met.Without question, however, the ONE aspect which saved this film from being a contrived, boring mess (see Bongwater), was Daniel Logue's performance, which was surprisingly good and authentic. His ruminations on eastern philosophy as its principles relate to the practice of attracting women were actually entertaining, if not terribly deep. He not only looked the part of Dex, he really came across as the type of aimless, sometimes thoughtful slacker that the character strived to be. Without Logue, I wouldn't have made it halfway through the film.So, in the end, if you are looking for something deep, read Lao Tsu or Confusius. If you want something that it is entertaining and at least hints at something of substance, well, this one might be worth your time. "},{"Title":"Logue's performance will make you believe in Steve","Date":"15 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Dex is a believer in The Tao of Steve.  The Tao is a belief that  states that if you harness the coolness and restraint of Steve McQueen, Steve Austin (The 6 Million Dollar Man) and Steve McGarrett (Hawaii Five-O), you will be able to score with the ladies.  Donal Logue plays Dex, an overweight (Logue wears a latex device to create his enormous belly) occasional substitute teacher in New Mexico whose life is going nowhere, apart from his sexual track record.  But when he meets Syd (a terrific Greer Goodman), things become interesting when he discovers that she is no easy conquest.  Director Jenniphr Goodman (Greer's sister) uses a terrific cast and beautiful New Mexico locations to tell a funny, heartwarming story that works best because of Logue.  Here is one actor who has always played the supporting part well, and who is ready to break out to stardom.Vote 8  "},{"Title":"Predictable, slightly derivative but still enjoyable","Date":"17 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie works because of its cast.  No question.  The story is fairly predictable, somewhat unbelievable, and certain events and characters are never really explained (just what became of that charming philosophy student Dex slept with at the beginning?)   The disarming appeal of the characters of Dex and Syd and the insight into how a one-time party guy slowly but surely matures are the best things about this movie.  I would put it alongside High Fidelity, a slightly superior movie from earlier this year, and possibly Swingers, mainly due to the guys hanging out stuff throughout the film.  Another curiosity about the movie is its setting---Santa Fe? "},{"Title":"Artificially Hefty","Date":"22 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Spoilers herein.This film did well at Sundance. I am increasingly convinced that Sundance is is not so much about the art of film, but the craft of amusing people. In other words, it reflects Redford's philosophy of deep thinking for the masses.And Santa Fe rises to the challenge of being the new center of a particularly dumb edition of zen. My own theory is the influence of the Santa Fe Institute which deals with superficial effects at the threshold of (the religion of) math, but which has produced disappointing theory because their fundamental abstractions are so, well thin.So here we have an actor in a fat suit, making a film about a guy whose hefty insights into human nature turn out to be so much thin tripe. Problem is that the film itself pretends to have hefty insights into human nature (by observing and goofing on him) -- and guess what, they turn out be thin as well.We have had two stellar first films this year from writer/directors in `Panic,' and `Things you can tell by just...' The writing there was intelligent and actually insightful. Not so here. Your first clue should be that the `Steve' of the title is McQueen, a fellow famously neurotic about his macho-ness and clearly not the self-aware personality sculptor referenced here. I suppose that the writers originally had a more metaphoric, talky approach in mind, perhaps as intelligently conceived as meals with Andre and Vanya. But as the discussion on the DVD so frankly shows, they continually watered it down with community theater values. They should have gone for the gold.If you like the thin sentimentality and vapid emotionalism that characterizes this film, go see `You can count on me' instead. It at least has better acting, a kid and everyone's teeth are clean. "},{"Title":"Really Speaks to Guys who Have Bad Luck With Girls","Date":"22 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Dex Look at me. Look at me, okay? Technically, I shouldn't be getting laid, but I do. And do you know why, Dave? Because when I'm hanging out with a woman, that's all I'm doing is hanging out, talking, listening. I'm not sitting there thinking about how to get in bed with her. And this completely confuses them because they're saying Wait a minute. I'm so much better looking than this guy. Isn't he attracted to me? The basic principle We pursue that which retreats from us.I have to say I was very disappointed in 'The Tao of Steve'. I had heard rave reviews from people I know telling me to see this movie. When I finally got around to renting it, I was very disappointing. The movie wasn't groundbreaking or interesting, but sadly very formulaic. The best aspect about the film is without a doubt Donal Logue's performance. Logue, a very underrated comedic performer, gets his chance to shine as Dex, the fat but charismatic ladies man who follows a strict code known as the 'tao of Steve' to get chicks. When he falls for one he rekindles a friendship with at a high school reunion, he suddenly starts questioning his unethical way of dealing with females. Besides Logue's fantastic performance, there's not much to love about this movie. Grade B- "}{"Title":"love of knowledge","Date":"14 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" i could comment on the philosophical aspects of this movie, as i might like to, but the point would be mute. especially given the fact that numerous human beings vastly more intelligent then myself have already pondered it and come up inconclusive. suffice it to say that the doctrine that we pursue that which retreats from us may have a kibble of truth to it and may also be a pretty pessimistic interpretation of human behavior. as for the movie itself it was rank mediocrity with passable acting, low budget camera work, and somewhat decent writing. the movie would work better as a double feature with the movie dopamine. another problem i see is the seeming incongruity between the fact that the main character dex seemingly only works part time, yet manages to afford a wonderfully furnished home filled with a large library of philosophical books that no doubt cost a bunch, and can manage to afford pot and alcohol for the infinite amounts of leisure time he has. that and the fact that he manages to escape the film with only one weak punch to his head is a miracle. in all likelihood someone like this would end up a grease spot on the eleven o'clock news.rent it with dopamine 7 out 10 depending on my mood "},{"Title":"The Feel Good Movie of the Battle of the Sexes Of the Summer","Date":"8 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The Tao of Steve is the anti-Neil LaBute movie. While it uses a similar technique of a bunch of guys sitting around advising on relationships with women, there's no misanthropy and misogyny here (probably because it's co-created with a woman, Jenniphyr Goodman). It's not just that a tubby Donal Logue is charming, but how haimish the whole movie feels, like Return of the Secaucus 7 did. The whole cast really feels like old friends interacting comfortably together in Santa Fe (reflected in all the amusing thank-you's in the closing credits).The soundtrack songs comment effectively on the action, including a Lemonheads The Outdoor Type and Logue used to be their roadie. I'd love for the fun title song to get an Oscar nom. There were several points where a Christine Lavin song or two would have fit in perfectly (especially the one about going to the opera because he loves the opera).There's some similarities to High Fidelity in how the battle of the sexes is viewed, but these folks feel more like they're acting their ages of being 10 years since college graduation.Definitely the feel good movie of the summer (originally written 8/27/2000) "},{"Title":"Funny, intelligent, and entertaining","Date":"29 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Dex reminds me so much of what I wanted to be during High school....Mentally of course. Greer did such a great job in her portrayal of Syd that I needed proof that she actually co-wrote this male-psyche flick. Beautifully written, acted, and casted. A must see!   "},{"Title":"simple 7/10","Date":"20 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Here is a film that has such a simple premise, the film itself comes off as being, well simple.  The film really only has two memorable things going for it, and that's the two performances by Donal Logue and Greer Goodman.The most amazing thing about The Tao of Steve is how the film makers were able to make such a ladies man out of obese Logue (Logue the actor, while husky, was wearing a fat suit).  Logue spews charm on the screen, and he does a great job in the shoes of a leading man.  The Tao of Steve is probably the reason why Donal scored his own siticom, Grounded For Life.Not really too much going for it, but it will probably win you over with its charm. "},{"Title":"BURIED TREASURE!","Date":"26 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Donal Logue is fantastic! Hope to see lots more of him real soon.  What a great little film.  Funny, Intelligent, Romantic, and Real.  Lost in the hype of the much grander though not nearly as satisfying Gladiator and Erin Brockovich.   It's a real buried treasure. "},{"Title":"Good fun!","Date":"17 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  No chase scenes, special effects or big stars, just a nice story charmingly told. Even though it did have a Hollywood ending it was fun watching the story unfold. I felt like I was watching a movie about my friends. This is my favorite kind of movie, I highly recommend it! Support small films! "},{"Title":"Very clever","Date":"13 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Donal Logue is fantastic as the unlikely hero.  The writing is quite clever and witty, and a number of no-name actors do a great job of presenting their characters.  Fat men of the world, there is hope for us yet! "},{"Title":"smart film","Date":"25 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Tao of Steve is a movie your going to want to see twice! It is a delightful, intelligent film about one man's philosophy on dating. I had the opportunity of contributing to this Sundance hit.  Of all the work I've read, this is some of the most intelligent script writing I've encountered. Jenniphr, Duncan and Greer created one hell of a film.  I laughed so much, I missed a bit of the dialogue.  I can't wait to see it again! "},{"Title":"He Thinks about one Subject  LAID","Date":"15 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Had no idea just how I was going to like this film and decided to stick it out. Donal Logue,(Dex)Two Days,'03, was a very horny guy who decided he had the right formula to trick gals into going to bed and just never seemed to get satisfied. Dex would jump from one bed, look out the window and chase a skirt in a car up a few blocks and really hit on his victim. Greer Goodman,(Syd), somewhat understood Dex and had slept with him years back, which Dex simply forgot and proceeded to hit on her like any other gal. This type of situation when on through out the entire picture, with Dex trying to convince his buddies to use his formula for women. Dex was definitely over sexed and wanted to get LAID all the time and even with married woman. Decide for yourself if this film is for you, and maybe it is? "},{"Title":"Don't waste your time","Date":"16 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Took me about 30 minutes before i started to fast forward through this deeply crap film. I Just didn't buy it at all. In fact it was so dull i switched it off and went to sleep.Avoid unless your an insomniac and need some help to nod off. "}{"Title":"doing stuff........","Date":"4 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The best of the slacker genre.  A fun, cute romantic film.  No it is not real.......so silly when people criticize a movie for not being real.  Of course not, that's why they call it Hollywood, stupid!  Dex's line about doing stuff is classic in itself.  8/10. "}]