[{"Title":"A Crystal Meth Film Noir","Date":"20 March 2004","Score":"101 out of 117 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I avoided watching this film for quite some time after its release. In part this was because what little I knew about the story hit a little too close to home in terms of substance abuse problems, and equally so because I'd generally read negative reviews about how bleak, depressing and meandering it was.Boy was I wrong. As it turns out this is a stylishly photographed, atmospheric little film noir set in the world of crystal meth junkies and hoods. Val Kilmer registers a most impressive performance as a musician turned junkie turned.... well, I won't give anything more away.The film's story line just seems to flow out toward the viewer in a languishing, yet engrossing stream, sucking you along in its undertow. Couple that with enough plot twists to catch your interest and this film makes for a perfect evening of quiet movie watching over a bowl of popcorn.Give this little gem a chance. Odds are you won't be disappointed.  "},{"Title":"A true attention-getter of a film.","Date":"3 March 2004","Score":"79 out of 93 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Excellent adult thriller.  Stylish, intense, funny and unexpectedly moving. Intricately plotted  (it will always be one step ahead of you) and fluidly, inventively directed (including a unique twist on Eastwood's classic Did I  fire six bullets...or only five? line).  Well-acted, especially by Kilmer. The less you know about it beforehand the better, though, so I'll just add this this film is not always pleasant to watch, but it has personality and will take you on quite a journey. Don't read about it, see it.      (***) "},{"Title":"Great movie, it's just that simple...","Date":"2 July 2004","Score":"48 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie was great, this time I'm actually glad I took the Blockbuster guy's advice and rented it.  It's not like LOTR or a Rocky movie where you come out feeling like you're on top of the world, but you will feel spun like by a great rollercoaster.  I wouldn't say it starts off slow, but it definitely eases you into things, then move on to the drug fests and the story starts to take shape, but without really revealing itself all at once.  As you watch more, you get that much more involved and gripped.  I found myself really captured by the movie to the point of having anxiety myself in some of the Poo bear scenes.  So towards the end I was strapped to my chair waiting to see what was going to happen, I did care about Kilmer's character, and I loved it how the movie keeps you guessing and on your seat till the end.  Being such a dark movie though, it wouldn't have been so memorable for me if the ending had been different.Kilmer's performance was good and he held his own, but Vincent D'Onofrio was brilliant in his role of Poo bear.  I also liked the scene with Bobby `hobby' as it was definitely memorable.I loved this movie, but as other reviews have said, if you are faint of heart then this movie is not for you.  It is dark, druggy, very pawn scum of life kind of thing, and you watch it with your guts in a knot for some of the movie, but it's worth the knot I tell you!  Did I mention that I liked the ending too?  Even though it was a dark movie overall, I left with the sensation of `Damn that was a good movie&#133;'  "},{"Title":"...A decent mystery, darkish thriller, some noir, drugs, love lost, and cops...","Date":"25 January 2005","Score":"54 out of 68 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The Salton Sea is an interesting film. It is a film that looks initially to be about drugs and the people who take them. Val Kilmer is in the lead role as a tweaker of crystal meth, and other substances, as well as a quite good sounding trumpet player. He begins by telling the viewer, via narration, explaining that he does not know who he really is and asks you to decide as we wind back through a recent period of his life to see how he came to where we first meet him.The movie gets its title from a key event to the film occurred at the Salton Sea and Kilmer's character has a huge tattoo in memory of this.What unravels is an intricate mystery that holds the viewers' attention but only just. The story is quite good but it is not in your face as one might expect a film of this acting calibre. It sunk at the cinema but maybe due to its art-house feel and advertising did not communicate this.Vincent D'Onofrio is nearly unrecognizably as unpredictable drug dealer Pooh Bear, named as such because of his flat nose, and Danny Trejo is here as one of his scary henchmen.If you are looking for a decent mystery, darkish thriller, some noir, drugs, love lost, and cops, then you could not go far wrong renting The Salton Sea. "},{"Title":"Kilmer's best yet","Date":"25 May 2003","Score":"39 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is the back shelf treasure that everyone hopes for when browsing the not-so-recent releases at the video store.  Pay attention to the other reviews posted here - they're not kidding.  This is a very well made film on every level.  Great script, acting is standout, direction is thoughtful and involved.  Not for kids. "},{"Title":"A real classic","Date":"9 February 2004","Score":"37 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Although having seen this seemingly obscure movie for the first time a few months ago, I truly feel like it makes my Top 15 list. Val Kilmer is convincing as a tweaker and has a crew around him that is priceless for their absolute comedic value (of course this is all with their brains on chemical overload).  Also, Vincent D'onofrio is brilliant as Pooh Bear (especially when you consider his Law & Order CI character Goran). I like this film becuase of the complexity of the story, the graphic and sobering nature of Danny Parker's drug culture and the intermittent comedic value with Pooh Bear, Kujo, Finn and Creeper.A must see if you have the chance to find this hardly publicized film. "},{"Title":"Stylish neo-noir.","Date":"4 June 2003","Score":"18 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The Salton Sea is a hypersaline artificial body of water accidentally created when engineers lost control of the Colorado River flow with which they were replenishing irrigation canals in California's Imperial Valley. For two years (1905-1907), the Colorado River was uncontrollably diverted from its natural course, filling the Salton Trough (part of the San Andreas Fault) before finally being set back on course. Since then, the Salton Sea continues to be replenished by irrigation runoff with no means of outflow except evaporation. It lies approximately 130 miles northeast of San Diego at the lowest point of the Sonoran Desert (278 feet below sea level). In that part of the world, the temperatures in summer, effectively April through November, can reach 120 degrees Fahrenheit, or even higher. In recent years, it has experienced massive fish and bird kills. In short, the Salton Sea is an apt metaphor for Hell ... which is just where Danny Parker/Tom Van Allen (Val Kilmer) finds himself at the beginning of this film, surrounded by flames. The Salton Sea is a highly stylized movie in which nearly all elements are executed well. The acting is generally excellent. Kilmer in the lead role does his best work since Tombstone, and Vincent D'Onofrio, an actor for whom I don't ordinarily care, is utterly convincing as the demented crank dealer Pooh Bear. He was so good I forgot I was watching D'Onofrio. Excellent supporting performances are contributed by Peter Sarsgaard as Danny/Tom's best friend, Doug Hutchison and Anthony LaPaglia as the two L.A. County Sheriff's deputies for whom Danny snitches, and Adam Goldberg as tweaker-in-residence Kujo. Even the minor characters of Creeper (Ricky Trammell), Big Bill (Josh Todd), and the gun seller (Mpho Koaho) are portrayed to perfection. My only complaint is that Deborah Kara Unger simply wasn't able to pull off her part as the strung-out lowlife Colette, perhaps because she's just too beautiful to be convincing in such a role. As an anti-parallel, imagine Danny Trejo cast as James Bond.Cinematography and editing were top notch, and the production design for this film was fantastic, from the diseased walls of Danny/Tom's apartment to the Level 4 biohazard lab in the 'Kujo's Big Heist' segment, with technicians wearing space suits that look like they came directly from Stanley Kubrick's 2001 A Space Odyssey. Even the smallest details were done with style, such as the flames cascading down Danny/Tom's arm from the sunburst tattoo centered on the scar of his shoulder wound. The intricate plot of Tony Gayton's script requires the viewer's suspension of disbelief at some points, but not enough to detract significantly from the overall merit of the movie. This is a very strong feature film debut for director D.J. Caruso, and I look forward to his future work. One of the best films I've seen in the last three years, The Salton Sea is definitely worth watching. Rating 8/10 "},{"Title":"Great Kilmer In A Great Flick","Date":"15 December 2002","Score":"23 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Val Kilmer has made some of the most peculiar and daring career choices of any actor now working.  His decision to appear in the disastrous remake of The Island of Dr. Moreau with Marlon Brando could have sunk him once and for all, save for his exceedingly nasty (and accurate) impersonation of Brando, tics and all, late in the film.  Now, as his features have thickened and he is well past his pretty boy phase ( something he can apparently give up, and Tom Cruise wouldn't dare we might notice there was no talent underneath the face cream), he is assuming roles that make full use of this brutalized looks.  SALTON SEA is a magnificent performance in a wholly satisfying film, with Kilmer being fully assisted by a dazzling supporting cast.  There are elements of classical balance in this story that make it not merely intellectually stimulating but emotionally moving.  It has everything great acting, great writing, and great directing.  Don't miss it.  "},{"Title":"Kilmer captures me in Salton Sea","Date":"18 November 2006","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Val Kilmer in Salton Sea is about as close to home as anything for me in this movie. He looks like just another guy on the streets of So Cal back in the 80's, looking for a quick high, with no idea of consequence. Salton Sea is a beautiful location that many don't know of. Kilmer's performance carries one through the movie effortlessly. From the intricacies of the actual life he portrays to the unshown details of the tenderness of the characters heart, Salton Sea delivers a complete package of salty and sweet. I would have never rented the movie had it been any other actor. The only reason I was drawn to the movie, was the title, because so few people know of the hidden gem in the California desert, and I had been there as a child. The theme was a place that I unfortunately also visited and I feel that the movie delivers a compelling reason for people to think before the act. To realize that there is always more than meets the eye. "},{"Title":"An Underrated, Dark Sea Of Mystery!","Date":"5 November 2009","Score":"14 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" *Very Minor, Undetailed Plot Spoiler Warning* Director D.J. Caruso has run into decent fame as of late after directing Eagle Eye, (Which I thought was pretty terrible by the way.), and the very popular Disturbia, (Which is basically a reversion of Hitchcock's classic thriller Rear Window.). However, I believe that he should be most recognized for this little gem of a film from his more distant past, 2002's The Salton Sea.One of the greatest things about The Salton Sea is that it unravels in very unexpected ways. Wrapping up the viewer in some dark unknown mystery, that piece by piece becomes clearer and clearer as the intriguingly masked plot unfolds into a tale of drugs, dirty law enforcement, love and revenge. From the visuals, to the dialogue, from the acting, to the delivery, The Salton Sea really is a gritty, enjoyable, and somewhat unique piece of work.Don't even bother with the plot hole scenarios that some people are conjuring up out of the thin air resting between their ears. The truth is that they just didn't pay enough attention to the details while watching this underrated little diamond in the rough. If you like dark, gritty mysteries, take your mind for a dive into The Salton Sea.7/10 "}{"Title":"Pretty good","Date":"29 August 2004","Score":"19 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is a moody, creepy thriller which reminds me a great deal of Philip K Dick's 'A Scanner Darkly' in some respects. Val Kilmer isn't exactly amazing (is he ever?) but he gets the job done. Most of the movie's high points come from the portrayal of the mindset of the drug subculture. Again, I'm reminded so much of PKD's comment about kids playing in the road even after they watched their friends getting run over one after another.A couple of the flashback/hallucination sequences were a little confusing, but I got the general drift.  The film has a seedy, nasty, slightly hallucinogenic quality to it. Kilmer seems slightly out of place - not messed up enough. Actually, that ends up making sense, but I won't give anything away.Not a great film, but different and stylish enough to deserve the 7.2 average it currently enjoys here. That's about what I'd give it.Also nice to see a drug/crime thriller where everything isn't blowing up every 30 seconds.Oh, I forgot to mention there are a few scenes in the film that are really darn funny. How that doesn't ruin the mood of the thing, I don't know, because it's a bit like laughing at a car wreck. "},{"Title":"****1/2 out of 5","Date":"15 September 2002","Score":"28 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Val Kilmer stars as Tom, a trumpet player, or is that Danny, a low life tweaker? I don't know, you decide. This film is a tense crime drama or was that a journey through the human mind with comedic overtones like Fight Club, or could it have been a drug analogy like Trainspotting? I don't know, you decide. The theme of the film involves one mans quest for vengence or was it one mans quest to renew himself, maybe it was one mans quest to find his identity? I don't know, you decide. Get the picture yet? Val Kilmer is one man with two identites. As Tom he is out to hunt down the men who killed his wife. As Danny he is helping a pair of cops make their drug busts to keep him out of jail. Both men are walking down the same path but they come to a fork in the road. Path one, forget everything and take the easy way out. Path two, the long hard road to success filled with corruption, greed, scandal and drugs galore. At the end of either path, Poo Bear, a fat, psychotic, rec-neck drug dealer with no nose. The story is very complex and director D.J, Caruso does a fabulous job od weaving together the life of Tom and the life od Danny and brings them together very nicely in the end. I also like how he portrays Danny as a guy who isn't really in tune with reality. Curaso's camera movement make it seem like the world is going on around him, but Danny doesn't seem to be living in it. Val Kilmer is finally given a role that he can shine in and Vincent D'Onofrio is either an idiot or a genious for taking one the role of Poo-Bear, one of the most original villians I have seen in years. The film is brilliant in how complex in which the story is told but that is also the films biggest downfall. It has so many genres rolled into one that it is often tedious until about half way through when the film finally finds itself and steadies out. It's original, it's complex, it's compelling, it suspenseful, it's funny and it's honest, it's everything you could ask for but is it worth checking out? I don't know, I haven't decided yet, but I like it's odds.    "},{"Title":"Nicely turned thriller about speed","Date":"10 August 2003","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is all about speed or meth, the synthetic stimulant used as a recreational drug.  It's a bit of a parable too, but it's rather hard to figure out what it all means.  The story focuses on one character who finds himself deep in the speed drug scene, but as the story progresses we find that he is more then he seems to be.  ... or maybe it is less.  It is an unusual film with some nice bold strokes in cinematography. "},{"Title":"My name is Tom Van Allen. I'm a trumpet player.","Date":"20 September 2012","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The Salton Sea is directed by D. J. Caruso and written by Tony Gayton. It stars Val Kilmer, Vincent D'Onofrio, Peter Sarsgard, Doug Hutchinson, Anthony LaPaglia, Debora Kara Unger, Adam Goldberg and Luis Guzmán. Music is scored by Thomas Newman and cinematography by Amir Mokri.Danny Parker (Kilmer) is hanging out with a bunch of methamphetamine users, apparently in an effort to numb the pain of his one time life that saw his wife murdered. Or is he? The word of mouth for it was strong, but no sooner did it hit cinemas than it disappeared off the face of the earth. However, the cult cinema world is often a vibrant place to lurk, enter there and you find The Salton Sea, a wonderfully tricksy and off beat neo-noir awash with misery, revenge, redemption and odd ball characters that are either stuck in purgatory, or heading to nowhereville.Protagonist Danny Parker leads the film, a man whose identity is fractured after being dealt a blow from the hands of fate, very much in limbo mentally, he none the less has goals to achieve, nothing is never quite as it seems until director Caruso wants us in on the side-shifts. Danny is often in the company of danger and weird characters, from a hopped up harpoon wielding loon, to a no nose psycho (too much meth up the nose will make you lose it kids), via dirty cops and meth heads, it's a world of unease, the twisty plot drawing the viewer in with a kinky smile on its face.Caruso also pulls off the neat trick of placing humour in this off kilter world without hurting the dramatic harshness of the thematics. There's a quite brilliant sequence that shows a botched crime being attempted by the meth head crew, this we watch at the same time as they discuss about actually pulling the crime off. That it involves a stool sample from Bob Hope should tell you all you need to know about the intelligence of the wannabe perps! Caruso's camera is fluid and he uses certain neo-noir visual tricks of the trade as well (time lapses etc), and he also has a knack for varying the mood without avertying the slowly bubbling to the surface pace that the story requires.Kilmer is superb, perfectly low-key, there is no need for rage, the yearning for revenge and redemption, for identity, is brought out via calmly delivered dialect, and it's very affecting. D'Onofrio as Pooh Bear, the afore mentioned no nose fella, steals the movie with another of his off the planet nut-jobs. Elsewhere, Sarsgard is as appealing as he has ever been as Danny's stoner best mate, Hutchinson and LaPaglia cut fine figures as dirty cops, while Guzmán and Danny Trejo leave an impressively grungy mark. The only disappointment is the lack of screen time for Kara Unger, a fine actress, she is playing what turns out to be a critical femme fatale role, but really we needed more of her. It's a rare misstep in an otherwise cracking neo-noir that is highly recommended to fans of similarly devilishly fun pictures. 8.5/10 "},{"Title":"Wow...I thought this movie was going to suck.","Date":"11 October 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The synopsis and inclusion of Val Kilmer wasn't promising, but this movie turned out to be very entertaining and I recommend it for anyone looking for a decent action/drama. I think Kilmer does an amazing job. I don't want to give details away, so I'll be brief. Whether or not it is a work of genius, I don't know, but I do know that it is worth renting. It has it's weaker moments, using narration and flashback ineffectively (in my opinion). I think they could've changed up the order of many of the scenes. Really that is just being picky, everyone will enjoy this movie. I watch a lot of movies. This one is better than most. "},{"Title":"Hollywood Glamour. This film's technique is hot!","Date":"30 May 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This film is a hidden gem, and if you've seen it, Trainspotting, Fight Club, and others of this shiny Hollywood dirty, then you know what I mean. Everything is perfectly dark, muggy, and setup for us to believe it. I've made film for about 10 years, and helped in every level of cinema. This helps when I see films of this nature and stylization.Val Kilmer's jewelry, add on tattoos, green hair dye mixed with his placement inside of the tweakers, addicts, in this film is great. Similar to Moulin Rouge, the setting is introduced to us in a lar, quick montage, and everything is carefully placed, or their talent to do this is inherient even in quick editing and set decisions. Look for everything you can, including a passed out tweaker under a tree in the hot noon day light as the characters leave for more gank. It reminds me of the tiny things you'll see watching over and over with FIght Club in the first half of the film.Great political references, perfect prop usage, and very believable character development, Hollywood style albeit, is what makes this film so good to watch. I can't help but to constantly reference other films with this, because it reminds me so much of all the great moments of others I love so much. ANother film that has this lone Elvis like character and the whole drug scenario is True Romance. The use of abused women as a character focus seems to parallel as well.I hope this film gets more play and recognition, or maybe I don't. This has a certain bad taste about the whole thing, because there's no real hero, and nobody wins in the end. I believe that's what holds it back in the limelight of American cinema, where we are spoon fed simple answers of happy or sad endings with concrete answers. This film, like that of Memento, has a formula that is not unique, but allows the viewer to investigate their own interpretations of the piece at hand. Maybe that's why the allure to it's dirty, unfinished environment is so captivating, because when the story let's you decide some parts even if it's extremely well illuminated, you can come back time and time again to enjoy the mystery that this film is.Is it the best film ever? Certainly not, but then again, almost every piece of cinema has flaws and is unfinished, even the greats, so I have to say from the viewer to the producer, watching this film and taking it in is both a pleasure for craft, style, and emotional string pulling. "},{"Title":"Much better than average neo-noir, beautifully shot.","Date":"23 July 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Val Kilmer gives us Tom Van Allen, a jazz musician embarked on a quest through the world of methamphetamine dealers, users and other predators. Kilmer is wonderful, as usual, in this alternately harrowing and hilarious post-Pulp Fiction noir thriller.The whole cast is pretty wonderful as well. I especially enjoyed Vincent D'Onofrio as an eccentric drug dealer who has clearly been too long in the high desert.The real standout element of the film, however, is the photography by Amir Mokri. Unlike some neo-noir, Mokri and director D.J. Caruso effectively balance high-key daytime shots with the darker interior and night shots, and all of them are excellently done.The best elements of the screenplay are the many funny scenes, including a might-have-been heist gone wrong, a recreation of the JFK assassination, and a wonderful update of the Easy Andy scene from Taxi Driver.The Salton Sea is worth seeing for fans of Kilmer, noir or both. "},{"Title":"About as dead and polluted as the lake it was named after.","Date":"1 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  After the first 10 or so minutes I was almost ready to turn it off.  The repetitious scenes of a drug den just did not appeal to me.  Obviously I watched the entire movie.  It turned out that Kilmer is playing the part of a man looking for his wife's killer with out the aid of the police and was doing the drug world as well as interfacing as a rat, stool pigeon for older folks,  with bad cops to catch him. The bad cops turn out to be the killers he is seeking.  Multiple flash backs blend the past with the present to reveal what has happened and connect the story line.  The FBI gets involved and confirms the suspicions as to who the real killer was.  Then they set up a sting operation, however, Kilmer's character goes off on a tangent and does his own thing.  In the end he does do in his wife's killer, but almost gets killed by another hostile druggie in his own apartment.  Get past the first 15 minutes and its worth the time to watch. "},{"Title":"Completely freaky ending","Date":"12 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I had a hard time at the end figuring out if he died or not or if it was all just some speed freak dream. I found the imagery disturbing-it was definitely a new trick for Val and he pulled it off pretty well except for the hair some of the time. He is older than the other freaks and tweakers in the film but he never seems out of place. But please, some low level user is going to get that close to big time dealers in a year or less? He looked way too healthy for one thing-that should have been a tip-off to Pooh-bear. I just never bought how fast he went from Joe Average to the poster child for Gak Anonymous. "},{"Title":"Very Underated","Date":"6 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I saw this movie for one reason Val Kilmer, he has a gift of bringing characters together in interesting ways. It was a great film that I wish there was more buzz about. The tweakers are very interesting especially with their schemes. Also Vincent D'Onofrio as Pooh Bear is great! Definately worth seeing twice. "}{"Title":"Take a Walk on the Wild Side","Date":"3 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I like my wild rides tainted with some sentiment and civility - and this movie delivers. When confronted with the offer to participate in the absurd Bob Hope/Ebay caper, Danny Parker says I'll pass, thank you and Jimmy Finn says I'm good.I love how polite Danny is - when talking to Quincy or to the cops or especially to his friend Jimmy Finn.  In this wild wild world of the meth tweeker scene, I appreciated this bit of civility.  This movie had some wonderful moments for me, and the scenes between Jimmy Finn and Danny are my favorites.  Val and Vincent starred in two of my favorite movies - Tombstone and Household Saints and now I'm adding The Salton Sea.  "},{"Title":"Dreadful","Date":"25 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I mean dreadful quite literally as in full of dread.  Dread is not the same thing as suspense.  I felt like throwing up.  This whole thing would've gone down better with an audience if they knew early on what Val's deal was with the bad cops.  The actors are great...it's not their fault.  The editing breaks this movie.  You know when you are more worried about the captive, hungry badger than you are about your hero's balls, that the movie has a real problem with tone.Phooey!  Too much sadism even though the violence happens mostly off screen... like beer commercials drink off screen.  It's worse really.Too bad.  A waste of good actors and probably a good director too.  Some really good sequences.  The history at the beginning.  The tweaks silly rip-off scheam.  Funny stuff.  Like i said... a problem with tone.Ah well, an interesting failure. "},{"Title":"Not Realistic, but still a good movie","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  most of the tweakers I have ever met were just not that sophisticated. by the time they got to that level of addiction everybody was slammin, they had sores all over their bodies, there teeth were rotted out, all of the women and men did whatever it took to score. Very sad.on the other hand it was pretty interesting. great tattoo's, cinematography was done very well, loved the soundtrack, what a waste of Deborah Kara Unger's acting abilities.Now on to the main reason I went to see this film D'Onofrio! What a fantastic performance. He made this movie. That wheeziness throughout his dialogue made his character beliveable. Plus his total disregard for morality.Overall this was a good movie, just not very accurate. "},{"Title":"Powerful Film, Amazingly Underrated","Date":"3 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I have two memories of The Salton Sea from before I ever saw it. First, it was always in the cheap box at the movie store, and second, I liked the cover.So one Christmas, I picked a copy up for a friend, having heard good things. I could not have imagined what a strong film it was going to be, and it has been a personal favorite of mine ever since.It has all the pieces of a great film an original story told through intense direction, a unique, perfectly acted main character(Kilmer's best by far); a fantastic villain (Vincent D'onofrio's masterpiece performance) and a brutally powerful ending.If you are in the mood for a fast, entertaining, dark, powerful and stylish neo-noir vengeance story; The Salton Sea is for you.Get a copy, you won't be let down, everything is absolutely first rate; and the film approaches greatness. "},{"Title":"Possibly Val Kilmer's best film ever..","Date":"2 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This film was an absolute treat! an amazingly enjoyable thrill ride! if your one of those that switches a film off, when you see drug abuse, i warn you, don't switch off this, because your sincerely missing an excellent, well casted, well directed film! a must see for anybody so long as none of the themes in the film could offend you, one of the best films here of 2002! an excellent cast of Val Kilmer, the Beautiful Deborah Kara Unger, Luis Guzmán, and Peter Sarsgaard, with an excellent character in the film called Pooh Bear played by Vincent D'Onofrio, He's wicked! With lots of twists and turns, and a solid story to follow, everything gets put together, with a great blend of humor. Don't rent it, when you see it, buy it, you wont be disappointed. "},{"Title":"This sea may make you sick","Date":"22 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"    POSSIBLE SPOILERS AHEAD 'The Salton Sea' is not a terrible movie, it has redeeming qualities, but it pales in comparison with another widower/revenge drama, the powerful 'Memento'. Val Kilmer saves this movie, and is really excellent as a speed addict, living on the fringes of society, who is hunting down his wife's killers. In Memento, any plot holes are obliterated by the complexity of the story and primal nature of the husband's quest for revenge.  In this film, we are told that the husband becomes involved in the world of speed addicts in order to catch the killers.  First, does will power make it possible to immerse oneself into this lifestyle and highly addictive drug without getting addicted yourself?  Doubtful.  Second, the character played by Kilmer does not seem as focused on violent revenge as Leonard Shelby in Memento, yet his half-baked plan at the film's climax results in multiple homicides, with many of the deaths being drug dealers that had no direct part in his wife's death.    The story is like swiss cheese, but the performance of Kilmer is one of his best, and if you can stomach the vivid portraits of society's true low-lifes without turning off, you may enjoy 'The Salton Sea'.   "},{"Title":"Sea Before You Judge Others","Date":"30 November 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This excellent film contains not only an outstanding performance by Val Kilmer (as the straight yuppie Tom Van Allen who becomes Danny Parker, the emotional pain-induced newbie tweaker), but also an important message that is lost on most of society. Before universally and dismissively judging someone who is a substance abuser, consider that there are some (perhaps many?) people who have taken the path taken by Tom Van Allen in The Salton Sea and that they have done so to escape the unimaginable pain of loss. This under-rated, under-appreciated film deserved much more praise then it has received, as do many in its cast including Kilmer - in one of his best performances - as well as fellow tweaker Peter Sarsgaard, and physically and emotionally abused Deborah Unger. There was a time in my life when I was a no-drugs poster child of whom Nancy Reagan would have been proud. The older I get, the more I realize just how much life has to do with the choices - both good and bad - that we make and that all of these choices have purpose and, perhaps, value. "},{"Title":"Gacked out","Date":"10 September 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  In short this movie is a very good movie about drug use, specifically, speed. While I cannot comment on any accuracy, it approaches Fear & Loathing in Las Vegas in terms of a good drug movie. But if you don't like F&L or Trainspotting this movie might not be suited to you. The character of Pooh Bear was very interesting and produced a lot of the memorable scenes of the film. There was an undercurrent of Memento throughout the film, not stylistically or through direction, but more along the lines of story and the feeling of narration. Very cool to see Val Kilmer with tatts and punk hair. "},{"Title":"I loved this movie","Date":"14 July 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Every so often you see a movie that leaves you feeling thoughtful, one with an atmosphere that has you so absorbed that you feel like you've lived the experience. The Salton Sea left me that way. This movie 'had me' from the beginning to the end, and by the end, I felt like I had been on a long, interesting journey. Something that might be found unlikable about the movie is the constant monologue, which some might find to be cliché, But Val Kilmer speaks them so well that not once did I find them to be so. The great story line and superb acting makes it a solid movie, one that does not evoke questions of credibility. It is the best movie I've seen in a long time. I give it a 10. "},{"Title":"Dark and Kool","Date":"11 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Offbeat film noir deals with the subjects of vengeance and identity. Excellent soundtrack and really funny one-liners by its supporting cast, and by the lead. If you get a chance, watch the extras on the DVD release. This movie is very, very west coast; and I like that. I also liked how messed up in the head all the characters are!! Even the characters who are supposed to be together people seem to have identity problems. I also enjoyed the tattoos, wardrobe, haircuts, and general funkiness of everything. In addition, I think this film is very original and I love its cinematic texture. It presents itself to you as this dark fantasy-world. "}{"Title":"Great role for and by Val Kilmer.","Date":"15 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I've seen this one quite a few times, and the whole melancholy 'thing' with Val Kilmer's character switching back and forth in time, with the fire and the trumpet and the confusion as to who he was, is and will be, has a real attractive quality to it, for the lack of a better word. When his two personalities are both dead in the end, and yet a third one comes out hopeful in the end, it's simply one of those few original film noir endings that we're all hoping to discover every now and then.The rest of the cast is just spot on, too. Vincent D'Onofrio obviously put some work into the redneck crazy man Pooh-Bear, as did Peter Sarsgaard for the ever so sympathetic Jimmy the Finn, or Deborah Kara Unger to compose her believable woman-in-(double-)trouble Colette. I could go on mentioning pretty much the whole cast, but I'll stop at saying that there isn't a bad element here actor-wise... although some of those meth-heads are pretty over the top. The story is largely not wildly original, but has some interesting perspectives, okay twists and, as mentioned, the weaving in of Danny's past is wonderfully done.A big 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Neo-noir masterpiece","Date":"5 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Have you ever thought about being someone else? Just leaving behind everything you know and diving headfirst into a new name with new friends and new interests? Would that really erase who you were before? The story begins with several drug users in the midst of a binge. The narrator, Danny Parker (played by Val Kilmer) is also the main character. The drug that he and his companions are and have been consuming for several days is methamphetamine. Danny (Kilmer) then gives a brief editorial describing the history of methamphetamine, from its initial invention to the changing profile of the user over the years from kamikaze pilots to housewives to truck drivers and motorcycle gangs. We are then returned to the drug den where one of the users, known as Cujo (played by Adam Goldberg) screams to the entire room that their supply has run out. Danny and another addict Jimmy the Finn (played by Peter Sarsgaard) leave to buy more from a user and dealer that Jimmy is acquainted with. After Danny has returned with the drugs and the binge runs its course, he informs on the dealer to officers Gus Morgan (played by Doug Hutchison) and Al Garcetti (played by Anthony LaPaglia). His dealings with law enforcement are a secret he keeps from his fellow users. Once he's alone and in his own apartment, however, we are shown yet another secret which is kept not only from those he injects methamphetamine with, but also the police he informs to. He sheds his jewelry, washes out the Mohawk he regularly sports, and then states to the empty room that his name is Tom Van Allen and that he's a trumpet player.This is an amazing movie. Kilmer manages to perfectly portray a loving husband and trumpet player and then seamlessly transform into a derelict drug abuser. LaPaglia and Hutchison, as characters whose true nature and motives are not known at first, put forth performances that are almost as compelling, if not equally so. Deborah Kara Unger as the one character that Kilmer bears his soul to brings an entirely different dimension and resolution to the story. By this point, it should be obvious that this film isn't for everyone. Nonetheless, I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"Tweaked to perfection","Date":"9 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" If ever a movie turned out to be not what I was expecting, this is it.Narration sets the tone for this quirky, yet disturbing movie. Wait until I've told my whole story, but don't give up on me just yet &#x96; nothing is as it seems, says Val Kilmer's character, Tom Van Allen, as he plays an anguished trumpet solo while his apartment burns down around him. The story is played out in a long flashback. Methedrine addiction underpins the story. Van Allen explains the all-consuming nature of speed or crank addiction and the world of the addicts &#x96; the tweakers. As Van Allen tells his tale, we see his alter ego, Danny Parker, at a four-day tweaker party in the suburbs &#x96; the land of the perpetual night party. Covered in tattoos and sporting heavy rings and chains, Parker is an arresting sight. Although tweakers at first glance would seem to be the neighbours from hell, Danny Parker sees worth in the denizens of this twilight world. When you finally hit rock bottom, He explains, you know who you are because you can't go any lower, and you find intimacy with those who can go the distance.However, Danny's rock bottom is another notch down from the average tweaker because he is also a police informer. Danny pinpoints crank dealers for two unsavoury detectives. One of them, Al Garcetti, played by Anthony LaPaglia actually seems worse than the drug dealers he pursues. Eventually, the two detectives cut Danny loose, warning him that Columbian drug dealers are hunting him. But Danny doesn't run, instead, he attempts to set up a bust by himself. It is then that we realise that Tom Van Allen / Danny Parker may have another agenda after all. He has descended into tweaker hell after his wife, a methedrine addict, was killed while shopping for drugs in a crank house that was raided by what appeared to be a rival gang. Van Allen survived but is so racked with guilt that he assumed the identity of Danny Parker to try and track down the killers himself.Of all the disturbing characters in the movie, the most confronting is Pooh-Bear played by Vincent D'Onofrio. Danny seeks out Pooh-Bear to set up a huge crank deal that fits in with his scheme for revenge. Pooh-Bear has lost his nose from overuse of crank and now wears a plastic one in its place &#x96;in one scene Danny happens upon him before he has glued it on for the day. Pooh Bear's lack of nose was achieved through clever CGI work.The Salton Sea has more depth than a simple description of the plot would imply. Only in the last ten minutes or so does it become more contrived and predictable. Not a bad effort when many movies these days feel contrived and predictable from the opening credits. Aided by an eye-popping performance from Kilmer, The Salton Sea never loses its grip on the audience. Thomas Newman's score combined with trumpet solos by the late Gil Evans, accentuate the mood of this film about a man who to expiate his guilt, has descended to the lower rungs of society. The Salton Sea makes a compelling movie out of a depressing subject without in any way making the lifestyle appear desirable. "},{"Title":"Moody, pretty solid and satisfying druggie crime drama","Date":"25 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The Salton Sea commences in classic neo noir fashion, camera looking down at a man slumped upon the floor of a burning room, his mournful notes dancing in the air amidst charring money, wearied voice over inviting the audience to make their own mind up as to the events that led to this pretty pass. By and by the film enters less into the expected machinations of love, money and deceit, but a story of a sad man and his life among the terminally addicted, a milieu rather well evoked. Where all too many films about drugs mist along in glum pointlessness, bask in dumb revelry or wallow in bathos The Salton Sea gets things rather right, stylised for sure but in the aid of a well handled mood, endless days of sunless light, warmth of hazy friendship, excitable chatter and mad ideas. Its pleasing stuff, quirky and sympathetic drama tinged with offbeat humour and ever laced through with disturbing undercurrents of danger, with an eclectic cast handling their roles well. Much of the film is really pretty swell actually, which makes the final block all the more of a let down when the plot comes together. Though well executed things come together in regrettably typical fashion, eschewing the potential for thoughtful and interesting fusion of noir elements and drugged out characters, its fun in its quirky and violent fashion but a bit of a let down really. Still, assured direction from DJ Caruso (who appears not to have made anything worthwhile since) and plenty of good turns keep the film afloat. Val Kilmer is powerfully haunted as the hero with dark secrets and darker past, his star power subsumed into a pretty interesting character. Vincent D'Onofrio is an unhinged blast as a dealer with a fake nose, Deborah Kara Unger well worn and wearied as a beleaguered neighbour, Peter Saarsgard brings light as a friendly addict, Anthony LaPaglia and Doug Hutchison are hard nosed cops and there's even a nice restrained R. Lee Ermey cameo. A fine mixture, and they gel well together making for a smooth, interesting ride. With a better ending this could almost be a minor modern favorite of mine, but as it stands is merely pretty darned decent. Strong 7/10 from me, worth a look. "},{"Title":"The Salton Sea is nothing short of pure brilliance.","Date":"3 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The Salton Sea is utterly fantastic. It's amazing it took me this long to watch it, it's an instant classic.What makes the movie so fantastic is the amount of content and the variety of said content that is displayed. It's gritty, yet intellectual. Slow, yet paced perfectly. The story unravels slowly, yet the story happens to fast. I think it's safe to say, that the complexity of this movie can not be understated. What you are getting here is the total package. From the gorgeous delivery and beautiful cinematography, to the intricate details from the culmination of the plot. The thought engrossing script, and the perfectly acted epic story tells the tale of redemption, revenge, heartbreak, sorrow, loss, and glory. Val Kilmer delivers his best roll of his entire life. This movie will be relevant for the next 100 years. Do yourself a favor, and add this to your must watch list. "},{"Title":"Skillful Genre Piece.","Date":"19 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Val Kilmer is pretty good as the junkie who rats on his dealers for the Los Angeles police. He's all punked up with spiky hair and a vast, gaudy tattoo of crimson and black across his shoulders. He wears dozens of silver rings. God, is he ugly. But he plays it well. When he's in danger he looks and acts genuinely scared, as you and I might do.His friends, juicers and dopers, are gotten up in much the same fashion and they sit around bejeweled and bedazzled and dream up schemes of robbing a hospital and rappelling down the central staircase with Bob Hope's fecal specimen to be sold for a fortune on eBay. I swear I'm not making that up. The writer, Tony Gayton, thought it up.Among the supporting players, Peter Sarsgaard and Vincent D'Onofrio are unforgettable. Sarsgaard is a relatively normal friend of Kilmer's. With his wide smile and soft eyes he seems like a love-struck groupie, but, man, he has demonstrated great range in other roles, like his villainous rapist in Boys Don't Cry. He's truly talented.D'Onofrio has a juicier role. He's a rolling, pudgy big-time dope dealer named Pooh Bear who lives in a desert shack, wears a plastic nose in place of his real one, has beaten a man to death with an electric wheelchair, and eats brains for breakfast. He lumbers around, drawling and cackling. Everybody in this movie is bizarre but he gets the palm.The story is a bit complicated and the script lets us in on it by means of flashbacks, prudently used from time to time. Kilmer isn't the man he seems. By the movie's end, he's not even the man he didn't seem to be.Betrayal follows betrayal. Most of it is handled delicately. There is hardly a moment when we're lost. But the structure is weak. How funny is the Kennedy assassination restaged for laughs? How many climaxes can a story have? Why does Kilmer fling his trumpet into the Salton Sea at the end? I wasn't lost. I was just stumped. But there's another feature of the film that ought to be mentioned, I guess. This is a low-down revenge movie at heart, dealing with shabbier characters than you would ever want to meet. It's filled with guns and occasional bouts of violence. Yet, except near the beginning, when director D. J. Caruso wants to give us an illustration of what the world looks like inside a dedicated doper's head, there is no directorial razzle dazzle. There's no slow motion. The camera doesn't wobble around in some post-ictal twilight state. Racking shots, zooms, and other tricks are largely absent. It must have been tempting for Caruso, as it would be for any young director, to call attention to his auctorial authority, but he restrains himself. Somebody should shake his hand. "},{"Title":"Stunned and amazed at how good this movie is.","Date":"19 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I am not a pro reviewer nor did I ever hear of this film until 3 days ago when it was on Showtime. I was enthralled in this film. Constant surprises, and the story that evolved around it. The actors and actresses all were so enthralled in their parts. The vivid scenery and usage of all else involved truly made me enjoy this film. I would like to just say that I am not a great writer as shown here. nut i wanted to tell anyone that is thinking about watching this movie to watch it. finally when I noticed the film had a budget of 18 mil and grossed 754k I was stunned. Who didn't understand how to promote an excellent movie? I never heard of it until the other day. It's funny how someone can make an excellent movie as shown by the reviews here and completely mess up the marketing. Watch this movie. It will not disappoint. "},{"Title":"Fantastic","Date":"20 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I've been looking up Kilmer's work before he hit rock-bottom and the straight to video market. So far The Salton Sea tops the list.Kilmer plays a burned-out junkie who has at least one other identity. He gets in trouble with psychotic drug dealer Pooh-Bear (Vincent D'Onofrio), while trying to level his position with cops Garcetti (Anthony LaPaglia) and Morgan (Doug Hutchison) and being haunted by the death of his wife.A very, very good drug drama. The plot is involving and always interesting, the characters are utterly original and engrossing. The cinematography draws you in and the direction overall is very well done. Kilmer and D'Onofrio are just amazing. They steal each scene they're in and show why they're two of the best in the business. Doug Hutchison as well. Definitely recommend this one. "},{"Title":"Great Film Buried By 911","Date":"31 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I saw this movie when we were going thru the 911 Tragedy. It was to be released and was held back, I feel that is what killed this film in the box office. There may be other reasons that I am not aware of, but D.J.Caruso has a very good eye for reality. You can see the same vision & reality in his series The Shield, it is also in this movie.I applaud him in this movie, it was better to me then Traffic. I am a film maker and have worked with few A-listed Directors,I am looking forward to seeing more of his work in the future.Great Little Film, Val was great as was his cast. This is a Great Little Film That got smothered by the big releases.   "},{"Title":"Stylish suspense drama.","Date":"30 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is a pretty good film about a man bent on revenge and the elaborate plan he undergoes to get the people who shot his wife.  It's centered around the world of speed freaks, dealers, and a pair of crooked cops.  Rather than go into any plot detail and spoil it for anyone, let me just say that there are many twists and turns along the way to redemption.Val Kilmer plays the central character who's out to get his wife's killers, and his acting, albeit a bit cold and impersonal, is right for the part.The supporting cast is very good also.  Vincent D'Onofrio is especially good in the role of Pooh-Bear, the good ole boy cooker/dealer.  He's an interesting combination of malevolence and humor, and I thought he stole the movie.  Anthony Lapaglia plays one of the dirty cops, and Luis Guzmán plays a slimeball working for the Mexican mob.  R. Lee Ermey also makes a brief appearance, although not with his Full Metal Jacket co-star, D'Onofrio.Takes itself a bit too seriously, but the movie is interesting to watch and I'd recommend it to anyone who likes suspense films with a dash of film noir in them. "}{"Title":"Reality...","Date":"21 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The people responsible for making this film obviously have spent some time in the Salton City because that is EXACTLY what it is like.  Everyone I run into comments that they think the Salton Sea is where serial killers and drug dealers go to never be found again.  I actually ate lunch there once...and seeing this movie reminded me of that day.  The movie itself is a very well written and directed.  If you like movies with revenge, plot twists, and the reality of how messed up you can actually be on speed, this movie is for you. "},{"Title":"A perfect example of what is wrong with the movie industry","Date":"28 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I have watched thousands of movies and the vast majorities of them are predictable.  The Salton Sea is an intriguing film that keeps you entertained with never ending plot twists.  This is the type of movie that deserves and Academy Award for being intelligent.  After watching this movie on cable, I felt cheated that I never had the opportunity to see it in the theater.  If the movie industry wants to survive it must continue to produce great films like this and let them play in the theater instead of the strait to video trend if it does not test well in front of some Bible belt audience.  It is sad that I go to the theater weekly to see movies and leave unfulfilled, and then when I get home, I see a wonderful film like the Salton Sea.  I am at the point of giving up on the theater and sticking to cable for good movies. "},{"Title":"Kilmer delivers","Date":"9 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Its been quite some time since we've seen Val Kilmer in anything resembling an interesting role and while the story and script are familiar its Kilmers performance that enables it to come off. The story starts with Kilmer as Danny Parker sitting on the floor bleeding in a house that is on fire and he narrates what has happened to him. Parker is a druggie who also is a snitch for two police officers (Anthony Lapaglia and Doug Hutchinson) and we learn that he is an ex-jazz man and a widower. We also learn that Danny Parker is an alias for Tom Van Allen and the two cops tell him that some Hispanic drug dealer that he snitched on is out to get him. Parker wants to get out and disappear but he needs money so with the help of his friend Jimmy (Peter Sarsgaard) he sets up a big drug deal with a strange guy with no nose named Pooh-Bear (Vincent D'Onofrio).  *****SPOILER ALERT***** As the film continues we discover that Parker is actually undercover for the FBI and the two cops are dirty and responsible for the death of his wife. The film is directed by D.J. Caruso who does a good job of helping to elevate this material up a notch considering that we have seen this type of film before. The cinematography is very good and in certain scenes the film has a dreamlike effect and the script has some poetic qualities that enable it to have a good flow and rhythm. D'Onofrio as Pooh-Bear gives us one of the more memorable villains in film in a number of years. This character has no nose and recreates JFK's assassination with pigeons! He talks like a good ol' boy but if he thinks you've done him wrong he lets you know that you will pay. D'Onofrio shines with this colorful character and its essential to the film. But at the core of the picture is Kilmers performance. When he's good (Tombstone) he can be as good as any actor in the business. While this is a familiar story it still has scenes in it that allows Kilmer to really showcase his talent. One scene that stands out is near the end when he puts the gun to his head and contemplates suicide. A very strong scene. Some critics hated this film and they cited that its another sleazy drug film with sleazy characters and you can't argue with most of that but the performances by D'Onofrio and especially Kilmer add that little something extra to make it something more. Film has a lyrical quality to the way its told and this also helps make the characters become more defined. In the end, I was very happy just to see Kilmer in a good role. I hope he gets more quality parts because he's to gifted of an actor. "},{"Title":"what is the nature of identity?","Date":"19 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  spoilers aheadcontrary to what the movie may seem to be (the meth scene, cop drama, revenge tale) it's really about who we are.  _blade runner_ asked it, _total recall_ asked it, and now we have another entry.  the salton sea looks great; excellent costume design (all the tweakers have taste of some kind, whether it's wretched pooh bear or sublime danny flynn) and set dressing (the meth party where we're introduced to shalom harlow and the rest of the crew, for example).  film's primarily visual, so we need this gorgeous hook to pull us into the world; and once we're there, the central question is this are we the things we do, or are we who we believe we are?  danny does drugs and rats out dealers, so that makes him a lowlife scumbag.  tom thinks he's a failure and thinks he needs to get revenge to right the wrong perpetrated on his wife.  the question is answered rather neatly at the end we are the sum of the choices we've made, and the choices we're going to make.the salton sea is viewable as a straight ahead drama, but there's more to see if you care to look.  it's quite good. "},{"Title":"drugs and death! wheeeeeeee","Date":"17 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  A bit weird, lots of cliches, some of its parts don't seem to be from the same movie, but despite all that, it's engrossing and stylish and I enjoyed it a lot.  During the first few minutes, I wasn't sure I was going to like this one; the voiceover monologue was SO cliched that my brain started to itch.  Pretty soon, though, things got interesting, and then the rest of the movie happened.The last shot (or almost the last one) in the movie is amazing Kilmer standing on the edge of the Salton Sea (I guess) with one tree sticking up partway out of the water maybe 50 feet out from the water's edge.  When that shot first came on the screen I couldn't believe it was real; it looked like a beautiful painting.  Then he threw the trumpet into the water, and sure enough, it was real!  At least, I think it was, or else it was fantastic special effects.  Great colors and lighting; very striking shot.  Marvy job on that one, guys.  (The rest of the movie was well shot too, but that one took my breath away.)8/10 for me.  About all I didn't like was the unreality of the female death scene (she wouldn't have lived that long), the unlikeliness of a cop missing the fact that one person in a gunfight had worn a bulletproof vest and thus had survived, and the difficulty I had in following a couple of developments (probably I'd get it if I watched the movie again, though). "},{"Title":"A short review of The Salton Sea","Date":"15 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I don't throw this around very often, but this is one of the best films I've seen in the last few years.I have not seen such originality on screen for quite a while.  The Salton Sea tells the tale of a meth addict(Val Kilmer) who has lost his wife for reasons unknown.  Without giving away too much, I can say that this film will take the audience on very twisty and entertaining ride.  It is not a slave to the idea that every thriller must have some crazy twist at the end. However, it does twist its story around quite a bit.  In this is its genius.The film is great because it sets up a modern story in a film noir setting. Like a noir film, it never allows the audience to get comfortable.  Just when you think you have figured out the plot, you haven't.  The Salton Sea is an entertaining stylish piece of filmmaking in which you will see Kilmer in one of his best performances (It's no Doc Holiday, but let's not be hasty). "},{"Title":"MORE TRUTH THAN THE TAGLINE","Date":"12 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  as one who once plumbed the depths of the meth world i can tell you this was a job well done by all.good acting by all concerned.i don't think the manic world of tweakers can be overstated.it,too,is by turns hilarious or dark & nasty.as far as reality goes,there was more snorting than is actually done in real life.most smoke or inject,but this may have been a personal preference by the director or something to do with the rating board. having blurted all that out,i have to say i really enjoyed this movie & recommend it to anyone wanting something a little offbeat. "},{"Title":"A dark yet entertaining film","Date":"26 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The Salton Sea has got to be THE film made with tweakers in mind. That said, this is a very interesting and visually dazzling film both in the way it was shot and in the way that it brings the characters in it to life. Adam Goldberg's heist plan is a prime example of this. Overall this movie is very well done and it is destined to be a cult film. Val Kilmer does a better than average job and Vincent D'Onofrio is amazing as usual. He has got to be the most underrated actor of all time. Bottom Line If you like offbeat movies, then check this one out.  "},{"Title":"well done","Date":"17 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The biggest SPOILER for this film comes in the opening credits, when Frank Darabont is listed as the producer.  I knew right away that this was not going to be a nihilistic downer that I had assumed from some reviews, but would ultimately be about the indomitable spirit of a courageous individual.  And it was, although not without a lot of pain, heartache, and graphic violence along the way. The style and production values of Salton Sea are top of the line, it has a beautiful look and feel in every scene, which makes up for some lapses in the credibility of the story.  And Val Kilmer is extremely good in the lead, one of his best performances.  D'Onofrio bolsters his cred as one of the most versatile character actors with a wild turn as the psychotic and bizarre Pooh Bear.   "},{"Title":"Just when you thought this is an usual history, it blows you away","Date":"4 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  it starts as a regular movie, nothing strange, and suddenly. BUM! the story rise up.i love this movie, i think that has really good performances, and a really good director. "}{"Title":"Man goes to great lengths to get revenge.","Date":"31 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I just saw this movie (12-31-02) an hour ago.  Excellent.  It reminded me a lot of To Live and Die in LA directed by William Friedkin.  At first we seem to know who the good guys and bad guys are, but later we're not sure. It takes place in Los Angeles in modern times.  We delve into the drug world, undercover narcotics and get a glimpse of the hero's personal life before the time frame of the main story.  Beautiful cinematography, artistic directing, violence, drugs, and sexual situations kept me captivated.  Val Kilmer was good, but Vincent D'Onofrio (currently of Law and Order Criminal Intent fame) was outstanding.  Trying to figure out what was going on was a lot of the fun.  The rest was just good storytelling and stimulating visuals.  I highly recommend it especially if you're looking for something different. "},{"Title":"Nice moody, dark film","Date":"8 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Good depiction of the wasted life in the happy drug underworld, in which it would have made a good story, but there is a underlying revenge subplot that is not revealed until the second half.  It goes into the mind of how a person who has lost everything would risk what he has left to get back at those who made him get there in the first place.The movie first deplicted the junkie's culture, then went on to show how they are so absorbed by it that they don't even have a normal life to escape to.  The whole dark, wasted scenery gives a dark portrayal of what the main character's is willing to submit himself to, and his single mindedness, in order to do what he thinks is just.  His only weakness is when he opens up to someone that is in more dire situation than him, which turns out to be a trap laid out for him.Val Kilmer is in probably his best role so far, D'Onofrio is good as the menacing dealer, Peter Sarsgaard is good as the friend to the end whom you don't know if he was going to forgive his best friend, who turned out to hiding his true intentions.All in all, a film very worth watching. "},{"Title":"As Great a B Film as You Could Ask For","Date":"1 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  A 10 for the casting.  A 10 for Vincent D'Onofrio--you won't believe what can do with his specialty role.  You have to see it for yourself.A 9 for everyone playing at the right level, with no up-staging, no one gunning for the basket.  An 8 for this modern day film noir, putting junk and junkies just about where they ought to be.  An 8 for Deborah Kara Unger, just for being so lovely, and for an appearance all too rare (alas not for her part, her lines or her performance).A 7 for Val Kilmer, upholding what had to be a difficult, multi-dimensional role.  From other posters you already know what he's up to in this film.  A 7 also for B.D. Wong, breaking off from his all too familiar and frequent appearances as the know-it-all psycho-something on Law & Order Special Victims Unit.  A 6 for pacing, flow, plot.  And, only a 5 for art direction.  Too much darkness.  Too much crowding.  Perhaps a few too many characters.  Many of the characters were NOT high and there seemed no need to portray the world they saw through such a darkened lens.  The film possessed all the noir it needed.  No need to rub it in with under-lighting.I'm glad I saw this.  Frankly, keeping in mind that this is still a B film, I enjoyed it as much if not more than the more mainstream, heralded, and obviously popular THE MAN WHO WASN'T THERE (2001). "},{"Title":"Vincent D'Onofrio Again Steals The Show","Date":"29 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Val Kilmer needs to get over himself. This guy could do so much better. I really liked him back in the 80s with Real Genius and Top Gun. But he hasn't really stretched as an actor since then. It's just one after dud after another. Despite trying here, he still has that 'Hey, aren't I good looking, just admire me' face on. At least he doesn't have that Keeanu Reeves/Al Gore, wooden look. Val now tries to foist himself off as some sympathetic street loner with a score to settle. Without giving away too much, it seems that everyone in this film as an identity crisis. I don't know if this was intentional or not. But no one is who they say they are except Val's pal who looks up to him (why, is his self-esteem that low?) The rest of the characters kinda mosey in and out of the screenplay. One notable exception can Vincent D'Onofiro be any better? This is the man who needs to be the lead even if he doesn't have Val's good looks. Meanwhile, I'm still waiting for Val's comeback vehicle. It looks like I'll be waiting for a while.  "},{"Title":"Vengeance","Date":"29 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Hollywood as a whole typically seems to steer away from any story that can realistically describe vengeance. It's either the hero comes out of his despair and kills 100 people, hell bent on righting the world. Or it is a movie that has the hero so full of idiotic cliches that it doesn't even work. A few movies used vengeance in a good way, like the Crow series, but the supernatural effect takes the feel of reality from the characters. I had always been a fan of stories about vigilantes and regular people that had a thirst for vengeance and dealing out their own form of justice.Well, The Salton Sea was a movie that actually surprised me. I had walked into Blockbuster and the new releases I did want were already checked out, so I just combed over the sections to find something that didn't look like total crap. So, I saw a movie with Val Kilmer on the front and sighed picking it up. I was never a big fan of Val Kilmer but the movie sounded interesting so I rented it. I was not disappointed. Val actually gave a great performance that didn't want me to shut off the DVD player and go to bed. The movie started out as a bunch of drug addicts just partying and living it up. As the movie went on, I loved the music, the visuals, the settings, the performances and most of all the story. It was a real down to earth take on revenge. I was pleasantly surprised with even the detail of the small characters that didn't even really have much dialogue. It was real and it was good. I really recommend this to anyone that loves to see vengeance or revenge movies.***1/2 of **** "},{"Title":"Very Nice Ride","Date":"27 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I'm no movie reviewer, so if you're looking for a review that picks the movie apart, skip this message.I was pleasantly surprised by this film.  I'd heard people talking about it, but it never made it to Hong Kong and I'm sorely disappointed.  I'm a big Fight Club fan and have a small place in my heart for films like Memento as well, and The Salton Sea is kind of like their bastard love child.Believe it or not, it's something of a love story, and if you pick up on it, it's a pretty good one.  Watch with your significant other, it's well worth the ride.*SLIGHT SPOILER*The only thing I was disappointed with was the end.  Ironic as it may be, the ending reminded me alot of the end of Fight Club (the book), but then picked up and got a little hammy.  It's hard to tell whether the idea was to be upbeat or to avoid a cliche.  It works, and doesn't ruin the movie, but it does seem a bit out of place.I give it a 1077 out of 1106. "},{"Title":"The Salton Sea","Date":"11 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I knew what i was getting into when i rented the Salton sea.From the previews it seemed weird as hell,and it was.But thats not to say it wasn't good.In fact is was very good.Val Kilmer gives his best performance ever as Tom.I thought his best performence ever was in Tombstone.That was a excellent preformence but this was a lot harder.I like movies that are horrible at first and then get very good later on. I like these movies better than the ones that are good and then towards the end get bad.The Salton Sea starts out bad.Within the first 45 min you are thinking to yourself 'why am i wasting my time with this crap'. Well thats what i was thinking.But at the starting of the movie Tom does say hear my story before you judge me.So i did and i was amazed.after the first 40 min you start to fell for Tom.Then as the ending starts to come you're cheering him on.But you can't say anything all you can do is watch. Then as the movie finishes.....oh i won't say more. If i didi would ruin the experience that is The Salton sea.So listen to Tom. Don't judge him before hearing his storyoh and don't close your eyes.Nothing is what it seems. Enjoy.   8/10 "},{"Title":"An unlikely chick flick for the over 45 set.","Date":"4 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Not since Drugstore Cowboy have I walked away from a film wondering just how lucky I was to not be one of those people. I knew a few of them in the day, but through whatever grace there is escaped their fate and became what most of us on the fringes in the late 60's became, or what we always were, middle class over achievers. For a while though it could have been me or you at the non stop meth party.Confused plot, talk to a speed freak some day, you will get the picture. Dark, definitely and the story drags along at just the right pace.But what is it about this movie that finds females over 45 to be the demographic with the highest vote average? I believe that it is ultimately a great story of deliverance, of redemption, of betrayal and love. The one character that Val Kilmer's Danny/Tom never compares himself to is Christ. Watch the movie, Danny/Tom missed one.  "},{"Title":"beautiful","Date":"3 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  i've now seen this film 3 times, and i just love it.  i even drove out to the salton sea the day after i saw it to see what that place is all about.  it's a gorgeous film - the filmwork is exquisite, the story has some great twists and turns.  val and vincent are simply brilliant. why is it that the indies are always better than the blockbusters? "},{"Title":"So Close...","Date":"2 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I really thought this movie was interesting.  It had a nice neo noir thing going.  The plot was interesting, the visuals, although not great had some interesting moments.  What really turned me off to this film was the humor they put in.  I could not understand why they were trying to be funny in some parts.  If they went into this movie thinking that it was going to be a pure drama it would have went over much better.  There was too much kitsch  and I thought it compromised the story.  Some of the violent scenes and flashback scenes were super cheesy as well.  All of this I think could have done much better by a much better director.  It does not surprise me that D.J. Caruso has a television background.  Movies should be better than T.V. . I recommend this film because overall it was entertaining and had some very interesting parts but it could have been much better!7 out of 10  "}{"Title":"Good, dark crime film that could have been great","Date":"10 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Don't get me wrong, I enjoyed this movie.  Val Kilmer gives a good performance as a drugged out (or is he?) ex-trumpet player searching the underworld trying to find out who killed his wife. The film has lots of things going for it Kilmer's smooth acting, a fairly clever script, good seedy L.A. locations, and a really good soundtrack.  All in all it added up to an enjoyable film - I still can't quite figure out why it never came to my local theater.But the film does have some drawbacks.  The inner L.A. meth crowd Kilmer's character hangs out with were a little too cute and smart and glammy, not the psychotic, crude, circling-the-drain losers they tend to be in real life.  Also the rookie director (like most rookie directors of crime films) for whatever reason felt the need to  include several meandering Pulp Fiction-esqe scenes that detracted from the story.  The film was at its best when it maintained the mood and pacing of a straightforward crime drama, when it diverged into violent comic surrealism it seemed to lose its footing a bit.  You can almost see that Kilmer somehow sensed this, and knew the only way to keep the film on track was for his character to play those scenes very straight and with little dialogue.But the film overcomes these drawbacks and ends up being a good modern day thriller.  Vincent D'Onfronio nearly steals the show with his inspired, lunatic performance as Pooh-Bear and Peter Sarsgaard is great as Kilmer's devoted druggie pal.  If violent debauchery and ironic humor don't put you off, I highly recommend The Salton Sea.  "},{"Title":"I give it an 8... or did I say 9?  *Spoilers included.","Date":"6 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" When I first saw the trailer for the movie many months back I awaited patiently to see it since it was one of my most anticipated movies for 2002. However, unlucky for me, it didn't play in my area so I didn't get to see it in the theatres. So after waiting more months I see that it finally would be released on DVD September 10th. Good for that, I picked it up, watched it, and enjoyed it. The movie lived up to all my expectations and couldn't be better.Many people have concentrated on the fact that its content of drug use and cinematography is that of 'Pulp Fiction' or 'Requiem for a Dream' but I didn't see that really at all. What got me on it was the story in general, which consisted of a guy trying to avenge the woman he loves, by whatever means necessary. I liked the way that Val Kilmer's character really couldn't decide who he was anymore, in the end. It was a very good movie that I have enjoyed watching many times now. Highly recommended.My score 8 out of 10 (very good) "},{"Title":"enthralling in a zoned-out kind of way","Date":"29 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  wow!  I had no idea what this film was really about when i sat down to watch it.  Kilmer's performance is solid - you dont know whether he's lost it or not til the end, but D'onofrio is AMAZING!... didnt even know it was him until the credits.  This actor is one of those who can really lose himself in the role.... This movie reminds me of 3 kings or Seven in the modern feel and originality in both the direction and the  script.  It's gritty without being mawkish about it.  Good job! "},{"Title":"fast-paced, hi-tech, well-casted, cleverly-written, heartless","Date":"28 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" *** slight spoiler ***Started with promise, wound up being another feely (a la Aldous Huxley Jr.).  This movie shot for everything; romance, bizzareness, adventure, noir, redemption, emotional impact, social relevance, even cosmic significance.  But it wound up selling out to plot twists, and revenge-as-redemption, and then expects us to believe in the hero's spiritual renewal at the very end, like Raskolnikov's last-paragraph redemption at the end of _Crime and Punishment_.  Do you buy that?  I saw this movie, and I didn't.  Maybe it's just too subtle for me; another fable of Heavy Karma in the Big City, spun better than I can comprehend.You be the judge.I should mention a more specific example of the movie's failure to connect.  The love interest was not compelling in the least; they just didn't manage it so as to bring it home.  A hot babe with a wuv yoo look on her perfect face just isn't enough.  That aspect of the story didn't make the cut in my guts.  And that was dropping a major ball.By way of contrast, _Jesus' Son_ and _Requiem to a Dream_ were better war on drugs movies.  "},{"Title":"So close to being really good film it hurts.","Date":"22 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  There are wins in this movie, and there are losses. The wins are the performances by the entire cast, especially good are Peter Sarsgaard and Vincent D'Onofrio, who play the roles with a chameleon honesty that is carefully and skillfully done. Val Kilmer gives his standard good performance-- he plays everything casual in this movie, and as a result, you believe his character and believe in his character. Plus, Val Kilmer's casual is always entertaining.Another win in this movie is the overall look, it does draw upon an impractically swank Meth scene and the usual noir crime coloring, but it's presented in a way that's honest and enjoyable. Also, director Caruso makes his environment a character as well, so you never feel there's a want of anything to see in the film.This is where the wins become hazy. The screenplay is interesting. On premise and basic plot structure, it's excellent (although you get the feeling it was heavily influenced by The Usual Suspects) and compelling as a crime suspense film. In execution, it's a little fumbled and therefore lacking in dramatic punch and so the premise and well, beauty, is lost. Screenwriter Tom Gayton has some great ideas, all he has do is learn how to communicate them to their fullest potential.The direction is also troublesome. I think Caruso bit off a little more than he could chew, and although I think he'll go on to do great things, he should have passed the torch on this one. Although there were moments when his vision was perfect, on the whole, it just wasn't there.The Salton Sea is a good movie, the problem was, it could have been a great movie. It's worth seeing just for the ensemble acting and the production design of the film, as well as some funny and great scenes. However, don't walk in expecting a great suspense film, because the film will not give you that.My bet is that if we're all still here in 2025, this film will be remade into a great film. Until then, enjoy what it does offer and try, while watching, to forget about what it could have been.  "},{"Title":"One of the best films of the year!","Date":"22 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  WARNING although vague, there is a spoiler or two in this article.	Immediately, The Salton Sea plunges you into its fast-paced and dark underworld.  It opens with a man sadly playing a tune on his trumpet in a room filled with money that is all on fire.  His narration tells about his name being Tom Van Allen (or is it Danny Parker?).  There is no telling where the story is going to go or what is going to be introduced next. 	After seeing some advertisement for director D.J. Caruso's The Shield (which had a shameless Memento rip-off scene on it), I thought he would take brilliant new writer Tony Gayton's (Murder By Numbers) script and turn it into a Memento duplication.  I was pleasantly surprised at his stylish, slick direction that never goes over the top and even adds a punch to the material. 	It is beautifully filmed film noir with a knockout cast.  Val Kilmer plays a completely different role from any of his previous work.  He outstandingly portrays a vulnerable, confused man whose life is going down the drain with his multiple identities and use of crystal meth.  D'Onofrio is excellent as always as the bizarre and scary villain; a nose-less drug dealer that calls himself Pooh Bear.  Peter Sarsgaard is immensely likable as the loyal, but simple best friend of Danny/Tom. 	          The two identities of the main character bring you into different parts of the story (pretty cool structuring).  Tom Van Allen is one of the identities.  He is a depressed trumpet player who grieves over the loss of his beloved wife.  He always plays the tune he played for her, a `moody and haunting piece' (a good description for the film).  The next identity is Danny Parker, a speed addicted scum-bag-looking man who. 	         The story twists and turns frequently, but fortunately never confuses or muddles.  The ending probably won't be predicted by anyone, however. 	          Any clichès in the story (they are scarse) are hidden by Caruso's creativity.  There is a scene where a character is saved by a loss of one bullet in a gun (where doesn't this happen?) but Caruso goes back and shows where they were used and adds the numbers up as they go along onscreen. 	          The music selected for the film fits it perfectly from Lou Reeds Take a Walk on the Wild Side to an effective use of The James Gang's Funk 49 and The Chemical Brother's Let Forever Be to Tantric's Mourning and a good trumpet score. 	          This one is hands down the best film I've seen all year and the best I've ever seen Val Kilmer.  "},{"Title":"One of the best films I've seen","Date":"19 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is a twisted story of how one man's quest for revenge leads him into a world where his real identity is blurred. I thought Val Kilmer gave an outstanding performance as the junkie/tortured soul who is trying to realize who he is. "},{"Title":"Drug Use(?)","Date":"18 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Notice that you never actually see the character played by Val Kilmer on screen doing any drugs... Could it be that he doesn't get involved in the drugs? Which could help explain why his memory is so good. Anyone have any comments on that? "},{"Title":"What women want.","Date":"18 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  In The Salton Sea  Val Kilmer plays Danny, a former musician turned tattooed addict with spiked hair and fashionable junkie clothes. In the dark, chaotic, and impossibly grim world where he and his friends prowl, nothing is as it appears, except perhaps for the outright vileness of most of the characters.  In the style of the absurdly overrated Quentin Tarantino,  murderers, thieves and junkies are given dialogue that is meant to be funny, ironic, self-mocking.  We are shown flashbacks suggesting that Val used to be a jazz musician and a decent  man who deeply loved his murdered wife.  None of these devices, however, blunt the appalling nature of what we are shown, nor do they add coherence to the plot. Nevertheless, I was not prepared for the following (presumably) poignant flashback which I outline below.  The quotations are verbatim from the film, but rest assured that nothing I write will in any way diminish the intrigue or reveal the essential mystery of the plot.--------------------We hear Val Kilmer's voice, narrating, My name is Tom Van Allen.  I'm a trumpet player.The scene fades to a setting sun by a lake (the Salton Sea?).  Against the warm, orange glow stands the silhouette of a man playing the trumpet. He wears a fedora, belted trousers, pointy shoes, and we hear him playing a solo jazz piece. Next to him sits a beautiful woman on a blanket.  She tilts her head back in rapture.Aahhhh, that hurts my heart.  What a beautiful composition!He sits next to her on the blanket, and smiling, asks, And the performance?Tom Van Allen is nothing short of dazzling in his interpretation of Miles Davis' haunting, moody piece.I thank you.And he has a really hot ass with hardly any hair on it, she continues in a monotone.Again, I thank you, he answers politely and with surprising aplomb.No, I was talking about Miles Davis!OhThey roll over in delight.Becoming pensive, she asks, What do you think of when you play?I think about what life would be without you.--------------------Unfortunately, I think of *hairy* bottoms when I hear jazz, which is why I stopped watching the movie.I do have to give credit to Chandra West, who plays the wife. With hardly any hair on it is not easy to say intelligibly.  "},{"Title":"Nice surprise. Great imagery, camera angles. Good casting.","Date":"16 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The film stayed true to the story it was trying to tell. Shots like time-lapsed highway headlights as sparks shooting out of a crank-heads nose and the moon as time passing in a world moving exponentially faster ignoring the speed freak's rutted, bag-a-day existence. Great action. Soothed my shoot-em-up needs. In all, I'd say the camera angles and jolty cuts during the drug party scenes together with the realistic characters made this movie a nice surprise. Glad they used Val Kilmer. Brad Pitt would have been too pretty-boy for this grungy tale. "}{"Title":"Impressive debut for director D.J. Caruso","Date":"15 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I gave it an 8 out of 10.  Very good, but not great.  Just squeeked into my A list.  Not for everyone but if you like neo-noir its not to be missed.Can't understand why the studio didn't promote it.  If they wanted to lose money (needlessly) they got their wish.  Only made it to 30 venues which means art houses on east and west coasts.  Folks in the middle of the country never had a chance.  Thank god for DVD (and cable I expect).  Would have been easy to market.  The trailer rocks!  However its a little misleading.  A couple of interesting little mini-featurettes on the DVD.  I prefer featurettes that really go behind the scenes rather than being an extended trailer.Once again Vincent D'Onofrio gives a standout performance although I don't agree completely with his interpretation of the pooh-bear character.  How can you have a fat speed freak?  Val Kilmer is perfectly cast in the lead.  Nice little role for Deborah Unger who is always good.  Veteran cinematographer Amir Mokri follows the director's vision cogently.  I have high expectations for director D.J. Caruso's future projects.  Unfortunately for film lovers, his TV career is probably more lucrative at this time. "},{"Title":"For fans of TRUE ROMANCE and FIGHT CLUB? Excellent!!!","Date":"13 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Without a doubt this is the most underappreciated movie of the year. Warner Bros., the studio responsible for this spectacular film, only opened this in limited release. Why? I have no idea. Obviously they thought FEAR DOT COM (the worst novie in three years at theatres)was good enought to get a wide release. This film was directed by J.D. Caruso and I beg for Hollywood to let him do more great films because from here on out I would watch anything he got his hands on. The same goes for screenwriter Tony Gayton, after seeing this I'm going to check out MURDER BY NUMBERS when it hits video stores even though I originaly had no desire to se it. This is the kind of film thats so entertaining and thought provoking, you can't help but fall in love it. Not only is it extremely cool but it also doesn't treat the audience like idiots. Val Kilmer plays Tom Val Allen or is it Danny Parker? When he loses his wife in the Salton Sea, he travels the earth trying to find out why and finds himself trapped in the derilect world of the tweeker. Once again, Kilmer should receive an Oscar nomination, even though he most likely won't (they jipped him for TOMBSTONE and THE DOORS too, not to mention HEAT) The same goes for Vinent D'Onofrio who plays Pooh Bear. Now I usually can't stand D'Onofrio but in this his performance is brilliant. Luis Guzman (Boogie Nights), Peter Sarsgaard (Boys Don't Cry), B.D. Wong (Mystery Date), Doug Hutchinson (The Green Mile), Anthony LaPaglis (Lantana), Glenn Plummer (Speed)- who is very good in his bit part as the insanely jacked up drug dealing Bobby, Deborah Unger (The Hurricane), Adam Goldberg (Saving Private Ryan), Meat Loaf ('Fight Club), Danny Trejo (From Dusk 'Til Dawn), and R. Lee Ermey (Seven) among others fill out the supporting cast and all give outstanding performances. For fans of FIGHT CLUB this will satisfy, for fans of TRUE ROMANCE this will satisfy, for fans of any Tarantino work this will satisfy, and most of all for people just dying to see a great, original movie that is both well acted by everyone involved and stylishly doone at the same time this will satisfy. (A) "},{"Title":"A great change for Val Kilmer","Date":"12 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Going into this movie I had no clue what to expect, other than a solid performance from Val Kilmer, which he delivered. What I found was a very different character (or rather 2) than I would expect him to portray. His Danny Parker was a seemingly unstable 'tweaker', riddled with drugs, reflective, having only one goal in mind and not taking s**t from anyone...yet in his flashbacks as Tom Van Allen he was more laid back, totally in love, selfless and sensitive. Throughout the film I couldn't help but see similarities to Guy Pearce's character in Memento, with the struggle to avenge his wife's death, questionable people they encounter along the way, and the fact that they both see things in a surreal light (one being quasi-amnesic, the other 'tweaked' out on 'gack'); but none of these made Salton Sea any less entertaining or enjoyable. Vincent D'Onofrio played a great character in cracked-out, paranoid drug dealer Pooh Bear. And as always, you can never help but smile at Luis Guzman's character, even when he's yelling at and beating up his girlfriend. Overall I found The Salton Sea to be very thought-provoking, with great dialogue, intelligent/slighty sarcastic narration that is reminiscent of that in Fight Club (dare I even make that comparison?), and a depth and heaviness to it that continuously draws you in as the movie progresses. Oh yeah...love the tatoos. 9/10 - rent it tonight.  "},{"Title":"Beautiful but flawed","Date":"1 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I wanted so much to love this film, and at times I did.  I was impressed by Vincent D'Onofrio's brilliant portrayal of a white trash meth dealer.  I was also impressed by the beautiful cinematography (especially in the haunting opening sequence).  The problem was that the film kept falling back on bad cliches.  It was almost as if it couldn't decide whether it wanted to be an artwork or a mainstream hit.  I guess that I felt it underestimated its audience a bit.  Despite that, I would still have left this film feeling that it was quite good if it weren't for the ending, which seemed tacked on and unnecessary.  I was disappointed that such a dark, brooding film was so neatly and easily wrapped up.  Nevertheless, I still think Salton Sea had some very strong points, not the least of which is its imagery, and is worth seeing.  "},{"Title":"Everything Murder By Numbers is not","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Tony Gayton receives writing credits for Murder By Numbers and for Salton Sea.  Both scripts are extremely detailed, layered, and full of twists and turns.  Salton Sea works, the other doesn't.  It must be the direction, and certainly the cast.  Val Kilmer is excellent, as is Peter Sarsgaard and of course, D'Onofrio is insane as Pooh Bear.  Great characters to watch.  Adam Goldberg is wonderful in a smaller part.  This has more of the style twists of a Guy Ritchie than Tarantino but I'm sure it will receive comparisons to both.  ***SMALL SPOILER AHEAD.  It bothered me though that Danny knew someone who was going to buy a quarter of a million worth then strikes a deal with Pooh Bear at 8 thousand per for 40 pounds.  Wouldn't he end up 'out' 70 grand?  It was distracting.  All in all, a wonderfully dark twisted story, wonderful characters, great performances and even some nervous laughs. "},{"Title":"Excellent Next Step for Kilmer, but only Kilmer","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The Salton Sea is a body of water below sea level whose only escape is evaporation, leaving a very salty lake that's only getting smaller. This symbolism is personified by Danny Parker, played by Val Kilmer, who, after suffering from an unexpected and brutal crime that killed his wife, has sunk so low that his life has virtually evaporated, leaving him only with despair. His only way out is to completely transform himself into something else, someone new, in order to avenge her death. But, the task is so demanding, requiring a full and complete commitment, that he loses a sense of himself - who he really was, or is, or will become.To disclose more of the film's plot would give too much away, since its effect is dependent on unexpected twists and turns and the slow discovery of new information. To gradually learn of Danny's motivations and the unfolding of his past are part of the movie's best qualities. It's Danny in the spotlight, and Kilmer does a reasonably good job at depicting the various moods that Danny goes through. But, it's also evident that the movie was made for Kilmer himself, since minor characters are so strongly de-emphasized. With such a dependence on a single actor, Kilmer has a lot riding on his shoulders, and while his performance is noteworthy, he doesn't carry it to extraordinary levels that would warrant awards by any of the more well-known and respected organizations.I have a similar view about the film as a whole its positive points are good, but too many weaknesses failed to give the film a three-dimensional quality. It's like a film-noire version of Pulp Fiction - there are lots of fast-paced, drug-induced acts of violence, all with a pinch of sardonic humor, fully aware that it's mocking a movie genre as well as a subculture. At the same time, Danny's quiet, drawling narrative voiceovers, the subtle interplay between the characters, and the classic use of lighting are clearly from the film-noire genre. I enjoyed the film as I watched it, but after I left, I became more aware of the missed opportunities for more depth in supporting characters, and more history in the lives and motivations of the villains.I mildly recommend The Saltan Sea if you're a Kilmer fan and want to watch his career evolve. It  should be a good platform for his next performance in a serious role, and I look forward to seeing it. So, while this isn't a bad film by any means, it's just not strong enough to stand out in the crowd of movies of a similar vein. Two films that I liked better in the same genre were Positive ID (1997) and last year's Momento.  "},{"Title":"Amazing Film","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I got to see this film last week at a film society screening and I haven't stopped thinking about it. I can see why there's a buzz out there. I checked around for more info only to find Aint-It-Cool-News.com has been raving about the film since they saw a test screening over a year ago. It's not hard to see why. It's a great motion picture. In fact this film almost single-handedly restores your faith in Hollywood films. It's so good I can only assume getting it made was an accident of some kind. My hats off to the director and producers for slipping it through the system somehow. I just how the people who like great cinema haven't lost faith and stopped looking for gems like this. Go see "},{"Title":"An intense, unpredictable experience!","Date":"20 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The Salton Sea is one of the finest, most intense films that I have seen in quite some time. In an era of filmmaking when art is secondary to fancy effects, this film shines through as pure and wild at the same time. I do not know if I've ever seen a movie like this. "},{"Title":"Fine film-making in a tough genre","Date":"31 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Val Kilmer is excellent in this well-paced and witty thriller. An early La Paglia is wooden but shows glimpses of his fine (mostly TV) form to come.Basically this is a vengeance movie but it's done pretty well in that it starts with several alternative premises so it's not quite as formulaic as a Die Hard or Lethal Weapon type of film. There's some fine cinematography in this as well. All in all, it's pretty cool and enjoyable although some of the continuity leaves a lot to be desired (in case I can't get it onto the goofs site here, one glaring one is when Kilmer's character takes the drug money to 'Poo-Bear's place and plonks it on the table while the guys are playing cards. In alternating shots it's on the table and then gone. Not too clever.) In short, an enjoyable, though-provoking film. "},{"Title":"Highly crafted and pointless","Date":"22 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" There's no doubt this is a very well made movie. It's definitely high ranking. Script, acting, direction, sets, music &#150; all in a high game. Got that over with. You've probably heard that the beginning of the film is a glamorised portrayal of crystal meth addicts. It's well made, such that it would appeal to people interested in a sort of slow, illegal, decadent experiment with self-destruction. That is to say, it would appeal to plenty of young adults who want to be bad. Nothing wrong with that. In fact I'd say it's a good thing. Even the ancient Greeks had a structure for allowing that kind of rebellion to happen in a controlled way. This film is part of our current establishment structure for expressing our occasional wishes to reject all authority (even benign authority). So far so good (or should I say bad). Anyway, the plot's interesting, and Kilmer is good. (I seem to be in the minority that enjoys Kilmer's low-key acting.) The plot's even a little noble, if you agree that revenge for massive personal injury is a noble thing. It certainly makes for a great story. It's maybe even one of the oldest stories. So, if it's well told, as this one is, it's gripping, as this one is. For me though this film was annoying on a few fronts. First, so much is made of Kilmer's character's tattoo that you have to be the kind of person who romanticizes tattoos to enjoy it. Next, so much was made of the glamorously seedy depiction of the crystal-meth takers in the long intro that you have to romanticise self-destruction by narcotics to enjoy it. You'd have to romanticise it so much that you are willing to buy the suggestion by Kilmer's character that self-destructing on narcotics brings the self-destructors close in a way that is otherwise unachievable. (I don't see that it does - I think that's one of the illusions that recreational drugs help create, and it's a trap.) But then, we're on to the big hit of this film - D'Onofrio's character, and his chronies. He almost steals the film, and to enjoy that, you've got to be able to find his portrayal of a psychotic bully amusing. I didn't. I'm sure director Caruso and his crew know that people like D'Onofrio's character really exist - people who laugh while slowly killing someone. They can be charming, as D'Onofrio's character is, but they're essentially gruesomely evil. I can't imagine anyone who's really been at the receiving end of such cruel sadistic violence finding this portrayal funny, as we're apparently supposed to. Which is where the film most lost ground with me. It's basically a film I'd warn people against. I don't think it says much of benefit to anyone. The only redeeming features for me were the naïve and loyal meth-taking friend, Kilmer's character's determination, and the title. Oh, and the Texan Asiatic FBI agent, with his so-unlikely compassion and wisdom was fun, cool, but so unlikely. "}{"Title":"An interesting movie","Date":"15 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I saw the opening scenes of the kamikazie pilot, 50's housewife, and 60s trucker in an in-service police training class last week on the effects of methamphetamine that piqued my interest enough to go rent the DVD. How did I miss this one at the Cineplex? I'll have to say that I was pleasantly surprised at this little gem of a doper flick. The acting was excellent and the story line spellbinding. It showcases the unrelenting violence and totally bizarre behavior of those people who use methamphetamine. The only thing I found totally unrealistic was the nice clean complexions of the tweaker methheads depicted in the movie. In reality, a person who's been on this poison for a year looks like a cast member of the Night of the Living Dead except they don't need any makeup. However, all considered, I recommend this movie to anyone who is contemplating using this crap or who knows someone who's on it. "},{"Title":"Just A Good Movie","Date":"19 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  WARNING SPOILERS AHEADVal Kilmer must have given his best performance in years in The Salton Sea a speed-taking tweaker who's bent on avenging his dead wife. Nothing particular fresh in this premise so far, perhaps with the exception the protagonist is a drug-addict. There's more to the plot, but it's built on such a stretch of credibility, it somewhat affects the pleasure of watching the other interesting story going on - Danny, the speed freak, a man who's slowly self-destroying himself.There's also a 'twist' halfway through the movie, but it's so predictable it's not really worth waiting. I think the idea of keeping the story wrapped up in mystery for so long was a bit pointless; the screenwriter could have restructured the movie to give us the 'twist' right at the beginning and setting the story clear from the start, and thus focus on building the suspense around whether Danny is going to have his revenge or not. I don't know, it strikes me as the modern love for twists ruining another good movie.All these screenwriting flaws notwithstanding, The Salton Sea is still a good movie worth watching. There are solid performances throughout the movie, very colourful and quirky characters - Pooh-Bear is ace! - and fun dialogue until the end. And it features one of my favourite Moby songs near the end!! I wasn't expecting that... ... so watch it and have fun, but keep in mind this movie could have been so much better! "},{"Title":"atonement","Date":"5 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"       This is a truly bizarre film, but Val Kilmer is good enough in it for me to forgive him that slab of fecal matter entitled The Saint. In my youth I touched the middle-class periphery of the drug world, and my experience says that the characters here are very true.  It's quite violent, with not many chuckles to break the tension, but I found the story development and conclusion to be quite satisfactory, and would recommend this film to anyone who's prepared for a look at a decidedly dark way of life.  Read a story synopsis before viewing, and don't rent it when grandma stays over for the weekend. Many scenes will be disturbing to a sensitive nature.     "},{"Title":"Great Movie (Semi-Spoiler)","Date":"2 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I was really impressed.  I give this movie 9/10.  Great acting on Val's part not to mention a great plot.  I recommend this movie to anybody.  It's a buyer.  Even without the great ending the movie was moving right along perfectly.  A mixture of love, tragedy, and revenge.  This movie has it all.  "},{"Title":"A haunting and hypnotic film noir","Date":"24 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This film begins so much like the classic 1940s film noir - complete with the nightmarish setting, the slow, mysterious first-person monologue, and the flashback sequences - that at first it might seem almost too imitation. But don't be turned off! This one sets new high standards for the genre.No matter how you define film noir, this film offers the best of the classic style along with a brilliant, modern theme. Yes, it's one of those dramas in which all the players are bad guys in one way or another. And yes, it is also about squalid, tragic, miserable lives and situations that are fascinating on screen but where we wouldn't want to go in real life. And finally, it follows the time-honored plot formula involving treacherous motives, decadence and corruption, and double-cross -- and, of course, the surprise ending.I can't say this movie is for everyone. It's a film for adults who can appreciate a complicated, sinister thriller. The backdrop of urban slums and rural blight might be depressing to some, but I find it to be an absolutely brilliant and essential backdrop to the story. Is the violence excessive? Probably, but that's usually the case these days. In any case, it isn't pointless.The dialogue (and the continuous first-person narrative) is top-notch. The characters are morbidly fascinating and unforgettable. This film's trip into the seamy world of the tweekers (meth heads) and its ominous tale of revenge make for a truly great film. "},{"Title":"Unpredictable, shocking, disturbing, violent, and funny","Date":"15 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The Salton Sea is a twisty revenge flick disguised as an examination of speed junkies. The actors are all great, the direction is inspired, and the dialogue can make you laugh if you are so inclined. That said, it is not a movie for all tastes. It is a bizarre tale of a rat with two identities and an agenda never fully realized until the end. Thankfully, for people who cannot stand twisty movies that make absolutely no sense, all the wrinkles in this film are straightened out at the end, so there's no wondering what just happened.*SPOILERS*Val Kilmer, all dressed up rings, necklaces, a leather jacket, spiked hair, and an amazing tatoo that spans his entire backside and along his arms is Danny Parker, a speed junkie just trying to stay alive, a keen observer and a rat to a couple of crooked narcotics officers (Doug Hutchison and Anthony LaPaglia). He is also Tom Van Allen, a jazz trumpet player in the wrong place at the wrong time heading back from the Salton Sea when his wife was murdered by two masked gunmen. Now he may be targeted by a Mexican cartel named Domingo for ratting on him, so he needs some money to skip town with. His junkie buddy, Jimmy the Finn (Peter Sarsgaard) puts him in connection with sadistic junkie drug dealer Pooh-Bear (Vincent D'Onofrio), a truly creepy, crazy, and alternately funny drug dealer who wore his nose off using too much drugs. Danny plans to make a deal between him and another drug dealer (B.D. Wong), who is actually an FBI agent who's agreed to help him get the man who killed his wife.Toward the end there are a number of surprises, just as you think things are over, they come up with more. This is not annoying, since the ends are very brief, but Kilmer dies about three or four times it seems like. (Okay, a couple of times he just ALMOST dies, but a couple of times it looks like he may have just died.) It's funny once when he thinks he's dead, all he sees is linoleum. Linoleum? This must be Hell. Then as the linoleum turns to a bright white. What a cliche. Luis Guzman has a small role as, for once, someone with no humorous qualities about him, an abusive boyfriend and drug enforcer to Domingo. There's also a really funny scene in a bar where Adam Goldberg, playing a Junkie, Kujo talks about stealing Bob Hope's poop from a lab and selling it on eBay. We see subsequently the caper actually taking place, and how it goes off badly. When he refers to weaponry to overtake the unarmed guards, you see him wrestling with a guard holding a dust buster in the guy's face. He spills the poop when he says it's a clean getaway, and then gets run over by an ambulance.I'd give this one 9/10. "},{"Title":"2 part Story","Date":"10 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I've rated this movie 6/10... I find it strange that a lot of people thought this movie was hypnotic and stuff. The Flasbacks are just ordinary flasbacks. It's a logical story, so if any one got confused after watching it, search that problem in yourself and not in this movie. I liked the first part though, But then, it became somekind of standart movie. The ending was way too cliche to be taken serious for me. Original story witch isn't brought the way it should be. "},{"Title":"Quite possibly, the worst movie about underground culture ever made.","Date":"3 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie succeeds only in its utilization of every cliche and bad melodramatic stereotype of underground culture ever borne to mainstream media.  From Val Kilmer's bad haircut to screaming hillbillies recreating the JFK assasination, this movie insults any educated and infomed audience member's intelligence from the first scene.It looks like a bad television special, perhaps more akin to a anti-drug afternoon youth movie, but not as good because it takes itself so damn seriously. I think that the squares who actually acted in the movie probably walked around with their chests puffed out after each take because they thought they were so damn cool.This movie is not worth watching, renting or even considering as anything more than a reference for what not to do for writers interested in creating any true depiction of street culture. "},{"Title":"It's just not quite for me...","Date":"12 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  It's well made, looks good, pretty decent acting, but is about a subject matter that is a bit of a turn off to me. It starts off showing the world of crank from the users perspective and then moves into the dealers. If course, there is a story that brings it all together, but that's probably the weakest part of the movie. It's not bad, but just nothing new. There are some things in this movie I'd venture to say have never been seen before...the scene with the badger comes to mind...or the pigeons...or Bob Hope's stuff. I'm sure there are some that like this movie more than I, but it's just not quite for me. **1/2 (Out of 4) "},{"Title":"A rough, but very cool, stylish film with great performances that's worth catching at the theater","Date":"17 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Director D.J. Caruso escapes TV land and gives us a big, beautiful (yet very whacked out) film about tweekers (speed users). It's a little deeper than that, though. Without giving away too much, a little more about the complex lead character Tom (Val Kilmer) is revealed a little at a time, as with the rest of the characters. Part of the pleasure of seeing this film is the new twists that unfold as the film rolls along. There's murder, suspense, intrigue, and every other good Hollywood element and it's done very well. This is a pretty dark movie, though. Not exactly one to bring the kids to, this film faces the dark side of the drug underworld. There's plenty of violence, drugs, and other things going on that upset a few people in the screening enough to leave. With that in mind, it's one that's enjoyable on another level for it's style, story, and solid performances. Kilmer embodies his character as usual and Vincent D'Onofrio (Full Metal Jacket) is fantastic as drug kingpin Pooh Bear, who wears a prosthetic nose due to the result of his excessive cocaine habit. Adam Goldberg and Luis Guzman are also notable in supporting roles that round out the odd cast of characters. While some of the other supporting performances seem a little fake, it's also a little hard to portray a tweeker without coming off as comical. Writer Tony Gayton saves face from his dreadful Murder By Numbers script and gives us the same kinds of twists and turns, only this time it really works. The non-linear story isn't too hard to follow and is interesting enough to keep the viewer engaged. This one is worth checking out if you're a Kilmer fan or if you don't mind a little edgy stuff. Again, it's intense, but very well done. Catching it in the theater would be a good idea. The mix of the style, soundtrack, and overall feel are worth experiencing on the big screen.  "}{"Title":"A Little TOO Real","Date":"24 June 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This movie portrays the brutality and reality of the methhead subculture VERY graphically. Kilmer is absolutely haunting as the man seeking revenge for a brutal loss, and the overall flow of the film is at times almost riveting, but it is riveting the same way as watching one of those Al-Queda beheading videos that circulate on the internet. At many points of the film, it seems that the script is too busy seeking to portray the brutality of the drug underworld simply for the sake of portraying brutality, and in doing so it takes away from what could have been a profoundly intricate and powerful examination of what the drug underworld is and what drugs do. It is still a passable film, but not one that just anyone would like. "},{"Title":"Actors you love, acting in unusual parts","Date":"29 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This is a sleeper. Not many of my friends have seen this film. Now that Law and Order Criminal Intent has proved itself, watch this film and you'll see actors who are playing on television at this time, 10-2005. Vincent D'Onfrio (I hope I spelled correctly) is fabulous as this geeked out guy who is over the top as a drugged out gansta, I am not giving the plot away, just a little about Goren on Criminal Intent. Man, can he act! I loved him in this film, and Val Kilmer is cool too. If you get a chance. watch it. If you like creepy crime drama, with twists and a somewhat unpredictable ending, you might like this. It's a little off the beaten path. "},{"Title":"A revenge story with less action","Date":"20 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie follows the mold of most revenge tales.  Val Kilmer plays a guy who has become a speed addict.  He is a police informer, but is always chasing the demons that haunt him from his wife's tragic death.  She was killed at a meth house by masked gunman.  Throughout the story, we learn how Kilmer goes from his life as a meth addict to a musician. The character, Pooh - Bear is really disturbing, not only by his actions but by his face.  As he works to get the goods on Pooh-Bear, he runs into some gunmen and puts 2 and 2 together.This is definitely one of Kilmer's better roles in a while.  This film does lack a lot of action. I mean, since it is basically the same story as in Gladiator, but there are no sword fights, etc...   But, it is still good.FINAL VERDICT  A good portrayal of a speed addict.  We get to see the dark drug world and how this one guy handles it as he searches for the answers concerning his wife's death. I recommend it if you are looking for a good drama. "},{"Title":"wannahearmerap?Isawthebestmindsofmygenerationdestroyedbymadnessstarvinghystericalnaked...............","Date":"3 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Quirky little film noir about the lovely world of speed freaks. Good performances by all..(Vincent D'Onofrio refuses to look the same in any two movies---the Zelig of the cinematic world)..but the plot lines get almost too tangled for their own good, and the ending is a bit over-the-top. Worth watching, however, despite some obvious flaws. The opening montage about the history of methedrine provides the perfect intro to the wacky antics to follow. And one look at D'Onofrio's make-up will keep crank off your kids' to-do list for the foreseeable future.  "},{"Title":"Not very Accurate","Date":"14 April 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The film itself was entertaining enough, but the portrayed meth lifestyle was extremely inaccurate. The tweakers acted more like stoners, and I tend to lose interest in unrealistic movies pretty quickly. Not once does Val Kilmers character look or act like he is on speed. He was quite the opposite, almost slow moving. The only convincing meth addict was Adam Goldberg as Kujo. Shalom Harlow as was also convincing as the addict Nancy, but mainly because she was so thin. Vincent D'Onofrio did a brilliant job as his entertaining, but disturbing character Pooh Bear. He was the only reason I kept the movie on. "},{"Title":"The so what movie...","Date":"14 January 2006","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" It was supposed to be a good movie... The truth is it never gripped my attention. I tried to watch it twice, few years apart. The first time I watched it to its end, quickly forgot, and recently I tried to watch it again... I could not remember anything from the first time, so it was OK, like seeing it for the first time ever, but I quickly realized that I don't recalled anything just because there was nothing worthy recalling! So, I turned it off after 50 minutes of this tiresome experience. I just didn't care for the story, for the suspense (was there any?) and for the hero. I like Val Kilmer but he was quite unconvincing in this movie, anyway, he couldn't probably make it any better as his character was so untrue. (I wanted to say phoney to be honest;)) This movie also contains its share of boring hip topics the drugs, bad drug-lords, big guns, big tattoos, sweaty and fat guys, cheap sunglasses, serious faces and ugly/rusty cars. Just for the video formula, and I would add Video times are over! "},{"Title":"Competing Films","Date":"5 November 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Movies are like nothing else in life. They have a large hand in creating reality for us, and so we give them personalities just like we do to religious forces.So we have the comedy and noir and so on which often take on the same sorts of stereotypical characteristics we give to people. At some point, clever filmmakers, writers and actors started playing off the stereotypes of the film genre as they had been for decades with character stereotypes. Then after a long string of films that had films in them in different roles, David Lynch came along and made a film which consists of two film genre stereotypes battling it out `Blue Velvet.' The Capra goodness becomes a film Mother nature and an evil noirish thriller type becomes a Satanic deity. They battle for control over what is on the screen, what is in our minds. (The end is a draw.) The actors and characters are mere tokens for the larger battle between two metacharacters.That reinvented the world of possibilities for clever writers, and every one is now trying some sort of battle between film stereotypes that happens behind the scenes. And in doing so, they often play a common dirty trick on the actors involved. Actors are relatively stupid about the big picture because they have to have extraordinary focus on what they do. Their concerns are just different than the filmmakers. So we have a growing practice of filmmakers taking advantage of the cluelessness of the actor in a particular role.We have, for instance Harrison Ford in `Bladerunner.' He's the kind of actor that is genuinely stupid and as a person has no idea of the forces that control his life. Scott puts him in a character where that underpinning, though subtle, helps make the film a masterpiece. The Cohens do this a lot, and the practice is spreading as a major extension of typecasting.Now we have this clever film, `Salton Sea,' that goes halfway toward the film type battle by investing the battle in two method actors, Kilmer and D'Onofrio. One lives in a Tarantino (actually Welles) film, the other in an Aronofsky (actually Tarkovsky) film. Kilmer pretends to be in the Pooh Bear film as a personal conspiracy, consistent with Tarantino-like motives. The `mystery' is in where all the surrounding characters fall, in which film, and ultimately with which film will `win.'Following the Lynch formula (Gayton and Caruso are clever but no artists) the end is a merger of the two film types. Chaos meets self-destruction.I imagine that Caruso worked hard to balance the two film genres, probably talking to each actor separately. Probably keeping a scorecard one `thriller' plot twist = one comic drug hallucination.Along the way, we get a few self-referential devices. These are also requirements of this new form a reference to Zapruder -- a film that supports two truths and by extension the fabricated documentary of Stone and his plastic realities. A reference to Bob Hope's crap (read films) and a plot to coopt it. Lot's of references to other films `Do you feel lucky?' A `performance' within Guzman and Unger work their own little embedded film. Another Kujo creates his own embedded heist film.Its all fun if you love movies. A little sad to see Kilmer's commitment taken advantage of so, but that's the tragedy of the thing. These guys are doomed to unhappy lives unless they cease to act, like DeNiro.It's a fun and clever example of a new type of synthesized, self-referential film, but there's nothing new or particularly lifealtering here.Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 4 Has some interesting elements.  "},{"Title":"Don't see The Salton Sea","Date":"27 February 2005","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" You know you're in trouble when a film begins with Val Kilmer playing a jazzy tune on a trumpet inside a room that's on fire - complete with slow motion and a voice over. He ponders a bit over who he his, how he got there, and so the fun begins... if you're definition of fun is watching some coked up morons, dirty cops, shootings, pretentious dialogue, Kilmer playing more trumpet, drugs, flashbacks, explosions...The Salton Sea desperately wants to be more than just another Pulp Fiction rip-off, so it rips off Memento as well, aiming for a more serious noir touch to the story. This, of course, fails as the script's definition of film noir is having Val Kilmer playing the trumpet while pondering over who he really is, and how he got there. Oh, and it's done in slow motion and with a voice over.There are more quirky and wacky characters in this film, than you could ever wish for (kudos, though, to Mr D'Onofrio in a completely unrecognizable performance). Most of them don't have anything to do with the actual plot, but it fills out time and allows for some hip snorting and hilarious comedy... if you're definition of comedy is watching some coked up morons trying to steal Bob Hope's feces.The point is that there is no point. What little there is in the way of plot is just an excuse to show off cool characters, guns, explosions, and Val Kilmer playing the trumpet. There is a story in there somewhere, but it's so stupid and illogical that it doesn't count. It's all about the surface, and not even that is any good.Kilmer sleepwalks through the film (and, dare I say it... plays the trumpet), and all the other characters are just cartoons. The Salton Sea is a piece of crap that mistakes quality for pretentiousness, and fails to entertain in any way. 1/10 "},{"Title":"Did these guys see the same movie as me?","Date":"26 April 2002","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I don't think I'm giving anything away here - not on purpose anyway... ...not that there is actually anything of any interest to give away in this pic. My god, this was bad... yikes!There were 3 sort of okay movies here - a standard cliche revenge fest - a wacky buddy pic - a modern nor nod to Lost WeekendThe problem is... all mixed together they just make a big mess. The director obviously realises this, as Kilmer has to do voice overs through the whole movie to make up for there being no coherent narrative structure to carry the plot.What the movie is NOT - and this is a shame, because at least in San Francisco this is how it is being marketed - is as a daring insider expose' of tweaker culture. Quite the opposite - it is a silly cartoon version of tweaker culture as it might be rendered by a small town narcotics cop... with an occasional moment that looks like the writer paid some street addict 100 bucks to tell him what his life is really like. In short, at it's best, and viewed entirely through the lens of intense ironic detachment, it was some passable modern version of Refer Madness. At it's worst... well, don't buy the large popcorn - you may not feel like staying long enough to eat it all. "},{"Title":"Ridiculous, completely illogical, waste of time","Date":"20 August 2004","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This review will gloss over the basic plot to show just how ridiculously illogical it is. The only reason that this movie is considered clever is because the main character's background/circumstances are slowly fed to us during the movie; however, I'm going to give it to you in chronological order. I recommend that you read this review and then decide whether you really want to see this film. If you do choose to go ahead and watch it, keep these points in mind...****SPOILERS AHEAD!****1) Clean, average-Joe, main character takes his wife to a meth lab for no reason indicated, where she is killed in a police raid/robbery shoot-out.2) Main character comes up with a revenge plan which requires himself to become a hardcore drug addict so that he can pose as an informant to the police who conducted the raid.3) The FBI works with our hardcore drug addict hero to assist him in his revenge on the police -- because making such wise decisions as becoming a drug addict wouldn't lessen your credibility with the FBI one bit.The meth cook is a nose-less redneck freak who lives out in the desert and spends his free time recreating the Kennedy assassination with pigeons and toy cars, when he isn't feeding people's genitals to his pet badger.Other reviewers say that this film accurately portrays the lives of meth addicts and meth cooks. I think they are on meth if they believe that. 1/10 Just plain bad!  "}{"Title":"Tethered, eventually it can only go so far","Date":"3 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This opens like in a film noir, with a narrator in his last moments musing on who he really is, the house around him is on fire and he's playing the trumpet. We swoop into him to find where it all went awry and he lost himself.Promising for a while, so long as we have no safe footing in solid reality and instead free fall through selves, acquiring narrative fabrics in our fall through stories. We see a drug addict, tattooed and blitzed out of his mind. A police informant. A trumpet player. An unhappy man who comes back to the same seedy apartment.I don't mind that we have the snappy cadence of Snatch or Goodfellas here and there and quirky bad guys. This really could have been something if we were left to soak up edges of shifting self and story - hallucinated by the druggie? remembered? an informant's remorse? - as we made our way to a remote cabin for a drug deal that may have been orchestrated as part of one or more of these lives.They didn't allow us to float here. Eventually it becomes like Memento, where after a few surprises we settle on a real story, we get a flashback that explains. It becomes mechanical, a case of coming up with what happened, so when in the end, it tries to wonder about who really is this man, and what of all this was true, it comes across as an unimaginative guy musing about the wonders of imagination. The whole point is that even the formerly happy life that was snatched from him should float like all the others, perhaps a self that he comes back to to make his way through the rest. Lynch would know just how, Ruiz.A more imaginative mind here would have also made use of Kilmer's presence as formerly happy guy who has bottomed out and now inhabits a limbo where acting selves struggle within anxious stories to get out of them. But that would require the same untethered shifting.Noir Meter 2/4 | Neo-noir or post noir? Post "},{"Title":"Truly unique, utterly stylish black diamond gem of a noir film","Date":"22 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" D.J. Caruso's The Salton Sea is like two great films for the price of one. On one hand you have elements of a zany, off the wall meth addiction screwball comedy (not unlike Jonas Ackerlund's Spun, which I will be reviewing as well). Those comedic elements are wrapped in a very tragic, violent and vengeful film noir, with a brooding, paced melancholy that chills the heart. Val Kilmer stars as Danny Parker, a scumbag tweaker who snitches out fellow addicts to two corrupt narcs (Doug Hutchison and Anthony Lapaglia, equal parts hilarious and scary). But he's also Tom Van Allen, a stoic trumpet player who has been driven to this life of unending nocturnal madness through bloody and unfortunate circumstance. I won't say any more than that or I'll spoil the plot. Kilmer plays both sides of the coin willingly, and in a way is perfect for both aspects of this character, as he has always had a flair for both mournful gravitas (The Saint, Batman) and hyperactive lunacy (Kiss Kiss Bang Bang, Willow). Vincent D'Onofrio almost steals the film away from him though, playing a deranged crank dealer named Pooh Bear, who I quote snorted so much gack they had to chop his nose off. He is a plastic nosed monster with a bleached blonde cut and a chilling nasally whine that produces nightmares. Vancouver born Deborah Kara Unger gives a restrained performance as Danny's down on her luck neighbour. The supporting cast rocks it, with appearances from Meat Loaf, Luis Guzman, R. Lee Ermey, Peter Saarsgard, Adam Goldberg, Glenn Plummer and Danny Trejo. I've heard people whine about this film being style over substance. Well, when you have a style this distinct, a score this good, a color palette this gorgeous, so what if the visual and auditory aesthetic takes over a bit? It still has enough exposition and character motivation to surge forward with purpose. A very underrated, delightfully off kilter late 90's noir entry well worth watching. "},{"Title":"Gets put together really well","Date":"19 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I saw a poster to this movie a long time ago and found it sort of interesting but never seen the trailer in theaters although I tend to go to the movies a lot back than. Especially with it's tagline, which didn't help get a understanding of what this movie is about. But from the beginning scene it clearly shows this movie is about tweekers. And is mainly focused on one tweeker Danny Parker/Tom Van Allen(Val Kilmer) who has a double lifestyle. I was actually quite shocked with the direction this movie went since I thought it would be a very serious movie, but the cinematography didn't seem all that serious. In fact this movie has some comedic elements in it. Besides the unexpected direction and besides the movie being all over the place at times, it does get put together a bit later on. And after it was finished I actually liked this movie, not a great film like some people claim it to be but I still liked it, especially the style of this, well sort of. And especially how the plot comes together and how it all fits together. Val Kilmer did a good job of playing the witty tweeker in this and his performance was enjoyable to watch. This is a unpredictable movie with some good elements in it that revolve around drugs and other stuff which I won't be giving away. I am glad I took the time to watch this film and it won't disappoint.7.4/10 "},{"Title":"anther under-appreciated movie !!!!!","Date":"12 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I started using the IMDb recently, its quiet addictive really if your a movie fanatic, i used to check into rottentomatoes every time i wanted to know about a film, or the well respected wikipedia.the great thing about this site that it always appreciate art & intelligence, rarely you find a high rating for a dumb movie. its very realistic & honest, but as we all know all things have buts, whats bothering me is seeing a wonderfully astonishing piece of art not being appreciated enough.the rating 7,1 is not very encouraging to be honest, specially when u have all of those above 7,5. THIS MOVIE SHOULD BE 8,3 or something. the script & dialogue is pure genius, Val Kilmer gets sucked by his character, you could swear hes not Val, amazing performance by all actors indeed, except for 2, watch it and see if you could figure them out ;) go watch it guys, you wont regret it. "},{"Title":"Set sail with Val Kilmer on a sea of drugs.","Date":"8 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The drug world is a crazy one a world of strait and dirty, bullets and blood shed, secrecy and surveillance, and sometimes life or death. If you were one of the few people to follow David Simon's the Wire on Cable TV, you'll get the idea completely. The Saltan Sea, though occasionally flirting close too close to the line of staged plotting, feels surprisingly convincing, and down to earth. Though I wouldn't call it a super smart motion picture, it does have a brain, with brain cells that fire off signals to progress the story in a manner that is engaging.Tom Van Allen and his lovely wife were on holiday by the Salton Sea, when one night a couple of guys in masks shot her dead in the hotel lobby (along with the clerk). since then Tom, has taken up a new identity as a street punk. Having gotten himself arrested (deliberately) he has been doing buy and bust for the cops. Each bust gets progressively bigger, and his plan is ultimately to bust the one who killed his wife, something bigger and more ironic than the audience could anticipate.First shots can be very important sometimes (I'm sure many of you have a favourite example). The Salton Sea opens on a man sitting on the floor of a room which is burning all around him, while he casually plays the trumpet. Next, we hear his narrative voice, Who am I.......I'll let you decide before the story flashes back quite a ways. If this is not enough to get you into the story (even the slightest bit), I dunno what is.The Salton Sea does its job well. It is still shy of greatness, but I'd say it is worth a peak. "},{"Title":"Kilmer's Finest Hour","Date":"26 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I've watched a number of Val Kilmer movies over the years and this is by far Val's best performance. While Val has always been more of a supporting actor, he really shines as the main character Danny Parker/Tom Van Allen in The Salton Sea. The plot is great and the acting is solid all around. The serious dramatic nature works well with the splash of dark humor throughout the film. It's sad to see The Salton Sea not get the notoriety it deserves. Coming from someone who has seen A LOT of movies, this is in my top 50 for sure. Val really shows he's more than the hunk from Top Gun, the crazed college kid from Real Genius, and even the gambling junkie/pro thief from Heat. Val outdoes even his performance as Jim Morrison in The Doors(1991).So, give this film a look and let yourself slip into the underground life of the perpetual night party. And get a taste of the life of Danny Parker. A tweaker with nothing to lose and a life he'll never get back. "},{"Title":"not altogether cohesive or dazzling, but when it smokes there's fire","Date":"26 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The writer of The Salton Sea, Tony Gayton, said that he didn't intend for his script to be made into the film, but wrote it out as an experiment, a piece that he could show off to Hollywood execs so that he could get other writing jobs (this is actually a much more common occurrence in getting writing jobs than you'd think). When the studio decided to make the script into a film, I wonder now seeing the film if its director DJ Caruso intended the same as his writer when he was making it. This is a film for a select bunch of viewers, and perhaps not even them at all.Who is the audience for The Salton Sea? Most likely that cultish group of movie-goers that loves trippy drug movies with black humor (its visual style screams out at times LOOK AT ME, with a musical track that accompanies it). But it's also got a story like a film-noir, or even that of a crime story off of nighttime network TV, where a guy goes undercover... and is going undercover even deeper again for another organization, all in the memory of his late wife. It's this clash that makes Salton Sea captivating, and also, at times, not very likable as a movie. It looks like it's cribbed from other movies, better ones (Trainspotting as one example, The Kind of New York as another), and morphed into its own thing.For the gaps in logic that the film has, and it definitely has a few (for one thing, when it's revealed how Kilmer's wife really died, it's kind of stupid why they were even where they were in the first place - and also, later on in the film, what the twisted relationship is between Kilmer and the cops he rats to on his life in the meth game), the film entertains and engages with its bizarre humor and even some of its predictable noirish elements (for example Deborah Kara Unger's subplot with the abusive husband). Caruso wants this to be a dark film with some surreal touches- something he makes us aware of in the first scene as trumpet player Daniel Parker (or is it Tommy Van Allen) plays on in the midst of a fire around him- and as long as he doesn't let things slip too far into the expected, it fares well.Supporting actors help out a great deal in ensembles, and it's here that an actor like Vincent D'Onofrio can go to town. He plays the no-nosed drug dealer Pooh-bear (named after poor Winnie sticking his nose into too much honey), and is so bonkers as he tries to outdo anything in Fear & Loathing in Las Vegas. Arguably, he goes too far with it, especially with his character's penchant for having an actual badger eating a man's genitals. But it works as a crazy buffer in the midst of other plot lines that take themselves almost too seriously (the undercover plot) or not really at all (the Meth buddies plot to steal Bob Hope's stool, which is meant to played for laughs but felt kind of stale ala Tarantino). Others who stand out include Stellan Sarsgaard as Kilmer's Meth-buddie, and BD Wong who for most of the film plays a character so unlike we've seen him play on Oz or Law & Order.And as for Kilmer... he does alright. Nothing really great or audacious (he doesn't shoot for the moon like Jim Morrison) and nothing to be ashamed of. His narration either is very good or poor, usually based on the script. His mournful look resonates at first, but he does better at playing stoned in front of the cops or trying to stay on edge like in front of the bugged-out dealer with the woman trapped under his bed. And as more quirky and comic-book characters and twists come out of the woodwork, he holds his own and makes the film watchable, if not too demanding of the viewer. "},{"Title":"Danny Parker's dark quest - brilliant","Date":"22 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Well-crafted and dark - exploring the subjects of lost love, grief, post-traumatic stress disorder, drug addiction and attempts at redemption. Violent, disturbing, funny, mostly 'over- the-top', and oddly Romantic, this film is not for everyone, but should appeal to those interested in film-noir and action pictures. The dystopia of southern California drug culture is portrayed in a chaotic series of vignettes sprinkled though the screenplay, in a form more associated with an indie film than a mainstream Hollywood production. For me the film manages to be entertaining and engrossing while at the same time being focused on criminals and individuals experiencing depression and hopelessness. The importance of the film's reference to the ecological nightmare of the actual Salton Sea, a toxic man-made lake, is missed by most critics, but is the central metaphor. Val Kilmer gives one of his best performances, capturing the persona of a distraught and devastated individual struggling to go on by developing a character with considerable depth. Supporting cast members Vincent D'Onofrio, Luis Guzman, Anthony Lapaglia and Peter Saarsgard are all brilliant, and Chandra West well-cast as Tom Van Allen's beautiful and fragile ghost. "},{"Title":"Salty Sea","Date":"8 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" It's a pretty decent thriller.Enough twists and curves to keep you guessing till the end. Not bad performances. Val Kilmer is as good (or as bad) as he is in other movies. He plays the bereaved husband whose wife has been killed in a robbery fiasco and now he is vindictive towards the perpetrators. Vincent D'Onofrio as the eccentric drug dealer and Doug Hutchison (remember the negative guy in the Green Mile?) as the corrupt cop are fear-and-loathe-some.Good for a one-time-watch.(Originally posted @ weirdo-on-movies.blogspot.com) "},{"Title":"Life on Meth","Date":"26 December 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Unexpectedly captivating crime yarn despite excessively inconsistent plotting, some narrative flaws and existential pretensions. It's a demented fun ride, though.The loopy story is filled with both mordantly funny and violent scenes and has a hallucinogenic quality to it that befits its dark central issue perfectly. And some moments are simply hilarious, such as a re-staging of the JFK assassination, complete with toy cars and pigeon stand-ins.It's all quite a hodgepodge, but enjoyably so.6 out of 10 rabid badgers "}{"Title":"Kilmer Needs More Work","Date":"20 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I'm a Val Kilmer fan, so it pains me to see what he is doing today. You'd think that Kiss Kiss Bang Bang would revive two careers instead of one. Anyways, it took me this long to see this film and I don't know why. I should have seen it sooner because it is really well done. A tight script and actors who immerse themselves into the characters bring this film to life.The film has two different distinct feels to it. The first is, obviously the first half, which is more of a comedic drug induced trip style of a film. Think Weirdsville or Trainspotting. Then all of a sudden we are brought into this film noir underworld and the story takes a turn, it hooks you in for the ride.I won't go into details about the plot because any detail I give could give away the surprises. Upon first glance one character's actions and motivations may seem off, but when to think and pounder about them, what would you do in the same situation? Kilmer does a great job of dual roles here, right off the bat he tells you he doesn't really know who he is anymore, he is lost within two identities he has created for himself. Vincent D'Onofrio disappears into his overweight no nose of a villain and Peter Sarsgaard gives us an honest and some times compelling performance as a tweaker who just wants to gave friends. You really feel sorry for this characters.The film feels underrated to me, not many people know about it or even gave it a chance. You'll be surprised though, I sure was. "},{"Title":"A Must Watch Movie!","Date":"16 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" What a roll, played to the max. Val Kilmer is so convincing, he becomes the character, watch as one of the best transforms himself into a tweaker. Surrounded by an amazing cast, great performance by most if not all. The story line unfolds and your drawn in to this underworld of tweakers, pushers, and impostors. you will absolutely love the ending you will be glued to your chair, so be ready when you hit play there will be no popcorn break trust me, so have all that ready and enjoy one of the best Val Kilmer performances. any one wanting to watch this online send me a message. We have so many movies online which we love to share, videofriender is the best I will be adding my thoughts on IMDb as I watch movies some of the good oldies and the new flicks we have them all & if we don't just drop us line and it'll be uploaded in no time. "},{"Title":"A must see","Date":"10 May 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I had the opportunity to see this movie while I was living in LA at the LA film school in an advanced screening with the Director, DJ Caruso. It follows Danny Parker and Tom Van Allen which both happen to be Val Kilmer. Because of a tragic incident Tom Van Allen becomes the character of Danny Parker in order to dive into the subculture of drugs and crime to get revenge. Another impressive performance comes from Vincent D'Nofrio who plays Pooh Bear, a tweaked out drug dealer. As in most of D'Nofrio's rolls, he is pretty much unrecognizable. I find this movie to be incredible. I love the characters and the story. Val Kilmer is one of my favorite actors and he is really good at giving a character his all. I also appreciated the visuals in this movie. I think it was photographed beautifully. If you haven't seen this movie I highly recommend it. If you can't find it, I'll lend you my copy. "},{"Title":"Seeing A Journey to Hell","Date":"26 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This is an excruciating yet mesmerizing drama.It is a story of a man's despair and desperation due to his wife's death and what he does about it. He is in a world of drugs and the evil that surrounds that. Rather then glamorize the drug scene as some have suggested this movie goes out of the way to show the filth and vileness of it.The lead actor proves he is at the top of his profession.There are some irritating scenes in the movie which are perhaps explainable by the film being presented through the eyes of a desperate and drugged up individual.Worthy of 7 and a half out of 10, rounded down to7/10. "},{"Title":"Lost in it's own waves","Date":"25 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I'm not sure what it is about Val Kilmer, but I seem to desperately want to like him. Prior to watching a lot of his films, I generally have this preconceived notion that he will kick ass. Usually this is not the case, and I find myself wondering why his character falls short of expectations. Or rather, why the hell do I think Val Kilmer is potentially awesome anyways? While watching Salton Sea, I never truly grasped who his character was. In part, I believe this was intentional. The film makers desired an aura of ambiguity around him. His own conflicted self image in conjunction with his steadfast resolve create a character who is perhaps interesting, yet at the same time all together boring. For example, Val Kilmer's character is supposedly a hardcore drug user, yet this aspect of his character is rarely, if ever explored. Only briefly mentioned in passing during the introduction. The other druggies in the film aren't fully realized either. The gang not only feels awkward at parts, and the characters clichéd, but Jimmy the Finn is thrown at the audience late in the film begging for an emotional response from us. He is supposedly Danny Parker / Tom Van Allen's (Val Kilmer) best friend, and yet the entire relationship feels contrived, and the emotional response from the audience (or at least me) is very limited. In fact, I was even starting to question whether the two had a secret love affair unbeknown to me... something more fitting of Val Kilmer's role in Kiss Kiss Bang Bang (which, by the way, I felt was one of Kilmer's strongest portrayals).However, this entertaining movie should not be overlooked, as it often is. It's a good watch with an intriguing concept. I'd call the film trendy, if I knew what that really meant, and liken it to films like Trainspotting, Requiem for a Dream, Memento and Fight Club if only for the moods it aspires to convey. Some things fall off along the way but there are some interesting surprises (Pooh Bear) which help the watchability.I wouldn't expect to be blown away, or deep in thought days after the release, but there's definitely enough here for fans of the movies mentioned above.7/10 "},{"Title":"Underrated","Date":"25 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I have an acquaintance on the Internet who is a die-hard fan of Val Kilmer. As a result of his praise for Kilmer, I have seen something like half a dozen Kilmer movies in the past few months. They have ranged from middling (Spartan) to good (Kiss Kiss Bang Bang) and have actually proved that Kilmer is a fairly underrated actor. One particular Kilmer movie that has stayed with me since I've seen it is The Salton Sea, enough that I've bothered to watch it a second time and even buy the DVD.The Salton Sea stars Kilmer as Danny, a heavily tattooed punk and tweaker (the movie's nickname for a meth addict). He divides his time between hanging out with fellow addicts and ratting out crazed drug dealers to a pair of cops (Anthony laPaglia and Doug Hutchison). When he comes home at night, he changes into an old suit, plays sad music on a trumpet and calls himself Tom. Exactly why he does this is revealed in a series of flashbacks that I won't spoil here, but they paint a clearer picture of just what kind of person Danny/Tom really is.At first, it's easy to assume from the first 15 or 20 minutes that The Salton Sea is going to be a movie about drug culture, in the vein (pun unintended) of movies like Trainspotting or Requiem for a Dream. The Salton Sea does share many stylistic similarities with such drug movies &#150; the story is told in a very episodic manner, uses a starkly colourful visual style and utilises many flourishes with both camera-work and editing. The style is toned down slightly from the much more in-your-face manner shown in Requiem for a Dream. I find this actually a plus in the case of The Salton Sea, because the muted drug-chic look of the film doesn't distract you from the film's real plot.What The Salton Sea does differently to other drug movies is subtly weave a thriller plot into the midst of its portrayal of meth addicts. The plot &#150; revolving around revenge, murder and double-crosses &#150; doesn't take centre-stage until the final third of the film, when Tom's true motives for becoming Danny finally come to light. The twist that signals the beginning of the end is a fairly unpredictable one. When you actually come to the realisation that there is a twist, it seems all the stranger because it belongs to a plot that is not immediately obvious on a first viewing. Even on repeat viewings, you find it hard to see coming due to the subtlety of the plot that the twist relates to.Which is all fine and dandy &#150; but how does the film as a whole stand up? Pretty well. As Danny, Kilmer is an eloquent and softly spoken voice of reason amidst a veritable circus of bizarre supporting characters; the most memorable being Vincent D'Onofrio as Pooh Bear, a hillbilly drug dealer with no nose and a penchant for blackly comic acts of violence. The plot, although not particularly obvious or even too original, is a solid one and isn't overshadowed by the film's look. The Salton Sea manages to be a decent enough movie, borrowing from the Column A of drug movies and the Column B of neo-noir without ever leaving the feeling that it tries too hard. "},{"Title":"Linoleum? This must be hell.","Date":"16 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Somehow, this flick came in under the radar and I hadn't even heard of it when I rented it, mostly because I like Val Kilmer, an actor I don't think has gotten his due. When it ended, I sat there and just thought, What a cool movie.Not a great movie. Not an uplifting movie. Not a message movie.Just a really cool neo-noir with some snarky humor.Danny is seeking redemption. He feels some responsibility for the murder of his wife. He's fallen into the world of meth-using tweakers. He's on the hunt for whoever killed his wife. Two nasty cops follow him around. Then, he gets mixed up with some really dangerous people (Was Pooh Bear's ranch modeled on the Spahn Ranch were Manson hung out?). The tension just builds until an awesomely violent climax and a couple of startling revelations.Along the way, we are treated to some funny set pieces, including the meth-documentary prologue and the tweakers' hospital plot. I almost fell on the floor laughing when I saw the pigeons in the little car with their little pink pillbox hats (You have to see this to understand).Things are tied up a bit too neatly at the end and I could have done without the badger scene (Yikes!).Definitely not for the kiddies, but if you like revenge melodramas with an edge, check it out. "},{"Title":"Gripping, powerful and very entertaining","Date":"19 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Thanks to IMDb and some cross referencing, these type of movies reveal themselves. This is not some cookie cutter plot with the typical results. This is a dark, revenge based story that hits all of it's marks.You have to get past the initial drug induced stupor to see what this film is all about. Our lead character (Val) is very focused on the task at hand and will stop at nothing until his goals are achieved. In order to right a wrong, he is more than willing to play anyone and everyone involved. There is something to prove here and our lead will stop at nothing and sacrifice everything, to ease his conscience. What happens along the way is a very enjoyable, tense, powerful and entertaining 1 hour and 43 minutes.Besides Val, Vincent D'Onofrio and Peter Sarsgaard turn in great performances. You can't help but want to see more of their work. "},{"Title":"Dark, absorbing drug drama.","Date":"30 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Surreal and sordid glimpse at the underbelly of drug addiction. This film is narrated by Val Kilmer, who plays Danny Parker, the alias of Tom Van Allen. Danny is a tattooed trumpet player; a crystal meth addict who is lost in his search to find his own identity. Living to binge on speed and serve as a rat for two cops, one played by Anthony LaPaglia. Danny witnessed his wife being murdered; he is determined to avenge her death as he drifts in and out of his drugged stupor. My favorite character is the no-nose Pooh-Bear(Vincent D'Onofrio). Others in the castPeter Sarsgaard, Glenn Plummer, B.D. Wong, Deborah Kara Unger and Meat Loaf. Directed by D.J. Caruso and written by Tony Gayton, SALTON SEA grim as can be, but worth the off-kilter trip. "},{"Title":"An underrated gem, that is a bit confused about what it wants to be.","Date":"8 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" A very enjoyable film with phenomenal performances around. Sarsgaard was dynamic as always, and D'Onofrio is completely explosive. The score did a wonderful job of fitting the bleak tone. The plot itself was mostly excellent. It's full of twists and double-crosses, but doesn't become too convoluted like most films of this nature do. It does a good job of letting the audience catch up instead of throwing character after character after death after rat at you. Unfortunately, the film was pretty one-dimensional and it seemed like it didn't know what it wanted to be in terms of genre. One second it was full of cops, rats and gunfire. The next it was a sentimental drama about a man trying to survive after watching his wife die. Then it was a revenge story about him destroying those who murdered his wife. Then it was a gimmicky comedy full of quirky, speed heads. Then it was a dark, noir with a trumpet player in a dark and dangerous world. I wish it would have picked one and stayed with it. I also wasn't a big fan of the trumpet playing scenes. They felt unnecessary and really drew away from the plot. However they were nice to sound and I do understand what Caruso was trying to do with them, I just don't think he really succeeded. "}{"Title":"Kilmer's last real good role and his last feature worth watching.","Date":"11 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Is Val Kilmer out to set a record? He's got six productions set for 2012 release, on top of his list of 76 acting credits. Salton Sea is in my opinion his last feature film worth watching. He's played second fiddle in several since then and had lead roles in mediocre productions but the potential many moviegoers had seen in him have sort of faded away and I hope he'll do something worthwhile soon but I'm not holding my breath. Has his mark as an actor fans want to see vanished with his best behind him? Red Planet, The Saint, Tombstone, Thunderheart, The Doors, all good movies but a fraction of what he's done. The Salton Sea may be Kilmer's best. Kiss Kiss Bang Bang, really? Enough about him; the movie is a good crime drama and has a supporting cast to match.I had to dig back many years to find this movie. It's a dark movie but powerful nonetheless. Vincent D'Onofrio's performance is outstanding, though brief. There's suspense and action to keep a die-hard fan of the genre glued to the seat. The rating by users has consistently been good at the various sources I like to refer to, but not so much from the critics. I can't think of any dark movie scoring well with critics; they must have sensibilities beyond that of the average moviegoer. "},{"Title":"What is this song's title?","Date":"3 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" First of all this is a very well done film with an entertaining story line containing a well written twist. If you haven't seen it you and have two hours to kill then you should pick up a copy. Somewhere around forty five minutes into the film is the scene in the movie where Adam Goldberg is explaining to the group his plan for the heist of Bob Hope's stool sample there is a stage with an old man in a wheel chair singing in the background of the scene. As thoroughly interesting and entertaining as this scene is for it's humorous value, I just want to know one thing. What is the title to this song that the old man is singing? I can't manage to find it anywhere on the web. "},{"Title":"A VALuable piece of cinema","Date":"13 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This film went straight to video in the UK. I do not know why, as it is simply wonderous. Everything from the script to the acting is all high grade stuff. I believed the characters, I was drawn into their world, and I was happy for Val Kilmer at the end of it.This is not like most drug movies. As it is not actually about drugs. They are the McGuffin, we do not linger on the drug use for too long. This keeps the story moving, and actually helps merge the different genres without cause for alarm. There is some very clever use of dialogue in the film. For instance, when Val begins to talk about the roots of crystal mephs, you can honestly believe he is a real junkie, which is very important to his character. Mr. Ocean is a wounderfully round bit-part. He talks and acts everything like someone who is high on their own supply.I am going to keep this review short and sweet. So i will finish by saying, if you haven't seen this film rent it, if you have rented the film then buy it, lock it in a drawer for a year then watch it again. It will make your life better. "},{"Title":"can't make up my mind","Date":"3 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie, at least parts of it anyway.  I started watching it on a whim, it was on HBO or something.  And i got drawn in.  It had a great begining, and i always love Val Kilmer's performances (I still think he was the best batman)  But there were still a lot of Kilmerisms, so i wouldn't say that i was blown away by his performance, but it was certaintly solid. As for the movie, i kept going back and forth on whether or not i liked it. The reenactment of the kennedy Assasination with the pigeons was far and away my favorite moment of the film.  I haven't been quite as bug eyed as that in a long time.  As for the whole Working for the CIA thing.  That was pretty weak.  And it had no purpose in the film.  It did not advance the plot in any way, other than to explain to the audience, in about 5 minutes, after most of the movie had already progressed, what is actually happening. I think that this could have been accomplished much more gracefully, I would have figured out what happened, if i had just watched the last scene when he was telling the guy that he killed his wife.  So i thought that the CIA or FBI or whatever they were just threw unnecessary confusion into the mix. However, overall this movie was well worth the watch, and it was good to see Val in a bigger role again. "},{"Title":"Twisting and twisted","Date":"2 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Dark and quirky drug underworld film noir with some great plot twists and funny moments. Kilmer is good but even better is Vincent D'Onofrio who was almost unrecognisable (see also Men in Black and The Cell). He's always a joy to watch often playing characters who are just Out there. Has some moments of high violence but that's just as it should be. The film itself is great but it's the performances that set this way way above it's brethren. "},{"Title":"Val Kilmer at his best!","Date":"29 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is a GREAT movie! A story about a guy planning a revenge that took years of his life, sanity of his brain and blood of his body! A great plot, great set of actors, and Val Kilmer is doing a wonderful job! Nice action sequences! In the end, where we all count the bullets that he shot is amazing! 1..2..3..4..5..6..7..8?! Does the gun carry a bullet more? 9??? Oh..what the hell! It doesn't matter! This scene reminded of Snatch. Also another scene, where Val Kilmer describes the apartment of Bobby Ocean with all the details! Very EXCELLENT indeed!Rent the movie! Buy the movie! Watch the movie! Don't miss it! One of my favs! No doubt about that! "},{"Title":"Surprised","Date":"16 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I'd seen the poster of Salton Sea in a video magazine, and much to my surprise noticed that Val Kilmer's name was on it. Weird, since he hasn't been (at least to my knowledge), in any famous production in the past 3 or four years (probably more). I missed the movie when it hit the cinemas here in Portugal, and viewed it this weekend after renting it out of the back shelf of the store i usually attend. And i gotta say that i thought it was a piece of film-noir art, one of the best movies i've seen. Kilmer's performance, as well as all his fellow co-stars, is fluid, credible and unique. The casting team did a great job, and D.J. Caruso, with the rarely used permision given to his cast to explore and improvise the scenes, made it all work like a charm. Look at D'Onofrio's character and you will understand what i mean. The photography is conveniently brilliant, the twists are clever and everything falls into the places they should be. A cannot help myself but to give this one a solid 10/10. "},{"Title":"One of the Best of 2002","Date":"16 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  While the Salton Sea may not be as ground breaking as City of God or as amazing as Spirited Away, its still one of the best of last year.  While the plot is very much the same as 2001's great Memento, it is so much more and also completly different.  While Memento uses a unique style to get the viewer to relate to a hero who was by and large unsymapthetic, read a douchebag, the Salton Sea goes about it in a different way, with an ultra-noir beginning that leads into a rather complex web of a story.  The movie tops Memento in that, instead of relying on what is essentially a one trick pony, the backwards narrative structure that gets old after a couple repeat viewings and you have everything figured out, it gets its strength from great performances, particularly from Kilmer, in his best role since Heat, and from Vincent Goddamn I'm an incredible actor' D'Onofrio.  D'Onofrio once again transforms into a charachter who is both hilarious and menacing at the same time.  Every line he gets in this movie is a classic especially the brain thing and Captian Stuebbing.  As far as neo-noir goes this movie does what many others have tried, and most short of Christopher Nolan have failed, and weave a complex web around the alienated hero, trying to figure out exactly who he is, since he has gone in too deep in order to complete his quest for revenge.  10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"'Pulp Fiction' meets 'Trainspotting'","Date":"25 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  'The Salton Sea' works as a comedy, it works as a drama, it works as a thriller and it works as a crime-movie. Val Kilmer is Danny Parker, or Tom Van Allen. Which one he is, is for you to decide, so says the narrator. The narrator is Danny Parker, or Tom Van Allen, and when the movie opens he is sitting on the floor with his trumpet, surrounded by fire. He starts telling his life. He tells about his murdered wife and how he got into drugs, and how he has to help the police by being a rat. It is a great story, pretty original as well.Combining the best parts from 'Trainspotting' and 'Pulp Fiction' this movie is never boring. The narration by Kilmer is funny, his acting is good. One of the bad guys is played by Vincent D'Onofrio in a great way. We also see Deborah Kara Unger and Luis Guzmán in nice parts.From start to finish a very fine movie. "},{"Title":"Offbeat and wholly enjoyable.","Date":"16 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Dark humor is a growing trend in films since the explosion of Pulp Fiction. Some films get it right, like Fight Club.  Some films fall flat, like Rules of Attraction.  This film, The Salton Sea, gets it right.  Whenever you're laughing and simultaneously thinking, I should NOT be laughing at this, you know you're watching good dark humor.There are a few great moments like this, but added to that are some well crafted scenes, good acting, and a plot that is better than nearly every other drug-themed film I can think of.  Films like Trainspotting and Requiem for a Dream are excellent examinations of drug use and addiction, but in terms of real plot, things really are on the thin side.  This film gives you the visual goodness that comes with exploring a drug culture, but takes the plot above this, leaving it in the background.The less you know about this movie before you see it, the better.  But I will tell you this much  do not expect your typical my life sucks so I destroy myself with drugs so pity me kind of film.  Early on in the movie, the main character says I know what you're thinking, but don't give up on me yet.  This is a good bit of advice, because you just might end up rooting for this guy by the end of the film.If you look for flaws, they are there, but well painted over with great visuals, great humor, and an marvelous shift from lazy introduction to mounting intensity.  Occasionally the main character lets himself meander off the path a bit too far with pointless poetic ramblings, but it's only mildly annoying.  There are a few scenes that don't hold up under scrutiny, but the problems don't get in the way of a great plot.I give it an 8 out of 10.  Good stuff. "}{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"6 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  How this movie did not get a wide release is beyond me!!  I had not even heard of it but decide to rent it regardless as I like Val KS work. Glad I did.A great Story with many twists, and some disturbing moments. First rate cinematography, creating the seedy world of the Meth abuser, in a surreal manner.I would recommend this film to anyone who enjoys first rate acting and characters.....without the Hollywood bull***t feel. See...! a film can be entertaining in this genre without blowing everything up!! "},{"Title":"Val is playing a great role in one of the better movies...","Date":"6 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" ...i saw this year. It's about one man's revenge on the killing of his wife who was his hole world.What i specially liked about Salton Sea is the storyline wich make u wonder where this is all heading at and keeping u in suspence untill the last minute.Warning for lot's of violance and drug abbuse i strongly reccomand The Salton Sea to everyone ready to enter a low-life world where nothing is what it seems. Greetz to u movie-lovers all over the world.     "},{"Title":"Surpisingly good","Date":"5 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This one was a real surprise hit for me. A friend rented it from the video library, and none of us had even heard of it before. I was VERY dubious - my opinion of Val Kilmer's acting ability wasn't all that high (although I did enjoy him in Tombstone and Willow, for some reason his role in The Saint is his performance that is most indelibly etched on my brain). This proved to be a very pleasant surprise. Kilmer's performance was excellent, and the movie had a very interesting storyline. In most movies that have plot twists and surprise endings they are usually quite obvious if you are paying attention, but this movie caught me off guard, and pleasantly so. I had a small problem one aspect of the ending as being a little hard to swallow, but nothing I couldn't put aside. There are some great characters in this film, in particular Pooh-Bear, a strung out drug lord who has lost his nose to excessive drug use. His methods of intimidation and interrogation are novel, to say the least! All in all a very good film, suspenseful and interesting, laced with some great humour and quite nasty violence. Normally, I really don't enjoy drug movies, but Salton Sea was great - I would even liken it to The Usual Suspects or True Romance. Well worth watching. "},{"Title":"Twists and turns you can't believe a truly unappreciated film.","Date":"23 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I had never heard of this film when I saw it on the self at Blockbuster a few days ago.  I have always been a fan of Kilmer especially since Oliver Stone's The Doors (not really great movie in itself but he was excellent portraying Morrison) And who doesn't want to so see someone like Kilmer all doped up. I was really wanting to see one of the most under appreciated actors Vincent D'Onofrio. Who does not let you down in this movie as Pooh Bear. So if you love a little bit of edge and good plot twists this one is definately a good pick. It has a bit of an independent style and feel to it and the quality of the production is top notch.  A must see! (Just to throw in a Cliche)Chad "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good","Date":"21 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I haven't heard of this movie until I came across it by chance. I was wondering if it is worth watching it. In the beginning I thought it was one of those no-brain movies about junkies who get stoned. The only thing that made me watch further was the good beginning with the trumpet playing.Gradually I became engrossed in it - it was terribly good.Perhaps I should say that this type of filme noire are my favorite and I truly enjoy their atmosphere.  I must mention that The Salton Sea has some resemblances to one of my other favorites, Memento. Vincent d'Onofrio's performance was astonishing (I am more used to seeing him as the cop in Law & Order).The story's plot is quite predictable at certain points and absolutely unpredictable at others and this is what I liked the most. The end is a bit unexpected for the filme noire and this is what caught me by surprise.    "},{"Title":"This Film Rocks in an Extreme Manner.","Date":"14 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The Salton Sea is about Danny (or is it Tom?) played by Val Kilmer.  He lost his wife during a shoot out by the Salton sea, and has pretty much dedicated his life to tracking down her killers.  He is helped by his best friend, Jimmy the Finn (Peter Sarsgaard) who idolizes him, and Bubba (B.D. Wong), an authority who will help him pull off one last drug bust.  This involves the criminally insane Pooh-Bear (Vincent D'Onofrio), a dealer who snorted so much of his own stuff that his nose fell off.  Luiz Gusman also shows up briefly to steal the show for a few scenes.All I can say is, how in God Almighty's name did this film not get wide release?  It was fun, with some endearing action, without being a brainless shoot-out film.  Val Kilmer, a guy I normally don't like, has made me a fan of his from this performance.  I hope he has done more independent films, because he shines here; he portrays this every man demenor but puts this man in situations that cause him to take drastic action, and he seems very natural doing so.  We are with Danny/Tom the entire way; Kilmer and director D.J. Caruso make a character an audience can genuinely empathize with.D'Onofrio also totally flips out here, and appears so volatile that I couldn't tell if he was about to give Val a big hug or punch him in the face.  The rest of the cast, even with the talented shadows of the director and these two actors, shines through as well, all seeming very committed to their roles.  Rent this now.  Even if you're not into drug type films, this is not too extreme and did have the possibility of mass appeal, even if distributors didn't take advantage of that. "},{"Title":"A perfect film to display underrated actors","Date":"10 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The Salton Sea, a movie that went mostly unnoticed in 20002, is the perfect movie to display some of Hollywoods most highly underrated actors. Vincent D'Onofrio as pooh bear was suberb, another in a long list of memorable charcters.  Peter Sarsgaard's Jimmy the Finn is also a top notch performance. The supporting cast which includes Adam Goldberg, Anthony LaPaglia, Luis Guzman, Doug Hutchinson, Danny Trejo(one of my personal favorites), and in a VERY minor role R. Lee Ermey.  While these actors add great depth to this movie it is Val Kilmer who carries this movie from start to finish.  Kilmer has been in some really good movies(Heat, Tombstone, and The Doors) and some really bad ones( Island of Dr. Moreau, Red Planet, And his other 2002 movie that I wont even bother naming).  He has never really stood out in his starring roles until now.  I think The Salton sea will relaunch Val's career. Director D.J Caruso, mostly known for directing tv series, did an outstanding job with this movie. While the directing and the acting were really good it was the smaller things that really made this a great movie.  The music, despite being low key, helps drive the movie along nicely.  The camera work was also very good.  The movie relies on a few flashbacks to fill in key plot items. I usually hate movie flashbacks but they were well done here.  I have watched this movie on dvd at least 10 times and have even caught it a few times on HBO (it preimered this month). It is One of those movies that just grabs you and dosent let go. A must see. "},{"Title":"Compelling though Flawed Debut from Director Caruso","Date":"5 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" What starts out as a graphic and disturbing look into the world of speed freaks that seems to desire a rivalry with Requiem for a Dream in terms of squirm inducing scenes and images, ends up being a solid revenge tale more in line with the spirit of The Limey or Memento. This is an interesting combo of genres that doesn't always work and gets bogged down by some slow middle parts, a script that doesn't give enough in depth character development to make you care about supporting characters (who play pivotal roles in the climax), and a few too many clichés (from both the drug/narc genre and the death wish/revenge genre). Caruso is clearly a talented director, and he does his best to keep your attention without resorting to the typical quick-cut and headache inducing camera movement theatrics that so many first time directors dealing with gritty avant-garde films tend to overuse these days. Val Kilmer is excellent as a man who would go to the ends of the earth to find his wife's killers. D'Onofrio continues to be one of the most over-rated method actors. He tries too hard here and his villain is way too cartoonish and over the top. We've seen this type of twisted bad guy before. It's not entertaining. It's just sick. All in all...the movie still gets to you in the end. Despite the flaws, it's pretty powerful stuff and will leave you with some lingering thoughts and images that might not be so easy to digest. If you like movies that do that...then this is your ticket. "},{"Title":"insight into the tweaking world","Date":"9 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie peers into the dark world of the tweaker. I have yet to see a truer portrayal of drug culture. Many of my friends have lost their identities through use of this s***e drug and it is cool to see it documented. Well done. "},{"Title":"Everything a complex and well planned story should have","Date":"7 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"      The Salton Sea is a fantasic movie! I enjoy that this movie gives you the story from deep inside the character. It isn't the character himself telling the story. His whole mind and soul is involved in it. He's telling the story with emotion. That is what makes this film so fantasic and interesting. I personally enjoy film in which you get to see the characters motives and plans. But not through action but through his/her mind and past. And that's exactually what this movie does. Also having Val Kilmer in this role was an excellent idea. Val with this Script made The Salton Sea a prime film. "}{"Title":"The best movie ive seen in a while","Date":"24 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I absolutley loved this film. It great performances by Kilmer and D'onfornio, as well as others. This is the first film ive seen from D.J. Carusso, but now ill look for others.This film tells the tale of a Danny Parker/A.K.A. Tom Van Allen(Kilmer) who's wife was murdered and now he has delved into a world of drugs, depression and police snitching. There are far more plot twist in this film but I don't want to spoil it. Vincent D'onfornio once again plays a great role, and for this one he gained 45 lbs. He plays the drug dealer Pooh Bear, who has a prostetic nose(had a bit to much crank).  I didn't know what to expect from this film but I was pleased. The ending was also well done, the hotel scene fooled me as well. I think any fan of cult films, with dark moods, or anybody who like Val Kilmer will like this film. It was one of his best.  "},{"Title":"Great performances","Date":"27 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I watched this and then re-watched it. I have to say this is a great performance by Val Kilmer, and an even better one by Vincent D'Onofrio. Kilmer is, in a way reprising the kind of role which gave him his first buzz. I'm not going to suggest this film is anything like `Real Genius' but it's that kind of performance. Kilmer's a joke cracking wise ass  that I really didn't like very much at the outset. As the film progresses you begin from just snatches of flash backs to get his history and you still don't know what exactly is going on. The plot nicely fills in as the story progresses. Vincent D'Onofrio on the other hand is just over the top as the so far tweaked out he's stone gone speed dealer, `Pooh-Bear'. Now you expect great off beat performances from this guy but this takes chances. Remember that 'round about the `Mystic Pizza', `Adventures in Babysitting' stage in his career he seemed to be getting ready to take on the leading man role. I believe that's a role he could pull off without much trouble, but it's a lot more fun to watch him play freaks. All and all it's not surprising this film didn't get more press, it's a nasty subject but this film is worth seeing. "},{"Title":"This one ranks in the top 5 of dope movies.","Date":"11 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  There weren't many technical errors in this'n like the whoppers in  Rush (wrong withdrawal symptoms) or Requiem for a Dream (pupils go in not out with heroin.) B.D. Wong did an outstanding job of playing a U.C. special agent and the two deputy sheriffs fit the cliche--or I suppose nowadays the profile--of movie rogue cops. "},{"Title":"Time well spent...","Date":"6 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Well, I do believe Val Kilmer has hit his stride again.  This movie grabs you and holds until the end. It wasn't always pleasant to watch, but I never lost interest.  The performance are all excellent; from Mr. Kilmer, to Vincent D'Onofrio, to Peter Sarsgaard.  Good Show! "},{"Title":"One of the best","Date":"19 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This was a wonderful film. Brilliantly acted and beautifully photographed. I would recommend this film to anyone. I was surprised at how touching some of the characters were. There were truly funny moments as well as moments that made me cry.  "},{"Title":"Val Kilmer's best acting","Date":"18 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I personally loved The Salton Sea! The music was intense and appropriate for the scene.  The filming and even the color tone of the movie was realistic and yet surreal(if that makes sense).  Yes, I'm a Val fan but he usually isnt reflected as an sensitive actor.  Yet in this he is sensitive ... but tough! Why did they make us in Houston wait so long to see him.  (The movie wasnt released in alot of major cities).   Bad choice marketing people. This is a perfect fall drama/crime movie!  "},{"Title":"clever, thrilling, funny AND dark !!","Date":"12 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie has it all !! A very clever written script, so thrilling you will have your eyes glued to the screen, sometimes so funny you will laugh out loud (*Kujo's Big Heist* !!)and sometimes as dark as the greatest noir movies. As incredible as it may sounds, the mixture of all these elements works out just perfectly in The Salton Sea !Val Kilmer gives a subtle and fine performance as Danny Parker/Tom Van Allen and his voice in the voice-overs sets the elegant and melancholic mood of the movie. Its a real pleasure to watch him and be in awe about his complexity. He is supported by a great cast (V. D'Onofrio, A. Goldberg, D. Unger, L. Guzman, A. LaPaglia...), some with only a few minutes of screentime but almost ALL of them were memorable.The directing is always to the point, modern without being too *hip*, the pacing & editing is slow and natural, which is a treat after all the recent *1000 cps=cuts per second movies* and the cinematography is beautiful and effective. This is definitely NOT a *wannabe-Pulp Fiction* (unlike Snatch and Lock, Stock & 2 Smoking Barrels) as some people may say, and even when compared to it, The Salton Sea is at least good enough to stand its ground !!!A winner on all fronts and a MUST SEE ! "},{"Title":"The most Genius film of 2002!!!!","Date":"30 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  D.J.  Caruso(director) and Tony Gayton(writer) have created thisyears masterpiece. This is the kind of film thats so entertainingand thought provoking, everybody fails to recognize it.    Val Kilmer plays Tom Val Allen or is it Danny Parker? An a rolethat should deserve him an Oscar nomination but probably won't.The same goes for Vinent D'Onofrio who plays the freaky andscary Pooh Bear.     This film shows us how lost someone can get when you losesomeone. When he loses his wife in the Salton Sea. He travelsthe earth trying to find out why? And finding himself trapped in aseedy, friendly and ugly world of drugs.     Like I mentioned earlier this movie is so excellently done, itprobably won't get recognized for any award. Plus it was releasedto early. But it does come out on dvd soon. Which doesnt matterbecause I saw in theatre 7 times. But when it does rush out andget it.(Sept. 10)All in all Salton Sea is a must, must see!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Great film!","Date":"27 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Some of my friends dragged me to the theater to see The Salton Sea last Friday night.  I had no idea what it was about.  I had never even heard of it.  Much to my surprise I found it to be a very good film.  I was surprised at how good the story was.  I have recommended it to all of my friends.  "},{"Title":"If you've ever tweaked you'll want to see this if not you'll want to see this too.","Date":"27 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"   This movie comes at you on many different levels and while a bit ambitious it actually delivers. Sort of an Elmo James meets William Burroughs, except crank ain't really Bill's cup of tea.  The characters could have come across very one dimensional but they didn't. The story could have easily degraded into a drug induced shoot'em up but it dodged that bullet too. Just when the setting starts to become a bit claustrophobic it opens up into something entirely new. Val Kilmer has more than proven his Star potential with films like Red Planet and The Saint but dam he's so good in these small films that I dread the day that he chooses to pursue mostly headliner fare. Here he has the starring role but while he is the focus it is a very collaborative effort. The movie has an excellent supporting cast with Vincent DiOnofrio as the connection, good ol boy Poo Bear. I almost didn't recognize DiOnofrio with out his trade mark New York accent. Adam Goldberg plays brain fried Kujo, Doug Hutchinson, best known for his sawed off prison guard in the Green Mile, plays Morgan a Narcotics officer and partner to Garcetti, played by the excellent Anthony LaPaglia. Check LaPaglia out in Lantana, great movie too. Peter Sarsgaard plays as Jimmy the Fin, best friend to Danny Parker/Kilmer. Ya can't help but like Sarsgaard in this role. I'm glad to see he is moving up with a strong supporting role in K-19 Widow Maker. Other great players include Debrah Unger as Colette, Kilmers neighbor femme fatale. I have had this crush on her ever since she played in the amazing mind twist, The Game. Luis Guzman plays as Colette's heavy fisted boy friend and B. D. Wong, known mostly for stage work, plays the buyer.  There's a ton of great walk on parts too numerous to list but keep an eye out for Meat Loaf. As I said there are a lot of ways that this film could have failed but an excellent cast gave director D. J. Caruso the tools to make it all work. Caruso has done mostly TV work up till now with TV episodes from VR 5 (Whatever became of VR), Smallville and Dark Angel to name a few. Writing talents are provided by Tony Gayton who just finished up with Murder By Numbers, a larger but in no way better film. Every one of these people did a fine job and it shows. "}{"Title":"SPEED KILLS......................","Date":"1 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  i will not offer a plot summary. there are already many posted here.where should i start? this movie was very real and very personal. my deceased brother was a recovered metaamphetamine addict. he had his 15 minutes of shame/fame playing bass guitar in a 1960's psychedelic cult band, THE THIRTEENTH FLOOR ELEVATORS. he lived on the edge, and associated with people not unlike the characters of this film. the script was nighmarishly familiar. at times, it seemed that it was based on his life.yes, it is only a movie and it is flawed. sometimes it is over dramatized. but that is the way of film.see this movie. it is an educational experience. it effectively conveys the horrors of extreme speed freaking.at the risk of sounding like a cliche', i would like to take this opportunity to say that SPEED KILLS. it is a nasty drug. it reduced my once brilliant brother to a violent paranoid schizophrenic. and thru hepatitus C, it finally killed him. "},{"Title":"Modern film noir at it's best....","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  An excellent movie, although dark and malevolent.... a fantastic nocturnal digression into the drug underworld of Southern California. Val Kilmer is worthy of an Academy Award nomination for Best Actor with his calculated and emotionally charged performance. The score is moving and also worthy of serious consideration.... modern film noir at it's best. "},{"Title":"A dark and enjoyable film.","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"       SALTON SEA proves again that Val Kilmer is a actor and not what he has been seen as the last couple of years, a star.  Ever since the release of the dreadful BATMAN FOREVER, Kilmer was a major spotlight, he was the major object of desire from most women and a box office draw. Then after such pretty bad movies (ISLAND OF DR. MOREAU and RED PLANET) Kilmer was fading out of the limelight.  With SALTON SEA, Kilmer proves to the viewer that this was the same man who we enjoyed as Doc Holiday in TOMBSTONE, Jim Morrison in THE DOORS, and Chris Knight in REAL GENIUS.      SALTON SEA has Kilmer as Danny Parker, a most of the time drugged out loser living in the drug culture on Los Angeles.  He hangs out with Kujo (Adam Goldberg) and his reliable friend Jimmy the Fin (Peter Sarsgaard).  Danny is pushed around by two narcotics officers, Morgan (Doug Hutchison) and Garcetti (Anthony La Paglia), and has his life in danger with the grotesque Pooh Bear (Vincent D' Onofrio) who wears a plastic nose after losing his nose from doing too much smack.  Danny sees a way of redpemtion with his female neighbor Colette (Deborah Unger) who is abused by her boyfriend Quincey (Luis Guzman).  Danny also has a plan that deals with a herion buyer named Bubba (B.D. Wong) that revolves around the death of Danny's wife who was killed at the Salton Sea about a hundred miles east of Los Angeles.      SALTON SEA is more of a character study than a actual plot.  The film is a study of Danny, the decisions he makes in life to which is the right path to take which would either help or save his life.  It's also a darkly humorous look into the life of those who do herion and those who sell it.  The images of Pooh Bear are pretty haunting that the next time you hear Pooh you will be thinking about the nose-less smack dealer before you think about the cute cuddly Disney character.        But like I said, it's the acting is what makes this movie strong, and it's among the best acting that I have seen all year.  This is Kilmer's best role that I have seen since HEAT (although he didn't do much in that film).  But Kilmer is just as enjoyable in this as he was Doc in TOMBSTONE.  Vincent D' Onofrio seems to have a fun time playing the Pooh Bear who has vicious ways of punishing those who steal money from him that include a badger.  While the rest of the cast, including Doug Hutchison and Peter Sarsgarrd are deliver good performances.      The other element that helps SALTON SEA stand out is the directing style of D.J. Caruso.  It's the most darkest and visually creative film about drugs that I have seen since TRAINSPOTTING.  Some of the visuals from this film stand out, with the beginning of Kilmer sitting in a room on fire playing the trumpet, to the lay out staged of the renactment of the Kennedy Assassnation using pigeons as the Kennedy's and governor of Texas.      This isn't a film that will be enjoyed in most cities (note that I am writing this from L.A. when I live in Phoenix, it's only showing in L.A. right now).  But it's a movie that will entertain you and hopefully give you a second thought before you see that drug addict sitting in the corner of the coffee shop.  A thought on how do you think that person got in that shape in the first place.  And that is a rare element coming from a major Hollywood studio.  Great show! ***** (out of five)  "},{"Title":"A strong case for 'Style over Substance'...","Date":"9 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"       A strong sense of originality and ambitiousness permeates through first time Director D.J. Caruso's &#145;The Salton Sea'. Val Kilmer stars as a widower who seeks a violent retribution for his wife's brutal murder. Concocting an elaborate scheme to infiltrate the criminal underworld, he abrogates his previous identity in order to adhere to this mischievous plan.     Caruso fills his frames wisely and has some truly unique shots within the film, yet while viewing the film I couldn't help but think back to an earlier film that was familiar to this area. The &#145;style over substance' issue is one I frequent quite often within my opinionated pieces. The Hughes Brothers' &#145;From Hell' is a vivid example of how style takes precedence over substance. Just as the former film lacked an embedded quality of storytelling, so does &#145;The Salton Sea'; yet to a lesser extent. D.J. Caruso has an innate talent for photographing even the most mundane sets with a profound sense of elegance, and he brought a weak script by Tony Gayton to a mediocre level. Gayton who seems top have struck a deal with Castle Rock Productions (the film's company) as he penned both &#145;Murder by Numbers' and &#145;The Salton Sea' needs to infuse his future themes with some sense of purpose.      While the script for &#145;Sea' is more enlightening than his first effort, Gayton owes a debt of gratitude to Caruso who showcases his portfolio of talent within one film. The main problem with the film is not so much its' content, but rather its' storytelling. The pacing of the film leaves a lot to be desired and those who give the film a chance will enjoy it, yet it seems to drag itself at times incorporating useless subplots for sheer mock value. A solid case in point is the R. Lee Ermey scene in which he makes a cameo as a distressed father (Blink and you will miss it), furthermore do we truly need an explanation on narcotics?      While the opening sequence was somewhat comedic, I questioned Caruso's motivation in showing us the underground world of narcotics. The film opens up with an elegant trumpet filled voice over as Kilmer's character Danny Parker retells his story in Memento-like fashion. Taking a page from the Christopher Nolan School of cinema, the film unravels through subtle flashback sequences that immerse the viewer in some stunning cinematography, but weak on plot.      In addition, Kilmer is simply not believable as a middle aged widower who somehow seems to befriend a group of &#145;tweakers' (Severe drug users) and easily becomes just one of the guys.  His miscast begins our problems as the viewer is treated to a barrage of flaws all against the backdrop of a talented Director's first effort with a weak concept. The healthy inoculation of stylish comedic sequences and unexpected humor lend the film an original taste that is a sign of potential within the young filmmaker.     In terms of character development, this trait is a needed improvement for future films. We are treated to larger than life, muffled, two dimensional characters that cease to elicit our attention. An unrecognizable Vincent D'Onofrio plays Pooh Bear, a nose-less villain whose ruthless ways and demeanor intimidate Parker's scheme while he attempts at eluding two detectives (Anthony LaPaglia & Doug Hutchison) on the case.     As aforementioned, the film is a classy flick about retribution. Is it a truly great film? No. But what it does exude is that the Director has a knack for the medium and saved a sour film from going awry. One last note, before heading into the theatre, study the poster and attempt to make the correlation between the poster and the film. It is pervasive, but interesting. Here is a clue, study the film's final moments.Giancarlo's Rating **  "},{"Title":"WALK ON THE WILD SIDE","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  THE SALTON SEA (2002) ***1/2 Val Kilmer, Vincent D'Onofrio, Deborah Kara Unger, Anthony LaPaglia, Doug Hutchison, Peter Sarsgaard,  Adam Goldberg,  Luis Guzman, Chandra West ,  B. D. Wong, Glen Plummer,  Danny Trejo, R. Lee Ermey, Shirley Knight. Pulpy neo-noir with a blazingly implosive turn by Kilmer as a mourning widower/trumpet player cum narcotics informer who finds himself in a nightmarish underworld of crystal methamphetamine junkies and dealers all the while trying to resolve his self-destructive instincts in redeeming the violent death of his wife (West in flashbacks).  Kilmer delivers the goods as a smoldering open wound and D'Onofrio gives a memorable turn as the villainous homicidal dealer Pooh-Bear replete with artificial nose and a hillbilly accent (!)  Style over substance gets an even keel here thanks to the gloomy color drenched production design by Tom Southwell and glaring glints of light by director of photography Amir Mokri.   Screenwriter Tony Gayton's story has elements of `Memento'  by coincidence despite coming within a year of each other making the film's freshness feel expired by sell date yet offers some genuine moments of uncertainty in his anti-hero's quest for existence in a dangerous world.  (Dir DJ Caruso) "},{"Title":"Val Kilmer, tattooed and tormented - what more do you want?!","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The Salton Sea is one of those films that creates its own reality and actually manages to sustain it until the very end. Besides Val Kilmer - in fine form, tattooed and tormented - there's a stand-out performance by Vincent D'Onofrio as the tweaked-into-another-timezone Pooh-Bear. A must-see for these two performances alone.  (And I have to say that any film which has Kilmer in nearly every scene is ok with me from the get-go.  This is the best film and the best character he's done since his career-defining role of Doc Holliday in Tombstone. If you love Kilmer, I guarantee you will appreciate this movie.) "},{"Title":"A must for noir crime fans...","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  One of the magical things about the movies is that they can take us places with characters we may never meet (nor want to meet) in our everyday lives.  I'm tempted to tell you about THE SALTON SEA's twists and turns, but I'd be robbing you of one of 2002's finest cinematic experiences.  The filmmakers here have crafted a unique, lyrical look at the underbelly of the US of A (I'm still aghast that Castle Rock Pictures of all companies released this!).  From the first few minutes of this fine film, you know you'll be taken someplace unique.  Val Kilmer is outstanding in this at turns tragic, tough and pathetic, but always sympathetic.  From the get go, you can only wonder, How did his character get like this?  Watch this great noir crime fable to find out.One of 2002's best films.  That's no joke coming from someone who sees on average two movies a week. "},{"Title":"3.5 stars","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The film opens with the main character (played by Val Kilmer, although I initially guessed that it was Guy Pearce), playing the trumpet while he is surrounded by flames which include burning money. His voice-over narration indicates that he about to die, and that we can call him either Danny Parker or Tom Van Allen. Then we get a quick but very funny and gorgeously shot introduction to the history and manufacture of speed (methamphetamine). And then we flash back to the real movie, which starts by showing Danny Parker as a serious drug addict, surrounded by others who are as well. I could say more, but there are a great number of twists and turns in the plot, and you should discover them for yourself (note that the upcoming Murder by Numbers is by the same writer).The cinematography is, as I already indicated, spectacular. The soundtrack, featuring Miles Davis, is excellent. And the acting is very good, with Vincent D'Onofrio being the standout as an absolutely insane drug dealer who is called Pooh Bear because his nose had to be removed after he did too many drugs.I saw this film at the Camera Cinema Club in San Jose, CA where the director (D.J. Caruso) was there to talk and answer questions (although I had to leave early in the question period). He said that a significant influence on him was Chinatown, because that was the last great Los Angeles-set noir film. He also indicated that the ending, which was a little too upbeat for some, was more dark and ambiguous than other alternatives suggested by the studio.With the caveat that it is at times violent and/or tense, I would definitely recommend this film. It is scheduled to be released in late April or mid-May in the United States.  "},{"Title":"Beautifully Shot, Hysterically Funny, and Poiniently Dark.","Date":"20 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Flames draw in your soul as a sorrowful tune is played on the trumpet.  Burning pictures, searing heat and the sweat covered brow of Tom (Val Kilmer), a trumpet player, are the first images of an originally breathtaking film by D.J. Caruso.  Even with the amazing acting of the players therein and the sprawling landscapes that they inhabit, Salton Sea would be nothing without the piercing script crafted by Tony Gayton.  This is an art film with a pulse, and conversely, a laugh-out loud rollercoaster ride set in Film-Noir-land.  This non-linear film takes Soderburg's traffic, and dispenses with the silly filters (using actual lighting) and the brooding characters, and injects the story with sporatic, yet blistering comedic sequences that pace the piece wonderfully.The whole thing starts off with a brief, clever history of the main topic of the story, speed (meth, crank, etc.).  We take in the world of our narrator, Danny (aka Tom or Val Kilmer), a sympathetic man searching for the killer of his wife.  In order to find the assailants, he must leave behind his old life, and take on the persona of Danny, a tweeked out punker.  Even though Danny is pretty must cranked up during the first third of the film, an underlying desire and strength is seen through his tweeked facade. An amazing sequence towards the end of the introduction shows rock bottom in the world of the junkie, accomplished with varied film speed, extreme F-Stops (high film speed, high apeture) and a steady cam (shot by the same guy who did the Saving Private Ryan's ramp ups).  In order to defeat  the men who took his life from him, he must first deal with the ferociously childlike and nose-less Pooh Bear (Vincent D'Onofrio).  He also has to deal with the ghosts of his past (as trumpet player Tom), accomplished with slow, but stunningly original transitions.  Luckily, Caruso gets out of the dream-like sequences before we start yawning.  Kilmer is wonderful as the multi-faceted Tom/Sammy, as is D'Onofrio, Adam Goldburg and Danny's tweeker buddy, Sammy (Glenn Plummer?). Their performances are drawn from a spectacular script that not only keeps the plot spinning, but the heads of the audience as well, yet never out of control.  Caruso had a number of options for the ending, and you will see why, but he opted for the Hollywood ending.  The protagonist takes us through so many trials that it is only appropriate when we see that there is still some hope after so much sacrifice.  Don't miss this on the screen, for it is truly beautiful, original and a masterfully conducted piece of art. NOTE This was viewed the night after the first private screening (held at the Egyptian in HW-land) at Chapman University in the city of Orange.  Being that director John Badham is in residence at our school this semester, and that D.J. Caruso is his protege', we were not only able to screen Salton Sea, but to also ask D.J. questions.  If you would like to find out more about his Q & A session, drop me a line at the e-mail listed.  "},{"Title":"Woooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooow","Date":"20 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" You know I am not a big fan of the ICEMAN from TopGun... but then a tom cruise movie really has to reach to make me give a damn. But i digress from the point of what i am trying to say here... this film is such an awesome exploration of life and the s#!+ that we can find in it. Finally settle down with a woman you care about and she is taken away from you. At least he was seeking revenge... and revenge is a great solution to these situations... especially if this is what is needed. I have a hard time describing this movie simply because it really is complex... all i can say as that the love of his life is torn from him because of being lost... but this man demonstrates tenacity in finding those responsible for this action - and he handles it in such a superior way that i am envious. "}{"Title":"Excellent, almost flawless.","Date":"17 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The storyline of this film is deliberately slow, and I cannot stress this enough, it is deliberately slow.It it done this way so that you are left with no feelings for the lead character (Val Kilmer) until he get's off his chest the full horror of what he has endured with the loss of his wife.The unfortunate thing these days is that too many films have started slow and remained slow, or that they start fast paced and have an anti-climatic end to them.However, this film needs patience from the audience, and when you reach the longest flash back scene you see why he has become or is acting as a regular tweaker (junkie). The depth of the storyline from this point on WILL get to you and then the audience will be rooting for him all the way.The only flaw which is hardly even a flaw, is the rather pointless scene involving his tweaker associates (not friends, but associates)when they plan a heist.It seems a little unnecessary, but when added to the excellent Dirty Harry style '6 shots or only 5' this may seem the only way to introduce the final scene; i.e you can't have the final scene without a similar cartoon style scene from earlier.Any, given patience, you will love this film. "},{"Title":"Bad cops and good man exchange lead with each other and local ruffians","Date":"12 April 2003","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Strange, darkly moody tale of revenge, murder, drugs, insanity, freaks, losers....and one all around good dude. I like films that come at me from left field which is why I liked this one; not to mention one of my fave actors being in it Val. It's one the viewer has to just keep watching to finally figure out. Oh, and there was plenty of gunplay for all you full auto freaks. "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"20 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Recently I watched DVDs of 2 of the latest films in the Kilmer canon- his portrayal of a man on a mission in The Salton Sea & his portrayal of porno king Johnny 'Wadd' Holmes in Wonderland. Both films attempt to be modern noir films, & in both films Kilmer plays a character that has 2 sides to his persona. In The Salton Sea he portrays a dual character Danny Parker/Tom Van Allen. The former is a crystal meth dealer & the latter a jazzman. The film is a stylistic masterpiece that is every bit the equal of the far more lauded Memento- a similar story about a troubled man searching for himself & the truth to his wife's death. Kilmer sinks into the role of Tom, as an avenging husband whose wife was brutally killed by 2 gunmen near the Salton Sea. Tom decides to become Danny, & work with 2 crooked undercover cops (Doug Hutchison and Anthony LaPaglia) to expose the drug cartel he believes is responsible for his wife. Along the way he encounters 1 of the great modern on screen personifications of evil- a drug dealer named Pooh-Bear (Vincent D'Onofrio) who wears a fake nosepiece because his real nose was burnt off by cocaine use. Along with Daniel Day Lewis's Bill the Butcher in Gangs Of New York, Pooh-Bear is one of those cartoony villains that nevertheless seems to be just real enough to lift the whole of the story beyond standard noir. The real forces Tom contends against in the film are almost surreal as the cinematography & Danny's hallucinations. Pooh-Bear's idea of fun is eating brains, staging the JFK assassination with pigeons and a mini-car set, & threatening Danny.Director D.J. Caruso and screenwriter Tony Gayton do a fine job of creating a world that Kilmer's dual personae feel right at home with. He seems to die several times, only to wake up back in his hell. The film is shot surreally, with low angles, frames just off-center, & flashbacks & dreams that happen in odd places- even in the barrel of a pistol. But what lifts this film to true greatness, like Memento, is Kilmer's performance. His blend of fear, weariness & bravado echoes back to his work in The Doors, yet surpasses it because this character is his total creation, not a recitation of a real figure. "},{"Title":"surprisingly good thriller","Date":"15 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I liked this movie a lot. I almost returned it before watching it and am very glad that I didn't. I had not previously heard of this film but stumbled across it while looking for Val Kilmer titles on the internet.Having had a somewhat sordid past myself, I was partially interested in the drug culture aspect of The Salton Sea. My wife avoids these types of stories (she missed out on something special I've told her). There is much more to the film than the meth stuff. The user comments on IMDb helped convince me to watch. There is a captivating style to the film. I do not always watch the extra stuff on dvds. For some reason I watched the interviews with the actors, director, and especially the production designer. This was very insightful and also whetted my appetite for the movie.I think that often times, a director's (D.J. Caruso) first film, a musician's first album, or a writer's first book are their most interesting because this is the moment they've been waiting for all their lives.This movie has it all drama, action, a beautiful love story, drugs, humor, cops, real bad guys, an excellent twist and a very satisfying ending.Watch it. "},{"Title":"Better living through chemistry? Uhhh.....No.","Date":"19 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"   I found Salton Sea to be much more affecting on second viewing. Kilmer's character's motivations are much more obvious, and all the set-ups and double-crosses fall into place. I really cared about Danny, and wanted him to succeed. Despite the repellent nature of the settings and the characters, a compelling and human story emerges. A note for all the Vincent D'onofrio freaks out there (I am one) this is a must-see performance. Quirky does not begin to describe his characterization, but there is no denying that the man owns every scene he appears in. For my money, he is the most compulsively watchable actor working in films/TV today, and severely under-rated. See Salton Sea for Vincent, if nothing else.   "},{"Title":"really good movie","Date":"10 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Great Movie!It's one of the best i seen.I enjoyed watching the movie The Salton Sea.It's about a guy who lives two names and he is using one name to get back at his wifes killer Gus Morgan(Doug Hutchison). Danny Parker(Val Kilmer is the guy to do the job.And Tom Van Allen(Val Kilmer)is the other name of Danny Parker(Val Kilmer).    Adam Goldberg,Luis Guzman HAD NOTHING TO DO WITH THE MOVIE I DON'T EVEN KNOW WHY THEY WERE CASTED AS ONE OF THE FIRST NAME IN THE CREDITS.THEY HAD A SMALL PART IN THE MOVIE!! "},{"Title":"A Genuine Sleeper","Date":"18 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I can't say much more than has been said already about this superb modern film noir.Anyone who is familiar with the actual Salton Sea in SoCal knows what a great metaphor it is for this dark tale. I also will never understand why a film of this caliber,with such a fine cast and photography wasn't shown at theaters. Kudos to Caruso,Kilmer,D'Onfrio & Co.   "},{"Title":"Accurate depiction of the meth world.","Date":"12 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Having some eight years experience in the meth world I was impressed with the accuracy of the film.  Tweekers really act like that.As for the film in general, I like the story, revenge, what could be better. And to use the feds to bust the bad cops would be the best.  Too bad he had to shoot it out at the end.  A few months in Huntsville for those dirty cops would have been justice. "},{"Title":"Accurate depiction of the meth world.","Date":"11 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Having some eight years experience in the meth world I was impressed with the accuracy of the film.  Tweekers really act like that.As for the film in general, I like the story, revenge, what could be better. And to use the feds to bust the bad cops would be the best.  Too bad he had to shoot it out at the end.  A few months in Huntsville for those dirty cops would have been justice. "},{"Title":"Videostore dimeshelf jewel.","Date":"4 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is one of those scarce, precious movies that stay with you long after they have gone back to the rental store. Something drew me to this title even though I had never heard of it, and I was not disappointed which is more than can be said of some blockbusters that make it to the big screen.  Val is an underrated actor that is too often passed off as female eye-candy, and there were no duff performances from his peers either. Beautifully shot, carefully paced, and cleverly put together, you will be rivetted from start to finish. Yes, I have read all the comments and comparisons with Trainspotting and Memento, but this stands up well by itself, and is one of the very, very few films I have ever said to friends you must see this and shoved a copy under their nose (I can only think of Donny Darko and Best Laid Plans recently). The part where his drug-addled mates plot to steal Bob Hopes stool sample to sell on Ebay made me laugh till it hurt, which is a rare thing these days! There is nothing more anti-climactic than going to see a hyped-up film and finding it is actually crap (Matrix Reloaded, anyone?). Conversely, going in with no expectations and being blown away like this is one of the best natural highs you can experience. "}{"Title":"Schizophrenic movie...","Date":"3 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  1st watched 10/2/2002 - 5 out of 10(Dir- D.J. Caruso) Schizophrenic movie about, I believe, a schzophrenic man.  This movie with Val Kilmer, had two sides to it literally.  One story is about a drug-crazed man who went off the edge after his wife's murder and makes a living ratting against other drug dealers.  The other story is about a man who goes to major lengths to find his wife's murderer(even disguising himself as a drug-crazed man).  The problem is that we believe the 1st story more than the 2nd, and Kilmer does a better job displaying the 1st character, yet we're supposed to believe the 2nd character.  It's almost like the filmmaker's decided half-way thru that Kilmer's character had to be displayed as the `good' guy and they turned the movie around to go that route.  I didn't buy it and I wished they would have decided on one or the other instead of putting the viewers in such a quandary.  The style of the movie and the performances were good, but the story left much to be desired. Too bad, considering this was one of the best performances and roles for Kilmer.  "},{"Title":"A trip unlike any other. 9/10","Date":"20 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The Salton Sea is a darkly funny drug/revenge tale that's as wonderful as it is original.  I really enjoyed the hell out of this film.  This isn't Memento, but in a way it is similar.  Instead of having a film that deals with memory loss, this film deals with overcoming drugs, and trying to find a killer.  What's odd is how funny the film is.  Don't get me wrong, you'll be shocked, you'll be moved, but you're also going to laugh your butt off. Val Kilmer is GREAT! "},{"Title":"The Salton Sea 5/10","Date":"23 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  It's surprising that Val Kilmer's ego isn't very low. He starred in the small release The Salton Sea, which, with its controversial topics and all, would not get much audience attendance. So for Castle Rock to get some money, they would go to desperate measures by plastering Kilmer's name all over everything. Yet there's no mention of him at all, which must be hurting to Kilmer. The studio would rather release a movie starless that go with Kilmer's name.In possibly one of the worst beginnings in film history, we see lots of drug users doing drugs. And instantly director D.J. Caruso wants us to think, `Wow, this is powerful. People do bad things.' It's basically anything but. It's only hard to watch. While he considers it to be enlightening, I consider it to be idiotic. Then people buy drugs. Then we find out two-thirds of the way through that the story has a purpose, and that Kilmer was undercover with the FBI to investigate drugs, while he was going on a Memento-ish crusade to avenge his wife's murder.While movies about drugs are alright, this one is so gritty, has so many unscrupulous characters that it's impossible to find one redeeming quality about it. It even says that vengeance and drugs are good if it gets you to where you want to go. And to make matters worse, it's shot in such a dark tone it's impossible to see anything that's happening with the throwaway cast, which includes Luiz Guzman, Doug Hutchison, Anthony LaPaglia, Peter Sarasgaard, and R. Lee Ermey. Only Vincent D'Onofrio stands out as actually doing something memorable as `Pooh-Bear', the drug dealer without a nose.As I said before, the first part of The Salton Sea is an atrocity. There's nothing coherent going on, and it's totally worthless. As it moves on towards an actual plot, it gets more involving, now that Caruso realizes that he brought the point across that drugs are bad, and goes into a story that's partially interesting. The character of Pooh-Bear is quite different. For example, his idea of fun is tying pigeons to an RC car and simulating the Kennedy assassination. You don't get that every day. And you don't always get good drug movies every day. And this is not a good drug movie.My rating 5/10Rated R for strong violence, drug use, language and some sexuality. "},{"Title":"This is your nose on drugs! Any questions?","Date":"10 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The Salton Sea is a confused genrehybrid schizophrenic dark comedy/drama which attempts to tell a compelling tale of a man (Kilmer) who lost his identity through cataclysmic personal crisis and sunk in a morass of drug culture crank freaks morphing into a narc snitch and an underground deep cover IA mole so deep his only identity is himself which he's lost but it trying to regain through revenge. Is that clear?? If not, you'll get some idea of how muddled this story is. Nonetheless, the film manages some moodiness and is busy enough that people into pulp fiction stylistics might want to give this a try. (C) "},{"Title":"Characters in search of a story","Date":"6 December 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" THE SALTON SEA is another drug-fuelled drama that explores the negative and devastating effects that drugs have on users, dealers, and the local community. I'm not really a fun of these types of drug-binge movies a la FEAR AND LOATHING IN LAS VEGAS so I wasn't really expecting much from this movie.I didn't get it. Unfortunately, THE SALTON SEA is more about drug use than it is about the law enforcement of the situation, even though there are a couple of DEA officers in it. Instead what we get is a permanently-stoned Val Kilmer wandering his way through a world of violence, degradation, and humiliation, interacting with various unpleasant characters.The characters are the best thing in this production. Vincent D'Onofrio's drug pusher is memorable thanks to his appearance alone. Doug Hutchison (THE GREEN MILE) is ever-creepy in support, even though he's playing one of the 'good' guys. There are cameos for R. Lee Ermey, Meat Loaf, and BD Wong. But the film lacks the right kind of substance, and feels plot less and meandering all the way through. I didn't care for it at all. "},{"Title":"too precious with the reveal","Date":"28 August 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The narrator recounts the history of methamphetamine or speed starting with the Japanese and WWII. He's posing as tweaker Danny Parker (Val Kilmer) working with Jimmy the Finn (Peter Sarsgaard) to get high. He's an informant for corrupt cops Gus Morgan (Doug Hutchison) and Al Garcetti (Anthony LaPaglia). He lives in a rundown apartment next to an abused neighbor Colette Vaughn (Deborah Kara Unger) in hiding. In his earlier life, he was trumpet player Tom Van Allen with loving wife Liz (Chandra West). He tries to set up a large buy from drug dealer Pooh Bear (Vincent D'Onofrio) and the cops want in.Director D. J. Caruso is trying very hard to make a meth movie with style. The wackiness is weirdly interesting. I don't mind it at all but it's a bit too precious with the reveal. It's a lot of crazy characters and it would be helpful to connect better with Val Kilmer. He's obviously hiding something. That keeps a barrier between him and the audience. The disjointed feel of the movie keeps the tension a bit too low. "},{"Title":"not too much to remember","Date":"6 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The test of the time is probably the best test that a movie can pass or fail. I have seen The Salton Sea two weeks ago, and did not have time to write immediately about it. Two weeks later I have a hard time remembering what the film was about. Fragments of good film making are left in my memory but they seem to be buried in a story which tries to make sense of some very improbable coincidences which end by making no sense, without the courage of being nonsense to the end, as in a Tarantino film. The Salton Sea tells the violent story of the life of a trumpet player turned into nightmare as his wife is murdered by drug dealers and trying to take revenge by enrolling as an undercover agent. His fake identity places him in the situation to meet the evil and their victims, and in order to take the revenge to the ultimate satisfaction he is obliged to go rogue and take all upon himself. No prisoners are taken and there hardly can be survivors from this situation.The world described in the film is the one of Tarantino's characters but director D.J. Caruso is no Tarantino and the story lacks exactly the sarcastic craziness of Quentin. Val Klimer does a fair job, but fair is not enough. I remember too little of this film two weeks after I have seen it, and I will probably remember nothing two weeks from now. "},{"Title":"No Nose is REAL!!!","Date":"11 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The actor who played Poo Bear really doesn't have a nose.  I was amazed to see that he was able to act!!!The movie is dark and weird.  Tweakers are the very best that cops have to go on in terms of snitches.  There are some greats scenes.  Like where a possom almost ate Val Kilmer's manhood.  That is a great scene.  There are many other great scenes such as the part where Poo Bear says HOT DAMN!!!!!   So many good parts to this movie.  The one interesting part is how Poo Bear stays awake non stop, even for a year!!  Or when the tweakers (the guy from DAZED AND CONFUSED) talk about some MISSION IMPOSSIBLE PLAN.This is a great movie!! "},{"Title":"Drug glorifying and violent.","Date":"23 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  `The Salton Sea' was a violent, drug glorifying movie.  It was good if you like this sort of movie.  I think it had too many self-indulgent scenes of Val Kilmer to be great.  Maybe if you are as enamored by Val as he is of himself it would be something to watch.  Vincent D'Onfronio was a treat filling the scene with his interpretation of Pooh Bear.  The rest of the cast were competent but the tone of the movie was bleak. "}]