[{"Title":"Movie has a bold message, executed with brilliant humor","Date":"30 March 2005","Score":"49 out of 68 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" This is a movie that satirizes today's pop culture, and does a brilliant job of it. The cast and musical score are excellent and all of its jokes are funny and well placed. People say that the movie becomes what it is making fun of. Well, isn't that the idea? The movie is packed with about a billion logos appearing everywhere you look in the background, and a scene with an audience of cardboard cut-out celebrities. These are there to add to the atmosphere of the film. This movie is very strong, very well done, and has a real sense of humor. To top it off, it's led by a band with music that's so good you can't even tell they're not real. If you haven't seen it, go watch it. I'd recommend buying the soundtrack as well. "},{"Title":"Guilty Pleasure","Date":"12 April 2001","Score":"27 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Do not go to this movie expecting anything that's logical or realistic. It is a purely fun film with a rocking soundtrack.Viewers who would most appreciate this would be the ones who have at least a vague memory of the television cartoon series because there are a lot of jokes and references that might go over one's head otherwise--not to say that kids wouldn't enjoy it as well, because they will.There's a lot going on in this film.  So much happens so fast, but that is intentional.  It is highly visual, and the style almost seems like a cross between Steven Soderbergh and Tim Burton, of course with a lot more pink and glitter.  The images literally pop out at you at times.  And while the plot is somewhat contrived, you might not mind too much because it speaks so clearly to our current culture.The parody of Boy Bands and Pop-Star Girls is dead-on and that's why this is such a guilty pleasure.  You can appreciate how they are made fun of and enjoy the characterizations at the same time.  And all the performances are first rate--from the cameo performances by Breckin Myer and Seth Green as members of the Boy Band Dujour, to leads Rachel Leigh Cook and Tara Reid as Josie and Melody, to the supporting players, particularly Alan Cumming and Parker Posey as the record executives.  Also look for cameos by Carson Daly and Ken Babyface Edmonds.Rosario Dawson as Valerie makes quite an impression.  Her strong but anxious portrayal helps set up the classic conflict of female friendship vs. diva-like fame--a conflict we've seen played out over and over again in many VH-1 Behind the Music episodes.All in all, this is a film you'll enjoy upon first viewing and maybe even more with repeated viewings.  If anything, you'll be dancing out of the aisles as you head home. "},{"Title":"Gets better with time","Date":"15 April 2008","Score":"17 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" First of all - this is not a meaningful movie. But it wasn't meant to be. I hate it when I hear critics slam a movie mainly because it doesn't fit into their favorite Type of movie. Some movies are made to sit through wincing - leaving you sore emotionally and some are light silly goofball creations that wont change the world, but sure are nice to just zone out with. This movie will never turn Roger Ebert's crank...its silly and goofy and irrelevant....Its also over time revealing itself to have been at the time...subversive. This movie has a lot of little things about it that are becoming more relevant as the years wear on... When this first came out I thought An alright movie with catchy songs This was before I myself got involved in the Music industry. After living through three bands and two contracts over ten years I would like to say this movie isn't as unrealistic as you may think. It is still a spoof, but close enough to reality to warrant another look. Originally waved away as being pure fluff I now find this movie creepily prophetic. Since this movie was made we have witnessed the fall out of bands like Back street boys the breakdown of pop-stars like Brittany Spears and a slew of young actors & actresses separated from family & friends whose entire personalities have been written and designed by stylists and are seen battling like some weird Fashionista roman gladiators under the tutelage of sycophants and managers.Media/pop culture, with its out of control emphasis on looks and weight over talent and personality, have resulted in actual government legislation regarding model weights and rampant anorexia amongst young starlets. Musically there has been a huge increase in management interference (listen to Pink's first album regarding the pressures placed on a young singer to conform to a label's Vision) dictating how the artists shall look and act. If it hadn't been for the internet download revolution of Lime wire and such I think the Music industry would have happily continued to control what consumers were ALLOWED to buy and ALLOWED to see...This movie was also made prior to the outing of gay boy band members Stephen Gately, Lance Bassit, Jordan Knight but the top selling song for the Boy Band Du Jour in this movie is the most homo-suggestive song I've ever heard. (Is it really called In Through Your Back Door?)After all this fallout, the world of Josie & the Pussycats seems much less stupid to me.Again...Not deep, but possibly prophetic...and fun to watch Just don't expect to feel moved. Its popcorn at its best - light and salty, not really a meal...its a snack and as that type of movie...shouldn't't be judged solely for its nutritional value... I'd rate it a 7 "},{"Title":"good movie","Date":"3 July 2005","Score":"17 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" Pretty decent feel-good movie. Superb soundtrack, talented cast. Not a disappointment at all. Lots of energy in the young cast, humorous laid- back script, and good message. Humorous at certain points and worth watching if your a teenage girl, or especially if you like all the conspiracy theory stuff =)Is meaningful in that it puts emphasis on importance of certain things in our lives, leaves you wanting to download the track and has a light hearted attempt at portraying messages to young people without the boring political side.Josie and the Pussycats is lively and funny at points. I would recommend this movie to anyone who likes movie's like Mean girls, Legally Blonde etc as it is humorous and meaningful, without being overly politically correct. "},{"Title":"An enjoyable satire although it is rather undone by the silly mood that pervades it","Date":"16 July 2005","Score":"19 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" When Du Jour, a top boy band go missing after an unfortunate plane accident, manager Wyatt Frame decides that the time is ripe for him to go and find the next big thing to sell to the teen market. He discovers a failing girl rock group in a small town and offers them a deal without hearing them. Within hours they have been styled and dressed by the label and are ready to cut their first record. Within a week they are number one, have screaming fans following them everywhere and have a strange desire to buy products that they had no previous interest in. However Josie starts to notice something strange about all of this and is soon asking more questions than the label would like her to.I hope my description above gives you an idea of the silly sense of humour that runs throughout this film because, although it could have been a sharp satire, it isn't quite as insightful as it could have been. Mostly this is down to the material - the targets are so easy (hell, pop music is practically a parody of itself in some regards) it is never sharp although it is pretty on-target for the most part. It doesn't help that the tone of the whole thing is that of a silly teen comedy rather than a satire and perhaps it was the strange mix of things that confused me a little bit and put me off it. Despite this though I still quite enjoyed it; it was amiable enough, was quite self-aware and was pretty funny at points. I can understand why many were put off it and it doesn't break any new ground but it is still pretty enjoyable and it was nice to see a teen movie actually try to do more than just pander to its audience (well, not much anyway).The actors involved give some clue that the material is up to something despite the weaknesses &#150; Parker Posey doesn't just turn out for every teen comedy that is around you know! The three leads are all pretty good &#150; delivering the silly mood but also being in on the joke and into it. Cook is probably the least fun of the three but she does well to carry the narrative. Reid is fun in a simple ditsy role that made me smile and Dawson is as gorgeous as ever while still delivering an enjoyable character. Cumming is a bit annoying and he adds to the silly mood with his overly daft performance. Posey is fun and somehow manages to be daft but still effective in the role. The support are mostly in on the joke and the star cameos send themselves up well &#150; Carson Daley and Levy particularly. Biggest surprise was that I liked Missy Pyle &#150; normally she is terrible but here she works.Overall this is a strange mix of pop satire and teen movie. This produces a rather silly tone, which may put some off, not helped by the fact that the easy targets do rather take the edge off the material somewhat but for my money it was refreshing to see this try to do what it did. I enjoyed the humour and the fact that the cast were all into it and, although it is not a great movie I would certainly watch it again. "},{"Title":"Amusing satire on the power & brainwashing of the music industry","Date":"14 August 2011","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" I never saw the original cartoon but decided to pick up 2001's Josey and the Pussycats because Tara Reid's such a cutie and it looked like some fun entertainment.Yes, it's fun and the girls are attractive (also featuring Rachael Leigh Cook & Rosario Dawson) but, surprisingly, Josey and the Pussycats shoots for something deeper. As my title blurb points out, this is an amusing and potent satire on the power and manipulation of the entertainment industry.Alan Cumming is outstanding as the villainous band manager who uses, abuses and throws away at whim. His opening scene with the fictional boyband Du Jour is worth the price of admission! Parker Posey is also good as his diabolical superior.Ever wonder why all those musicians die in mysterious plane crashes, overdoses, etc. at the height of their fame? How about all those successful government cover-ups? How do artists with little actual talent and songwriting abilities become hugely popular while the truly talented artists languish in obscurity (like Meliah Rage)? Why do you sometimes have this insane drive for a Big Mac or Coke? Josie and the Pussycats explains all, lol.As for the doofuses who complain about the product placement, they all live on Aduh Street.The film runs 98 minutes.GRADE B "},{"Title":"Hilarious, Music Friendly, and a Must-see!","Date":"30 April 2006","Score":"14 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" I absolutely love this movie! It is by far my favorite. here's the list.... 1 Amazing clothes (from the eyes of a fashion designer) 2 Amazing and catch pop-rock music (and the soundtrack is equally amazing, and I'm currently listening to it) 3 The roles were so perfectly placed, there could not have been a better of any of the characters. 4 There's so much chemistry between Josie, Val, and Melody that there's no way you can't love it. 5 The plot is very easy to follow. And it brings up a lot of points about modern day society... which includes brand named everything. I recommend this movie to anyone! It's very light hearted and the music is amazing and makes you want to sing or dance or whatever. This movie is amazing. *enough said* "},{"Title":"Purr-fect","Date":"6 April 2001","Score":"29 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  I got a chance to see a sneak preview of Josie & the Pussycats this past week. I really didn't have many expectations for this film...all I was looking for was a fun movie that wouldn't make me cringe (too much.) Well, without hesitation I can say this movie totally blew me away. It was by far one of the funniest movies I've seen in a LONG time. Sure, it was campy, but it garnered genuine and consistent laughs from the audience. It's been a long time since I've seen a movie with such energy and well-balanced pacing.All three actresses were fantastic as the Pussycats, staying very true to their comic book/tv characters. Rachel Leigh Cook was an excellent choice for Josie...she adds a poignancy to the role that was completely unexpected. As you can imagine, there is the usual romantic subplot, but Cook gives it an honesty and sweetness that saved it from becoming a cliche. Rosario Dawson also did a wonderful job of humanizing Val, portraying her as a strong yet insecure woman. Tara Reid had the hardest part of all. How do you portray a ditzy character so that it doesn't degenerate into a one-note gag? Answer Make the character endearing. Reid did a wonderful job at making Melody's sappy optimism and absent-mindedness absolutely adorable. In less capable hands, some of the gags would have fallen flat...but they got me smiling, and even laughing.The soundtrack utterly rocks...the last teen movie I can think of with a soundtrack that was so well matched to the visuals was Clueless. Songs that could have been just filler really added to the overall energy and appeal of the film. The music style was more hard rock than the original TV series, but they managed to get the theme song in there somewhere, so I was happy. ) At the screening I went to, people actually danced in the aisles during the end credits...not something I see every day. ^_^The script is phenomenal, filled with many in-jokes and great timely references. What's most amazing is that Josie & the Pussycats is a movie with something to say, yet it got its message across in a witty and entertaining way while avoiding being too preachy.I can honestly say Josie & The Pussycats is one of the best TV-to-Film adaptations I've ever seen--very enjoyable for fans of the old series, but remaining accessible for those who weren't. "},{"Title":"Josie and the Pussycats is a jerkin' movie.","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  This is another one of those movies that my local library has on DVD, so all it cost me was 90 minutes. Well, maybe 2 hours when you consider the extras I watched. With low expectations going in, I actually like this film a lot. It is jerkin! (See the film, one of the subliminal messages, along with colors, food products, shoes, and of course the band itself.) Josie and the Pussycats is a product of Archie Comics.The back story is the need for record producer (Parker Posey) to find a new group, any group, simply as a carrier for their marketing messages. The group doesn't need to be very good, and this one isn't. Rachael leigh Cook is excellent as Josie, the lead singer, and Tara Reid is funny as the ditzy drummer of the group. (As an aside, they all were taught to play their instruments during performances so they look natural, even though professional playing and singing were over dubbed.)Well, eventually the smart Josie figures out the scheme and foils it. They give a real, unencumbered concert performance, she gets the boy she wanted all the time. The whole film spoofs product placement and the recording industry that takes unknowns and through hype, molds them into hit groups for the profit of the handlers.  Sort of like the current TV series American Pop Idol where a winner will be selected in a few weeks.Josie and the Pussycats is a well-made and entertaining film, if one just watches it for what it is. Most professional critics just don't get it. "},{"Title":"Josie and the girls, well, they rock!","Date":"13 June 2006","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" Josie (Rachael Leigh Cook) is the lead singer and guitarist for the all girls rock band, as depicted in the Archie comics. They are mocked by fellow students, despite being quite talented. No has discovered them, its true, but things can change. A deceptive and evil record producer needs new blood and orders an underling to find some fresh faces. Naturally, Josie's group practically falls into his lap. They are signed and touted everywhere. But, is this the real thing or is the mother of all exploitation plots being hatched? Will Josie and the girls stay sweet and unjaded by their fame? What a fine and fun film this is! Girls will love it, yes, and the guys will love the chance to see three beautiful gals on celluloid. Tara Reid is very, very funny as the slightly dense rocker and Cook is a joy as the talented and pretty leader of the group. Parker Posey and Alan Cummings are terrific as the evil music executives and they appear to be having a ball oozing bad vibes. The costumes, needless to say, are just what a fashion loving female would admire. There is a love story, too, for those who beg for tale of romance. Then, too, the three young rock stars are very good role models for the younger set. Ladies, whatever your age, try to spend a bit of time with Josie and company. The laughs are infectious while the sweetness-versus-evil plot is guaranteed to provide a venue to help you forget your worries and make you smile, smile, smile. "}{"Title":"Very tired teen comedy but could it have been anything else?","Date":"24 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" There is so many of these cartoon to live-action adaptations that in order for them to work there must be a major satirical edge to them and I am sad to say that there just isn't enough here. Josie and the Pussycats starts out rather clever with a spin on the boy band fever that apparently has gone to such a degree that the people who pull the strings would sell their souls to milk it for all it's worth. When one boy band starts to get integrity, (Notice Showbiz Integrity) their manager arranges a little missing persons affair and darn it; if that doesn't push record sales to a new high.Apart from that the story of the Pussycats has limited appeal and trying to make the three girls into absolute types was very predictable in this kind of movie but to make everything so startingly wholesome at the same time is not very entertaining. Even the people who are supposed to be the bad guys seem to have stumbled into a do what I think is best for the cause trip.The three Pussycats are of course very hot but the dilemma they are placed in is all too cute to be appealing for boys. Teenage girls will probably also get bored with the substandard machinations of the plot so who is left? No easy answer here. Maybe people who are very bored or People Who Need People. You decide. "},{"Title":"Not A Movie, But A Ninety Minute Commercial","Date":"24 April 2002","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  More product placements per minute than any film made to date.  At some points, the brand names fly by so fast it makes you dizzy.  The characters can't play a CD without showing you a closeup of the brand name on the CD player, can't go shopping without showing you the sign on the store AND the logo on the shopping bag.  Plus, little snippets of different songs, clearly designed to sell soundtrack and other CDs.  And let's not forget the Josie and the Pussycats action figures.  Oh, and all this is supplemented by some of the most unimaginative writing and uncompelling acting in film history.  I eagerly await the non-sequel. "},{"Title":"For Rachael Fans only!","Date":"31 March 2002","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  This Movie is an absolute piece of ???. The writers are just terrible. The same jokes told again and again, and the music video look becomes really old really quick. Overall the one thing this movie is worth watching for is the up-and-coming Rachael Leigh Cook, who delivers yet another outstanding performance.So, if you are not a true Rachael fan - don't bother with this one. "},{"Title":"excruciating to watch.","Date":"6 May 2001","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  i love alam cumming. i love parker posey. i love rosario dawson. i love gabriel mann. i love spoofs of boy groups. i love all-girl bands.i really wanted to love this movie. i had heard only bad things about it, but since the mummy returns was sold out, and i was still in the mood for mindless fun, i got a ticket to see josie and the pussycats. it started off great, and i enjoyed dujour, the spoof of boy groups. i enjoyed seeing the all too real frustration of starting out as a band and playing horrible shows that no one goes to.and then after that, when the plot decided to kick in -- it was horrible. i laughed at things, but i can't remember any of them. towards the end i was just waiting for the movie to end, and it took its sweet time.i realize that the product placements were there for a reason, to point out how ubiquitous they are, and how we're used to them. but this was so in your face your couldn't help but become nauseated. so yes, friendship before fame. right. good point.i just wish for tara reid to stop acting and for rachel leigh cook to *start* acting, cos it seems that she keeps playing the same incredibly bland and supposedly smart characters.feh.two stars out of ten. "},{"Title":"This movie is pure garbage","Date":"11 April 2001","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  I just made the unfortunate decision of seeing this movie.  Boy, it is bad.  Not only is the plot pathetic, it's just plain stupid.  The government and some loser record company are brainwashing today's youth.  (You mean people don't know this already??) The cast, whom are nothing like their characters off the cartoon (with the exception being the blonde one).  It's pure hell trying to ever sit through this movie.  The bad guys aren't even really evil, they're so unbelievably lame that you don't ever fear them in the least.  The music was the only half-decent thing to come out of this trash heap.It's almost sad, every shot in this movie is an advertisement!!!  What in the name of MST3K did we actually pay for??  To see a girl take a shower with McDonald's logo's all over??  The America Online Hotel???  What on earth were they thinking??  Kids would jump for joy being shoved with ads all throughout a movie?The cartoon is ten times better than this MADE-FOR-TV movie junk.  Please, if you value your lives and well being, DO NOT WATCH THIS MOVIE. "},{"Title":"Awful, Awful, Awful","Date":"16 April 2001","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  A movie that desperately wants to be hip and funny, and succeeds at neither. The original cartoon series had more depth and wit than this tired, bloated, unwatchable film.Rachael Leigh Cook is okay, but both Rosario Dawson and Tara Reid are one-dimensional airhead stereotypes.  (And anybody who thinks that Tara Reid can really play drums after watching this is out of their mind.)  The big problem -- the story wants to be a tale about being true to yourself and independent, while the movie is the most shameless shill for corporate America in the history of film.  Can't have your cake and eat it too, Pussycats.  Also, the jokes and the humor (I guess that's that they'd be called) fall flat time and time again. This movie is so bad, you can't even laugh at it MST3K style.Do not watch this in the theaters, do not watch this on video.  Do not give the studios an excuse to make a sequel to the horrendous excuse for a movie. Easily one of the worst movies made this year.F-  "},{"Title":"Echhh!!!!!!","Date":"9 May 2004","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  There are some cartoons that are worth making a movie out of and then there's Josie and the Pussycats.  I think the title of the movie should've been Josie and the Pussycats on Helium because of the dumb writing on this thing.  I'm also a Tara Reid fan since she was in American Pie and it was painful watching her play an airhead but I guess it was fitting because of the airheads that decided to make a female answer to Airheads starring Brendan Fraser.  If they would've played a little stronger rock than this weak version I would've been more impressed about this movie and given it a few points but this band was nothing more than a grade school band opening for Tiny Tim (for those of you who remember Tiny Tim) "},{"Title":"Far too light","Date":"14 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Subliminar advertisement converts teenagers into ultra air-headed consumers in the film. Nevertheless, evident crystal clear advertisement fills up the screen outrageously all the time.  This film is far too light-weighted even for the air-headed ones. "},{"Title":"Don't waste your time.","Date":"8 August 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Why do teen movie makers feel they have to insert some commentary on society into every bad movie?  Josie And The Pussycats was like if Spice World tried to have some deep, meaningful message it would have just been better if they had allowed it to be a guilty pleasure.  But instead, they decide to try to make it a satire of the music and fashion industry.  Sure, there probably are companies deciding what fads will be popular will be popular when, but isn't it more likely that these decisions are made by people in suits in a board room then by leather-clad secret agent wannabes in an underground secret lair?  And the romantic subplot was hanging on to the rest of the movie by a thread.Alan Cumming and Parker Posey are way too talented to play such flimsy roles. Why are they in this movie? And why, for that matter, is Tara Reid in any movie, ever?If you want a silly movie about chicks in a band, just go for the 90s nostalgia and rent Spice World. "},{"Title":"What the hell was I watching?","Date":"27 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" I have heard of the Archie comics but unfortunately I saw this in 2016. Seriously why did they have to create a pathetic dull movie like this?! Also adding in the another band 'DuJour' doesn't even involve with 'Josie and the Pussycats' and then just killing them off at the beginning even! That's like the worst intro ever for a movie based on a frigging comic book!I thought Alan Cummings character as an evil was very stupid, he didn't have a frigging clue what he was doing! He looked to be a good manager not one trying to take over the entire world!I can't comment anymore but let's just say, it's a terrible film! "}{"Title":"Great Movie Who's Message is still Relevant","Date":"3 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" This is a movie that highlights the rampant brainwashing that goes on in music and movies. It shows how subliminal messages and product placement can influence trends which leads to increased sales of products. The actors are all brilliant in their roles, the pace is fast enough to keep you from getting bored, the jokes are funny, and overall the movie is entertaining. I skipped out on the romance part as it felt tacked on. The messages of thinking for yourself, appreciating your friends, and having a professional code of ethics from this film are timeless. While the way that the music industry makes money has changed and will continue to do so, the principles of this film continue to apply. "},{"Title":"Criminally Underrated - 5.3?! REALLY? C'MON! More like a 7!","Date":"1 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" I don't know what is wrong with you people who gave this a 5 and below. What were you watching? Or missing rather? Everything is the answer to the latter. The script is not perfect and unwinds a tiny bit in the last half hour of the movie- but other than that the direction, cuts, angles, timing, graphics, and acting are all top notch! When I saw this movie I wanted to know WHO directed it because I found their style really effective for this movie and rare! The directing talent of this movie is rare in that it seemed very comic-book stylized- like they followed well drawn story boards perfectly. As I said, the cuts (transitions) from one interesting camera angle to the next created a nice flow- and the voice acting and expressions were for the most part all good. The story is rather simple but so many other movies have simple stories and fail- i thought this movie had a simple story and succeeded in it's delivery of it. It could have had better character development so that we would care more about the characters- but for some reason I don't expect that nor care for that because it's Josie and the Pussycats for crying out loud! The only silly movie I can think of that had good character development was Austin Powers- where it showed Dr. Evil's childhood and background and gave you a sense of why he was evil. That was good. he was a well developed evil villain. Had this movie shown the background of the background perhaps it would have added a needed level of depth. But overall I enjoyed this movie enough to give it a 7 out of 10 at least. The poor 5 rating of this movie on IMDb is one of many inaccurate ratings on IMDb. There are many other movies I think are good enough to be a 7 but are rated a 5. It makes me have less faith in this rating system and from now on if I read an interesting synopsis for a movie and it's rated a 5 i am going to watch it anyway! - rendering this site ALMOST useless. "},{"Title":"More Meow Than Roar.","Date":"2 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" Josie and the Pussycats (2001) Dir Harry Elfont, Deborah Kaplan / Cast Rachael Leigh Cook, Tara Reid, Rosario Dawson, Alan Cumming, Parker Posey One of those numb founded ideas that dares viewers to remain until the end. The Pussycats are a girl band used to brainwash people in a scheme by Alan Cumming as a record producer. This all leads up to a pathetic fight sequence with an impersonator making an ass of himself. It is amazing that it took two directors to put this crap together. Deborah Kaplan and Harry Elfont previously directed the teen bore Can't Hardly Wait. They prove to great measures that if one director can make films as stupid as Head Over Heels and The Adventures of Joe Dirt, then two directors should be capable of bigger embarrassments. Rachael Leigh Cook, Tara Reid and Rosario Dawson play the trio of morons in the band. They are the reason special education classes were invented. Cumming is capable of much better and should have known better. Parker Posey also shows up in this garbage because her career wasn't far enough in the crapper yet. This is the kind of film one leaves out in the sun just to see whether it will be damaged. After all, it wouldn't put anyone out of anything of worth. The only area of compliment is its reference to pop culture but the film is cheesy and foolishly idiotic with a band that makes more noise than music. Score 1 / 10 "},{"Title":"Criminally Underrated","Date":"23 June 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" What an awesome movie. I suppose I would have to categorize this under guilty pleasure since it seems to not get much love. The rating on IMDb is wrong on a level I can't wrap my head around. This is one of those movies a lot of people, particularly guys, will look at and dismiss it just by its concept. Well, it's their loss as they're missing out on a very fun and funny movie. I'm a straight guy and I enjoy this movie on the face of it. Not for camp value or any other backhanded compliments. This is a well-produced musical comedy with great songs and some biting satire of the music industry and commercialization. The actors are all good and seem to be having a blast. The three leads are especially fun. One of Tara Reid's better movies, with some early Rosario Dawson and She's All That herself, Rachel Leigh Cook, both of whom I always like.I've been a big fan of this movie since it was first released. The music is upbeat and catchy. Way better than the average music written specifically for a fictional band or artist in movies. I played the soundtrack to death back in the day and still listen to it when I need a pick-me-up today. It's not just the Pussycats songs that I like but also the parody songs from the boy band Du Jour. I think in years to come Josie and the Pussycats will become a cult favorite. It's too good to go ignored forever. I really hope history vindicates what I consider to be one of the best comedies that came out in the 2000s. "},{"Title":"Take the Chevy to the Levy.....","Date":"20 April 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" Record industries inserts subliminal messages into music so that they can make teenagers do nothing but buy whatever is requested. Whenever a musician or band finds out the truth, the record company silences them to keep the truth from coming out. When boy band DuJour discover this, their manager, Wyatt, has the plane they are flying in crash, and leaves him looking for a new band to use for evil schemes. Enter Josie and the Pussycats, a small band who wants to make it to the big top. When they are discovered by Wyatt, they give in and become big rock stars. But will they find out that they are just pawns for the record industry or will fame take them over......Cruelly overlooked on initial release, this film is a damning satire on product placement, which manages to fit placement into almost every scene. It kind of defeats the purpose, but its intentionally hilarious.It's camp from beginning to end, and I can imagine that many on here have given it a low rating because they are ashamed to admit this film is rather good, but hey, life's too short, and its a lively fun movie, that doesn't hurt with the fact that Leigh Cooke is beautiful to look at and makes the film really easy on the eye.Read between the lines of the film, it really does stick a big middle finger up to teens and manufactured bands who clog up media attention one minute, and disappear next.It's very topical, and I for one feel that this movie should be shown to teenagers between the ages of 13 to 18, to be used as a warning that these boy bands, girl groups are just there to make you buy lots of poorly made goods at stupid prices.Actually, this film is probably based on true events.Hilarious and probably kryptonite to Simon Cowell. "},{"Title":"Love It )","Date":"29 September 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" This could be a slightly biased seeing as how I fell in love with this movie as a child and it holds a bounty of nostalgic appeal to me but now watching it some 11 years later I gotta say it holds up pretty well.You'll find immediately that the cast of characters is really lovable. Even Fiona, the evil head of Mega Records, and Wyatt Frame, the evil manager, you'll find yourself enjoying their evil 'campiness' by the end. And I find it's almost impossible to not enjoy the Pussycats themselves. The actors and actresses in this movie really give their all in their performances.The style of the movie would be the next thing that really jumps out at you. Being an early 2000s movie the style is positively reeking 90s charm especially in the type of clothes and pop culture references. Each scene is color coded to correspond with the fads in the movie which helps the main characters stick out. Not to mention the loads and loads and loads of subliminal messaging that covers nearly every inch of the sets and was apparently so fitting that I didn't even question it until watching the movie again years later. Overall it's a really fun and eye- catching style.Finally the premise of the movie. It deals with the idea of subliminal messages and pushing items through music and television. Something that I think portray well through their overblown sets and comedy. Either way I think it's a really fun and interesting movie and it's worth looking into. "},{"Title":"Here Kitty Kitty Kitty.","Date":"4 February 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" It looks like just about every cartoon series is being transformed into a film. Some examples include The Flintstones, Scooby Doo and Josie And The Pussycats. Some were good and some were bad.The film is about a boy band named Dujor whose manager named Wally played by Alan Cummingss thinks that the band died in a plane crash and has to find a new band. He stumbles upon a band called The Pussycats that consist of 3 members, Josie played by Rachael Leigh Cook, Valerie play by Rosario Dawson, and Melody played by Tara Reid who are quickly turned famous overnight now calling themselves Josie And The Pussycats. Liitle do they. Know that all of their songs contain subliminal messages that take over the minds of who ever is listening.This was actually not that bad. The good things I Have to say The 3 main characters are fun to watch, Dujor is also pretty funny, the cameos are put to good use and the story is not that bad. I also like how the movie over does everything and basically makes fun of itself. However Missi Pyle is awful as always, the plot is tired and recycled and the movie is surprisingly raunchy for an adaptation of a children's cartoon. I have not seen the family version but I am pretty sure they cut a lot out. I still say check it out though.Rated PG-13 For Language And Mild Sensuality.1hr 39min/99min.***/**** "},{"Title":"It's like fine wine, it gets better with age","Date":"14 February 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" About eight years ago, I watched Josie and the Pussycats on DVD, and gees I thought it was so bad, it deserved a two out of ten. I watched the movie last week on FMC, and I finally got it.The synopsis of the movie, a boy group called Du Jour dies in a plane crash. Alan Cumming's character Wyatt Flemming is sent to a small town to find the next band, where he stumbles across Josie and the Pussy Cats. On the surface the Josie and the Pussy Cats are selling CD's. But, Josie and the Pussycats don't realize that there music label has loaded their songs with subliminal messages; which is used to sell a lifestyle.When I watched the movie last week, I totally got it, as the movie parodied the boy/girl bands of the 1990s. We should not forget that the sound of the groups are (heavily) processed. Everything from the dance moves to facial movements are well choreographed. Also, these bands were in the business of selling the latest fads. Groups such as N*Sync, Backstreet Boys, and Spice Girls were selling an assortment of items such i.e. soft drinks. It is amazing that the movie managed to pick up on the little things that sells a manufactured pop group.My favorite scene of of the movie, when Wyatt Flemming stopped his mini van at the traffic lights, then Josie and the Pussycats walked in front of his car; then they paused. Then Meat Loaf's Paradise by the Dashboard Light cued. Whilst the song was playing, Wyatt removes a CD from its cover then he frames the girls inside of the cover. Behind Josie and the Pussycats, a sign stated, World's number 1 Band. Wyatt looks towards the camera mounted on the passenger side and he smiles. All those years ago, I did not realized what I missed on. But lucky for me I caught the movie last week, and I enjoyed it. It parodied the manufactured pop groups of the 1990's. For those people who did not get the film, I would recommend that you watch it in another couple of years, and you may have another perspective on the movie. "},{"Title":"Cute movie, very funny.","Date":"23 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" Josie and the Pussycats was a cute musical comedy chick flick. I like those. The singing was awesome! The drummer (who happens to be a blonde female, LOL!! Did a great job! She dumb though.) I saw the film and then bought the soundtrack off of Amazon.com And I love it. I would like to see the movie again. I recommend seeing That Thing You Do, directed by Tom Hanks. I also bought the soundtrack for that too. Again, the drummer in That Thing You Do blew me away, considering that I'm a drummer, and looking towards it being my profession. Great movie! See the movie, buy the soundtrack. The soundtrack is very punk rock, which I like. Their female vocal's obviously, I mean, Josie and The Pussycats are a female band. There's only one problem with the band though, THEY DON'T HAVE A BASS PLAYER! "},{"Title":"Don't waste your time. The girls look cute but the story borders on stupidity and the script is ridiculous.","Date":"6 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  The comics and short-lived cartoon series were cute and the characters, well, Josie and the Pussycats are cute also. But really, what else is there? Unfortunately, Josie and the Pussycats - the movie suffers from the lack of an important element in a movie - a decent story.Writers/directors Harry Elfont and Deborah Kaplan had hoped to make a satire poking fun at the pop music industry, trend-conscious teens and commercialization of America but the result was a movie that seemed pieced together by paper cut-outs of advertisements and Starbucks coffee cup holders. The problem with Josie and the Pussycats is that the premise of the movie is too simplistic and basic with major work required before it can be turned into a movie script. The government is involved with a major record label to brainwash American youth with subliminal messages to encourage consumption and create trends. That's your entire story, stretched paper-thin into a feature-length movie.  "}{"Title":"Mindless without plot and endless ads. Despicable.","Date":"21 August 2013","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" Harbourfront should not have screened this movie.This movie is an insult to what a movie should be. It lacks an interesting script that an adult can follow. Perhaps, it is meant for 8 year olds. I watched the animated comic as a kid and remember the cartoon being interesting, something this piece of crap lacks entirely. On the other hand, it is full of logos for real products that gets annoying in an instant. This piece of worthless celluloid is full of logos almost on every frame. I cannot believe I actually sat through the whole thing. A lot of other reviewers give this movie more points because they believe that the endless product placements are being satirized but given the amount of it, it must have been how the movie ended up getting a budget. One redeeming aspect is the actors but they have shot themselves in he foot by being associated with this piece of worthless drivel. I mean, to go from Titus Andronicus to this for Alan Cumming is beyond the pale. Had this movie had a worthwhile story it would have been great. Instead we got a horrible pastiche. "},{"Title":"satire disguised as bubblegum girly fluff","Date":"7 June 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  **SPOILERS**I've never seen the cartoon version of Josie and Pussycats - in fact, I thought they were the girls out of Captain Caveman. Ooops. However, I find it difficult to believe that the cartoon version can be any more fun than the movie. This is one of those films that you don't set out to watch. I caught the last 30 minutes on TV one night and rushed out to buy it. I'm sure there are plenty of early teenage girls who will watch this film and just enjoy the girly-rawk music, and the romance and triumph of the goodies over the baddies. The grown ups out there will get a lot more than they bargained for. JATP is a great satire on the fickleness of the modern music world and how it feeds on and feeds up the fads of todays teens. From the branded hotel rooms through to the merciless killing off of any musician who catches on to the plot, it mocks modern life in such a gentle way that many people don't even realize what it's doing. Even the anti-climactical ending seems to sort of fit - Fiona's big plan to brainwash the youth of America to like her is so absurd it's hysterical.The pussycats themselves are pretty good - there's a real chemistry there between the girls that's lovely to watch. It makes you wish that you'd had friends like that when you were their age. However, for me, the show is stolen away by DuJour. Although their appearances are only brief, they summed up everything that is wrong and right about the pop industry today. And I can't believe they got 'back door lover' past the censors. And the description of how they sustained their horrific injuries in the parking lot of the Metallica gig had me creased over.  "},{"Title":"Dumb, dumb, dumb...","Date":"7 October 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Josie and the Pussycats (2001) Rachel Leigh Cook, Tara Reid, Rosario Dawson, Alan Cumming, Parker Posey, Gabriel Mann, Paulo Costanzo, Missi Pyle, Tom Butler, Alex Martin, D Deborah Kaplan, Harry Elfont. Live-action version of those three small-town musicians from the Archie Comics, who get a hold of a record deal and find themselves at the center of a diabolical brainwashing plot with subliminal messages in their music. Parodies teen pop bands and commercial products with a self-satirizing energy and its songs have an enjoyable beat, but its given real dumbed-down treatment. Running Time 95 minutes and rated PG-13 for mild sensuality, crude humor, and some language. **  "},{"Title":"As enjoyable as an ear infection.","Date":"13 April 2001","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Yet another in a seemingly endless stream of really bad hollywood remakes of really bad cartoons/t.v. shows/old movies.  This film can't even work as a tease flick due to the casting of 3 decidedly unattractive leads.  I've seen Rachel Leigh Cooke in some other films and she looked beautiful. But I'm not sure what happened to her in this one.  And someone really needs to tell Tara Reid that she's just not attractive, not matter how skimpy she dresses.Basically, just a live action re-make of the really bad cartoon of the same name, the film has a paper thin plot, laughable direction and terrible music.  Nothing worth recommending here whatsoever.Stay away from this movie like it's a rabid doberman.Rating1  "},{"Title":"This is the dumbest movie of all-time","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  God bless Tara Reid.  Watch this atrocity on mute, just for her.  Who in Hollywood greenlights this garbage?  Are you people insane?  Next time you get a brilliant idea to adapt source material for which there are only 16 television episodes, think twice.  No, think once, at least, please!  There were 16 episodes of Josie, and hardly anyone cared then. "},{"Title":"Boozy and the Pussycats.","Date":"1 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" Yes, it's a family film with Tara Reid, how appropriate. She is the biggest drawback. Not to say that she can't play an idiot, she does it every day of her life, but her presence is distracting. Rachel Leigh Cook and Rosario Dawson are both far better. Someone like Drew Barrymore would have been a better third, she is cute and an actual actress. The movie itself is fun, but fairly forgettable. DuJour, the boy band that sings Backdoor Lover and features Seth Green and Donald Faizon, is the highlight. They are so pompous and ridiculous, like a real boy band. Another high point is the music performed by Kay Hanley. It's a little light, just like the movie, but they are decent songs.DuJour Some people use the front door, but that's never been my way. Just because I like the back door girl that doesn't make me...hey! "},{"Title":"Quirky and Great","Date":"30 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" I don't know why this movie is averaging in the low 5's because it's one of my favorite movies. The director's decided that they needed fun girls to fill the cast and they did superbly with Rachael Leigh Cook, Tara Reid and Rosario Dawson. There's great chemistry between the characters and the actors as they portray these vibrant, young musicians. Rachael Leigh Cook is cute as ever and her delivery as Josie is funny and genuine. Tara Reid plays the penultimate space case with practiced ease (hearkening back to her portrayal of Bunny Lebowski, sans skank). Rosario Dawson plays the self-conscious rock to the hilt and really ties the trio together. Parker Posey and Alan Cumming play a magnificently trite pair of villains and the brief appearance made by Du'jour is hilarious. For those of us that find rampant commercialism ripe for satire this film is definitely for you. When watching this film it is unbelievable to think that it was made for only $22 Million. The costumes and sets are good, the music is great and it makes Josie & The Pussycats jump from the small screen (or the comic book depending on how old school you are) to the big screen in a most enjoyable leap. "},{"Title":"Meh...","Date":"31 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  There is only one word for this movie, and that's meh. This is one of those movies that is very hard to comment on because I don't know exactly what is wrong with it, but at the same time it didn't leave me wowed. I could smell freaks at the beginning of the movie, I just think there should be less emphasys on freaks and more emphasys on what's wrong with today's pop culture. This movie addresses the problems with pop culture quite well though. So unless you want to reassure yourself that pop culture sucks, don't go see that movie.Oh, and another thing. The ending sucked. I'm sorry. I won't give it away by telling you what's wrong with it, but I think those who have seen the movie should agree. Those kinds of ending were out 10 years ago. Get with the times, movie makers. (See, damn pop-culture \ ) "},{"Title":"Protesting against greed, acquisitiveness and the materialism of the capitalist system is a great way to make money","Date":"1 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" Someone once asked me why I thought so many rock stars were left-wing, andI cynically replied that, as their target audience consists mostly of the more idealistic members of the younger generation, protesting against greed, acquisitiveness and the materialism of the capitalist system is a great way to make money. Films like this one, a satire directed at the record industry, consumerism and the capitalist system in general, tend to inspire me with a similar cynicism. I am generally suspicious of anti-materialist or anti-capitalist satire emanating from Hollywood, an institution which lives and dies by free-market principles and which is always readier to preach the virtues of thrift, frugality and glad poverty than to practise them. Whenever film-makers rail against Big Business, there is generally a good business reason for them to do so. Josie and the Pussycats started life as a strip cartoon published by Archiecomics. I can't say that I'm really familiar with it, but I do recall the television cartoon from my childhood in the seventies. It was about an all-female rock band made up of three girls with contrasting hair colours and equally contrasting personalities, Josie (vocalist/guitarist, redhead, sensible and practical), Valerie (tambourine, brunette, headstrong) and Melody (drums, blonde, sweet- natured but a bit dumb). This film is loosely based upon the comics and the cartoons. The basic idea is that a corrupt record label,MegaRecords, is brainwashing teenagers to buy their records, and many other products as well, byputtingsubliminal messagesunder the music. If any of the musicians discover what MegaRecords are up to, they have to be disposed of. In the opening scenes we see Wyatt Frame, a MegaRecords executive, arranging for the members of Du Jour, the label's biggest boy band, to meet their deaths in a plane crash because they have started asking too many awkward questions. This, however, leaves Wyatt with a problem; MegaRecords now need a new group to replace Du Jour. In the small town ofRiverdale Wyatt finds a hitherto unsuccessful girl band, the Pussycats, persuades them to accept a lucrative record deal, and propels their first single to the top of the charts. Which leaves just one question. What will happen when the Pussycats discover (and, of course, they invariably will) just what Wyatt and his boss Fiona are up to? Satire, in the cinema or in any other medium, needs something more than just a target to attack. The film never generates a lot of humour, and the characters are all pretty unmemorable. Neither Josie nor Valerie emerges as a well-defined personality. There is some attempt to make Melody a simple-minded airhead like she was in the cartoons, a characterisation owing something to popular prejudices about blondes (and possibly also to pop music's prejudices about drummers). In the cartoon, however, Melody may have been a dumb blonde, but she also had a lovable sweetness about her, something that does not really come over in Tara Reid'sinterpretation. Reid, in fact, struck me as miscast; she is several years older than her co-stars Rachael Leigh Cook andRosario Dawson, and I felt that the film would have worked better with a younger Melody, playing her as a naively innocent teenager as opposed to the more worldly twenty-something Josie and Valerie. Several other characters from the cartoon, such as the Pussycats' laid- back upper-class manager Alexander, his obnoxious sister Alexandra and Josie's boyfriend Alan are imported into the film, but they all play minor supporting roles and it is clear that they are only there because fans of the original would have been disappointed had they been omitted. (And whatever happened to Alexandra's cat Sebastian?) Wyatt is a very one-dimensional character, an effete long-haired fop who speaks in the sort of fruity upper-class British accent that the British upper classes largely abandoned several decades ago. Worse, though, than the film's poor characterisation andthe low standard of its humour, is its hypocrisy. Two big Hollywood giants like MGM and Universal are not really in a position to start throwing stones at the record industry or anyone else when it comes to accusations of manipulating public opinion or subliminal advertising, especially in these days when film studios and record labels are often part of the same commercial conglomerates. The blatantly obvious product placement with which the film is littered was probably intended as an ironic in- joke, but to my mind it tended to undermine the film's ostensibly anti- consumerist message. I said earlier in this review that protesting against greed, acquisitiveness and the materialism of the capitalist system is a great way to make money. Except in the case of Josie and the Pussycats it wasn't. The film actually made a loss at the box office, possibly because its target audience were more aware than the film-makers hoped of the essential contradiction in its position. Or possibly because it's just not a very good film. The moral of the story is not so much Don't trust what the capitalists tell you as Don't trust what anyone in the entertainment business tells you- even when they're telling you not to trust what someone else in the same business tells you! 4/10 "},{"Title":"Not at all bad","Date":"19 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" You might expect Josie And The Pussycats, a live action adaptation of the comic and cartoon series about an all-girl pop group, to be fairly bad, but you'd be wrong. Admittedly, neither is it a classic. But this story of a garage band group plucked from obscurity and tempted (and oh so nearly corrupted) by the promise of fame and fortune, while nefarious use is made of their music, is light, frothy fun with a familiar message - be true to yourself.It is helped in this by a decent script and appropriate performances - Rachel Leigh Cooke as Josie plays it straight, Tara Reid plays it ditsy, and Rozario Dawson plays it with integrity the rest of the cast play it with gusto.And the music is good, solid stuff in the overdriven guitars, melodic pop vein.This is a more than satisfactory way to pass 100 minutes. "}{"Title":"Almost purr-fect!  (I can't believe I actually wrote that)","Date":"21 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" This manic, rainbow-hued comedy is like The Monkees by way of the Disney Channel, but I mean that in the best possible way. It is fast, funny, satirical and has a surprisingly good soundtrack. The cast seems to be having a ball and the whole thing kicks off with an inspiringly hilarious opening scene. About the only criticism I can make of Josie and the Pussycats is that much of the humor is at the expense of teenagers and youth culture, so it's more enjoyable the older you are.Based on the old Archie comic book about a three-girl rock band, this film quickly sweeps them out of Riverdale and into a fairly sharp tongued spoof of the music industry and American consumerism. There's Josie (Rachael Leigh Cook), the leader of the band who's never sure she's really good enough to be a rock star. There's Val (Rosario Dawson), who's more confident on the outside but is worried about falling into Josie's shadow. And then there's Melody (Tara Reid), the spirited ditz with a sunny disposition.Wyatt Frame (Alan Cumming) is the record label executive who latches onto the Pussycats as the vehicle for the schemes of his nefarious boss Fiona (Parker Posey). They put subliminal messages in the Pussycats' songs to make teenagers buy all that crap they don't need. Fiona and Wyatt also subliminally brainwash Josie into becoming a diva and ditching her two best friends. Add in Alexander Cabot (Paulo Costanzo), the putative manager of Josie and the group, his obnoxious and skunk-haired sister Alexandra (Missy Pyle) and Alan M. (Gabriel Mann), the sexiest boy in Riverdale and Josie's secret crush, and you've got the makings of a movie that's like a cross between a shallower Legally Blonde and a faster Austin Powers International Man of Mystery.Now, there's nothing at all here to be taken seriously and the film does barrage the viewer with music video-style montages and the most intentionally obtrusive product placement in movie history, but it's all part of Josie and the Pussycats' veritable charm. This is a smart, snappy movie that's probably one of the most entertaining comic book adaptations ever. "},{"Title":"A Perfectly Well-done Parody","Date":"28 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" I remember watching this movie when it first came out and I didn't think much of it; at the time, I was 10, give or take, so I didn't understand a lot of the jokes. However, upon re-watching it recently, I found Josie and the Pussycats to be a funny and wonderfully satirical movie. I had no idea what kinds of humor lay in this movie. I usually agree to a T with the average vote on IMDb, but I must say now that a 5 is simply not enough in my opinion. Watch it again, my friends, and I think you will be amused at the movie's ability to have thick satire yet STILL have character development. Don't get me wrong; I'm not saying the movie should be on the top 250 list, but, for being what it is, I think it deserves more. Rachel Leigh Cooke did a decent job as the leading lady, pulling of the modest-rocker girl, and the supporting roles did good jobs with bringing in stereotypes without making it a stereotypical movie. Anyways, going in with an open mind, I think a lot of people would have enjoyed this movie. "},{"Title":"Ohhh.... Rachel!","Date":"29 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" Rocker chicks get a record deal.It's a free-for-all when fame and fortune tears apart the friendship of three girls in a heavy metal rock band who have secured a contract to become the next international music superstars. Maybe this film would have been better if it was given an R-rating so that Rachel Leigh Cook could show her chest. That's all I was thinking about every time she was standing there without a bra under that flimsy little piece of cloth she was pretending to use as a top. Female teeny-boppers may like this for the music and the glitz, but I like it for the purpose of staring at Rachel's shapely boobs.Rating Two stars - one for each boob. "},{"Title":"Wonderfully Silly","Date":"7 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" I thought this movie was going to be a waste of time. I found myself laughing every minute of the movie. Tara Reid Is the best part of the movie. She is so freaking funny. There are a lot of little things that I missed so I watched it a second time and it was even funnier. If you are looking for a movie with a meaning and substance this is not for you. There is just a lot of silly little jokes and play on words. The story is pretty good though. It is predictable but a really good movie. I didn't think that it was very vulgar so I think kids can watch it. The movie starts and goes pretty fast. It is kind of a teen-age girl movie but it is really funny. I would recommend this move to every one. "},{"Title":"You know what to expect.","Date":"18 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" I had a few expectations towards this movie... When I watched it, merely by accident, I can't say I enjoyed it but I had a decent time when I had nothing better to do.See, this isn't the typical early 2000's humor. It features the musical features with the super-girls action moments, and the typical American humor we love.Rachael Leigh Cook shines through the movie with her perkiness, beauty and comedic skills. Tara Reid just needs to look hot.The cast is very good but I think that the plot is what saves this movie from being labeled as another teen movie. "},{"Title":"What's not to like?","Date":"9 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" This movie manages to be several things simultaneously. It's something of a traditional rock movie (will The Pussycats make it to the big concert on time, and in one piece?), it is a perky little film about the importance of friendship, it's a spoof, and its is a rather clever indictment of media manipulation and product placement. Rachel Leigh Cook gives an endearing performance as Josie McCoy; Tara Reid gives a great performance as the ditsy but sweet drummer Melody, and Rosario Dawson is quite solid, although the script doesn't give her too much to work with. On a serious level, the film is beautifully post-modern, as can be seen in Allan Cumming's frequent breaching of the fourth wall, and in the rather brilliant line from Missi Pyle's character, Alexandra, who comments that she is in the movie because she's in the comic book. The pace is quite hectic, something even the characters are aware of (Does it strike anyone else as funny that all this has happened in a week?). "},{"Title":"Josie and the Pussycats is the Best Movie Ever!","Date":"6 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" This movie will target a teen demographic w/ enough subtle adult humor to keep the adults entertained. The film is very easy to relate to and generally moves along quickly. It is easy to like the many colorful and distinct characters in this film.It is the subtext and hilarious social commentary that keeps me coming back.This is a movie that you can watch again and again with humor and subtle elements that are easy to miss the first time around so I'd go so far as to suggest buying this movie over renting it if you can find it for a reasonable price.I noticed that it's getting a 5/10 rating (so far) on IMDb. The movie has some weak areas but they're not overwhelmingly glaring as to truly merit this low a rating. You have to take it for what it is.I'd say ask yourself the following questions before watching this movie1) Do you find the boy bands like Backstreet Boys or N'Sync to be somewhat funny? If YES, see this movie. 2) Do you think that contemporary music has become over commercialized? If YES, see this movie. 3) Are you prepared to watch a movie w/ a somewhat predictable storyline but is FUNNY? If YES, see this movie. 4) Are you around 15-30 yrs and are SOMEWHAT familiar w/ contemporary music scene? If YES, see this movie.The BAD - Here's why it's not a 10/10 in my books 1) goes a little overboard at the end 2) Josie's love interest is not as well developed as it could have been - but not terrible, just not as good as it could and should have been. 3) the movie briefly slows down at a point in the movie, but then it picks up at the end. Again, not terrible at all but it does. 4) the script, although underlined with excellent social commentary on the contemporary pop-culture music scene, is Hollywood formulaic and the outcome is somewhat predictable - but the hilarious characters and humor drive it forward so it's not terribly glaring.Great cast, great direction. A Josie & the Pussycats fan would be pleased with the adaption.Enjoy! "},{"Title":"The least thought-out plot of all time, but enjoyable","Date":"9 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" The cover of this movie makes it look like a typical teen movie, one much less ridiculous than the way it actually came out. After seeing this, I actually yearn to see Coyote Ugly for one, since even though not all jokes there were funny either, it had at least a credible direction. Josie and the Pussies (couldn't help it) take a mild shot at sci-fi, which is what truly blew me away. The basic fundamentals of the plot are actually pretty intriguing. If a director like James Cameron took script like this and chose to make a suspense thriller out of it, it might actually come out to something decent. The idea does seem relatively original. About the seriousness of the message in the movie, there certainly were many of them. However, just the fact that Rachel Cook's character ended-up saying all the main points plainly to her friends had made the messages a lot less credible. A movie's supposed to carry the messages within the plot, Mr. Director!!! Not say them in plain Enlish in case the audience didn't quite understand them, heh. However, the acting here was far beyond my expectations. The creativity, though very primitive and misleading, was outstanding. The jokes, however, were so ridiculous that I couldn't help but laugh, whether in pity or not. So, if you're looking for a movie that will confuse you to the point where you feel like you're looking at a Picasso painting, and you do end up with a lot of colors and good music in your head, then check it out. It will give you a good night's sleep at best. "},{"Title":"Fun, mindless entertainment","Date":"14 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" I really enjoyed this movie as it had catchy tunes, a great cast, and it pokes fun at the overt mass-marketing to today's teenagers. Everything from the cameo appearances of the members of Du Jour, to the casting choices for the leading ladies made this an entertaining film and a great update to the original comic book series. I even enjoyed watching it again with the directors' commentary (which is a feat because I usually refuse to listen to the comments) because they give great insight into the process and choices made in creating this film. If you're a fan of the comic book, a struggling musician in need of some cheer, or you just want a light-hearted film full of laughs, than this is the movie for you.Jerkin'! "},{"Title":"A Surprise and a Treat","Date":"4 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" I bought the movie for my ten year old daughter. She kind of liked it. The surprise was that I loved it. It thought it was cute and witty and really has a wonderful and important message on the total commercialization of music and society.The writing is quite good with the kind of off the wall satire on pop culture immediacy that the best of the 60's movie/television musicals had, reminiscent of the Beatles and the Monkees.I thought the photography was a little bit too realistic and should have been more splashy cartoony, but that's only a minor criticism.The direction was wonderful. I thought all the actors and actresses gave uniformly delightful performances.To sum up, this movie is totally Marxist and Marxist is the new Christianity. "}{"Title":"Phony comedy has it's moments","Date":"20 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  A huge record company led by 'Fiona' needs another big name and wind up with the unknown Josie and the Pussycats, a starting chick band. What these girls don't know is that the record company is really putting messages into the songs, promoting brands of clothing, drinks etc. Will the girls find out in time they're just being used by the record company?Movie apparently is based on a comic in the 70's, although the story is newly written. It despirately tries to make fun of itself and nowadays music and fashion, where everybody looks and dresses alike. But this message doesn't really feel genuine as the makers made sure to select attractive, well known and popular actresses to play the main roles...Fun at times and Cumming is excellent, but also with an unclear love interest ('Alan M.'), an annoying Reed and a phony message. 4/10. "},{"Title":"Great movie... better music!","Date":"21 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  I love this movie! It is one of my favorites because the plot was so interesting and funny that it made you want to watch it the whole way through! This was a very good movie and all but even better then the movie is the sound track! I do own it and love it! To be honest, without really knowing who sang the songs, it is a great CD. There are so many fun songs to sing and dance to. I think the music made this movie 10 times better! So my rating would be 100/10 stars! D "},{"Title":"Great fun...","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  I expected nothing from this film and got a whole lot more.What a blast! I laughed, I rocked, I had a great time. I'm already a big Rachel Leigh Cook fan (She's All That was the best teen film I've seen - possibly ever, and I'm one of the few who thought  Stallone's Get Carter was terrific) and now I'm an even bigger fan. She was cast purr-fectly as Josie.And I can't say I like the director/writer's previous works, but this is an exceptionally well-written script and very witty.Alan Cummings is fantastic (also a Get Carter alum) as the scummy rock promoter. He and Parker Posey put in memorable performances. What's there to not like about this film? The soundtrack ROCKS and Tara Reid as Melody is great (love the shower scene!) Loosen up, get down, and enjoy this. (I still can't get that song Pretend to Be Nice outta my head- buying the soundtrack now!) "},{"Title":"It's ok !! (this reveiw may give a bit of the film away)","Date":"27 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  This film is ok but it's not fantastic.The beginning is totally imitating the backstreet boys which is so not funny.There is no story line and you feel like falling asleep half way through.The only good thing about this film is that Tara Reid comes across as a great blonde bimbo.  "},{"Title":"I'm getting some mixed signals here.","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Josie and the Pussycats is meant to be a satire on today's popular culture, wondering if teen trends are all due to subliminal messages in pop music.  Okay fine.  Great concept there.Too bad the joke is totally negated by the fact that you can play the old Spot the Movie's Sponsors Drinking Game and get totally hammered in the first twenty minutes. "},{"Title":"These Pussycats are declawed by a plot more stale than year-old catnip","Date":"11 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Josie and the Pussycats (2001) It has now gotten to the point where the term satire is being heavily used in movies in order to cover up empty, lifeless plots. It brings to mind the old adage, Just because you pour syrup on something (used in place of a certain four-letter word), doesn't make it a pancake. One film that falls into this category is Josie and the Pussycats. The paper-thin excuse for a story, which wastes the talents of Tara Reid, Rachael Leigh Cook, Rosario Dawson and Parker Posey, among others, consists merely of a weak parody of the outright poisoning of the music industry by the teen-pop craze, which is deflating faster than a whoopee cushion beneath Barry White's backside. Oh, and there's the teeny-weeny problem of a constant barrage of product placement shoved in our faces throughout the film. It's rather ironic that the filmmakers chose to poke fun at it while using real brand names in the process - kinda makes you think about who helped fork over the bucks to get this mess on the screen, not to mention who the actual stars of this movie really are. Plus, if the boy band DuJour's plane crash at the beginning was supposed to be funny, then I guess I forgot to laugh. It's pretty pathetic when you're threatened with death by none other than MTV's resident mannequin, Carson Daly, but after watching this, I was praying for him to put me out of my misery. In short, Josie and the Pussycats is nothing short of a cat-astrophe. 4/10 "},{"Title":"A mess of a movie","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  There's no doubt that Josie and the Pussycats is attempting to be a light-hearted poke at today's pop culture. The trouble is the film becomes exactly what it is trying to satirize. The film evolves into a mindless commercialization of modern America. Images from the McDonald's logo to MTV come flying across the screen in not so subtle ways. Plus, the film suffers from an endless array of cardboard cutout characters. Alan Cumming does, however, offer at least some saving grace as a slighty over-the-top band manager.  3 out of 10. "},{"Title":"An MTV Movie.","Date":"29 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Josie and the Pussycats is a fun, sassy teen movie, which even though is not bad, it's really quite forgettable. The script is cute and the I loved some off the settings for the movie. (And, some of the outfits worn by The Pussycats.) That's about all really. Rachael Leigh Cook-Josie, (In particular.) Tara Reid-Melody and Rosario Dawson-Valerie do quite good here playing The Pussycats but I think I would of enjoyed the movie a little bit more, if different actress' were playing the parts of Melody (Especially.) and Valerie. Alan Cumming is good as the devious manager Wyatt Frame and I liked the comment he made about getting your classmates back at your 10 year high school reunion. ( See Romy and Michelle's High School Reunion, to understand.) Another funny part came from Paulo Costanzo who played Alexander, friend of The Pussycats. There's a couple of cameos from a couple of celebs in the movie too. My favourite came from Eugene Levy. Also, the small part from Breckin Meyer at the beginning of the movie was quite funny too. The soundtrack to Josie and the Pussycats is good too, maybe even a little better than the movie itself. I give Josie and the Pussycats a 5-6/10. "},{"Title":"I really wanted to like this movie.","Date":"22 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  You just don't always get what you want. This movie isn't worth the time I am taking to write this comment.  The three Pussycats were real dogs.  I felt nothing from them.  The only good thing about the movie...campy!  If you don't like campy, then don't bother with this film. My 12 & 14 year old daughters loved the movie. 'Nough said.  "},{"Title":"This movie sucked","Date":"28 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  I advise everyone over the age of 10 not to see this movie. First, it is the epitimy of comedies above PG. Second, it is imature, unrealistic and completely rushed. Third, and foremost, you will be the only person that is not a 6-11 year old girl to walk out of the theatre(I took the back exit)In otherwords, it sucked! "}{"Title":"Stay Away, this movie is horrible.","Date":"21 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  I went into this movie without high expectations.  I was just looking for a cute, funny movie for a Saturday night. This is the worst movie I have seen so far this year. It starts out pretty good with a spoof of the backstreet boys then goes downhill from there.  The main problem I had was that the movie was not funny at all.   Rachel Leigh Cook and Rosario Dawson are likable actresses but they get terrible lines to work with.  The worst character (among many) is Bambi played by Tara Reid.  She plays a dumb, ditzy blond who was supposed to be the funny character.  Tara was a big mistake in casting, she can't deliver her lines and she has the most anoying voice on screen today.  Also, I have never seen so many products advertised in a movie.  It is very distracting.  The directors seem to think they can get away with all of the product placement because the plot is about the government marketing to teens to boost the economy.  Well, it doesn't work and neither does the movie. 4 out of 10 One positive note  The movie does have pretty good original music. "},{"Title":"Interesting satire - whether it was intended to be or not.","Date":"9 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  I saw a sneak peak in Boston, with some free tickets I won.  First off I doubt I would pay a full 10 bucks to see it.The movie tries to poke fun at pop culture, however there is so much slap stick humor, I am not positive it was truly made for this purpose, rather then entertain the culture it puts down.  The movie had a good point regardless... and directs its message to teenagers, telling them to make their own decisions and don't follow the day long trends.I would have preferred that the movie follow more along the comic storyline -- they didn't even create a new version of the fames Josie and the Pussycats theme!Well anyway if you are in the mood for a slapstick satire, see this.. but wait for the rental!  "},{"Title":"A great easy-going film.","Date":"3 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" This film is about The Pussycats, who dream of fame, and who get mixed up in the evil schemes of Wyatt Frame, and his boss Fiona.I think that this film is very clever and brave in the way that it looked at the branding in pop music, though, I don't think this movie could endorse any more products if it'd tried, which annoyed me a little. Considering the subject matter of the story, I don't think it was appropriate to make it a 98-minute billboard. I also thought that parts of the storyline were unimportant, and could've been forgotten about, especially a lot of the backstage ending.But I really liked the cast, and thought that Tara Reid was hilarious and amazing, as was Missi Pyle.If you love music, then I think that this movie is definitely for you, as there are a lot of awesome songs throughout the course. "},{"Title":"I hate to admit I liked it...","Date":"22 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" This is the sort of movie I usually have to be dragged to, kicking and screaming. I am not into teen or girly comedy, and loathe most live-action remakes of old cartoons. I didn't expect to like Josie and the Pussycats at all, but couldn't help it. The tone is silly, silly, silly. If you enjoy silliness, you'll be in silly heaven. Under the silly is a wacky sense of humor that pokes fun at trends, pop music and culture, conspiracy theories, the original comic book, the movie itself, and everything else within reach. The casting seems good, overall, though I seem to remember the original Alexandria as being a lot more full of herself than just the pathetic, whiny sniper she was in the film. Melody is as ditsy as ever, but not as annoying about it as in previous incarnations. The Pussycats are all likable, Alan seems sweet, and Cumming is wonderfully amusing as the ruthless and super-efficient record executive. Don't look for relevance. Don't look for meaning. Don't look for insight, drama, suspense, or plot originality. The messages are all ones you've heard before. The story is just an overused framework to hang the humor and characters on. Kick back, switch off the brain...and just wallow in silliness. "},{"Title":"If you have NEVER seen this movie, give it a chance!!!","Date":"15 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" First, let me say that I never watched the cartoon, and thus, don't know about it faithfulness to the series. That said...If you've put off this movie, I HIGHLY suggest it. Following the adventures of a rockin' trio of girls and their aspirations of hitting it big. While simple in premise, this movie is deceptively witty. Behind the goofy sight gags, girly camaraderie, and bubblegum-pop montages, there are a few social commentaries that seem to be more and more relevant in today's media. The Pussycats (Cook, Dawson and Reid) are portrayed well and the fun that the had making this movie together shines through. Parker Posey, and more importantly Alan Cumming, do a GREAT job playing Saturday morning bad guys! And the Dujour side gag is PRICELESS if you get the joke.While clearly an underrated movie, the true tragedy is that the fantastically 'poppy' songs that are littered throughout WILL NEVER BE HEARD OF AGAIN. Produced by legendary producer Babyface, this is a GREAT soundtrack. Hardly a perfect movie, but lovably harmless, Josie is worth checking out. 8 out of 10 Rachael Leigh, call me. "},{"Title":"This movie is hilarious and artfully made","Date":"6 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" Top to bottom this movie is incredibly funny and made with clear love for the product. I've been reading some of the posts on this site about this film, and it seems that people either love it or hate it. The lovers, like me, can say that, for example, the scene mid-movie when the girls are literally climbing the charts is a wonderful shot, worth every penny. That the humor is a witty satire of today's (and any day's, really) pop culture. Contrawise, the haters have nothing to say but that they hate the movie - when pressed for a point, they can't produce. This is a classic case of people just missing the point. Listen to the directors' commentary as well, one of the more fascinating ones I've seen. "},{"Title":"Eye contact!....Hands!","Date":"5 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" If you are a fan of the comic book or cartoon series you probably will be disappointed. The cartoon was good, even when they went to space, but the movie is nothing like it. If you don't like Tara Reid you still wont. Every one seems to be in agreement that the the beginning with Du Jour is very funny. When the movie came out it was at the pinnacle of the boy band, teen pop thing which made it even funnier. I think that is the reason that why the movie didn't do well, it took a big dump on the audience that it was aimed at. Anyway, Josie and the Pussycats cant get arrested until a record rep signs them up without actually hearing them. They rocket to #1, fall apart, discover they are part of a government/big business conspiracy, pull it together, foil the plot and rock out. My kids and I did enjoy the movie and it didn't contain any thing too inappropriate for them. "},{"Title":"Great movie (SPOILERS)","Date":"17 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" This is one of my all-time favourite movies. It is funny, cheerful and uplifting.The storyline is very good, making fun of conformity and commercialism (a particularly brilliant moment occurs near the end when Josie tells a concert audience to decide for themselves whether they like a song or not). While it is never too serious (the 'fight' between Josie and Fiona is hilarious), it has just enough of a sense of jeopardy that you care about its characters and root for them.Plus its good to see a movie that is actually funny, rather than the 'gross-out comedy' and 'toilet humour' which I despise.All of the cast do an excellent job, especially the leads who all add welcome depth to their roles. I was especially impressed with Rachael Leigh Cook and Tara Reid, both of whom were perfectly cast as Josie and Melody respectfully.SPOILERSThe movie does have one or two predictable moments, such as when the band fall out, but even then it manages to add an original twist, as it only happens because Josie was under the influence of subliminal messaging at the time.All in all, it is very good. Who else wants 'Josie and the Pussycats 2'? "},{"Title":"This pict grows on you.","Date":"3 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Why is Josie and the Pussycats worth watching? I'm not sure... but it is. I'm a clothing designer and I can't believe how right on this weird little movie is with its obsessive product placement and clamoring for the dollars of teenagers. Whoever did the art direction and visuals understood the relentless pounding that advertising applies to Americans. I could smell the committee meetings!Watch it for the McDonalds bathroom alone....Josie and the Pussycats is the greatest movie ever!The plot is no Citizen Kane but the subtext is scary true,Marilyn  "},{"Title":"Best movie i have seen this year","Date":"20 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  I think this movie is probably one of the best i have seen this year. The story is smart and funny with good actors. I would really like to see another Josie and the Pussycats movie, i would recommend this movie to anyone with a good sense of humor. "}{"Title":"What a rock ride!!! Definitely fun to watch","Date":"17 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Good is not the exact word for this flick, excellent is!!! Rachael is an incredibly talented actress and she shines all the way through. The movie is but a fun ride, and it will definitely light up your heart. Ok, I admit it ,if Rachael wasn't in it, it could be a total  load of crap. Rachael is the only reason that makes this flick watchable... That's right.I'm a huge fan of hers and I totally adore her. This is the kindda flicks which she should  take part in. Right,just enjoy the show! "},{"Title":"I love this movie!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"3 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  This movie is so cool!!! I fell in love with the first time I saw it . I just dont like that they trie to kill my fav charitor Mel.I`ve memorized themovie. I recomend this movie to everyone who likes comidy.  "},{"Title":"Shockingly bad ad campaign hides enjoyable film","Date":"15 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  One of the most staggeringly bad elements of movie marketing over the last year was the promotion behind the summer film Josie and the Pussycats. Posters showed the three girls vamping for the camera with an easily forgettable tagline. The color scheme was retrospective to the comic book, but on large posters looked amazingly foul. Purple and green is nice and retro, but the combination of the three girls, a strange filter, and that color scheme turned off potential viewers by the boatload. The marketing campaign seemed to be centered on one key idea these girls have tight clothing and they wear them. It would be a nice enough concept if television hadn't moved to this format years ago. You get more sex with The Man Show, and it's free. Aside from the sex, the marketing campaign made it appear that Josie and the Pussycats didn't seem like it had much more to offer.This is all the more surprising given the fact that Josie and the Pussycats is one of the more clever comedies released in the last few years. The film certainly had a sexual element to it, but it's hardly the largest aspect of the film. This likely upset viewers who went to the film hoping to see Rachel Leigh Cook naked. If the theatre I went to was any indication, the few goofballs who showed up for a dose of soft-core porn left angry and upset... and confused. Josie and the Pussycats was a very clever comedy, although the humor isn't exactly tough to get. Perhaps if you are sitting in the theatre waiting for someone's pants to come down you lose the ability to see humor.Josie and the Pussycats stars Rachel Leigh Cook (AntiTrust, She's All That), Tara Reid (American Pie), and Rosario Dawson (He Got Game) as the three band members reprising the 60's/70's comic book of the same name. There was also a pair of animated Josie and the Pussycats films in the early 70's, which careful viewers will notice the current film pays homage to... even the 1972 Josie and the Pussycats in Space. The film also stars Alan Cumming as the evil record producer, Parker Posey as the evil (and insane) record executive, and Seth Green as Travis, member of Boy Band DuJour.The movie falls into a strange place in current film genres. It's certainly a comedy, but it's nothing like current American comedies. Josie and the Pussycats is clearly meant to be a satire of pop culture, but it doesn't let the message get in the way of simply being entertaining. The humor is at times smart, at times dry, at times obviously silly. But the film doesn't overdo any particular style of comedy, and does a good job with mixing it up. But in almost every case, the film's humor often with a second meaning that takes some thinking to catch onto... and usually makes the joke far funnier.The film opens with a parody of the boy band craze, this time introducing DuJour and a large crowd of screaming and excited female (and sensitive male) fans. Getting out of a limo and onto their private DuJour jet, they launch into pop song, Back Door Lover. Despite the fairly obvious double entendre and commentary on the entire boy band concept, the joke seemed to fly right over the head of the majority of the audience. Boarding their plane they find it overly crammed with product placement... you see more Target logos inside the small cabin than you see inside the actual department store. Humor based on product placement is an ongoing gag, almost to the point where you stop noticing the giant Bayer logos in the final scenes. Product placement is even more clever than you first suspect... the products being shilled often correspond to action taking place on the screen. Shot of an ocean? Ads for Tide are shown. Heads being driven into the ground? Bayer logos are shown. Subtle humor, but you begin to respect the fact that some thought clearly went into the writing. That can hardly be said for other recent comedies.Josie and the Pussycats gives us a very 80's happy ending, but it fits with the rest of the film. You won't be laughing hard, but if you paid attention and allowed yourself to just have fun the film will feel worthwhile. Josie and the Pussycats isn't likely to hold up well over time, so it's best to see the movie while the references are still fresh and highly amusing. Comments about MTV, Starbucks, and boy band references won't be nearly as funny in ten years when (with any luck) all three have completely vanished from the face of the earth.It isn't brain surgery, but at least the film understands that fact and when you're not paying attention slips in some clever humor. "},{"Title":"This movie is for the kitty litter.","Date":"10 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  This movie was definately eye candy, but once you've got the initial sweet taste it turns stale. I'll admit that some of the scenes were somewhat funny and the music was quite good. I've seen the comics it was based on & I did'nt much like them either. As a music video this is a must see, as a movie this is a must not. I rate it a 1/2 paw.  "},{"Title":"Ahhh!YUCK","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  This movie is horrible and extremely annoying. Tara Reid was marginally funny some of the time, and there were a couple little things here and there, but otherwise... You may enjoy this movie say, if you were a 12 year old girl. In my opinion, don't waste your time!! "},{"Title":"Hard Day's Night meets Charlie's Angels meets Dick meets Scooby Doo","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Spoilers herein.There's something about this type of self-referential film. Some of my regular readers have objected to the use of that term. Nested self similarity would be better, I suppose as on of the types in a larger analysis of self-reference.These are films , for instance whose moral is bluntly to avoid being superficial and formulaic, but which themselves are superficial and formulaic. Here we have a film that preaches the evils of using media to sucker kids, and whose primary visual feature is product and logo placement. But the thing is done in conspiracy with the teen/preteen audience; but rather than parody or even sharp satire, we get an attitude of; `sure it's superficial but its fun.' That's troubling, and it completely undercuts our appreciation of the growing self-referential sophistication of the young audience.On the other hand, we've seen a flood of movies based on comics recently. Most only dimly evoke the nature of the inspiration; although both comics and movies are primarily visual, comics engage the imagination far more. Comics are to movies what radio is to TeeVee. This film captures the tone of the comic better than any film I have seen short of one Japanese animation. "},{"Title":"Bubblegum for brains...","Date":"20 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" Based on comic-book characters first introduced in the Archies series, Josie, Val and Melody are three rockin' small town girls who want to taste big-time success on the pop charts; enter nefarious--and overly ridiculous--talent scout Alan Cumming (in a poor performance) and soon the Pussycats are on their way. Satire on the current craze for teen-oriented pop music, Josie and The Pussycats is alive and immediate, with trendy jokes and surroundings, friendly gals and intentionally funny product placements. It just misses however, partly due to the villains of the piece Cumming and Parker Posey look like leftovers from Hudson Hawk, playing it way over-the-top in an unsubtle bid for easy laughs. The animated TV-show from Hanna-Barbera wasn't wicked with wit either, yet I still felt that some smarts couldn't have hurt, particularly in the film's final 15 minutes, which are simply torturous. Until that point, Pussycats is an innocuous fluffball (uh, furball) with some funny, irreverent lines. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Cute as a kitten - I just wish it had real claws","Date":"3 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" I decided to watch Josie and the Pussycats because I heard good things about it, and I'm glad I did. I'm delighted that Richard H. Goldwater and the great Dan DeCarlo were acknowledged with writing credits. The film Pussycats aren't very much like the cartoon and comic Pussycats, except that Melody is still blonde and ditsy and Alexandra catty (sorry). Alan was adorable as a male dumb blonde but I can't remember if he was that way in the comics. The movie rocked &#150; I even missed Coronation Street to catch the ending. It's very enjoyable for adults like me who are young at heart and the truly young. I wish more movies like Josie had been around when I was a little kid. I like the message being given that conformity and expensive clothes don't make people happy. And yet, two things struck me as highly ironic the first was that this movie is coming out of Archie comics, the same company that gave the world the ultimate manufactured band (Sugar Sugar was recorded by session musicians and credited to the Archies after the Monkees rebelled and refused to sing it). The second was that I liked how the script poked fun at marketing by excessively promoting products and showing how record companies and the government are trying to control teenagers (and pre-teens?) by placing subliminal messages in pop music that tells the kids to go out and buy the latest fad. Ultimately though the film is having it both ways all the products and TV shows (Viacom's channels got plugged a lot) will stay in the audience's minds after the outtakes roll. Perhaps since Hard's Day Night making fun of the industry is now part of pop music and rock movies make the kids laugh and feel they're putting a finger up to the companies that want them to buy their products &#150; while they're buying the products. I notice that the soundtrack to Josie did very well. Oh well, at least the movie is true to the comics in the way that it's sweet and ultimately wholesome. I can't help wishing that it was brave enough for sharper satire. "},{"Title":"Insulting...","Date":"27 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  There are exactly two good scenes in this film that satirize the capitalist notion of the modern pop music industry, and the gullibility of teenagers with too much disposable incomes.  The first of those is the first scene in the movie.  The second happens about 25 minutes into the film, which sets up the crisis.  Everything else is just filler about a nobody whose insecurities add up to middle, middle class, bourgeois horse---- as James Caan would have put it.  Put your money away and go see a Bergman movie. "},{"Title":"It's jerkin'!","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Okay, so1.  It comes very close to being the thing it satirizes.2.  The ending stretches credulity like a bungee cord over a sumo wrestler.3.  That guy who plays Josie's boyfriend looks like James Spader.  A lot like James Spader.  It's actually pretty creepy.4.  Every mug and smirk of Alan Cumming and Parker Posey scream WE'RE SLUMMING!!!But on the other hand1.  While the Tara-Reid-brains-Carson-Daly scene would have been overly cutesy had they not subsequently broken up, now it's actually pretty funny.2.  I keep hearing that 3 Small Words song in my head.  And not in a bad way.3.  Rachel Leigh Cook shows every sign of actually being a pretty good actress.4.  The fake boy band, especially Seth Green and Breckin Meyer, are a closeted, faux-homeboy hoot.  Listen to the lyrics to their song Backdoor Lover during the closing credits.  I dare you. "}{"Title":"Another ZERO","Date":"25 March 2002","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  I have a difficult time believeing that our youth is brainless enough to even consider this movie as being cute. This movie was horrible. I also kept getting tired of the underlying comments about the three little girls from RIVERDALE. They kept mentioning that throughout the movie as if it was supposed to make us think of something, but what? This movie was terrible. "},{"Title":"this film is just one long commercial.","Date":"16 March 2002","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  This is one of the worst ever.  The story was totally moronic. The cartoon version was much better.  The characters were so lame. With all of the product placement, it was like one long commercial.  I would not recommend this film for anyone past 7 years of age. "},{"Title":"98 minute commercial for anyone willing to pay....","Date":"16 October 2001","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  I grew up when Josie and the Pussycats were a cartoon on TV.  Another one of those cartoon rock bands like the Archies....I had hoped for a better leap from ink to celluloid, but what a disappointment.You can't enjoy the movie for all the paid advertisements everywhere in the movie.  Now I know some of you are thinking this was intentional pun, but it wasn't.  It was one long commercial. Even if the movie didn't take in one dollar in ticket sales, it was paid for in advertising.You had to love Tara Reid as Mel.  She pulled off the dumb blonde perfectly.  Her lines were all, in my opinion, that saved this comic attempt.If you have to see this movie, wait until a friend rents it, save yourself that much. "},{"Title":"Don't believe the hype.","Date":"16 April 2001","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  This is just a terrible excuse for product placement, it's not a film.  It's really one long commercial, but not nearly as interesting. Poorly written, terribly directed and acted, and yet another example of the junk forced down our throats by idiot studio heads. But don't take my word for it- and certainly don't take the word of all these 'not so bad' reviewers who clearly work for the studio that made this piece of junk- rent it for yourself. It'll be on video within weeks. And in the remainder bin even sooner, where it belongs. What a waste of time and money.     "},{"Title":"Profanity & commercials spoil the fun.","Date":"16 April 2001","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  What a shame this family film went for a PG-13 rating. Hearing repeated profanity in a movie based on the Archie Comics was as jarring as seeing Josie's nipples through her top. Obviously someone thought this was the only way to bring in teenagers. The disappointing box office receipts show what a bad marketing decision that was.Almost as revolting were the RELENTLESS product placements (i.e. commercials).Some dumb choices by insulated people screwed up a potentially fun movie. Save your money for Spy Kids.  "},{"Title":"Finally a great indie flick!","Date":"25 August 2003","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  This is one of the best independent films I have even seen.  Parker Posey and Alan Cummings are both magnificent in this.  Rosario Dawson makes a splendid reappearance after her debut in Kids.  Rachael Leigh Cook does an admirable job as well.  All in all this film has a much better production quality than most independent films I've seen.  Most of them look like the were slapped together for five bucks, this one looks like they spent some money to make it.   Maybe if more of those cheap independent film makers spent more money to make their films, the films would get seen more.  That's just my opinion.  All and all Josie and the Pussycats is a great film, you should definitely go and rent it at your local Blockbuster.45 out of 49 stars "},{"Title":"Very Entertaining","Date":"25 February 2005","Score":"13 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" This is one of my favorite movies. It's definitely one of the funnest movies I've ever seen. The music is very high quality and the soundtrack is excellent! It's a good change from all the violent movies out there, this one lets you escape...and makes you want to sing! It's one of those memorabilia movies that reminds you of the cartoons you used to watch. It pokes fun at the entertainment industry and subliminal messages. This is a very light hearted movie. It is suitable for children and adults. There are a few innuendos in the movie, ones that small children would not catch. I recommend this movie to anyone looking for a laugh! "},{"Title":"enjoyable fun","Date":"23 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" This is a parody of the music business based on the comic books. Evil record label Wyatt Frame (Alan Cumming) and Fiona (Parker Posey) are putting subliminal commercial messages in with the music of boy band DuJour. When the guys find out, Wyatt literally dumps them in mid air. He quickly signs Josie and the Pussycats (Rachael Leigh Cook, Rosario Dawson, Tara Reid) to replace the lost boy band.The three girls have great chemistry. Rachael Leigh Cook is crazy cute. Rosario Dawson is the edgy sexpot. Tara Reid is the ditzy airhead. Alan Cumming is great as the villain with a wink and a nod. Add to it, they have a couple of catchy tunes. And the movie is actually sending a message... not so subliminally.The boyfriend could be less bland. And quite frankly, writer/director team Deborah Kaplan/Harry Elfont could have pushed the comedy more. It's already wacky in tone. They just needed more jokes. "},{"Title":"What Was Happening to The Pop Culture in 2001 ?! Well, at Least The Satire Was Having a Good Year","Date":"27 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" To make a comedy, is a good way to entertain. But when you put something serious into the comic mix while remaining entertaining, so that's close to perfect.Despite the goofy looks of this movie, the fact that there were no big stars to support it, and even its reputation as a financial flop; it's a very good movie indeed. The comedy was fine, and the performance (including, believe it or not, Tara Reid) was wonderful ! The final hurly-burly wasn't a real hurly-burly as it should be, but it managed to be all good. The most important thing of it was its message about the modern pop culture. That will make it live longer than any shallow teen comedy. And it was totally conspicuous for me to find out that not one but three works aimed at the same issue, in the same time, by almost the same viewpoint !On 25 February 2001 an episode of (The Simpsons) titled (New Kids on the Blecch) was aired, involved Bart and his friends joining a boy band. While watching a video for the Party Posse, Lisa notices the phrase Yvan Eht Nioj being repeated continuously by belly-dancers. She plays the video in reverse and finds that it means Join the Navy. Also, an Uncle Sam I Want You poster can be seen in the video frame by frame. The joke was that the United States sends subliminal messages in order to recruit people!Strangely, or not, at the same year, right on 11 April 2001, we got (Josie and the Pussycats), where large secret organization advertises anything some businessmen produce by inserting subliminal messages through low tracks mixed in underneath other louder tracks in innocent girl band's songs to influence the listeners' actions, mainly the teenagers, to just consume very trivial goods. It confirmed so comically that the modern pop culture aims at making us stupid petty creatures with no consciousness and no thinking at all (I loved the way how anyone starts to think has to be kidnapped immediately as the peak of the movie's hilarious paranoia). On 29 June 2001 (Pootie Tang) was released to nearly say the same, but through a spoof of a superstar. Aside from his imbecile mentality and idiot songs, his sexual charisma brings him all  money, fame and companies that want to exploit that to the utmost. As you see, the star became a commodity more than an artist. So it's wholly a game of marketing, not art anymore.Thus, art or media became only a way to affect meanly, or accurately a cat's-paw that big parties (the government, the huge corporations, whatever..) manipulate capably to control the ever surrendering recipient, to plunder their consciousness, so their freedom, transforming the whole process into mass hypnosis or ultimate scheme. It's all the way about the blind acceptation, the absence of thinking (or the critical mind) and the insistence of the pop culture to be nothing but dull, trite and vapid.It's great that in simple comedies you find satirical messages as important as this. It is how the pop recovers itself and comes to its senses. And when 3 works in one year say the same, I won't think that their makers turned all into conspiracy theory's freaks ! But rather the term No smoke without fire will come to mind, or maybe the word believable. "},{"Title":"More villains! Less girl band.","Date":"28 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" This movie has a send-up of product-placement going for it. Although that humor should have been more cutting than cute. And it has Alan Cumming and Parker Posey, who cannot be uninteresting, but thats the movies problem. I didn't want to spend a second with the bland Pussycats themselves, the Cabots or Alan M. They are milquetoast. In order to get to the hilarious villains and Posey/Cummings amusing baddies, we have to continually cut back to the dumb, wholesome mainstays; and their entourage of boring simps. Villains are always the tasty sidedish to a bland main course. The funny starter plot (DuJour) has it's merits, but it's gone in only about ten minutes. And nothing, not even snarky bitterness can relieve viewers from plastic girl-band songs.Ultimately this could have been more than a teen girl movie. But that's the format they settled on. So it's the most acid tween girl movie ever made; a bizarre achievement.It's paper thin. "}{"Title":"enjoyable not recommendable","Date":"31 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" A totally chick flick. A satirical comedy with a lot of pop culture references, and a good way of mocking the way people buy or eat or drink product just because its trendy. Although it has some funny moments the story was kinda corny and and a cheesy plot. The cast was good, Rachel Leigh Cook looking gorgeous and with a decent performance, Tara Reid so pretty but its role was so cute and corny that she annoys me, Rosario Dawson seems to me that she was uncomfortable and wasn't enjoying her acting, Alan Cumming was great and funny with his role of the geek guy trying to be a cool singers manager as well as Parker POsey, she was so hilarious, a villain who was a nerd in her past trying to convince everyone to like her with subliminal messages on music. These two actors make this movie a little worthy with its priceless performances. The music was really good, maybe one of the few good things of the movie. The costume design was ridiculous, I mean there's no way people would dress like that. In conclusion this movie would be enjoyable for a boring Sunday afternoon and to watch just once. "},{"Title":"Small town rockers overcome the silver platter, save friendship","Date":"15 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  When the going gets tough... ...the tough make lemonade!As Josie (Rachael Leigh Cook) points out, life is hard and making things happen is the only way to become successful. Sometimes one has to take matters into their own hands.But beware when someone comes along and offers all of your dreams to you on a silver platter. If it's too good to be true, then there is a catch. What it might cost you may be a price you don't want to pay.This movie, based on the Archie Comics and the 1970s cartoon series, updates Josie and the music of her all-girl group, The Pussycats. In light of the success of Lilith Fair and the introduction of Women of Rock magazine, Josie & the Pussycats should have been a winner at the box office. Unfortunately, harsh criticism from the media shot the movie down.I've taken classes in public relations and advertising and earned a communications degree. Most of the advertising came straight out of my textbooks and deserved to be spoofed. Unfortunately, the jokes wear thin. They are easily overlooked after multiple viewings. The critics made it a point to harp on this point. They were wrong not to take a deeper look into what makes this movie tick.The heart of the story is found in the friendship shared by Josie, Mel and Val. Anyone who has shared a pack of Ramen Noodles with friends will be friends for life, for they have endured hard times together.As for the music... wow. Songs like Three Small Words and Spin Around should have gotten plenty of radio airplay. Compared to the real world offerings from girls like Madonna, Britney, Christina and their peers, Josie & the Pussycats bring something to the table, both lyrically and sonically. Kudos to the songwriting team. To borrow from Jim Steinman Someone must have blessed us when they gave us those songs.For anyone who has dreamt of rock 'n roll glory, this movie is for you. Josie & the Pussycats is proof that a Rock 'n' Roll Fantasy can make Rock 'n' Roll Dreams Come Thru.Music fans looking for a double feature should watch Almost Famous followed by Josie & the Pussycats. It works in ways that you can't imagine.  "},{"Title":"product placement and the product placements","Date":"13 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  That's the proper title for this film.Ok, I won't say anything about the film itself, it is so 'not on my resume' bad, it is hard to believe it got made.However, if you really dig crazy, 'tales of the weird' in film history stuff, I seriously recommend you see it for one reasonturn off the volume and count the product placement- I kid you not, no movie ever made has as much as there is in this film- the whole thing, end to end- is one enormous, vast and expansive ad for pretty much every product available.now, while that in itself may not sound overly interesting, what IS interesting is just how creative (and oftentimes, shockingly blatant) the PP gets.for example, my favorite was the evian water poster in the background during the tender romantic scene- and that was the SUBTLE one!  My personal hated favorite was the carpeting in the hotel suites- yes, the carpeting - (why would a hotel have revlon cosmetics logo and AOL emblazened across the hallways and rooms in the carpeting?) and even the windows had product placement- faux etched glass advertising in the windows.   you have to see it to believe it.Imagine- entire sets, wall to wall- floors and windows included- plastered with product placement- nothing is sacred, and no single surface is spared. am i exaggerating?  one cannot exaggerate the PP in this film- (pardon the pun)see it for yourself-  i would not lie to you, you can't make this stuff up. incredible.~A "},{"Title":"...everybody come along/Hurry, hurry...","Date":"2 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Patchett Kaufman Entertainment made a TV movie in 1990 called Archie To Riverdale And Back Again revolving around Archie, Reggie, Betty, Veronica, Jughead and the rest coming back to Riverdale High for a class reunion as adults. If that isn't enough to have the warning sirens on, it was in live action.Josie and the Pussycats is also live, but works far better than it really should - Josie, Valerie and Melody are at the centre of a satirical comedy, but the people who also gave us Can't Hardly Wait and The Flintstones in Viva Rock Vegas wisely decide to not send up the characters, instead settling for poking fun at pop culture. (Like that's so hard.) But Deborah Kaplan and Harry Elfont do it with such affection and so amusingly that it's hard not to go along, although the running product placement gags make me hope the BBC doesn't buy this for terrestrial viewings (24 recently began its second day and BBC2 snipped out the Ford references from the first episode)...Aspiring band the Pussycats - Rachael Leigh Cook's Josie, Rosario Dawson's Valerie and Tara Reid's Melody (and Tara Reid IS Melody, even if it's only the lack of Okay lady I love you bye-bye! that stops you wondering if she's actually playing Mindy from Animaniacs) - are discovered by mysterious British svengali Alan Cumming, who whisks them from Riverdale to the big time with their manager Alexander, Josie's close friend Alan M - less hunky than in the comics or even the cartoon - and Alexander's sister Alexandra (I'm here because I was in the comic book). They soon become huge stars - Think Christina Aguilera times three except one's incredibly tan, or TLC with two white chicks - but is there a hidden agenda? Of course there is (and it has to be said that The Simpsons did something similar in one-third of the time). In truthful, it's not particularly edgy, but the movie's energy, gags, music and entertainment quotient more than make up for it, with Cumming, Parker Posey and the title trio standouts. Screw cynicism, Josie and the Pussycats is almost as much fun as Rock'N'Roll High School, and infinitely superior to the Hanna-Barbera incarnation. And yes, they do play the theme from the cartoon over the credits.P.S. Look out during the first command centre scene for an indication of what the makers felt about reaction to Can't Hardly Wait. (Command centre? Watch the movie and find out.) "},{"Title":"not bad","Date":"14 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  I had no expectations for this movie, but it was on Starz and late, so I decided, what the hell. It's hilarious. Campy, corny, and hilarious. It also had a pretty good cast, Allen Cumming, Parker Posey, camios by Eugene Levy and Carson Daily(well, he's not all that great...) It's more like a farce than anything else. Tara Reid's hilarious as the blond ditz(I wish she had a bigger part...). The music's cool, more rock than pop, which was a blessing for my ears. So, basically, if you want to do something without having to think, this is it. It's a fun movie, go see it!  "},{"Title":"Could've Been Better","Date":"29 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" *YOU HAVE BEEN WARNED! SPOILERS ENSUE!*At first I did not want to see this movie, because I had seen many a movie that butchered a favorite cartoon of mine for one thing, and the whole PG-13 rating kind of turned me off. But curiosity got the better of me, and I ran across it one night on some premium movie channel or another while I was channel surfing.I wish I had kept on channel surfing that night.Though I do admit, there were some things of the movie I liked. Four of the songs, and some parts WERE funny-Alexandra being asked why she's there, and her responding with because I was in the comic book. (I love jokes like this!)-The band meeting in the Starbucks ladies room. I *loved* how Val got Alex out of there. Anybody have change for a tampon? I'll be outside. (something like that. That's one way of getting a guy out of the girl's room!)I thought the idea was good, though. Putting subliminal messages into music to sell not only the music, but products as well (orange is the new pink!) I told my sister, as a joke, Hey! Now we know why all those Boy Bands are so popular! (my sister and I were in our teens during the whole Boy Band craze, but we never really followed the crowds on them. To this day, I still don't like Boy Band music). Actually, this movie inspired me to write a story, but that's beside the point.Now, for what I hated about the movieThe Language. I'm one of those weird people who can not stand swearing. I can take it in small doses, but usually, comedies rated PG-13 have swear words coming out the wazoo. I also hated all those sexual innuendos. It's like nobody can make a movie these days that does not have sex jokes somewhere in it.Melody got kind of annoying fast. Sure, she was a dumb blonde in the cartoon, but in this movie, she was a complete airhead. She wasn't this stupid in the cartoon series (can you tell I like the cartoon a lot better than this movie?) Valerie also had an attitude problem that I couldn't really picture her having. What did they do that for? To make her more interesting? And Josie was . . . . . well, just Josie.You could not take one single look at anything in this movie without seeing a product placement. Yes, I realize it was a parody. Yes, I realize you can't take this movie seriously. But it was a 90 minute commercial.Sebastian! What happened to Sebastian?! You remember Sebastian, don't you? Alexandra's pet cat? The band's mascot with the Muttley-esquire snicker? The one who got Josie and the gang out of the messes they got themselves into in the cartoon? How can you have the Pussycats, without their black and white snickering Pussycat mascot?! What, they couldn't find a black cat with white feet to be Sebastian? Or was a computer generated Sebastian (complete with snicker) just not in the budget? Either way, this ticked me off big time!Alan, Alex, and Alexandra. What happened to them? I hated the way Alan was portrayed, a shy, dumb blonde. I can't see that from Alan. They did not cast him very well, either. He needed to be more muscular. And what was with Alan M? I know that was in the original comic, and I have to ask what was with that there, too. But that didn't bother me much. I never really cared for Alan, anyway.Alex and Alexandra, on the other hand, is a different story. They were barely in this movie, and that ticked me off because Alex and Alexandra (and Sebastian the cat for that matter) are my favorite characters in the cartoon. Actually, I think the only character in this movie that was true to form was Alexandra, little screen time that she had. I think she was the only character that was actually IN character!I absolutely hated when Fiona and Wyatt tried to turn Josie against Valerie and Melody. That really bugged me. I don't know why it bugged me, but it just bugged me. Was that trip really necessary? I never liked the Best Friend Turns on Best Friend angle (I guess it's because it reminds me of my high school years).In defense of the plot, it was an interesting idea, but I felt it was poorly executed. They could have made it more like the original cartoon. The gang (all six of 'em!) could find out what Wyatt and Fiona are up to, get caught, and it would be up to Sebastian to bail them out of the mess they had landed in, and maybe wreck Fiona and Wyatt's plans while he was at it. "},{"Title":"Three Small Words Not That Good","Date":"31 May 2010","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" Josie and the Pussycats is a film that a lot of people understandably avoided upon its release. Not only was it surrounded by the unpleasant controversy of equally unpleasant Archie Comics completely screwing over their most famous artist of over 40 years -- who was reasonably outraged of their unauthorised usage of a character based off his wife -- but it was also very clearly a desperate attempt to cash in on characters that had not featured prominently in any popular media for years.Entertainment does move in cycles, and it shouldn't be surprising to anyone that, in the squeaky-clean teenybop year of 2001, that one of the original squeaky-clean teenybop groups would attempt to stage a comeback. Archie Comics as a company are well-known for attempting to exploit any and every possible trend or fad, and they can't really be blamed for that. However, the real-world events behind the film completely ruin its attempted message.Essentially, the message of the film attempts to convey exploitative corporate (and governmental) evils. It's impossible to take it on its own, however, despite the directors' clear attempt to make the characters and circumstances their own it's a film attempting to take the moral high ground on the topic of corporate evil, made possible by a company that at the time was committing one of its most grievous corporate evils. Because of that alone, the film is undermined before it even begins.There are some amusing moments and some satire that works in the film. The acting isn't too terrible for the most part, although there are some truly shameful performances in it, and by that I mean career lows. I can't imagine most of the cast would happily recall Josie and the Pussycats as a film they were too proud of making. Between the mediocre-to-bad songs, the self-aware attempts at humour that almost always try too hard, and terrible miscasting in places, it's difficult to feel much affection for the film.Even for fans of the comic (Josie hadn't had a regular series of her own in nearly 20 years when this film was released), the film couldn't help but be a disappointment the actors barely resemble the characters they're intended to be, such as the skinny Alan M. who is a mousy, terribly untalented folk singer. While his looks don't thrill, he also doesn't have a personality to make up for it. What happened to Alan M. the muscular blond roadie? What about the Cabots, longtime best enemies of Josie and her gang? They didn't even pop in Pepper for a cameo.The worst thing about the film is that it really didn't know what it wanted to be or who it wanted to appeal to as an audience. People who already knew Josie and the Pussycats would be insulted by the 'interpretation' of the characters, which were far off-base and barely included any of the memorable cast from DeCarlo's comics. People unfamiliar with them would either not be interested in a superficially teenybopper film or put off by the heavy-handed attempt at satire which simply falls flat more times than not. Was it a romance, a satire, a parody, a comedy, a chick flick, a friendship movie, a romance...what? It's all over the map, and not in a way that respectably combines themes to form a stronger whole. In this film, Josie and the Pussycats could have been replaced by anyone, and nobody would have noticed the difference.Of course, it also didn't help that by 2001, even the most popular girl group in years, the Spice Girls, had largely faded off the map and gone their separate ways. By 2001, people of all ages were growing tired of the sentiment embraced by the film Pussycats; they wanted a break.While the intentions of the film might have been honourable in questioning corporate endorsements and government roles in popular media and entertainment, the film itself was not realised as well as it could have -- and should have -- been. Surrounded by the controversy of the nastiness of its own corporate master, Josie and the Pussycats is an exercise in irony more than anything else, and on so many levels. For a film that makes such fun of pre-fabricated pop music and artificial groomed 'instant celebrities', it certainly tries to dole out those very things, which is regrettably hypocritical. So it fails even as a commentary, even if taken on its own merits, apart from Archie Comics and their machinations. It's not very funny, it's not that interesting, it's nothing that hasn't been done before, it's not subtle, the music isn't very good, the acting isn't that great, the casting is terrible, and well...it isn't Josie and the Pussycats at all. "},{"Title":"Heavy-handed satire blended in with the usual teen movie cliches","Date":"14 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Josie and the Pussycats was directed by Deborah Kaplan and Harry Elfont, who directed that awful teen comedy Can't Hardly Wait.  It's not surprising that they struck out again with this virtually unwatchable pop culture satire/nauseating teen-bopper flick.It's starts off with a bang, spoofing the whole boy band craze with Seth Green, Donald Faison and Breckin Meyer (who are all recycled cast members from Can't Hardly Wait) all part of a group called DeJour.  The way they show them flaunting themselves and the millions of annoying girls melting at their knees, screaming their lungs out, hits the target dead-on.  Now that's good satire.The rest of the stuff, involving product placement, subliminal messages and incoming fads becomes preachy and heavy-handed.  It even assists the film in wandering into one-joke territory.  Only sporadically did I laugh at the often pitiful attempts at satire.  I understand what this film is trying to prove!  Pop culture can be used for fraudulent purposes!  Music managers can screw you over!  Bands have a good tendency to break up, with the lead singer starting a solo career!  Product placement can go too far!  These are all good ideas for satire.  But it all lies in the execution.  In this case, the execution is very poor.  All the satirical jabs are delivered in a forceful fashion.  The actors would've been better off reading their lines off cue cards.  Maybe if it were handled by a better team of writers and directors, with a better sense of intelligence and wit this could've been much more effective.  A bunch of ditsy teen girls screaming out, Pink is cool!  Pink is the new red! is not funny.  It's annoying.  But, as it turns out, the film is just as shallow and one-note as their previous disaster Can't Hardly Wait, only hiding behind a slick, satirical facade.Tara Reid's character is totally annoying.  She plays the stereotypical dumb blonde.  Her job is to ape around and say mindless things.  Even retarded characters have to be handled with a certain sense of self-awareness.  Even the characters of Bill and Ted, though simple-minded, weren't saying stupid things on account of stupid writing.  They were saying stupid things on account of witty writing.  But Tara saying, Wouldn't it be cool if I can REALLY be in two places at the same time? and running around the house like a fool saying, I can be in the bedroom and the kitchen and so on and so on--that is just plain stupid!  I think the whole dumb blonde gag is one that has been done to death.  And unless it's handled very delicately, the gag can fail miserably and sometimes even make you wanna gag.  Alan Cumming is amusing as the sleazy manager.  He's one of the few cast members to breathe life into this bland comedy.  He's a fine actor and breathes more life into almost anything he does.  He brings a touch of professionalism into this otherwise sloppy, amateurish work.  Cumming brings in a couple of the sporadic laughs I had while watching the film.  Also keep your eyes peeled (if you still decide to see this movie) for the great Eugene Levy, who has an amusing cameo.  Eugene's the man!  Rosario Dawson is a fine actress, who unfortunately doesn't always pick the best scripts.  She starred in the awfully overrated Kids and the cliched urban drama Light It Up and now this?  Rosario, you're a good, attractive actress.  Make better career decisions.And of course, we couldn't do without that predictable romantic subplot, in which the guy has a hots for a girl--in this case Josie (Rachael Leigh Cook)--and just doesn't know how to tell her.  We know EXACTLY how it's all gonna progress and how it's all gonna end up, so why the hell are you even bothering us with this schmaltzy crap?!!!  And why is it that the guy who has a crush on the girl is often brutally handsome.  As if the girl hasn't jumped on his bones the whole time they've known each other?  The climax is the ultimate exercise in preachiness and couldn't deliver its moral in a more after school special fashion.I liked the title song.  The film keeps an upbeat attitude, but there's absolutely no style behind the substance, not to mention laughs.  Luckily, I watched the movie on DVD.  Boy, was my finger itching for that Stop button the whole time.  And often I succumbed to that itch.  I could NOT watch this movie straight-through!  It was too much torcher for me!  Please don't get torchered like me!  If you were torchered by all that previous teen-bopper trash, you'll be torchered again.  Beware!My score  3 (out of 10)    "},{"Title":"Rock bites back","Date":"5 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" After gaining some street cred I decided to delve into this cartoon inspired idiosyncratic experience with little expectations and much dread given previous attempts at live action versions of childhood favourites Garfield, The Flintstones or Scooby Doo. Nonetheless Josie McCoy (played by the petite Rachael Leigh Cook) and her accompanying kitties - bassist Valerie Brown (Rosario Dawson) and drummer Melody Valentine (Tara Reid) - exceed and entertain to a surprising attempt.Neither playing it straight or going all out goofy, Josie and the Pussycats fortuitously creates a wacky world, which plays both into the caper ridden stories of the cartoon, as well as manages to deliver a malleable story accessible for kids of all ages (including those in their mid-life crisis). Fleshed out through a mix of deadpan and silly humour, coupled with some successfully intuitive restraint the cartoon adaptation comes of witty and affable, a far cry from the forced idiocies of their counterparts.Superficially (and somewhat hypocritically) touching on issues of the current era of commercial brainwashing and pop culture, Josie and the Pussycats become superstars as part of a dastardly marketing scheme. Within the framework of a story, which is undoubtedly predictable to the fullest, the characters molded with the script are wickedly pleasurable. This especially goes for the ridiculous boy band foursome DuJour, played to hilarious effect by Donald Faison, Breckin Meyer, Seth Green and Alexander Martin, whose brief outings are the crme de la crme of the whole movie. Equally satisfying are Alan Cumming as the devious band manager Wyatt Frame and Parker Posey as despicable me record label mogul Fiona. An additional shout-out has to go however to Tara Reid, who gets the stereotype of an idiotic blonde bombshell to a T, delivering one of the funniest performances I can think of.Given the strength at the back Rachel Leigh Cook and Rosario Dawson come off a bit stale, given their more set and conventional personaes, as if hijacked by the more wackier character deliveries. All in all, despite the generic storytelling and some plodding delivery, Josie and the Pussycats turns out to be an unexpected ounce of cartoonesque satisfaction, albeit not anything that comes off as timeless or memorable. "},{"Title":"Not bad.","Date":"29 June 2011","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" First off, the acting was quite good. The characters very much resembled their cartoon show characters very well. I'm comparing the movie to the cartoon show since I've never read the comic book. Alan's relationship with Josie was just as awkward as always. His oblivious reactions to Josie's feelings are timeless. I was somewhat disappointed I didn't see the cat mascot, but I imagine that would have required some computer animated cat. The plot is fairly straight forward. An evil record label puts subliminal messages in their music, and when a certain boy band starts asking questions, they disappear. The boy band is promptly replaced by Josie and the Pussycats. The villains of the story were delightfully cheesy. Fiona has a bad habit of thinking out loud, a problem that's quite contagious among comic book villains, and Wyatt's poor planning is hilarious to watch. Overall, if you're a fan of the comic or the cartoon show, watch it. If not, it'll seem like just another movie. "}{"Title":"great soundtrack, but not a good movie","Date":"22 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" This movie would have been great, except for the last half of the movie. The soundtrack is great, though. the songs are like a punk songs, and well sang, and well done. you would like the soundtrack, if anyone is interested in ska or punk music (like letters to cleo). the first part of the movie is rather interesting, until the last half of the movie. the script has no appeal at the end, and especially the ending was quite disappointing. Probably the only good thing about this movie, is the fact the soundtrack is really good. if there was any form of a plot or if the plot stayed strong throughout the entire, it would be worth a look. rosario dawson and rachel leigh do a good job considering how bad the script fell apart so quickly. but, check out the soundtrack. it is actually pretty good music.peace out! "},{"Title":"Very funny!!!","Date":"28 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" I loved this movie.I thought it was hilarious.It's a movie poking fun at the music industry but in a funny way.The characters are hilarious.I thought the boy band in it was the best part! They are hilarious! The ending (which I won't give away) is very clever.I know that the majority of the adults in the world thought that it was a dumb movie, but for teenagers, it's very funnyMost of the jokes would not appeal to the average person over the age of 24. I also loved the music in it!! The soundtrack is geat!For all you teens, rent it! It truly is a very funny movie! "},{"Title":"It's an ok teen comedy","Date":"20 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  As far as teen comedies go, this is just like the rest. Friendship always wins. There is the sexy one, the cute funny one, and the smart one. Pretty predictable. There are some good laughs, especially with the whole boy band thing. And the ending has a few good jokes as well. The music is alright, it's nothing to get excited over to let you know. I think the guys will definatly enjoy seeing the sexy girls though. This is more of a pre teen movie as well. I would say, if you have nothing better to do, it's ok to watch. I think Tara Reid would be my only excuse. Strange role she picked, but she's a lot of fun to watch. This was too cheesey for my taste. Don't expect too much from this teen flick.5/10 "},{"Title":"Great Movie for Weird Senses of Humor","Date":"28 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  This movie is completely tongue in cheek, and chock full of irony. It never takes itself serious and constantly spoofs the recording and advertising industry. A very underrated movie, for people with very strange, and unique sense of humor.The movie follows the Pussycats as they go from a garage band playing gigs in bowling alley lanes to near superstar status playing in a stadium. The girls are discovered by a plotting record exec and offered a deal to good to refuse. Unfortunately not all is what it seems and the machinations of Fiona, the head exec, threaten the Pussycats friendship. To top it off Fiona has been using the girls to brainwash consumers. The plot, like the entire movie is absurd, but the movie is completely aware of it. As I mentioned earlier this movie in no way takes itself serious, and there a ton of in-jokes that might be missed the first time around. Although I've rarely seen the actual Josie and The Pussycats cartoon, I have to say this is a great big screen adaption, especially for a cheezy (which is not always bad) cartoon.The Du Jour songs are hilarious, just listen closely to the words, cracks me up. The Pussycat songs are great, I believe they were penned by the guys from Fountains of Wayne and preformed by the singer from Letters to Cleo.  "},{"Title":"I'm not sure what to make of it","Date":"23 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  When I saw the trailer for this film I was quite intrigued and I thought that it looked good. The acting was plausable and there were some genuinely funny lines like  sold to the man with no future. Parker Posey, tara reid and alan cummings in particular. However I did not think much of the songs on this film neither did I really believe the story line. Some moments are quite hard to take in and are pretty cliche or predictable. The inevitable getting together and kissing on the stage as Rachel Leigh cook is performing. It is a nice idea for a plot and despite the ridiculousness of it seemed to be amusing. This film though was a bit too girly but I did quite like some of the jokes and the strong performances some what save what could have been a terrible mess. "},{"Title":"** out of ****","Date":"31 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"       I found this movie to be an incredibly lopsided experience.     This movie, about three teenage aspiring rock stars, who suddenly get a record deal and everything they want, has its moments, and has some really good dry humor. It's a very insightful take on MTV these days and how trends are created. Another strong point is those two catchy tunes Pretend to be Nice and Three Long Days. These three sound good enough (are they actually making the music themselves? who knows) that they could actually make a convincing band of their own, if they were to quit acting. But they don't have to quit acting, specifically Rachel Leigh Cook, she's a pretty good girl-next-door type and was a good fit on the part.     The whole plot, however, veers into childness rediculousness pretty much 20 minutes in. Allen Cumming's character Wyatt Fenner, the record producer, and Parker Posey Fiona Apple, her boss, hit some wrong notes and do little to add to the movie as their producers and villains. Unfortunately, while those good bits of dry humor are still there, the overall story of the movie gets worse and worse to the point, until the very end where I feel like I'm watching an episode on Nickelodeon or something. "},{"Title":"Wasn't That Bad, But Had Such a Solid Source To Work From","Date":"18 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  I just watched Josie and the Pussycats this weekend after watching Peter Lorre in M and it wasn't that bad a film, but it had such a terrific idea set up to work with, no idea why so much was altered.I had originally heard that the focus would be more on the three girls. As it is, the actresses in those parts were hardly spotlighters or scene-stealers, so why bother limiting yourself there?Melody's attempt at stupidity got a bit tiresome after this viewing (still like her trying to be everywhere at once tho), and Josie got one laugh from me when she was trying to get the machine out of the studio.It seems clear that Alan Cumming and Parker Posey were originally cast as Alexander and Alexandra Cabot. I had heard Parker Posey was to be Alexandra as a matter of fact. Either the parts got too far out there or they ran out of good guys (truthfully, going up against Cumming and Posey, it seems likely that they overshadowed the Pussycats trio, something that wasn't wanted, so more low key performers for the Cabots were needed, and Posey and Cumming became separate bad guys). I was mostly glad to see Alan M., Alexandra and Alexander receive some sort of recognition, no matter how minute. They were in the cartoon as well (interesting that Alexandra said she was in the comic book, when it was the cartoon that made the characters. If they were going to refer to the comic book, why not put Pepper, Sheldon or Clyde Didit in the movie?).I really hated the loss of character #7, Sebastian. Just once I would have loved to see Alexandra talking to a black-and-white cat. Missi Pyle pulled off all the failures of Alexandra perfectly. Songwise, it was still cute. I bought the soundtrack and there are actually some good songs there, about as good as the songs in the cartoon. They will be nostalgically remembered, that's for sure. The whole advertising joke will also be a clincher for this movie, as viewers try to recall all those products. I think Du Jour will also have opinions for decades to come as well, not sure what. Maybe what was really being said by the Back Door Lover song?The movie must have failed because of marketing. Was it a girl flick, a satire? I don't think it was clear and I don't think the makers were clear what they were after either, and it showed. They seemed to want whatever audience they could get and missed out.Scooby Doo, on the other hand, relied solely on the cartoon, didn't change a thing (not even the color schemes) and, like the Brady Bunch movie, totally recognized the flaws and complaints and got a winner and a sequel.I don't think Josie the cartoon had too many complaints, but I just wanted to see Josie in blue, Melody in green, Valerie in purple and Alexandra in red in the movie. the Pussycats outfit scheme did come close toward the end of the film, but never achieved it.Still, like Scooby Doo, it is an interesting transition of a comic book and cartoon to watch take place.     "},{"Title":"I love Rosario Dawson","Date":"19 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Far and away the best thing for me in this film is Rosario Dawson as Valerie. She is the coolest actress around and brought spunk to the film. The film itself is ok, not good, not bad but the plot was boring and all the stuff about subliminal messaging and advertising was just trying to in some way try to expose the celebrity and hollywood machine just a tad too much. Go Rosario "},{"Title":"Movie is okay but Tara Reid is so ADORABLE!!!","Date":"7 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  I thought that the movie was only alright but the movie is worth watching for Tara Reid's performance as Melody Valentine is so cute as the ditsy girl, so cute that she sounds like this one girl that I used to have a crush on back in high school and afterwards. But anyways the movie as a whole is only fairly good, just not that great.If you loved the cartoon then you should give this movie a try, I give this movie a 6.5 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Josie and the Pussycats are the new Du Jour!!!!!!!","Date":"21 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  well what can i say about this film......only one thing that it is awesome.The film is great, its one of my all time favourite films. And plus the music in it is wicked. This is the kind of film i want to make after Uni, a feel good, groovy, funky movie. Its the way that movies should be made. "}{"Title":"It didn't deserve to tank.","Date":"23 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  I didn't go see this movie in the theatre.  I used to watch the cartoon series as a kid, but it wasn't enough of a favorite to go see the movie, especially not after it tanked at the box office.  I tuned it in on cable, because there wasn't anything else on, and I was surprised how funny it was. It was the product placement that got me hooked.  Everywhere you look onscreen there's an ad.  Many reviewers have called this a satire of the music industry; I see it more as a satire of the hidden commercials in movies.  I've watched it any number of times on cable now, and I'll probably pick up the DVD at some point, it was that funny.  And the music is great, too. "},{"Title":"Biting the Hand that Feeds You","Date":"11 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Final Score 8.9 (out of 10)Josie and the Pussycats was probably the most purely entertaining movie of 2001. Good mindless fun. Writer/Director team Harry Elfont and Debrah Kaplan have taken the Archie comic book and subsequent cartoon (which I had never heard of) and instead of merely making a movie version have transplanted those characters into a biting satire of the contemporary music scene and consumer driven teenage culture. I was not impressed with their first movie, 'Can't Hardly Wait', but here they pretty much hit the nail on the head. If CHW was a teen movie, then this is an anti-teen movie.`Josie and the Pussycats'  takes a slanted, really quite daring look at the current pop music scene blatantly populated with manufactured groups, style over substance and advertising over talent. More then look at it, it gives us a hilarious explanation for it. While the movie isn't high art or filled with profound symbolism it raises many good points and blatantly beats you over the head with them. The movie's observations are pointed and rather sharp if you think about it. The entire premise is based on a teenager's fertile minds being easily brainwashed which is about the only thing that could explain most teen fads. They are actually playing into the very system they think they are rebelling against. Well, it's just about true - the true art of great satire (reminiscent of but completely different to 'Dr. Strangelove' and other greats of the genera). Somebody had to say it. The movie does this none to subtly and even at that people still don't get it. Any review that complains about the overabundance of product placement in this movie was written by someone who didn't get it or outright rejected the idea.   Elfont and Kaplan's characters are inflated to cartoonish proportions with the cast, particularly the fantastic Alan Cumming and Parker Posey (they own this movie), willing to indulge in it's exaggerated whims. When the movie opens we see the fans of pop group Dejour (an absolutely hilarious ensemble including Seth Green and Brecken Myer) - crying, screaming and worshipping the group like brainwashed cult followers. The intro is terrific and it's a good thing to because the first few minutes we actually spend with the Pussycats the movie is pretty bad. Blame it on Tara Reid or whoever wrote her awful lines. But once our Pussycats are discovered and are instantly signed (as it seems real bands are, sometimes) the movie takes off and flies fluidly until it's exuberant end.  Many of the jokes are current-event stuff that are already out of date. In one lengthy scene we are constantly winked at (or beaten over the head with) an in-joke that Tara Reid and Carson Daily were dating at the time. However, much of it's themes and broader references stick while the jokey-jokes dissolve over time. If the movie were made now the exact same philosophies could apply. It would probably say something like Hillary Duff is the new Britany Spears. If it were made a few years from now it will say who the new Hillary Duff is and so on. The music industry will always be shallow and teenagers will always frantically jump from one fad to the next (and bands will always go down in plane crashes). The larger themes are timeless. The biggest problem with the movie is that Kaplan and Elfont want to have it both ways. At times the movie is adult, smart and over the heads of kids, and at other times is sticks out with humor so juvenile and silly that it seems to only be aiming at the younger crowds. It's hard to tell if the writers want to satirize teens to their faces or get the crowd before they become logo-hungry teenagers. This creates some awkward shifts in the movies tone that it doesn't juggle very well. We get the sense that it was rushed. It's no surprise however that most of the best lines happen to always be in the vicinity of Cumming and Posey. It's also very well made for it's apparent low budget. Might be a cult classic. The director's visual style is eye-catching, like a 90 minute music video (in a good way). The songs within the movie are nearly perfect parodies - catchy, tuneful and fun in their own right, but also so fundamentally simple and stupid in their lyrics that it's almost hard to tell them from anything from Britany Spears or any other real attempt at music. One of the best teen/self-referential movies in a while and will probably stay that way for a while to come. No other writing team will be jumping at the chance to skew it's own audience as coldly as this one does. Look for Eugene Levy in a very funny little cameo.Lights!  "},{"Title":"clever and self aware","Date":"5 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  spoilers to followthis one can be most appreciated in context -- early 21st century american consumer culture.  it's unnecessary to know about the background of the characters, except for maybe one joke (the brother cabot asks the sister cabot, why are you here?, and she responds with I was in the book. the comic book -- archie -- yeah, I don't really know much about that universe either).  as a matter of fact, it looks like the movie could have worked without the josie & the pussycats characters.  easier to make with the familiar name though, I'm sure.  the movie commented on itself as yet another venue to market to consumers, while criticizing the consumer culture at large.one neat photographic trick used was when the slick a&r man discovers the band; he holds a clear CD case to frame them.  otherwise, no new cinematic ground is broken.  however, the pacing is just right, and the actors are all appealing.  some are just competent (the pussycats) but the villains (parker posey and alan cummings) are brilliant as ever.  they are able to act the characters, and simultaneously goof on their own characterizations.very entertaining and fun to look at.  not something you'll be thinking about for long though. "},{"Title":"I wanted to dislike it but...","Date":"9 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  I REALLY wanted to dislike this movie.  I deliberately avoided it in theatres.  I think Archie Comics Inc. gave Dan DeCarlo the shaft for not giving him a decent credit in the film.  I read the comic, and still do.But then I saw the first ten minutes on cable TV during a free weekend. When I saw Du Jour and heard their subversivly wicked song, I realised just how twisted the film was, and decided I had to see it.  So I borrowed it from a seven year old.  Her step-dad assures me that she doesn't understand the subversive or sexual undertones of the film.The acting is ... acting.  I mean they're playing characters from a comic book that is a light comic book.  The leads were likeable and pretty and had the traits I expected for their characters.  Wyatt and Fiona were fun as the campy villains.  And the guys who played DuJour were great (they could perform that song with a -er- straight face.)The digs at pop culture were struck with pinpoint accuracy.  The over the top (and unpaid) product placement drove the point home.  But despite this, the movie works at a more basic level for children who won't understand some of the twisted humour bits.  It reminds me of the 1960's Batman show - a childrens' adventure story and an adult comedy wrapped up in one.The story, and its ending, were very Josie.  And the music was catchy. If these Pussycats and their real lead singer cut an ablum, I'd be tempted.I could complain that Josie and company are suppossed to be from Midvale, not Riverdale, or that Alan M was the wrong physical type, or that Alexandra was too Trailer Park but these are minor points.Now I'm trying to find a way to buy a copy but still deprive Archie Inc. of their cut. "},{"Title":"good","Date":"22 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Rachael leigh cook did a real good job as josie.My brother likes this girl.we have seen just about all of her films.she is a really good actress.my fav movie of hers is.....she's all that.Joise and the kats is a really good movie.I like Marco on dujour(breckin Meyer.They are really good singers bothe josie and dujour. "},{"Title":"good","Date":"22 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Rachael leigh cook did a real good job as josie.My brother likes this girl.we have seen just about all of her films.she is a really good actress.my fav movie of hers is.....she's all that.Joise and the kats is a really good movie.I like Marco on dujour(breckin Meyer.They are really good singers bothe josie and dujour. "},{"Title":"Simple but relatively entertaining film","Date":"19 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Do not watch this film over-and-over looking for the hidden-level of this film. Not because the film tries to make one but because there is not one.Nevertheless Rachel Leigh Cook and Tara Reid look fabulous and do excel in their roles albeit them not being difficult. It has to be said that overall this is quite a nice film and does at least try to tackle morality. - Which is a lot more than other films have done in its genre. "},{"Title":"I don't care if I'm the only one--I liked it (spoilers)","Date":"27 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Spoilers heroin.First of all I just want to point out something that movie critics have been stating Josie and the Pussycats tries too much to be like Charlie's Angels. Sure, they have their similarities  , both have teams of three, both are great friends and have known each other for a while, both get double crossed by both a man and a woman, but here's the bottom line Josie and the Pussycats and Charlie's Angels both come from a TV series and a comic book they're not spoofs of one another.The story line, about two people who hire a group to brainwash the world, sounds very cheesy, but if you give it a chance it'll turn out good. It's no great ensemble but I would have completely avoided it if it didn't have Parker Posey, and I thought it turned out good. Here's the plot outline A record company tries to get groups to put Subliminal  messages into their music and try to brainwash the world. They take a boy band and crash their plane in hopes to get rid of killing them (I don't know why, but who cares). They then find the next best thing--Josie, Valerie and Melody, three small town girls in a rock group who just tries to get it big. This record company--let's just call it sub music--finds them in the middle of a street, without auditions or anything (OK, it's very farfetched and silly, but you really weren't expecting the Godfather, were you?) and sign them up without auditions or anything. In the end, in case you haven't predicted it already, the girls find out the truth, they have been cheated just to get their music to sell. The story may be stupid and the cast and script isn't great but a lot of the time critics should just lay back and realize that you shouldn't take movies--especially ones like these--too seriously. They're not made for Oscars, and this one did bomb, but see it if you're not a serious critic. Grade B   "},{"Title":"Have fun, without taking this seriously...","Date":"8 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  I remember wigging out when I saw this at a premiere in my movieplex in Montreal. Was completely surprised by the contents and the way the story was told...I know the movies has its flaws (quite apparent) but what if we just forget them and have fun here, seeing it as a good comic book and not taking it seriously. That's the way I loved watching Josie and The Pussycats...I have read the comic book in my youth years. Seeing them in flesh this time was really a treat as I saw them on the screen trying to hit big time out of their Riverdale compound (hey, this is an Archie Comic) but without knowing they will be pawns for Corporate America, who wants to control the consumer trends of young teenagers...As we see them, I reminesce with all the things we passed through in the 80s (like videoclips), the 70s (old TV and recycled Airline seats...), and of course the 90s with the boys'bands (those funny DuJour guys...) and over-corporative images (the massive product placement...). We enter the 21st Century here. It asked the question what we will do for new trends ? Subliminal messages are the new infomercials... And how about real, true music ?The story is OK here, even if it's been told many times. In my book, Alan Cumming with its funny portrayal of the evil Wyatt and Tara Reid as the ditzy blonde Melody were great here. Only flaws I see here were the caracters of Alan M. (Gabriel Mann should have been more lively, especially when you're in front of such a pretty actress like Rachael Leigh Cook...), Valerie (Rosario is good, but the writers should have given more appearance), The Cabots (hey, these were the cartoon stars, what happen to them ?), and Parker Posey (okay, even if her caracter seems annoying besides a caricature of these corporate divas)...My special word comes to Rachael Leigh Cook. I believe even if she is far from blockbuster star status, she gives some life here to Josie and she hands it purr-fectly. Having done two weeks of Band Camp to learn her guitar moves to make it believable and having fun while portraying Josie during the whole shooting qualifies this as being a hard-working actress who will do her best to make her caracter suitable. And best of all, she displayed quite a sexy side of herself with her outfits...Directors Deborah Kaplan and Harry Elfont have ways at least to make movies which are fun and entertaining, even if it's low on greatness.My final three small words Have fun watching !  "},{"Title":"Top of the line.","Date":"4 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  This is one of the best movies of all time. A female Spinal Tap if you will? Rachel Leigh Cook is the best actress and I definitely think she has a huge future. Her performance here was definitely Oscar-caliber and maybe she will get the golden guy next time around.  The real star of this movie was Carson Daly. Can we say out of character? Carson plays a cold blooded hitman in this film, as he stretches one of the top debuts I have seen in my 63 years of life. This man has range, and you heard it here first Carson Daly will be the biggest actor of the 21st century. Carson has the comic timing of one Gilbert Gottfried and the dramatic presence of Eric Roberts in his early career. I can't wait to see Carson receive his first leading role, but as long as he is on screen, I am ready to face the world! "}{"Title":"More than I expected -- which may be its only problem","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Like lots of other folks, I didn't expect  much substance from this comic book  adaptation about an all-female garage  band struggling to get its act together.   I figured it would be a shallow but  pleasant farce with maybe a decent  concert sequence.And like lots of other folks, I was  surprised to discover there was more to it.   The Pussycats' search for a respectable  venue becomes a nearly fatal encounter  with an evil recording company that deals  in both music and mind control.  The farce  turns out to be spiced with a satire on  the manipulativeness of the entertainment  industry, the plight of teens who choose  to run with the crowd rather than  thinking for themselves, and the struggle  to maintain one's identity and integrity  in the face of pressure and temptation.   (I was also surprised that VH1 and MTV  allowed themselves to be shown in such  a negative light.)Unlike lots of other folks, however, I  wondered if there was even more to it  than that.  I felt there was something  almost Orwellian and Faustian in the mix.   In fact, I went so far as to speculate  that JOSIE might be a darker, more bitter  comedy masquerading as farce.-- something  along the lines of THE MAGIC CHRISTIAN or  even DR. STRANGELOVE.But the Backstage Pass documentary,  included on the DVD, took care of that  theory.  Light-hearted farce was, indeed,  the intention -- which left me feeling that  the additional depth was both a virtue and  a flaw.  JOSIE went beyond simple-minded  satire, but frustrated me by not going  further.Okay, I realize it isn't fair to criticize  a movie -- or any creative endeavor -- for  not being what it was never intended to be.   But if a movie hints at intentions it  ultimately doesn't have, well that's  rather frustrating.JOSIE does, however, have the expected  concert sequence, and in case you were  wondering, Rachael Leigh Cook, Tara  Reid, and Rosario Dawson are actually  playing those instruments.  Part of the  preparation was to send the three of them to  band camp, where they learned to play  the three songs they perform in the movie.   So enjoy the music, enjoy the farce, and  absorb the message.  Just don't be looking  for this to evolve from farce into high  comedy.     "},{"Title":"What I think of Josie and the Pussycats","Date":"12 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Josie and the Pussycats (2001) (PG)(***1/2 stars out of 5)Josie (Rachael Leigh Cook) is the lead singer of the group, the Pussycats, which is composed of her two best friends, Valerie (Rosario Dawson, who plays bass) and Melody (Tara Reid, who plays drums).  The Pussycats are a struggling rock band from a small town called Riverdale.  One day, they manage to strike a deal with a shady producer named Wyatt Frame (Alan Cumming) and his equally shady boss, Fiona (Parker Posey).  Not long after, the group is on the road to pop fame.  But quickly after, Josie and her group uncover a plot to brainwash America's youth through subliminal messages that have been carefully planted in their music.  The messages in case you want to know, often encourage kids to give into mass consumerism, causing them to spend countless amounts of money on junk, which will be worthless in a week, thus causing them to give into a newer trend.The acting here is pretty good, considering what this movie this.  This movie does somewhat follow the cheesy 70's cartoon, but not by much.  I really did have very low expectations for this movie, you know.  I had only wanted to watch this movie just to check out Rosario Dawson (hot!), but I had instead found a little gem of a film.  Make no mistake, she is a total babe, but still if you want the truth, I've been waiting for a movie like this to be made for years.  A movie that is totally ridiculous and entertaining at the same time while still making fun of something that I truly hate.  First of all, it is very hard to hate this movie without overlooking the blatant satire of the pop industry.  As much as I wanted to hate this movie (believe me I really did want to hate this movie), I couldn't.  Then I began to see why I could not hate this movie.  It was becoming more and more clear to me that this movie is actually making fun of my least favorite music genre - pop music.  (I am a fan of rap/hip-hop, R & B and some metal, so you can see that my hatred is natural).  But still, it also pokes fun at how fake some of these people are when obsessed fans are not drooling over them or are not kissing Carson Daly's a** on TRL, as this is made clear in the first ten minutes of the movie with a popular boy band named Dujour.I personally believe that had this movie really wanted to make fun of the pop industry, they would have featured appearances by well-known music artists, probably those outside the genre of pop music.  A cameo appearance by Will Smith or Jonathan Davis (the lead singer of metal band Korn) or even Eminem would have made the message crystal clear Pop sucks!  Even so, an appearance by one of those teeny-boppers themselves would have lent a little more credibility to this movie.   You also cannot ignore this movie's message about the decline of decent music in today's society.  Thank you to the teenyboppers, like Britney Spears and (especially) her ex-boyfriend, Justin Timberlake.  But you also can't help but realize that people seem to be wising up to this teeny-bopper trend, since it is pretty easy to point out some things about them, one thing being Britney's obviously dissolving fan base (maybe after this year she will no longer be known as the Princess of Pop) or Justin's venomous insults to his former love.  Things are not looking so hot for Christina Aguilera either, who since the release of her new album, Stripped, has made numerous, scantily clad appearances in magazines and on T.V.  (I say hot because many people are beginning to believe that she is no longer the innocent, little Genie she was three years ago; plus she ranked very high on Entertainment Weekly's Skank-o-Meter last month).All in all, I did thoroughly enjoy myself (much to my own disgust) and this is a film that you should watch if you hate pop music.True, this movie will look seriously dated in about five years, so it's best to check it out now, while there is still something to laugh at. "},{"Title":"Not for the humorless","Date":"3 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Reading the reviews posted here, I have to wonder what people walking into a movie called Josie and the Pussycats expected.  I expected nothing, actually, as live action adaptations of cartoons had proved themselves to be the lowest of all film subgenres.But the writers of Josie and the Pussycats took the unenviable task of adapting a second rate and all but forgotten Archie spin off and created a smart and witty satire on post millenial pop culture that reminds one less of the Scooby Doo movie and more of Frank Tashlin's Will Success Spoil Rock Hunter?  Basically reducing the entire pop marketing machine to a hideous sublminal brainwashing operation, the movie is filled with hilariously over the top product placements in a joke that seems to have gone flying over the heads of self righteous adolescents everywhere.  The satire isn't always subtle (the subliminal message tacked on to the Pussycats' single, voiced by mr moviefone, includes the phrase 'there is no such place as area 51') but it is almost always pretty funny.  But the film does a credible job of creating a shiny, brightly colored, and vaguely menacing pop culture fantasy world, where everyone is beautiful and every surface is selling something.As expected, the trio is played by adorable pseudo teen hotties (Rachel Leigh Cook, Rosario Dawson, and Tara Reid), of which only Rosario Dawson rises above the passable in terms of acting.  There is a fairly gratuitous cameo by Carson Daly, then Reid's fiancee, that could have been cut out, although on second thought it is kind of funny to see Daly (playing himself, no less) as a smiling, blank faced contract killer.  The real stars here are the ever dependable Parker Posey and Alan Cumming, as the ruthless and grotesque record company executives, who provide most of the film's funniest scenes. "},{"Title":"great movie","Date":"1 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  I didn't know what to think about this movie when I first heard about it. But after watching I think it is one of the best movies of the teeny bopper/boyband-girl genre. Tara Reid and her perfomance as Melody was priceless. And Rachel Leigh Cook as the frontman for the band was a fabulous idea. The Wyatt character was hilarious. And the ficticious boyband DuJour was awesome. I rated it a nine I hope you do the same. "},{"Title":"Suprisingly Good","Date":"29 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  If you go in to the cinema not expecting much, you'll be pleasantly surprised. It's obvious this wasn't gonna be an Oscar winner but its very uplifting stuff - just fun. The girls are sopistacted and Rosario Dawson, Tara Reid and Rachael Leigh Cook are great. The story is quite clever and the sings are great. Not a must see, but worth watching.  "},{"Title":" Who's a rock star? Me!","Date":"9 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Rachael Leigh Cook is light-hearted as Josephine in this quiet adventure farce. The following cast is talented. The costumes are sophisticated. One of the good movies in the genre, Josie And The Pussycats will put cat ears on top of the viewer's head. 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A fun bit of fluff","Date":"19 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  I saw this film recently while stuck on a day-long bus trip and it certainly kept me amused.  Not earth-shattering stuff, but quite funny (especially the opening sequence with boy band DuJour).  Really most of the other reviews here have summed it up pretty well - there's just a couple of things I'd like to add.Firstly, if you're in any way a fan of the Archie comic or the other attempts to bring Jose and the Pussycats to the screen, just try to forget about them.  I don't think this film has much to do with the original concept, at least plotwise.Secondly, although the many (and I mean MANY) jokey product placements were funny and often clever, THEY ARE STILL PRODUCT PLACEMENTS.  So, although I enjoyed the film I was left with the feeling that it had been doing exactly what it was supposedly criticizing all along.Well, apart from lettting you in on the secret that cerise is the new or'nge, I guess that's it.  Time to take the Chevy to the levee. "},{"Title":"let's make this a cult hit","Date":"18 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  After living under the illusion that my uncle and I were the only Americans to like this movie (or to even see it), it's nice to know there are some fellow movie fans with good taste.  Of course, any movie that stars the lovely trio of Rachel Leigh Cook, Tara Reid and Rosario Dawson should be a must-see for any heterosexual male.  But I digress. I would have been absolutely fine with these three jumping up and down and playing their instruments for an hour and a half, but the movie was actually very clever and funny. As a true-hater of the boy-band craze we find ourselves in, I was laughing right off the bat at the spoof-band Dujour during the intro.  Rachel Leigh Cook was so cute it should be illegal and Tara Reid was hilarious as a ditzy blond.  Rosario Dawson's character was kind of lacking however; basically all she did was stand around and look pretty.  But that's alright.  Also terrific in the movie are Parker Posey and Alan Cumming as two great characters that could fit right into an Austin Powers movie.  Hey, there's a thought.  Austin Powers and the Pussycats Crime-Fighting Team.  Don't think it'll happen, but a guy can dream, can't he? "},{"Title":"I rented this movie having no expectations..","Date":"22 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  and was severely disappointed. Never before have I been so privileged to watch such a painfully horrible and mind-numbing piece of garbage. Yes, it's been a very long time since I've seen a movie that made me want to run out into traffic and kill myself, but this one did the trick.Bad acting, bad plot, you name it. To begin with, Josie and The Pussycats was a cross between Spice World  and  those cheesy Zoog Disney videos. This movie took the adorable chicks from the Archie comics and improved upon them with stringy hair and outfits clearly purchased from Pamela Anderson's garage sale. And how did a plot about subliminal messages in the media have anything to do with Josie and the Pussycats? Why not make a movie about the formation of their band or their rise to fame?Forgot subliminal messages. The producers of Josie and the Pussycats are sending out their message loud and clear- they want to make America's youth brainless and stupid by watching this piece of cat dander!!I'd rather cough up a fur ball than watch this one again.  "},{"Title":"Surprisingly entertaining pop satire.","Date":"22 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  I expected nothing from 'Josie and the Pussycats', and surprisingly found it to be an entertaining little movie with some well needed jabs at the blatant commercialization of contemporary pop culture. The movie has some flaws and dull spots, but has enough going for it to elevate itself above the current morass of teen mediocrities. I found the Melody character (Tara Reid of 'American Pie') to be tiresome and unamusing, and Parker Posey, who I have loved in movies like 'Waiting For Guffman' and 'The House Of Yes', to be a total disappointment, but the rest of the cast did well. Former child star Rachel Leigh Cook ('Get Carter') is fine as Josie, Alan Cumming ('Circle Of Friends') is a hoot as the cliched evil camp Brit, and the cameos from Seth Green ('Buffy The Vampire Slayer') and Breckin Meyer ('Go') as half of boy band Du Jour were hysterical. The real plus for me is the gorgeous Rosario Dawson, who I recognized from 'Kids'. She's a major babe with lots of charisma who I'm hoping will become the new Pam Grier! All in all a pretty good comedy that doesn't deserve its turkey status. Worth the rental. "}{"Title":"awesome fun!","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  don't see josie to witness oscar-calibre performances, life-changing storylines, or nonstop action.   this movie received some bad publicity when it came out because people didn't appreciate it for what it was hilarious, satirical fun.   some parts are cheesy...they're meant to be!   the acting isn't amazing or anything...but again its not meant to be.  rachael leigh cook, tara reid, and rosario dawson do a great job just having fun.   harry elfont and deborah kaplan script a story that is so true about society... trendiness.   plus the music totally rocks!  its a fun movie... even though it was marketed awfully.  try it. "},{"Title":"Conformity is Life","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  SPOILERS  I thought the movie was great, and would love to know what the writer/directors' thoughts and goals were.   The movie's message can be summed up in one of the subliminal messages  Conform.  Free will is overrated.   Whether subliminal messages are actually being used on CD's or not, we know that corporations want teenagers to lose the desire/ability to think for themselves (free will).  Then huge profits can easily be made.  The movie showed how it works  -  surround teens with styles, songs, brands, etc. that will appeal.  Change these styles, songs, etc. often so new things will have to be purchased.  Corporations will then be the dictators of what teenagers like and want.  No free will is necessary.   Look for a great documentary that was made on this subject a few years ago on PBS.   This subject is deadly serious, and I thank the writer/directors/producers for doing this film. "},{"Title":"Great, funny, witty movie","Date":"20 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  I have noticed in recent years that many people have started taking movies too seriously.  They aren't willing to suspend disbelief for an hour and a half and just sit back and enjoy.  Any critics of this film probably have a hard time doing just that, enjoying a funny, witty piece of entertainment.There are tons of things to like about this movie.  It has a great soundtrack, the acting is good, and the writing is extremely witty.  It mocks so many things about American culture, from ad placements to trends to the conformization of America.  It offers up funny, entertaining performances by a cast that wasn't too worried about taking themselves too seriously.  It also includes some great cameos.In my opinion, this is a great comedy and satire on American culture that I am seriously considering purchasing.  The soundtrack alone is probably worth checking out.  8.5/10 "},{"Title":"Pretty good, considering it was a comic","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  I thought this movie was pretty good. At the beginning I thought it was a little weird but it turned out fine in the end. I know heaps of comics and cartoons now are being turned into movies with real people, but this one was a good transformation. They got good actors and actresses and I enjoyed this movie. "},{"Title":"allright","Date":"1 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  one of my freinds saw the movie and he thought it was allright.... the movie its self wasnt that great but i like that kinda music so i thought it was all right.... the chicks are pretty hott too lol ;) anyways.... if you like punk music and chick players then you should watch it... i have all the music on my computer and i lsiten to it all the time. i play the electric guitar myself and so i learned alot of it and wanted to hear what it really sounded like on tv. so yeah.... go ahead and watch it... you will like the music and the chicks but not the storyt line.... the story line is pretty lame. thats all i got to say so yeah.... bye. 5/10 "},{"Title":"purrrrr...","Date":"23 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Deliberately self-mocking, playing unashamedly and hilariously off of teen culture's many hypocrisies, I give this film four paws up!  It's not just a chick-flick (although it does make for a great girlfriends-only night feature); it's got something for everyone.  Unbelievable slapstick, cute outfits, and a fantastic cameo by Breckin Meyer, Seth Green, Donald Faison, and Alexander Martin as a boy-band.  I was laughing the whole time. "},{"Title":"More challenging than you thought.","Date":"23 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Although aimed as teenage chick flick the film should appeal to a wider audience as long one retains an open mind. The music is a a bit more rock and roll than you might imagine and some sub plots of the movie are interesting. The main plot of subliminal messages in music is something you wouldn't expect from a movie of the genre and it is alright to admit that you stopped to think about the implications at some stage. See the movie has some substance although it is still a feel good movie.With mostly good lighthearted fun and music splattered throughout the movie I'm sure many will come away feeling refreshed at the end. Those into fashion and photography will enjoy the efforts the film makers have gone to show off outfits and the bright and colorful sets.Not every might detect the irony of the movie making a derogatory comment on product placement in todays media and then attempting to place as many products as it can throughout the movie. And there are plenty - did you spot the reference and count the placements? Good fun.Another challenge is to work out if the female band members are playing their instruments. So go to it!!! "},{"Title":"not bad.","Date":"20 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  when i first saw this movie, i thought it was kind of silly and childish. but after the second time, i grew to like it. why? i agree with the whole message about pop bands and selling their music thru products and etc.great cast and i enjoyed the music. glad to see a female teen rock band (being a teen girl myself). some of the things are still a bit silly but some of the things makes the film and characters cute. i loved it when melody beat the crap out of carson daly. girl power there!9/10 "},{"Title":"Brain Candy","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  A fun movie, I enjoyed it for what it was, dont go into it expecting Shakespeare. But if you are looking for something light and funny, I believe I got my laughs-worth out of it. "},{"Title":"Light, funny & feelgood Josie & The Pussycats, that is )","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  I went to the videostore to rent a dvd I haven't seen before it turned out to be Josie & The Pussycats I took home with me. I wanted to see/hear what Kenneth Babyface Edmonds could do with a bunch of saucy girls in a rockband. I tell ya, this is one simple, funny movie (in a positive way). It is a real chick-flick, but it's damn funny. Rachael Leigh Cook, Rosario Dawson and especially Tara Reid play such funny, believable characters, you wanted to see more of them as a group. Alan Cumming portrays the stereotype bad-dude manager and you really dislike him, he plays the role so convincing and over the top ).A very funny add-on was the group DuJour, a boyband that truly disses other boybands like Backstreet Boys and 'N Sync. Too damn funny!! I hoped there was more videomaterial of these dudes on the DVD (Seth Green, Breckin Meyer, Alexander Martin and Donald Faison) and I found 2 videoclips of Dujour, very funny material.All in all, a very funny simple movie, sure to see at least once. "}{"Title":"The Best and Most Original Film Of 2001","Date":"18 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  I Went To watch This movie dreading the thought that it might actually have been as bad as the critics said it was. i was very surprised and rather irritated that a film this good could be considered bad.For years now i have heard people complain about how Hollywood has no originality. The irony of it all is that when an original film, like this one comes out it gets slammed with negative reviews. This film takes you to a land where you don't have to care about the complex story line or the symbolism, it simply tells a hilarious tale about a music group while at the same time poking fun at the music industry and product placements. It is truly the best film of 2001 and nothing any critic can say will change my mind. "},{"Title":"sense of humor.....","Date":"17 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  MINOR SPOILER a lot of people will not give this movie a chance.  but you should....you just may liek it!  it makes fun of those bands we all love to hate and it makes fun of trends and girls and boys who will go out and buy anything just because it is popular.... this movie, to me, is a great one!  its not your american pie, its not your scream, but it is a fun teenage movie, that anyone can see.  i tell my mom some of the funny stuff that goes on in this movie, and she laughs almost as much as i did the first time i saw it! the best thing, though, about this movie are the characters alexandra cabot and alexander cabot III.  the lines they come up with....i love everything that alexandra says, no matter what it is.  and when alexander says to her as they sit on the private jet meant for the Pussycats 'i still don't know why you're here' and she responds 'because i was in the comic'.  its stuff like that that makes the movie just adorably funny. see it.  give it a try....! "},{"Title":"Underrated, hilarious, and clever social commentary and all-around fun movie.","Date":"14 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  I think I was one of ten people who saw this movie in the theaters, and that is truly unfortunate.  Josie and the Pussycats is not only an incredibly fun and entertaining movie, but an intelligent satire of American consumerism and popular culture.  The production design/art direction, costume design, and soundtrack are fantastic, and the cast is great.  This is a totally enjoyable and extremely clever movie.  I have not yet recommended this film to someone who has not liked it, so I hope you all will, too. "},{"Title":"A GREAT GREAT MOVIE !","Date":"14 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  This movie is SO smart and SO fun and SO fast and SO good (with  one of the best soundtracks I've heard in years).  Hits the nail on the head with the mass-marketing plot.  PLEASE watch this movie (and Josie is Mary Anne from the Baby-Sitters Club movie ! ).  Everyone in it is wonderful. "},{"Title":"Puuuuuuurrrrrrrrre Fun!","Date":"4 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Great actresses, great music, and pure fun.  Josie and the Pussycats is a great movie to just lose yourself in for 90 minutes.  Standout performances from Parker Posey and Alan Cummings.  Love the jabs at product placement in the movie and the shallow depths of current boy band gene pools. "},{"Title":"kind of cute","Date":"1 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Okay - I thought this was kind of funny and cute.  Definitely not the groaner that some people described.  The plot was cleverly satirical and pleasantly escapist.  The villains were over-the-top hammy and funny, and a gentle jab at the entire entertainment industry.  For a light movie, it was great. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly enjoyable","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  I turned on the TV one day and this was just starting.  I figured it would be mindless background filler while I did some work.  Eventually, I found myself watching it.  Then I found myself enjoying it.  I was surprised. I'm also surprised by how few people on this board seem to get the movie's running joke of product placement.  The movie is an in-your-face comment about how youth-oriented entertainment is more about selling products than creating quality entertainment.  Ask the average person over age 25 What song does Britney Spears sing?, and What product does Britney endorse?, and I bet you'll hear Pepsi before a song name.  And that's what this film targets.  Everywhere you turn in this movie there is an advertisement for something.  I'm pretty sure every single scene had some sort of product placement, some in very clever ways, some over the top, but always there. The movie parodies itself as an ad more than entertainment. What's it about?  In short, a record conglomerate uses musicians to sell products by hiding subliminal messages to buy, buy, buy in the songs.  When the latest boy band catches on to the scheme they are eliminated and Josie & the Pussycats are lined up as the new, unwitting product hawkers. the film is full of in-jokes and jabs at the entertainment industry. It seems the cast had a good time making this film and it shows on screen. The actors play comic book characters as just that.  Some more outlandish than others, but they all do quite well, even though some scenes are a bit strained.  The dialog was a bit thin in places but the movie still has charm.  It's a fun bit of entertainment and worth watching. "},{"Title":"positive all throughout","Date":"26 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Although the film never made it to my country's theaters, I was still able to see it. It was a great movie, despite what the critics say. Good music, beautiful cast, and best of all it updated Josie and the Pussycats, one of my favorite cartoons ever. D "},{"Title":"A delightful film","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Yeah, it's shallow, stupid and uninspired, but Josie and the Pussycats ROCKS! The watered-down satire on the music industry is great, and of course the music is pretty dang good for what it is. Oscar-worthy it's not, but it's still a great movie for an hour-and-a-half of easy laughs. Destined to become a cult classic! "},{"Title":"Good soundtrack, but worthless message.","Date":"16 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  I just saw Josie and the Pussycats.  Wow.  For a movie that?s supposed to have a *message* about conformity and pop culture, it was a huge pile of crap.  Yeah, good soundtrack, acting, and all that, but it seemed to me that this was just another vehicle for product placement for Motorola, MTV, Starbucks, and the rest of the pop culture logos that this movie was supposed to be satirizing.  Didnt ruin the movie completely, but it sure screwed up any shallow, worthless message it was using as a faceplate for its hypocritical underbelly. "}{"Title":"A fun movie that never takes itself too seriously","Date":"14 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Let's face that facts people, if you want to be challenged... go watch something else. if you just want to have an enjoyable night with a pleasant film, I recommend Josie and the pussycats, because that's what it is, fun.Derived from the archie comic and also having seen the cartoon while growing up I didn't really know what to expect from a josie in the 21st century but I have to say I liked it. call me crazy but this is a funny film...I loved spotting all the in jokes about the other actors movies. My girlfriend said she liked it so I thought I would give it a chance, Im glad I did, I enjoyed this film even though its no classic by any means.It's still entertained me, and that's what it's all about.*** 1/2 (3 and a half stars) "},{"Title":"5.8!!!! criminal","Date":"13 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  I see this definately being a sleeper hit within the DVD/video arena!It's absolutely perfect home entertainment!! 3 gorgeous girls, excellent cinematography, a really funny script, an excellent soundtrack, an accurate and satirical look at modern music, and some really funny guest appearances!! (notably the TRL scene!!) and Parker Posey --- how can you not like it?? -- did i forget the note perfect Du Jour?? if ever a spin off film should be made, these guys should do it!! Backdoor Lover - hilarious!The film has very good pacing, and the storyline is very simple and fun, of course it's predictable, but if you want suprises go watch a thriller. If i watch a film more than once within a month, then there must be something there. I've seen this 3 times!! it's just an excellent diversion, one of those perfect 90mins films you play whenever you feel like it... with the likes of Sandler films i'd say.So don't be put off by the seemingly negative word of mouth, when i watched it i was very surprised it recieved any actually! it really is an overlooked jem of a film... and i hope it gets the attention it deserves over the next few years. There is little to fault in this film..8/10 D  "},{"Title":"Oh too bad your momma couldnt give u a good face","Date":"6 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Right from the great opening spoof of boy bands this is another under rated gem. All my friends laughed when i said i wanted to see this film but then after seeing it they had to agree with me.  This film is so subversive its unbelievable never have i seen such blatant product placement in a film.  Sure you know from the beginning how the films going to end but the films so entertaining you don't care.  Standout performances belong to Alan Cumming as the evil record exec and Rachel Leigh Cook as Josie.  Although this film does have some trouble with originality in places as sometimes whole scenes are lifted from the classic 'Waynes World' in particular the contract signing scene.The songs are annoyingly catchy and there is much veiled adult humour especially with Tara Reid in the opening sequence, plus we get to see Rachel Leigh Cook play a bitchy character really well even if it is only for a short while.  Watch out for the excellent Du Jour scenes at the beginning of the film and the great lines exchanged between Seth Green and Breckin Meyer. So go see it for a film that appears to be dumb but is actually much more subversive than you would think  "},{"Title":"Easy and surprisingly enjoyable to watch","Date":"5 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  I didn't know what to expect of this movie. I knew Rachael Leigh Cook was in the movie, and she usually makes her characters colorful and sincere.The plot isn't all that complicated, it actually is quite predictable and simple, but this movie makes it enjoyable. The cast is well balanced, Alan Cumming plays the evil record-label manager well and Tara Reid is excellent as the cheerful Melody. I haven't seen Rosario Dawson in anything before, but she fit in just fine as Valerie. Rachael Leigh Cook is always a pleasure, and she did Josie about as good as you could hope. The evil executive Fiona, played by Parker Posey, was a bit of a surprise. I can't say that I didn't like her, but not that I liked her either.The soundtrack is another gem. It's very well-written, and I found myself playing the songs back in my head days after I saw the movie.All in all an ok film. Easy to watch, no big surprises, just pleasant. If you don't feel the need to watch complicated movies and just want to relax, give this movie a shot. It cheered me up.3,5/5 "},{"Title":"Parker Posey Mad Genius","Date":"16 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  This is a smart little flick, one that I never would have guessed I'd willingly see four times.  The jokes hit-or-miss ratio is a little uneven, but when it works, you have yourself some COMIC GOLD.  This is due in no small part to the actors- Tara Ried makes the most of a character who could have been compleatly unbearable, Alan Cumming is brilliant (but when is he not?), and quite a few cameos, none of which are wasted.HOWEVER-The one who absolutely walks away with the show is the divinely strange PARKER POSEY.  Where countless others would have gone with the traditionaly over the top evil, power-mad CEO portrayal, Parker creates something compleatly unique and compleatly freaking BIZZARE.  Years from now when they have Parker Posey retrospectives at old movie theaters, this is what will top the bill.   "},{"Title":"A Diamond in the Rough","Date":"2 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  OK, many of you probably think this is nothing but another teeny-bopper flick.  I'll admit that was what I thought at first.  However, after a friend forced me to watch it, I was pleasantly surprised.  First off, I did not know that Alan Cumming and Parker Posey were in the movie.  They were hilarious and their on-screen chemistry is quite good.  They represented about 65% of the humor in the entire film.  The other 35% must be credited to the Pussycats.  Tara Reid's performance is quite funny and her ex-boyfriend Carson Daly's cameo is hilarious.  So, if you need some easy humor, watch this movie!   "},{"Title":"          How Cute and Weird","Date":"9 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Ah, Josie and the PussyCats. I've read the comics, but I never thought they would make a movie! It's kinda weird how the brain-washing plot by the media is used in this movie, as it is also used in the fairly recent movie Zoolander. It's also weird how Alan Cummings was in the movie Spice World and how now again he is in another movie about a girl-band. But, with many funny bits, talent hits, and cute faces this comic-movie fits!   "},{"Title":"An underrated little gem","Date":"11 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  What was I expecting from this movie? Not much. I loved the goofy cartoon it is semi-based on, and I wanted to have a good time.I remember the first thing I thought about it If Melody is a dumb blonde, then this IS Josie & the Pussycats. And it didn't disappoint (especially with the first Honk if you love pussy cats gag).Although the story wears a bit thin at the end, the message shines through commercialism and individuality don't go hand in hand. It mocks brilliantly the teen pop phenomena at the beginning. And it really does make you think about the role of publicity in our times. It's sometimes scary.And Rachel Leigh-Cook looks beautiful as Josie, to boot.Overall, a fun, lighthearted film. I enjoyed it a lot, although it could have been better. 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"The Cat's Me-OUCH!","Date":"7 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Hey, Hollywood, WHATZAMATTAFERYOU, eh? You take one of Archie Comics' finest cartoons, and turn it into another PG-13 zombie! The RUINED Josie and the Pussycats movie was plagued by foul language and sicko sexuality. For once will these people think of anything other than getting the audience through this cheap stupidity?! Rachel Leigh Cook, Tara Leigh, and Rosario Dawson deserved better writers and a better story. Why didn't they just make this like the cartoons or the comics; FUNNY?! What's the use of having the best cast in the world and the coolest stories ever conceived when the writing is pure trash? If there is another sequel, it had better be more respectful for my taste. "},{"Title":"Delightfully shallow movie","Date":"4 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Not since Spiceworld have I seen such a wonderful, but shallowmovie.  Sure the plot is obvious with little in the way of deepermeaning, but it is a fun way to spend 90 minutes.  Between catchymusic and hilarious cameos this movie is a great one timethrough experience. "}{"Title":"identity crisis","Date":"3 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  This movie made a failed attempt to mock our consumer-driven society and promote it at the very same time.  The problem is you can't have it both ways and have a rewarding outcome.  The device of having the product placement become part of the storyline shows creativity and a good sense of fun.  But in the fact that all the products are 100% real, the message sent is conflicted, since even these placements were obviously purchased by the corporations and given reverence by the film makers.  Perhaps it would have works better if all these products were phoney ones, and treated with some contempt...To be less analytical, this movie is good fun for the most part with engaging performances by especially Tara Reid and Rosario Dawson as the Pussycats.  Hot actors Seth Green and Breckin Meyer disappear way too soon, and (sorry) but this film is badly marred by the performance of the guy who plays Josie's boyfriend.  Ya gotta wonder what she sees in him!  Is he the producer's nephew? "},{"Title":"Miaow!","Date":"15 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  To put it bluntly,I loved this movie.I live in England and Josie and The Pussycats is not out there yet so when I went on holiday to South Carolina this year,we decided to rent it out from the closest video store.I loved the movie a lot,so much that me,my twin sister and our friend Lucy are dressing up as the pussycats for halloween when we take my brothers trick or treating.Rachel Leigh Cook is a brilliant actor and I loved the film She`s all that and ages ago,she was in the babysitters club movie.I have the soundtrack to the movie because my dad bought it as a suprise for me before we left for the airport on our way back to England,and I just can`t stop listening to it! There,you have read my comments and got to learn a bit about my social life  "},{"Title":"A really fun and great movie...","Date":"15 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Josey and the pussycats is one of the most fun movie I've seen lately... The satire is nice and not too heavy, the actors are really cute and the music is not so bad itself...With some parts that with no doubt remind the humor of Austin Powers, Josie and the pussycats is successful in passing a real nice one hour and a half... And one last thing - to people who comment that the film is full with commercials - it's very sad that you didn't get that the commercials are planted on purpose to emphasize the subject that the whole movie is talking about! The movie has SELF-AWARENESS, and that what makes it so fun... It doesn't take itself seriously. Furthermore, in the Bonus materials in the DVD - the creators of Josie and the p. say that it's important for them for everybody to know that they didn't get one cent from McDonald's or whatever for the commercials... And if that's not a loyal movie to itself and to its viewers, then I don't know what is... "},{"Title":"One of the best movies no one saw this year","Date":"15 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" From the moment that the project was greenlighted to when I got to see the finished product, I was eagerly waiting for the Josie and the Pussycats movie.  I have been a Josie fan since I was a little girl, so the movie was a dream come true.Josie, Valerie, and Melody are 3 best friends from Riverdale (a bit of creative license, since they actually reside in the town of Midvale) who make up a band called the Pussycats.  They dream of fortune and fame as they scrape by with gigs wherever they can be had, like at the local bowling alley.  One day, they are discovered by music manager Wyatt Frame and are swept up in a whirlwind of sudden popularity and adoration.  The shiny apple has a major worm in it, however the Pussycats discover that they are pawns in the record company's grand scheme to brainwash the youth of America with subliminal messages planted in the music.  When the top brass at the record company learn that the Pussycats are suspicious of their scheme, they conspire to break the group apart, promoting Josie as a solo act and disposing of Valerie and Melody.  Will Josie choose solo success, or will she stay true to her friends, even if it means that they may never again see the heights to which they ascended?The movie has much more substance than the lot of mindless teen gross-out flicks that had been so popular until recently.  It's a hilarious send-up of the boy band phenomenon (the videos by fictional boy band DuJour are a scream), the Josie comic book, and the marketing of products in general. The main message of the movie is to reinforce the concept of free will. If you buy into something, be it a tangible (clothes, soda, music CDs) or intangible (an idea, a philosophy) product, do it because you want to, not because someone says that you should.  It's basically the not giving into peer pressure and the be true to yourself arguments.I know, the Pussycats aren't in their trademark cat outfits (did this also account for the lack of box office?), you don't hear familiar songs from the show like Inside Outside Upside Down, and Alan M. could have used a little more muscle on him, but don't let that stop you from seeing Josie and the Pussycats.  It's a fun and funny jab at today's trend-obsessed society. "},{"Title":"Almost a solid film","Date":"15 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Here's a film that seemed almost universally maligned even before it's release.  I guess a film about a show about 3 female detectives is ok, but one about 3 female musicians is a terrible idea.  Whatever, Josie and the Pussycats is from the same writing and directing team that made the highly underrated Can't Hardly Wait so I was willing to give it a shot.  The film has high aspiriations but only connects with a few of them.Among other things, the film strives to be a fun narrative about the band, a social commentary, and a showcase of fun pop songs.  Unfortunately the narrative is weak, the commentary only hits in a few spots, and the songs are mostly bland, save the one played over the opening credits.  We're left with likeable mush, not really a good film, but not an altogether bad one either.The 'Cats are Josie (Rachel Leigh Cook), Val (Rosario Dawson), and Melody (Tara Reid), a Riverdale garage band who stumbles into a record deal with Parker Posey's Mega Records.  The catch is this company has been using subliminal messages in pop music to brainwash kids into wasting money in the most worthless capitalist traps imagineable.  The film mines this line for most of its best jokes, including sets littered with Target, Revlon, and other logos, and a hilarious boy band named Du Jour (With song Back Door Lover) that regretably only appear before the main credits. The film falters when it gets into typical will-the-band-break-up antics followed by even more typical now-that-they-are-broken-up-how-long-will-the-movie-keep-them-apart stuff.  Unfortunately, formula wins out over the clever barbs in the end, to the point where I really didn't enjoy much of anything in the film's final half hour.  The Pussycats are a cute trio, though none of them really show any chops (Nor does the script give them any chance to) and their characters are as deep as the word you can describe them with (Melody is the dumb one).  Alan Cumming gets tons of time on screen as an evil music mogul but he feels wasted, same for Parker Posey as his boss.  Cameos by real-life music people also fall flat, including Carson Daly who is a lot less natural playing himself on film as he is playing himself on tv.   I'd call this film a disappointment; I like the creators, and they have some good ideas here, they follow through just isn't as smooth as the backswing.  There's a good movie in here, but it's hidden beneath formula, cliche, and bad acting. "},{"Title":"A sharp, witty, and well constructed fun story","Date":"1 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" I didn't have any specific expectations of this film, yet was pleasantly surprised by the tightness of the story, the pacing, the acting, and casting.  The direction was well executed, and I feel that this movie perhaps should have been better promoted.  Dujour's 'Back Door Lover' was just hilarious.  The cameos by Carson Daly and others were icing on the cake.I really have to give props to wardrobe design and set dressers as well. I don't know what the 'Target' audience is supposed to be, but this aging adolescent that I am now wishes continued success for all involved with this project. "},{"Title":"A Good, Lighthearted Film With A Great Soundtrack","Date":"25 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  I was very surprised and pleased with this film, considering I thought it was going to be another fluffy teenage pic.  After viewing the film, I was impressed by the good acting and the great music.  It has a clever plot as well, and the film trots along at a good pace.  Very funny..the film kept me laughing throughout and the music kept my feet tapping.  For a good time for an hour and a half, check this film out.  You won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"One of the most enjoyable films of the year - and the one that least deserved to flop.","Date":"22 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  I am astonished that this film has been so undeservingly underrated. It strikes me that certain people went along with the intention of having an utterly miserable time if they saw anything less brilliant than 'Citizen Kane', then took enormous pleasure in savaging this film when it failed to reach their vast expectations. Frankly if you are so utterly an elitist in films that the thought of teenage or 20ish characters (God forbid) or their brand of pop culture makes you break out into a hysterical fit of ranting, then you should have known better than to stay away from this.DuJour are an utterly devastating parody of a boyband, and understandably much of the first half-hour is spent in their shadow. Still our introduction to the Pussycats is well done, and easily establishes their current standing. Rachael Leigh Cook, a stunning actress with the largest eyes I have ever seen, is nicely done here. To anyone who would doubt her comedic talent - or lack of interest there in - just watch her eye movements in her first scene with Alan M. Maybe, and I confess I am not an expert, she is different from the cartoon Josie, but by all accounts that is a good thing. In the cartoons I hear she was a nonentity, here she is the core character of the film. While Tara Reid's Melody is perhaps funnier, Josie is still the centre and Rachael Leigh Cook does it well. The other Pussycats have similar good moments, though shorter than Josie's.Alan Cumming simply lights up the screen whenever he appears. While we are required to actually like Josie, Mel and Val (and they are in fact very likeable) Cummings Whyatt Frame is under no such constraints and it is entirely suitable that he is the only character to break the fourth wall. Posey Parker is almost as good as Cumming, but odder yet. She is good fun in the film, though not as purely fantastic as Cumming.The supporting cast are okay. Paulo Costanzo as the Pussycats hopeless manager Alexander Cabot III is the best, but Missi Pyle, Gabriel Mann, Tom Butler and especially Alexander Martin, are all very good.I'm amazed that so many people seem to have either not realised the product placement was part of the films joke, or have realised it, but decide to hold it against them anyway. The gag does become a little cloying after a while, but it does slow down a bit in the final half hour, and is never too distracting. If you found the product placement scene in Waynes World funny, this should cause you no trouble.The music is of course down to personal taste, but I found some of it at least pretty good, and nothing more unmemorable than any other film track. '3 Simple Words' and 'Pretend to be Nice' are viable singles in their own right, and you will never be able to listen to a boyband again after 'Backdoor Lover' and 'DuJour around the World'. Rachael Leigh Cook, Tara Reid and Rosario Dawson do at least provide backing for their own songs, which is something.Overall I would say that this was one of the most underrated films of 2001 and the least deserved flop. What kind of sick world is it where 'The Mummy Returns' is more popular than 'Josie...?' Watch it.Yours~Ross "},{"Title":"over the top fun....","Date":"17 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  'Josie and the Pussycats' is, from the very first shot until the last one, never serious about itself.  This is most evident from the performances by Posey and Cumming.  They both play characters that are so over the top that it is hard to take them seriously, and at the same time, I found it hard not to laugh at them.  It is also evident that the movie is not serious about itself from the excessive amount of product placement in the movie.  There is so much of it that its an obvious attempt to poke fun at such a thing.  I don't think that there is a product that isn't plugged in the movie. I especially enjoyed Rachel Leigh Cook as Josie.  That might be because there is nothing hotter than a red head that plays guitar and sings.  But that might just be me, who knows.  Either way, she was excellent in her role.  Other than her though, there were some fun cameos, most notably from Carson Daly and Aries Spears who have a memorable scene.After all the performances are said and done, I was surprised at how much I enjoyed the soundtrack.  It was surprisingly decent and I wouldn't be surprised if I found myself owning a copy of it.  Hmmm, maybe they had some subliminal messages in the film that would have me buy it.(watch the movie, then you'll know what I mean)I felt good after watching Josie.  At the same time I really wanted some MacDonald's, some Puma track pants, and I wanted to join the army!!(just watch and you'll get all of that!)  Surprisingly fun satire on commercialism and impressionable youth.  Plus, I love over the top when its well done.  Just what I was in the mood for.  7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Better Than you'd Think","Date":"14 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Despite every cell of rational, intelligent thought in my brain, I found myself renting JOSIE & THE PUSSCATS.  I don't know why.  Maybe it's the dynamic duo of Tara Reid & Rachel Leigh Cooke - who knows?  But, to my surprise, this was a very enjoyable and, even more surprising, a smart film.I think that's what ironically did this film in.  It was too smart for its own good.  It lampooned its intended audience.  The kids that it was marketed to probably didn't like being portrayed as mindless zombies who'll buy anything that some boy band says to.Alan Cumming is hilarious.  Rachel Leigh Cooke shows she's funny and can do more than just pout on screen.  Tara Reid nails the role of Veronica (the dumb, blond of the group), but I don't think the audience knew that she was trying to copy the comic book/ cartoon Veronica.  Most of this generation probably didn't even know that there was a cartoon about this group of girl rockers.The writer/ director team made a good film.  It was visually exciting, fun and smart.  Only problem, they did not take into account their audience.  Which is why, in the end, no one came out to see this film.Which is a shame. "}{"Title":"Fresh, Smart, but sadly over looked","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  When I sat down to watch this movie I knew next to nothing about, only that Rachael Leigh Cook is hot and that it made fun of pop music.   I have to say that I loved this movie, it was amazingly clever, very thought out, and charming as the movies star.This movie was a joy to watch because it was drenched in product placements and ads, that fit and paralleled the movies evil plot.  This movie made you laugh without striving to do so.  With its subtile jokes, and media literiate references.I can honestly say that this is one fine comedy, and a good piece of film. Unlike alot of the crap hollywood has been feeding us.The only major problem with the movie, isn't the movie but who it was marketed to.  This looked like your teenage girl, teenie movie.  But its a thought out satire of the things most of these girls like.  I find that ironic and humorous.This movie will do better as more people see it, as the word spreads from video release. "},{"Title":"MY thoughts on a class movie","Date":"6 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  On the way to watch this movie three people said it wasn't any good.  I they should have been checked from the neck up for signs of insanity. The film was BRILLIANT. It contained all you need for a leisure activity. Namely FUN FUN FUN. With some nice eye candy thrown in for good measure.  My advice watch it, buy it, love it. "},{"Title":"Mildly Entertaining","Date":"5 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  This is probably one of the better efforts to create a movie based on a cartoon.  Rocky and Bullwinkle bombed, Inspector Gadget was, well, you know.The music was lively enough and several of the tracks are actually pretty good. (Three Small Words, Pretend to be Nice).  Although a golden opportunity was missed.  With a little better writing this movie could have been another Charlie's Angels.It certainly is not a bomb, and is very watchable.  Like Mission to Mars, just put your brain on hold for a while and you'll enjoy it.  (Provided you can get past all of the product hype for Target.  I haven't seen this much advertising for them since Survivor.) "},{"Title":"TOTALLY MIOW MIOW (GREAT IN CATSPEAK)","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  This film was great and for some unknown reason got a very limited release in the UK. Its a acidic ironic comedy which almost becomes what it sets out to poke fun at. This is probably lost on many people which is a real shame. The from the moment the boyband appear before the credits you know what you are in for.the actors exude in their fun roles and smart dialogue.The shameless product placements and references just add to the post post modern image. with echos of austin powers' Doctor Evil lare. and hundreds of injokes it is a fast furious ride through modern teen pop.the soundtrack is also great too.well worth watching if you can catch it at the multiplex. or its a long wait for that elusive dvd.  "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Clever And Unique, Great Satire","Date":"1 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Josie And The Pussycats is a surprisingly clever and unique satire of the modern music industry and its creation of disposable pop heroes, in the name of selling records.  In an era when TV to film adaptations are usually paint-by-number renditions, Josie stands out as fairly well-written and most definitely clever.  Interestingly enough, this movie could have survived (and probably even benefitted) if it had NOT  been associated with the cartoon show that it is very loosely based on.The characters (as well as the feel of the movie) are appropriately 'cartoonish' and this is due in large part from the fantastic direction by Harry Elfont and Deborah Kaplan, veterans of the vastly underrated Can't Hardly Wait (which they hilariously reference in this movie).  The movie moves at a fast pace, which is perfect for a satire of the breakneck-paced music industry.The standout acting in Josie is provided by Alan Cumming, whose portrayal of the slimy, faux-British record exec Wyatt Frame is excellently executed. Parker Posey's performance as Fiona, the head of the evil record company, is very good as well, as has come to be expected from the queen of indies. The trio of Josie, Val and Melody (Rachel Leigh Cook, Rosario Dawson, Tara Reid) is fair to good, with Cook being the standout because of her flair for comedy and her nervous portrayal of the heroine.The one problem with the script is Josie's 'transformation' to an evil character.  It happens too quickly, and it doesn't last nearly long enough to reward the viewers during her eventual turn back to hero.When looking at the clever writing and biting satire (as well as a cameo by Eugene Levy), Josie seems to be more akin to Christopher Guest's recent movies than the lightweight teen fare I had expected to see.  This is a very pleasant surprise, and truly worth watching. "},{"Title":"The most fun you'll have at a movie all summer!","Date":"31 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  If you're expecting a master piece from this Movie or you've had a sense of humor transplant stop reading now. However, if you want a camp, sunny, teen comedy on a boring Friday evening this is it. The first hour of Josie & the Pussycats had me laughing out loud. It's colorful locations & adorable characters gel effortlessly with the Pussycats' Punk-pop soundtrack, which kicks out a feel-good vibe throughout. With a constant tongue in cheek portrayal of Youth-culture and relentless corporate advertising, you start to wish you could eat Big Macs & play Guitar with crazy colored hair for the rest of your life! Unfortunately the later half of the film gets bogged down in a Spice girlsThe Movie like plot, which is far too involved & at times too serious. While Rachael Leigh Cook is nothing short of edible as Josie, the introduction of Alan Cumming's character adds a daft, pantomime element which is clearly not needed. (Remember the downfall of Spy Kids?!) You stick it out because you can sense a big, fat, climatical, happy ending, and in the meantime Tara Read offers some great comic relief. As long as you can come out remembering the best bits - as opposed to the last bits, you'll think back on it as honest light-hearted fun, that takes a mischievous poke at the music industry & being a Teenager today. Very enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Too cutesy for teens, too crass for children","Date":"30 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Harry and Debbie, next time you make a movie, pick a target audience and go with it.The movie starts out spoofing boy-bands with a parody group called DuJour. The song they're singing is called Back-Door Lover, and in case the title is too subtle for you, the lyrics and dance routine should eventually clue-in all but the most imperceptive viewer that this is a light-hearted ditty about anal sex. Maybe a 12-year-old girl wouldn't catch it, but just based on that scene alone I wouldn't take a daughter of mine to see Josie & the Pussycats. But all-in-all it is a sufficiently-amusing roast of the sad state of music groups today (which don't even deserve to be called bands because that word denotes that they can play their own instruments) that a jaded thirty-year-old like myself could enjoy the rest of the movie, sans daughter, if it had more bits like that. I also couldn't help but notice that towards the end of the movie, a few expletives get tossed out as well. While it's certainly not enough swearing to hold a candle to the non-stop stream of profanities found in a PG-13-rated Kevin Smith movie, it's just enough that, again, it's not something fit for children.But most of Josie & the Pussycats is sugar-coated, smut-free kiddie fare, with nothing more risque than an open-mouthed kiss or two. The plot consists of a simple rags-to-riches Cinderella storyline and is populated by archetypical characters that haven't got much more depth than their Hanna-Barbera cartoon counterparts. One gets the distinct impression that this was a tale intended for girls who still have an active Barbie doll collection. For instance, Melody is a twentysomething-year-old whose internal monologue consists of singing If you're happy and you know it, clap your hands! to herself. Then there's all the childish humor and jokes that are way to obvious to be deemed clever by an adult, such as the running product-placement gag as well as several scenes where a character, in a fit of smarm, decides to stop the flow of the film by breaking the 4th wall.So what were directors Debbie and Harry trying to accomplish here? They made a movie that is haphazardly marketed towards girls somewhere in the pre-to-post bubblegum-popping teeny-bopper age demographic, and yet they actually expect those very same space cadets to appreciate the movie as itmocks them and their shallow tastes in music? The movie would've been better off trying to appeal to  cynical generation-X Metallica fans.Having said all that, there are two major aspects of the movie I have to praise the Pussycats' songs. The first is Rachel Leigh Cook. She has a breathtaking look as Josie. She should really consider keeping it.The second would be the music. 3 Small Words, Pretend to Be Nice, and Spin Around, are a lot of fun to listen to. These tunes fuse pop and rock together with a remarkable smoothness, having just enough of an edge to get me shaking my head and doing the white-man's-overbite, yet incorporating just enough pop flavor to make the experience qualify as a guilty pleasure. If music groups today were fueled by the innovativeness and sheer spunk of the Pussycats rather than the pre-processed, mass-produced, corporate-choreographed You-go-girl! formula of Eden's Crush and Destiny's Child, you might see a few of us cynical generation-Xers standing in line to pick up the latest top 10 hits along with the teeny-boppers, rather than fantasizing about beating the tar out of Justin Timberlake as we lay back listening to Dark Side of the Moon for the ten-thousandth time. "},{"Title":"Brilliant! A must see movie!","Date":"29 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  This movie is ace! It is funny, entertaining and the soundtrack is brilliant. The girls look fab and are great throughout the movie - especially Tara Reid - who plays Melody brilliantly! This movie is suitable for children as well as adults! "},{"Title":"Too cutesy for teens, too crass for children","Date":"29 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Harry and Debbie, next time you make a movie, pick a target audience and go with it.The movie starts out spoofing boy-bands with a parody group called DuJour. The song they're singing is called Back-Door Lover, and in case the title is too subtle for you, the homo-erotic lyrics and circle-jerk-style dancing should eventually clue-in all but the most imperceptive viewer that this is a light-hearted ditty about anal sex. Maybe a 12-year-old girl wouldn't catch it, but just based on that scene alone I wouldn't take a daughter of mine to see Josie & the Pussycats. But all-in-all it is a sufficiently-amusing roast of the sad state of music groups today (which don't even deserve to be called bands because that word denotes that they can play their own instruments) that a jaded thirty-year-old like myself could enjoy the rest of the movie, sans daughter, if it had more bits like that. I also couldn't help but notice that towards the end of the movie, a few expletives get tossed out as well. While it's certainly not enough swearing to hold a candle to the non-stop stream of profanities found in a PG-13-rated Kevin Smith movie, it's just enough that, again, it's not something fit for children.But most of Josie & the Pussycats is sugar-coated, smut-free kiddie fare, with nothing more risque than an open-mouthed kiss or two. The plot consists of a simple rags-to-riches Cinderella storyline and is populated by archetypical characters that haven't got much more depth than their Hanna-Barbera cartoon counterparts. One gets the distinct impression that this was a tale intended for girls who still have an active Barbie doll collection. For instance, Melody is a twentysomething-year-old whose internal monologue consists of singing If you're happy and you know it, clap your hands! to herself. Then there's all the childish humor and jokes that are way to obvious to be deemed clever by an adult, such as the running product-placement gag as well as several scenes where a character, in a fit of smarm, decides to stop the flow of the film by breaking the 4th wall.So what were directors Debbie and Harry trying to accomplish here? They made a movie that is haphazardly marketed towards girls somewhere in the pre-to-post bubblegum-popping teeny-bopper age demographic, and yet they actually expect those very same space cadets to appreciate the movie as it mocks them and their shallow tastes in music? The movie would've been better off trying to appeal to the cynical generation-X Metallica fans that wind up beating the daylights out of DuJour.Having said all that, there is one major aspect of the movie I have to praise the Pussycats' songs. 3 Small Words, Pretend to Be Nice, and Spin Around, are a lot of fun to listen to. These tunes fuse pop and rock together with a remarkable smoothness, having just enough of an edge to get me shaking my head and doing the white-man's-overbite, yet incorporating just enough pop flavor to make the experience qualify as a guilty pleasure. If music groups today were fueled by the innovativeness and sheer spunk of the Pussycats rather than the pre-processed, mass-produced, corporate-choreographed You-go-girl! formula of Eden's Crush and Destiny's Child, you might see a few of us cynical generation-Xers standing in line to pick up the latest top 10 hits along with the teeny-boppers, rather than fantasizing about kicking the crap out of Justin Timberlake as we lay back listening to Dark Side of the Moon for the ten-thousandth time. "},{"Title":"Goofy and hilarious","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  This is a terrific and funny film that opened here in England without any promotion, which is a shame because it is great. The humour is very sharp, particularly the spoof boy band Du Jour. Tara Reid is wonderful as Melody, the Pussycat's drummer, displaying a deft comic touch. The film satirises the music industry and the concept of branding, which seems very timely at the moment, when the charts are dominated by record company created acts who are cross marketed ad nauseum. "}{"Title":"Fun Fun Fun Pussycats!","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Josie and the Pussycats was one of the most entertaining movies I have seen In a long time. I have not seen the TV series so I don't know if It was like it or not. Anyway, the whole movie had a similar directing styles and script to Dude, Where's my car?. The visuals were great, and it was really fascinating to see advertising everywhere in the film and how it just seamlessly integrated.The actors were all great and really fit the part. Rachael Leigh Cook really was outstating in her performance as the groups leader. One thing I can see was the music was really addictive and I bought the Soundtrack. The rock style was very good and went well with the movie.The movie had many emotions, one that really showed was the comedy which I can say was 3 times better than Dude, Where's my car?.The film was basically about 3 girls in a unknown rock group that want to be seen. Thats exactly what happens. They go from nothing to something in Just a few days because of  secret operation going on.  "},{"Title":"Excellent, Hilarious, Modern-day Fun!!","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  I must say this movie turned out MUCH better than i thought it would be! The first time i watched it, i loved it!! This movie is so funny, i was laughing the whole way through. And of course most of my laughs came from Melody. After seeing Tara Ried's hilarious performance in this movie, she's moved way up in rank of my favorite actresses! Tara Ried should really do more comedy performances! Anywho, the movie is fabulous. It has a great plot (subliminal, brainwashing messages hidden in their music). And every actor/actress in the movie gives a knock-out performance! The only people that wouldn't like this movie are anti-pop/MTV/mainstream punk-type people. If you dont mind a bit of pop/rock, then you will love this movie! I Highly Recommend This Movie!!!!RATING *********/I give this film a 9 out of 10! It is rated PG-13 for language and mild sensuality, and should be okay for kids 9 and up. There is also a Director's Cut, (Rated PG for language and sensuality) in which some of the racier language has been cut, and which should be okay for kids of any age. People of all ages will love this hilarious, feel-good comedy! "},{"Title":"Nostalgic remake of the TV cartoon show, fitted for our times","Date":"22 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  The TV cartoon show of 1970 was silly; so is this movie.  But the ones who like to remember those happier days will be satisfied with the film.In order of best resemblance with the original characters 1) Tara Reid as Melody.  2) Rachael Leigh Cook as Josie.  3) Rosario Dawson as Valerie.  4) Gabriel Mann as Alan.  5) Paulo Costanzo as Alexander.  6) Missi Pyle as Alexandra. Why? Well, the original Melody always came up with stupid comments, ideas, or thoughts; so did Tara Reid, giving Melody the right pitch of voice for every intervention she made.Josie...no one knows why she was really the leader of the group, probably because she was the vocalist of the band.  You noticed that Josie was present due to the fact that Alexandra was jealous of her.  And that's how Rachael Leigh Cook personified her.  She's really that outstanding.Valerie  she was the brainy of the gang.  Always planning how to catch the bad guys.  But this time, Rosario Dawson couldn't impose her character, which really was an important piece of the machinery.  It's a pity, because the original Valerie was charming.Alan.  He was the stud, the leading man.  Gabriel Mann also couldn't give him enough weight on the movie (or maybe because the writers didn't wanted to).  His physical appearance didn't helped him very much either to fill in the space of the original Alan.Alexander was always the coward, whining guy; not the Mr. Wise Guy.  Paulo Costanzo portrayed him as a lazy, good-for-nothing manager.  The original Alexander, had, at least, more personality.Alexandra and The Pussycats.  That's how the show should have been called originally.  She gave life to the TV cartoon show.  It was so funny to see her fighting for Alan over Josie.  But, on the other hand, on the movie, she was a zero to the left.  Maybe the writers should have put more emphasis in such an important character.The movie was funny, though.  I liked more the part where the guys of Dujour appeared, making a bunch of fools of the Backstreet Boys, N Sync, and all those teeny bopper bands. "},{"Title":"nearly 'so bad it's good' - but not quite...","Date":"14 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  The basic story is that a dodgy record company (Mega Records) is inserting subliminal messages onto it's records to exploit the youth of America, telling them what they should consume. A boy band on the label (Dujour) finds out about this evil plot and the record company tries to have them killed off. Needing a new band, the label signs up Josie and the Pussycats and hopes to continue to exploit 'the kids'.I have never read any Archie Comics stuff or seen the old TV show, and probably missed some of the comic / TV related jokes, but I can't say it affected my enjoyment of the film.I've read some of the other reviews on IMDB and wasn't entirely happy with them. You see, sometimes a film is so bad it's fantastic, but I would rate this film as being similar to Mystery Men. It has moments of sheer genius, but there are not enough of them to make this a truly great film. So, sadly, it falls slightly short of being so bad it's good.However, the opening scene is one of the funniest things I have ever seen. There are hordes of young girls (and a few boys) screaming hysterically at the appearance of Dujour. The song they sing is called `Back Door Lover'. If you have seen this film, and even if you haven't, go and buy the soundtrack and listen to the words of this song. Then watch the film. It sounds like Boyzone / Back Street Boys / Nsync, but has lyrics they would never sing!The rest of the film has it's moments and is not bad, although the ending is a bit crap. However, I have bought the DVD and will be watching it and laughing all night long.  "},{"Title":"Fun and laughter along with some great music.","Date":"14 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  I like a movie that gives you that I can take on the whole world feelingand even if  Josie And The Pussycats isn't one of the greatest movies of all time it does give me that feeling.I'm a big fan of Rachael but I have to admit it was the joy in Tara's role that did it. And I also like the serious message in the movie, for aren't we being manipulated all the time. The movie wasn't in dutch cinemas so I had to get it on DVD ( to my surprise I got it the same day it was released in the US ). I would have liked some more extras on it like pictures or maybe 1 or 2 tracks from the album. But all in all it was worth my guilders. "},{"Title":"You'll like this more if you're 20+","Date":"31 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  The entire time I watched this movie, I couldn't tell if it was mocking our current pop-culture, or was actually a part of it.  Advertising for real companies appears in almost every shot.  I was really confused after first viewing, but the more I thought about the funny lines and subtle (and not-subtle) attacks on the MTV-generation, the more I liked it.  The music was fun, the characters were distinct and walked the fine line between Comic Book and Real Life at all times (well, not the villains, but come on...), and the potshots taken at modern Pop culture were hilariously done.  Those of us paying attention know that Seth Green would never let us down.  My hero.Josie kinda got dropped in the theater in early 2001, and no one noticed it, because it wasn't marketed at ALL.  If the songs had been played on the radio (and they're catchy enough) and videos had been played on MTV (and they're silly enough), or if the trailer had consisted of actual scenes from the movie, rather than just a song clip (great for a teaser, bad for a trailer), 12 year olds would have run out to see it for the fashion statement, older kids would have laughed at the sneaky intellect hidden just below the surface.Too bad MGM knows even less about marketing a film than *N'Sync does about playing their own instruments.  Another studio would have had the craftiness to spread this movie among all their media outlets, and make a TON of money from a pretty funny movie with catchy songs... but, well, recently I read that the head of MGM is scaling back their film studio, which he has obviously realized is the only way he's going to keep his job.  Oh, those clever corporations.  They make me all want to-- hey, suddenly I want a Big Mac.  Gotta go. "},{"Title":"Odd","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  I loved this movie--wonderful writing, wonderful acting, and wonderful music. I've got to get this soundtrack! There were two things that bothered me. One was all the advertising--the Target rooms, the dish detergent on the plane, etc. I KNOW that they were SUPPOSED to be there but it was a little overdone. The other thing that bothered me was in several scenes you can see the boom mike hanging overhead. At first I thought it was part of the plot but then they never explained it. Am I the only one that noticed this??? "},{"Title":"Girls Just Wanna Have Fun","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" When I went to go see Josie and the Pussycats at the $1.50 cinema, I was expecting an another huge disappoint to embarrass the intelligence of the teenage audience.  Throughout the film I realized out how wrong I was.  This film had great music, a great cast, great chemistry between the pussycats, was funny and was just a really fun movie. During the movie I found myself laughing out loud (something I really do rarely), tapping my foot to the catchy tunes(to which I later bought the sound track to)and just having fun. Josie and the Pussycats was certainly the overlooked by audiences.  Mostly because they tried too hard to market to a younger audience.  Despite the fact that had it could be enjoyed if you were 7 or 70.  I really don't know how a film this good could have been so overlooked. And for all the cynics who complained the film this movie was for audiences 10 and under you should lighten up.  What did you expect some Oscar-caliber movie? It's a campy  movie based on a 70's cartoon about an all girl band fighting crime. I mean, come on!!!!Not only did this movie have a message and it wasn't afraid to make product placements and  to poke fun at the state of commercialization of our society and how everything is about trends and advertising.  This movie is definitely worth checking out. I know I'm glad I did.  I give this movie a well deserved perfect 10. "},{"Title":"This movie was poorly marketed.","Date":"27 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Josie and the Pussycats was a great satire of our mass consumerism society. Many criticized the massive product placements. I think those people missed the point of the movie. In a good satire, sometimes the humor is missed(ex.I totally missed the humor of Scream, I still think it is just another slasher flick) because the satirization becomes the object of the satire. The movie was marketed to the 10-13 year-old crowd, but the humor was aimed toward adults. If it wasn't marketed as a chick flick for 10-13 year-olds, it might have done better. "},{"Title":"It was a good film.","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  I liked this movie a lot.  Some of my friends would say too much (five times...)  Heh.  Anyway, it was a really good movie.  It was an interesting satire of the culture of our society.  The shots at the movie industry, the music industry and shopping in general were quite interesting and amusing.  I enjoyed this movie including the songs (and I'm not that big a fan of pop music either).  Mostly I liked this movie because it made me feel good and happy.  It's good to have a movie that is just fun. "}{"Title":"Surprisingly good!","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  First of all, all would-be viewers please note.  This film is called Josie and the Pussycats NOT  Poetsong or Perceptions of Maternity as Reflected in the Art of Ancient Civilizations.  It is fluff.  It has catchy tunes and attractive young people and lame quips.  The heroines are good and kind and cute and smart and loyal and sweet and funny.  The bad guys are deceitful and callous and cruel and heartless and sleazy and wicked.  It is not the highest form of art, it's just a jaunty little movie that parodies consumerism, product bands (DuJour is an absolute SCREAM), product placement, mass culture, government and the recording industry, among other things.  It is absolutely over the top, and so it took a critical roasting. Heaven forbid a movie should be whimsical and entertaining!  (My Loved One and I always play spot the product placement when we go to shows; I nearly choked on my popcorn when I saw the boxes of Bounce sheets stuck to the walls of the DuJour plane!)The tunes were great  Just the thing for summer driving.  It had a few limp moments, and the producers would have been much wiser to leave out the few swears, so as to get a more general rating, but it was still a charming movie, well worth seeing.  And yes, I get that I am buying into a certain amount of commercialism by buying the cd, but then, I did by paying to see the show, too, and, anyway, I'm buying the soundtrack, not shoes or soft drinks.  I suppose, in my own way, I am sending a message back to the mega-corps  make products I like and I will buy them; it's so much easier than trying to get me to buy things I don't like. Or else I just saw a show I liked, and want to listen to the songs from it.  Whatever. It's just a show. "},{"Title":"What, exactly, were the film's critics expecting?","Date":"7 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  When you go to see a film based on characters from an Archie's Comic and a Hanna-Barbara cartoon series you should go with a certain set of expectations.  You should not go expecting high art, great drama or insightful social commentary.  That's not part of the deal, not what the movie promises to deliver.  It is supposed to be Fun.If you have a problem with spending big money for light entertainment no problem... go see something else; there are lots of more pretentious films you can catch.If you are angry, for any reason, whatsoever, that someone would make a film version of Josie and the Pussycats then I am sure you are right about whatever it is that has made you angry and you should by all means stay home.If you are immune to irony -- if you can watch a film where the characters are awash in a sea of product logos and not understand that the film is having fun with product placement -- then it might not be your kind of movie.If, on the other hand, you are in the mood for an unrelentingly likeable movie with quite a bit of goofy humor and broad, self-referential parody, this might be just the thing for you.  Catchy music, cute girls, the most faithful rendition of a live action saturday morning cartoon I can think of... what else should you, really, expect?It worked for me.   "},{"Title":"Hurray for Josie and the Pussycats!","Date":"3 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"     I just recently saw this in the theater last month, and I really liked it! Melody (Tara Reid) is hilarious in her role, she acts like a little kid! It's very funny! I also enjoyed Rosario Dawson and Rachel Leigh Cook's performances! This is a very funny remake of the old T.V. show. I reccomend this to anyone who has interest in comedys! Very funny!! Superb! This is a must-see!! I loved it! Very funny! I give it a 9out of 10! Very funny! A+! "},{"Title":"STOP TRYING TO CAPITALIZE ON MY CHILDHOOD MEMORIES","Date":"31 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Too bad.  I had hoped for a trip down memory lane but that's never going to happen, not when you have children in charge of Hollywood, and a revolving door to every executive position out there.  One minute they're green lighting the Grinch and the next minute bad trash like Josie and the Pussycats.Bingo, they're fired the next day and working at MacDonalds where the belonged in the first place.Satire, my ass. If I saw one more ad campaign disguised as a plot motive, I was going to . . .  never mind.These three women aren't actresses -- they're pretty faces, and hot bodies. Parker Posey used to have a career.  Alan Cummings isn't stupid.  He'll do anything to add money to the old bank account because he knows his 15 minutes are nearly up. Speaking of that -- in five years we won't remember the names of these three bimbos or what they look like. Stop making remakes and live action cartoons.  STOP TRYING TO CAPITALIZE ON MY YOUTH -- I RESENT IT!! BOYCOTT THE LIVE-ACTION SCOOBY-DOO!!  It'll be crap -- we know it will be.  "},{"Title":"oooh hear me roar","Date":"14 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  when i heard there was a Josie and the Pussycats movie, i thought what? that old 70s cartoon?. i just gag when i hear a song from that good ol' cheesy tv show that airs at cartoon network.but it's not. and i like this one. not the best or whatever. i agree with the rest, though. it's pure FUN. and i LOVED it. i got my money's worth ($10 at the Loews. sheesh). The fun part of this movie is at the beginning. when Breckin Meyer, Donald Fiason, Seth Green and the other guy started to parade in a scene much like a video of Backstreet Boys.and the music!! quirky catchy tunes. although cook didn't actually sing it, it was ok. kay hanley has a great voice. but it was fun. really.What did I tell you, fun! so i'm giving it a 10. funny cast, of course the ever so pretty rachael leigh cook. and tara reid sure is a dumb blond in here. very melody. you should see it if you just want to have a good time. teen flick, yeah but who cares. i'm a teen ) "},{"Title":"This year's Charlie's Angels and so much more!","Date":"13 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Josie and the Pussycats ***1/2La la la, la la la la, la la la, la la la la, la la la, la la la, yeah is the chorus to one of the songs. Ok, so some of the songs aren't original, but you can't help but liking them. The movie is brilliant in a teen-pop kind of way. The plot is as original as they comeJ&thePCs is about an evil manager of MegaRecods, Fiona, (the always fabulous Parker Posey), who is putting subliminal messages (e.g. Buy Pumas. Pumas are the new Adidas) in pop music. Then, when the group finds out, she has her coniving assistant Wyatt (the always fabulous Alan Cumming) kill them. The movie starts out with DuJour, a tear-up of boybands, they find out and Wyatt gives his secret code (I love this Put the Chevy in the Levy) to the pilot who crashes the plane. On the look-out for a new band, Wyatt runs into The Pussycats (Rachel Leigh Cook as Josie, Tara Reid as Melody, and Rosario Dawson as Valerie). Without even hearing them sing, he gives them a record contract. I went to see this movie with a couple of friends, within the first five minutes, we were laughing so hard. There are many pointless jokes that are hilarious. The product placements of Coke, Target, Colgate, and the movie itself had us in stitches. The cast is purfect. Rachel Leigh Cook lip-syncs her way through the movie, Tara Reid is as blonde as they get, and Rosario Dawson is the only one in the group with half a brain. Parker Posey and Alan Cumming are the best pairing since Matt Damon and Ben Affleck. They should make more movies together. Posey's performance is great and never over the top. As for the songs, they'll be stuck in your head for a while (which is a good thing).Josie and the Pussycats is the most enjoyable comedy of the year.   "},{"Title":"JOSIE AND THE PUSSYCATS know how to entertain!minor spoiler","Date":"11 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  I don't get why Universal would not make an ARCHIE movie and then make a movie of an Archie spin-off. However, JOSIE AND THE PUSSYCATS is still mildly entertaining with its sappy humor, spoofs on pop culture, and great music. Surprisingly, the best scene in the movie is the one where Carson Daly tries to kill Tara Reid. Honestly, who in the right mind would try to kill Tara Reid? She's such a good actress.     "},{"Title":"One of the better satires...","Date":"1 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  This movie was great, and for 1 reason that nobody around here seems to see. This movie completely made fun of product placement in everything. Whether it be music, TV, film, or wherever you can place an ad, this movie did it, and did it to the point of where it was not only noticable, but made you sick of it.  This, I believe, was the point.  Not many movies have really taken a stab at themselves like this, and this one did it succesfully.Other than that, Tara Reid stayed faithful to the Melody character; Rosario Dawson played an interesting Val; Rachael Leigh Cook was cool as Josie; and I dug the Cabots.Being a fan of the whole original Riverdale gang, more inside jokes about the Archies (those guys across town) would have been cool.Also, did anybody else notice the abunce of gay humor in this movie?  Or the lesbian overtones between Josie and Val?Just curious. "},{"Title":"Good Fun","Date":"24 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  This is a movie that gets you feeling good.  It has good music and a good cast.  The plot is so-so but other than that it was really good.  Josie and the Pussycats Rule!!  It is a good comedy and if you like movies about bands then watch this one. "},{"Title":"Lighten up!","Date":"24 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  OK, I admit to being a teenage girl, and therefore my opinion is obviously unworthy. However, I didn't think this movie was as bad as some of you are saying, and I usually don't go for teenybopper movies. Yes, the jokes were lame, the plot was thin, bla bla bla.... If you wanted a great movie why on earth would you go to see something called Josie and the Pussycats ?! The product placement did get annoying but that was the whole point. And without dispute, the soundtrack rocked. (Some of you cynics should read the closing credits more carefully, the actors DID actually do a lot of the music.) On another note, I really didn't appreciate the comments that all people who liked this are mindless idiots This wasn't supposed to be a masterpiece, those people who went into the theater expecting it to be need their heads examined. So for all of you film critics who sat there picking apart every single aspect of the movie, lighten up. "}{"Title":"There's a good message in there, but beware...","Date":"23 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  The cartoon show was part of my childhood and now I'm seeing them again on Boomerang (Cartoon Network's select oldies) and my second grade son is watching them now.  So I took him to JATP (the movie) and had low expectations, but was pleasantly surprised. ****Spoilers to Follow ****Spoilers to Follow *****  The overkill of product placement began to wear on you, but each new one made you think about the reality of NASCAR cars, pro tennis and golf outfits, minor league hockey uniforms and everywhere else you see an inappropriate logo.  Alexandra's comment as to why she was there (Cause I was in the comic book) was a rip. Melody's holding the sign Honk if you love pussy only to have cats hidden by a tree was a laugh.  Here's the good news  My son liked the movie and caught the message of friends are more important than fame.  Bonus for Dads many nubile types that think leaning over in tank tops is a sport.  Here's the bad news Real potty mouthed dialogue that I had to have a talk with my son about afterwards.  The music was the typical headbanging stuff you can't whistle while leaving the theatre. Hey, where's Inside, Outside, Upside Down the one hit from JATP TV show???  Bottom line Too rough for little kids and probably too juvenile for big kids and not enough hidden stuff to hold the adult's attention.  Still, not as bad as Spacehunter in 3-D Adventures in the Forbidden Zone or King Kong Lives.   "},{"Title":"WONDERFUL","Date":"21 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  I went to this movie mainly because I love movies which are all about girls having power, mixed with a heavy load of cheese.  Charlie's Angels had it, as does this.  A well-mixed blend of comedy, cheese, and ingenuity.The best performance in the whole movie had to have been Alan Cummings with his evil comedic persona.  He exemplifies the qualities of a great movie villain, keeping the humor going as well as the evil.  Along with Parker Posey, they took the movie, making me beg for the parts only they would come on. The Pussycats themselves were wonderful, particularly Melody, who is played by Tara Reid.  She wasn't too stupid or annoying, and had this cute and charming quality to her.  I was actually surprised at how well she pulled that part off, as I can see how easily other actresses would fall into the ditzy blonde category.  Racheal also gave a great performance along with Rosario, making the Pussycats solid. The greatest part about the movie was the plot and focus points, making sure they mock our pop-culture and how we all love to get into the new trends.  They reflect how stupid our culture seems, making fun of Virgin Records, Starbucks, and pretty much everything else you can think of.  They must have had a thousand sponsors, being that they had so much product placement.  It's great how they make fun of our boy-band groups that I so much despise in today's society, which Get Over It with Kirsten Dunst also pulled off nicely. Go to see this movie purely for fun and laugh at the intelligent humor spread out.  The soundtrack kept the story rolling, and kept the audience dancing.  Next time I go to see the movie, I think I'm going to count how many products there was actually shown, since that will only heighten my enjoyment of a great movie.  9 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Meow! Fsst!  Fsst!","Date":"19 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Josie, Val, and Melody are garage band rockers from a small town with dreams of making it big.  Purrrfectly acted -- respectfully -- by Rachael Leigh Cook, Rosario Dawson, and Tara Reid, the girls are handed their dreams way too easily by their chance meeting with Wyatt Frame (Alan Cummings, in another great comic role.)Far more than being a mere retro toon remake film, though, it's an all-out nuclear warheaded cruise missle fired at the music industry commercialization machine.  And BABOOM!  It hits Ground Zero too well!! From the parody of BSB, Nsync, 98 Degrees, etc. group called DuJour to its subversive, albeit absurd plot, the picture blends its burlesqued wackiness with a touch of sweet realism, almost poetically.  One never loses sight that the new fab three want to remain who they really feel they are inside, and that's what makes this film work.    "},{"Title":"In defense of an unfairly maligned film...","Date":"18 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  I am perplexed by the venom I see aimed at this movie, and I suspect that more than a few of the harsh reviews are from the If I don't get it, it must be bad school of film criticism. I've seen comments attacking the product placement (an inherent part of the satire), the attractiveness of the film's stars, attacking the music, and suggesting that anyone who doesn't also hate the movie is a moron.Hogwash! The satire may be a bit thin, but it is the main point of the plot (yes, I am admitting the plot is rather thin). The boy band DuJour (how that phrase goes together!) is quite funny in their brief appearance, and the lyrics to Backdoor Lover really have to be listened to to appreciate.The performances range from wonderful (Alan Cummings) to awful (Carson Daly), but the Pussycats are just fine, and as far as their attractiveness goes... well, I fear for the social life of a young man for whom not one of these beautiful young women meets his standards.The best Josie song is Three Small Words, and while none of the others reaches that height of exuberance and immediacy, the others are still pretty good and catchy.I'm not a moron, I'm not a studio hack, and I enjoyed it.  "},{"Title":"Read this review, it may just change your mind.","Date":"18 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  I had never before had the urge to write a review of a film until now. I found it to be pointless, but then I realized how often I read these reviews, and that if I had read reviews for this movie before I saw it (as I sometimes do) that I probably would have stayed far away from the theatre. Fortunately for me, I avoided the reviews until after seeing the film this time.  I have racked my brain trying to figure out why this movie has gotten such terrible reviews. Going into the theatre I had no expectations whatsoever. I knew nothing about the cartoon or the comic. I am not a fan of your typical teen movie either. I hated She's All That, and movies of the like. This may be a film that is targeted towards teens, but in my opinion delivers to a much wider audience. I am in my mid-twenties and laughed hysterically through the entire length of this film.  Expecting a serious movie, or even one with a serious plot you will not like this movie. But you can tell just from the previews that that is not what this film is supposed to be. I wanted to be entertained, and many serious films have not even lived up to that potential recently. This was entertainment at it's best. A good comedy, much like a good horror movie, is extremely rare, and I was very excited to finally find one. The casting was perfect, the soundtrack was probably one of the best since Reality Bites and The Crow, and the plot was absolutely hilarious. Don't listen to the reviews on this one, the theatre that I was echoed with laughter. And from my personal experience the general public is a much better source than anyone who calls him or herself a film critic. After all, aren't we all?Obviously if you are reading this then you value my opinion. And as I said this is the first review I have written, so obviously I had something important to say.  Bottom line...10/10...I walked out of the theatre wanting to walk right back in for a second run. Being that I saw the late show I settled for heading across the street to Wal-Mart for the soundtrack. Go see Josie! It rocks!   "},{"Title":"Better than DUDE WHERE'S MY CAR?","Date":"17 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"      I didn't expect a good movie. I just wanted a fun movie. Did I get a fun movie? The answer would have been yes if the movie was 30 minutes shorter. Don't get me wrong, I would have loved spending the WHOLE DAY watching Rachael Leigh Cook, but the pace of the film just put me out of the mood. The worst part of the movie was the dialogue. Even the hilarious opening sequence was sluggish at some points. Tara Reid's dumb blonde character wasn't very convincing either. Calm down, I'm not trashing this movie because I missed the joke. Hell, I'm not even trashing this movie. The infamous product placement in this movie had little to no effect on me. Was it supposed to be THAT funny? I mean, after a few scenes, I didn't care anymore. Did everyone else laugh at every product placement they saw? DuJour is great though, and they immediately light up the screen. Seeing the trailer, I thought this movie was going to be about the competition between DuJour and Josie, but the first scene, they're killed off. This is one reason why the best parts of the movie are in the beginning and the end.THE GOOD RLC! DuJour. The Mr. Moviefone subliminal messages. The music. Alan Cumming was pretty funny cuz, admit it, those Brits are pretty darn hilarious!THE BAD The dialogue. The lame love story subplot. Parker Posey's performance. Her lisp was just confusing until she reveals her true identity.Other Product Placement, I dunno what to think of it. Oh, and RLC is such a babe!I give this movie 6 out of 10  "},{"Title":"this cats a dog","Date":"17 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  JOSIE AND THE PUSSYCATSin keeping with what other reviews wrote, JOSIE goes out of its way to send up how much commercialization has become ingrained in our daily lives.  However a poorly devised script in which every scene is peppered with musical montages; subjecting the audience to the songs from a available in a store near you soundtrack, only supports the movies point.  Commercialization, or PIMPING is not a spectator sport.An unfortunate message to send when young men are eager to attend a film in which PUSSY appears prominently in the title and the main characters are young, nubile, twenty-somethings.  Actresses whom this viewer was hoping could prove their namesakes.As the Riverdale Trio; Rachel Leigh Cook, Tara Ried, and Rosario Dawson seemed lost and confused.  Was this a comedy?  A social satire?  Perhaps a BRAZIL for the clearasil set.  Regardless of what the filmmakers had intended, it doesnt seem the shared such information with the cast.Emoting with a certain apathy that prevents the audience from becoming concerned (or interested) at all, only the bubbly Tara Ried managed to create a character who could have come from Riverdale.  Portraying the happy, hug-me, rainbows are pretty, letss have a bake sale drummer; the few genuine laughs to be had were courtesy her ditzy harmlessness.  An unexpected surprise given the actresss dubious range.  Especially in her scenes playing off the villainous Parker Posey and Alan Cumming.  Two actors who have been in worse projects, but came off better than they did here.Ultimately Josie and The Pussycats was as humorless, cold, and impersonal as the logo-brand driven-buy-buy-buy-materialistic-impulse shopping culture it depicts.  But it is not entertaining and its reliance on the life lesson to be found in The Captain and Tenilles, LOVE WILL KEEP US TOGETHER - disappoints.  With only a few laughs and original ideas scattered around like litter, this cat is truly a dog "},{"Title":"A surprisingly great and challenging film.","Date":"16 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  In a time when we are being mentally crippled by a barrage of mindless studio films constantly churned out by the Hollywood manchine, I was relieved to see this film got made with this script. I never take time to write comments on here (although I wish I did) but I was afraid people might miss this film and I felt it my duty to inform the world. The directors take every opportunity here to attack conformity and commercialism at every turn. The irony here is that there is more product placement in this film than probably in other in the history of time. This is a brilliant way to get funding for a film that attacks the very idea. I wonder if these companies or the studios ever read the script. Unfortunately they probably did and knew that it really wouldn't effect their sales in a negative way. I say this because of who the film was really targeting and hoping to probably challenge, and that is American teenagers. There were plenty in the screening that I saw and unfortunately I believed that they missed the point. That in fact corporations and old white businessmen determine what will be cool and acceptable. That every trend, from the mall kids that all dress alike to those who believe that the current crop of alternative rock is rebellious, is being packaged and sold to them. It also shows us what happens to the young artists who believe in themselves and how corporate money can alter the way they see their art form and their very perceptions of reality. Film could always be used for something more than mere entertainment, and here they achieve something on multiple levels. It's unfortunate that the people who really need to absorb this film will either dismiss it as fun or dislike it because it challenges their very existence.This movie also worked for me on a comedy level. It is a complete exercise in the absurd. This works wonderfully with the fast cutting style and high-energy music. It's great to look at and great to think about. They have taken the shell of the original cartoon and improved on it. Hopefully the sequel will take place in outer space. (If there is one.)  "},{"Title":"Meow!","Date":"15 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  To be honest, my expectations weren't all that high when I went to see this.  There was only one rave on the print ad on for this film, which usually sets off warning signs.  Plus, given the track record for adaptations of old TV shows, I wasn't expecting much.  But after it was over, I was pleasantly surprised.  This is a very clever satire, in the same vein as American Psycho and Fight Club, but much more family-friendly. I'd never read the comic or watched the show (both were before my time), but that really didn't matter.  It just took the basics (the basics that I'm aware of) and planted it in the 90's, making them a struggling rock group in a small town.  The plot, which combines satire of the commercialism in the music industry (hardly a scene goes by without some blatant product placement) and a nefarious scheme involving mind control as it relates to pop culture, paints with a very wide brush and rarely misses.  The three girls do well, but it's Tara Reid as Melodie that really steals the show, particularly in a scene with Carson Daly as himself.  And, as every good film needs a good villain, the film gives us not one, but two, in the form of Alan Cumming and Parker Posey as a pair of ruthless record executives. As for the music, it's very good too; it had a good beat and the lyrics were easy to follow (even my brother was tapping his foot to it, and he's NOT into music at all)Rating (out of 10)  8.75 "},{"Title":"Wonderful satire, grossly mis-reviewed","Date":"15 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" It's amazing to me how so many reviewers, who are supposedly smart, intellectual people, completely missed the satire and parody of this movie. So many reviews complained about the barrage of product placement in the movie. Guess what....it's so over-the-top, it's obviously a joke. It's our consumer culture taken to the extreme. What's sad is that the plot of this movie, record execs placing messages in music in order to change trends as often as possible, is probably at least half true. I especially loved the shots of suburbia where everybody owns the exact same SUV.I think it's obvious from the IMDb user rating (7.8 as I write this) that this is the most mis-reviewed movie in a long time. Who knows, maybe all the reviewers are part of the conspiracy, and this hits a little to close to home ) "}{"Title":"Brandalism Rocks!","Date":"15 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" ...and by Brandalism, I refer to the act of slapping corporate logos in every  conceivable area that the human eye can reach. Josie and the Pussycats is brandalized to a near-nauseating effect, which was most intentional, I'm sure.  It's to this end that the thousands of corporate logos captured in nearly every  scene of the movie punctuate its overall message that our youth are being literally brainwashed by the media at large. In fact, it's really a relief when the  end credits start to roll, because it is one of the few moments in the movie that is  not sponsored by Target, Revlon, etc. Death by excess is not only a part of Hollywood, it's the rule. I hope the kids got it. "},{"Title":"not for the pop-culture impaired","Date":"15 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  For the love of Cthulhu, people! Get a grip! I see users complaining about the product placement, the unattractive leads, this and that, yadda yadda. The whole movie is a spoof of itself, and it's done in an amazing way. I paid full price for this movie, and I don't regret one penny. The product placement was a dig at the whole entertainment industry, and being so over-the-top, couldn't have been anything *but a satire. Anyone who can't see that is either really dumb or just has no sense of humor. The young ladies who played the leads were perfect (I *loved Melody's martial arts stint towards the end), and their singing (yes, they did the vocals themselves, along with some other people, check the credits if you don't believe me) was great. The soundtrack isn't something I had been planning to buy, but it's awesome - perfect for driving in the car with the top down and the volume up.And for crying out loud, people, lighten up! Not every movie is designed to be a thought-provoking masterpiece. This is a movie to go see with your date, to relax in and laugh at the silliness people do. "},{"Title":"Josie could eat Mickey for lunch, don't you think?","Date":"14 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  This may well be the only 46 year old male perspective on the movie. I know there were no other 46 year old males in the theater with me while I was watching. In fact, there were no other males at all. I was surrounded by high school age girls. So, why was I there, one might reasonably ask? Pervert? no. Fan of the original? no. Went in wrong theater? no. Pervert? NO! Actually, I went with my kids. And anyway, I'm with it. I'm hep. I can dig it. I groove. I get down. But I get down slowly or it hurts my back. As for the film, it was loud. I was rather fond of their pussycat ears. Josie was sweet. I liked her in that other movie she was in, the one where they played the song Kiss Me. But she wasn't Josie in that movie so she didn't have to lip sync that song. She did a great job syncing here though. The movie is kind of funny-clever sometimes. But never quite funny-clever enough. My perspective is, the movie is weak. But my teenage kids say Josie rocks! So, I say, non-pervert 46 year old males should not expect much here. And pervert males should be ashamed of themselves, and stay away from this movie and immediately go get professional help. "},{"Title":"Better Than You'd Expect... But That's Not Saying Much","Date":"14 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  JOSIE AND THE PUSSYCATS really hits its high mark during its moments of satire, but the second it stops making fun of the pop industry and tries to tell a story it fails miserably. The story is your basic teenie-bopper fodder, so don't expect anything new. Although the opening minutes, that mocked boy bands, and the conspiracy subplots are rather amusing and sometimes downright hilarious in there wit, it can't save us from the fact that there's nothing really to hold are interest. It's like a Chocolate Easter Bunny... good on the outside, but hollow in the middle.6/10 "},{"Title":"That was SO twenty-minutes ago!","Date":"13 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" Like many of the other commenters, I did not know what to expect from this film.  I did cringe in December when I heard they were making a Pussycats movie; I recall saying at the time Is there nobody in Hollywood with an original idea anymore?  But knowing that the musical voice of Josie was a respectable female performer from here in Boston, I was curious as to how the tunes would carry...What a pleasant surprise!  I had no idea how precise a shot the movie was to make on the entertainment industry.  I really enjoyed it.  How can you leave the theater without looking at product placement in films for the unabashed hucksterism it is?Great tunes, funny scenes (including some great inflective humor), and some nice eye-candy...  It's not going to take an Oscar, and it will never be viewed with the significance of say, Bresson's A Man Escapes, or even the 70's smash Network, but it is DEFINITELY worth seeing! "},{"Title":"Buy the soundtrack, skip the movie","Date":"13 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  I saw this film last night, and I was not completely disappointed.  The stars, Rachel Leigh Cook, Tara Reid, and Rosario Dawson are serious eye candy, and there were some funny bits.  The music, however, was a revelation!  Oh how I wish there was a rocking power trio of hot chicks like the Pussycats on the radio nowadays.  Of course, the actors had nothing to do with the music, but surely the music business could cobble together some babes with some drum and bass chops to back up the lead singer, who I believe was with Letters to Cleo, and make a few records.As for the film, the most important thing in bringing a comic book or animated series to the big screen is to be as faithful to the original as possible, regardless of how silly it is, and here the filmakers succeed admirably.  The extraneous character of Alexandra (Missi Pyle from Galaxy Quest) even says she's only there because I'm in the comic.  Josie, Val, and Melody are their same old selves, with Reid especially evoking Melody's sweet goofyness.  Parker Posey and Alan Cumming lend their considerable talent as the clueless villains.  Seth Green does a great turn as a boy band member with issues.The plot consists of the obtuse observation that the music industry is trying to co-opt the minds of teenagers into buying stuff they don't need, and Josie and the 'Cats bid to stop them, by, I guess, becoming a part of it.  The irony flows freely, as the movie itself takes part in the crass commercialization it supposedly abhors.  With many winks and nods to the camera, the action builds to a thoroughly silly and implausible conclusion, again, much like the original TV series.  I would definitely watch it again on video, if only for the skin-tight outfits of the comely 'Cats and the hard rocking soundtrack, but I would not recommend paying $8 to see it. "},{"Title":"The movie was stupid...like it was SUPPOSED to be","Date":"13 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  I'm no movie critic, and I never will be. Because movie critics spend too much time analyzing every little detail about a movie and never have time to enjoy it. Some movies are absolutely terrible, some are ok, and some are great. This movie was ok, and to me, borderline great. You know why? Because it made me laugh. Sure the story wasn't all too great, and gets all sappy near the end, but it was supposed to be stupid. Any movie business is there to make money. It's just the way it is. And the blatant advertising not only made the movie funny, but also gave Universal some cash. Hey, I'd do it if I could. They also realized that the blatant advertising is basically what happens in every day life. How far can you go without seeing some label telling you to buy this or that. They just took it to another level, making it much more obvious. If you don't think that this movie is funny, then great, it's ok. People have different senses of humor. That's life. But you don't have to call the people who DID think it was funny mindless trash or something of the sort. Because people are different. People are going to like different things and think different things are funny. This movie IS geared towards teens. Teens will like this movie. It's not for adults who have to rip apart every flaw they see. If you're looking to ENJOY a movie, and have a good, cheesy time, then go see Josie. That's what it's going to do. Go into the movie realizing it will be stupid, and you'll enjoy it. If you can't do it, then avoid this movie at all costs. But you don't have to bring down those who do like it. That's just my two cents. "},{"Title":"Good adaptation of old comic book friends!","Date":"13 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Josie rocks!  All six of the main characters that we got to know in the Archie comic books are here (there's no Sebastian the cat - sorry!) but all bring their characters to life.  Parker Posey, however, comes off as Cruella DeVil and Alan Cumming's character gets annoying quickly.  I especially loved Missi Pyle - she was perfect and dead-on to the cartoon Alexandra Cabot; Rachael Leigh Cook, Tara Reid and Rosario Dawson were fantastic as Josie, Melody and Valerie.  Echoing another comment, Tara WAS Melody - can't see any other actress doing this part justice!  The characters of Alan and Alexander didn't quite seem as true to their cartoons, but were good nevertheless.  The plot of the story is relevant and up-to-date to today's teen.  I hope there will be a sequel.   "},{"Title":"Commercialized fun","Date":"13 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  After being bombarded with one negative review after another from the local papers (all of which were written by middle-aged men), my friend and I went into Josie pretty wary, to say the least. We're both into that girly-cute stuff, so we'd thought it looked like a fun movie...but the critics had made us fear the worst.Well, I came out of the theater with a catchy tune in my head and for once, feeling my five bucks had been worth it (unlike with most of the kiddie drivel I take my little brother to.) But then again, I'm a teenage girl, and this was, well, a teenybopper movie.  Whatever. I wasn't expecting a cinematic treasure; I wanted goofy escapist fun, and I got it.Most of the critics were whining about the constant product placement, which, I thought, was the whole point (unless my impressionable teenage brain missed it entirely).  It's self-parody.  And I couldn't help but laugh at the absurdity of the America Online Hotel or a hotel room that looks like a Target store threw up all over it.  Not all the jokes hit, but the campiness alone was enough for me. The over-the-top villains were great, and I especially loved Tara Reid's turn as Melody (or was it Bubbles from Powerpuff Girls?) I despise nearly all boy bands, but I found myself falling for DuJour just the same. And Alan M? Yowza!From what I've heard so far from other people, the chances one will like it is a bit of a crapshoot. (I imagine most guys won't, and when their girlfriends drag them to it they will simply use the opportunity to ogle Rachael Leigh Cook.) But I enjoyed it on the grounds of what it is; cute campy fun.And, oh, yeah; where can I find McDonald's shower puppets? ^.^ "},{"Title":"The Cat's Out of the bag and thank god for that.","Date":"12 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Extermely entertaining and succeds on every level . Rachael Leigh Cook first big screen movie lead is finally hear and man does it deliver .Okay girls I,m with you girl comedy rule it just a fact .And this little jem is no exception I mean how do you bet comedies strating atractive girl who give funny perfomance you don't. Lets face it no one  knows anything about Josie and The Pussycats character so this movie seem really fresh. Rachael Leigh Cook is great as always and Tara Reid seemed like Kelly Bundy came back from the dead (That's a compliament people) defintely the best she's done in any movie. The story centers around a evil coperation trying to control teenager mind leed by Parker Posey who was in Scream 3 if your not familar . The movie nicely parodies teen culture and come on admit it pokes fun at stuff that's certainly seem like people have been brainwashed into liking and just as thinking how ridiculize Seth Green and Breckyn Meyer look in there lousy Nsync knock of Dejour you get a big surprise see the movie I'm not telling you, then here come the Pussycat who's music actually is cool but there talent has yet to be discovered and there best gig is at a bowling alley . The cats get discovered as there chased away from a mall they were trying to play at and meet Alan Cumming's character who turns them into huge rockstars but there a catch Joise and the girl are just pawn as there music is just an excuse to brainwash more teens . I'm not a man to give away a plot so I won't I'll just say great stars, great cameos great music equalls a great time you just waiting to have . But quit waisting your time reading my review and go I gurantee It as fun as movie can get. A+  "}{"Title":"Honk if you love pussy.......cats","Date":"12 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  I love this movie. The whole subliminal message thing was screwed up. But was a nice little twist. I think Josie sings good. I love punk rock. And if you're interested MxPx is a good punk rock band.  Valory, Puppys turn into dogs, and dogs get old and die.  NO!!!!! Great movie.  If you haven't seen it I would run out now!!!!!! "},{"Title":"hmmm...","Date":"12 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  So Josie & the Pussycats are a girl punk group (about as punk as Britney Spears - see the Crass song 'punk is dead') who are trying to fight evil record executives that are trying to turn the nation's teens in consumer zombies (too late - btw, the film is filled with so much product placement you know the producers must have killed themselves laughing over the irony while they counted their money).It's a bad movie, nevertheless.  Fans of the comic book and TV show may want to check it out, but will probably be disappointed, perhaps even frustrated.I remember when people used to change the channel during commercials, now it seems everybody is paying $7 to get go see them. "},{"Title":"Teen Fluff....Period!","Date":"11 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Josie And The Pussycats is totally disposable brain candy with a few cute moments for the teens and some not-half-bad catchy punk-pop tunes on its soundtrack.  There's also a hint of a smart music-biz satire that might have been, had co-writer/co-directors Harry Elfont and Deborah Kaplan reached a bit deeper and aimed higher.  Alas, the movie remains about as substantial as the cartoon series it was based on.  Easy to watch, but just as easy to forget.The main problem here is the story, which hangs on a concept that's pretty dated in this day and age; that there are subliminal messages in the kiddie-pop music and that this brainwashes the kids into consumer and pop-culture frenzy.  If only things were that simple and uncomplicated.  The concept might have seemed fresh and novel about 10 years ago, but it's neither clever nor particularly funny today.  The producers seem to have also gone WAY beyond the call of duty as far as the element of product placement in entertainment goes.  This movie is FILLED to bursting with blatant product-placement and once the point is made, it quickly becomes obnoxious and distracting.I actually had relatively high hopes entering the theatre.  Elfont and Kaplan's last effort was 1998's Can't Hardly Wait, another teen-oriented comedy that, while not exactly profound itself, was a goofy, funny and occasionally insightful little film reminiscent of John Hughes' teen comedies of the 1980s. They also co-authored the smartly satirical A Very Brady Sequel.  Maybe I'm getting older...this movie was not aimed at me....but I was disappointed with Josie And The Pussycats because I know the filmmakers had proved before that they are capable of so much more.Rachel Leigh Cook, Tara Reid and Rosario Dawson are attractive and talented as the title group, but they're saddled with pretty dull material here, left to do not much more than look pretty and strike poses.  Indie-film darling Parker Posey is largely wasted in a vampy role of a record company exec.  Only Alan Cumming, as an sneaky, sleazy tour promoter, manages to mold a memorable and consistently amusing character.  Cumming, who can also be seen in a semi-villainous role in the current film Spy Kids, is making his name as one of the great character actors of our time.Kids may enjoy it, but with few memorable scenes and the absence of any clever, quotable dialogue, it's hard to imagine even them wanting to see it more than once. My rating =  ** stars.   "},{"Title":"Irreverent Fun with a great little soundtrack","Date":"11 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  What I expected to find, I didn't. I went knowing that I would think it was a bubble gum movie that I would never pay anything but the matinee price to go and see, but that it would do its job of picking me up before Finals this semester. What I didn't expect was such a goofy look at modern pop culture without Chirstina Aguilera screaming down my ear.The players are fun because they poke fun at themselves. The product placement of the movie - you'll know what I mean ten minutes into the film - are hilarious. The irreverent way they look at the music industry is fun. And who knew I'd love the music so much? I really anticipated a lot of pop nonsense, but I loved the guitar and drums so absent in top 40 artists (you know who I mean).Don't expect Saving Private Ryan or Sleepless in Seattle...this movie pokes fun at itself. It's more like Austin Powers.  Seeing Seth Green in an orange and red boa is worth the price of admission - even full price. "},{"Title":"yuckorama!","Date":"11 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Purr-fect?  This movie was the opposite of perfect, it flat out stunk. For those with few brain cells though, this might be your movie, but don't look for any sign of intelligence in this movie, it just stunk. The 80's movie Satisfaction was an awful movie, but compared to Josie, Satisfaction reigns the utmost supreme.  If you go to see Josie, don't expect anything because you won't get anything.  Want a truely fun movie to go see?  See SPY KIDS. "},{"Title":"Completely enjoyable movie.","Date":"9 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Josie and the Pussycats was a great tv show and a great comic book before that. No one was more hesitent then me when I first heard there was going to be a live-action movie was going to be released then myself.I was recently invited however to the Indianapolis advance screening of the film and was overjoyed. The characters were right on target with their cartoon counterparts. The costumes weren't there but the old cartoon costumes really arent new millenium material. The theme song wasnt played until the end credits, but at least it was played. The movie itself was funny and had great side-characters. The direction wasnt anything to write home about but i thought it was well done.The music was great. It is suprising these days to see a girl band play instruments but these chicks do, and even if it isnt the actresses themselves playing and singing, whoever do ROCK! I have the soundtrack and it to kicks! There is a hilarious parody of boy bands called DuJour -- clever name. The actors who played this band obviously had fun with their parts. Seth Green especially.It is not exactly what the cartoon used to be but it is a great little movie that even though as of writing has not been released to theatres, i will probably see again and will pick up on DVD when it is released.If you can i would highly recommend you see Josie and the Pussycats. If you are into the current music scene (which im not) or if you are a fan of the old TV show/comic book (which i am).I hope the movie is a success and we can see more of the Pussycats. "},{"Title":"Why Josie Rocks","Date":"6 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Much better than you would think and a million times better than the trashy SPICE GIRLS flick, because that film was a film starring a rock band (and bad actresses) ala THE BEATLES' flicks and this is a film starring actors (good ones no less) playing a rock band.  Though this is not exactly THE BUDDY HOLLY STORY or EDDIE AND THE CRUSIERS this is indeed a movie not a long-form music video.  It is also based on the Archie comic strip (and 70's animated Saturday morning TV show) and it belongs to that long time successful genre of film.  The good thing is that you don't really need any past knowledge of the cartoon characters and their original situations. One mistake in bringing cartoon characters to life is revisiting the era which made them famous (as with the very dated cold war spoof ROCKY AND BULLWINKLE, the prohibition-era DICK TRACY, and the President Hoover era POPEYE).  Cartoon characters are ageless and bringing them to life is like playing musical chairs.  Once you say Hey you're real! you can stop in our own era.  Even the stone-aged FLINTSTONES (actually a spoof of 1960's suburbia) were updated to spoof the nineties with such current pop items as McDonalds.  Comic strips and comic books constantly update the period while keeping their characters young.  Live action versions of SUPERMAN and BATMAN constantly keep up with the times as do THE ADDAMS FAMILY (yes it was a newspaper comic), CASPER, and that other Archie comic strip SABRINA THE TEENAGE WITCH.  JOSIE is very much rooted into our time and all the current girl bands and boy bands.  The music is very much what you would expect of a pop band of today, as are the costumes (sure they look silly, but not as silly as real life rock star Bjork's swan dress at the Oscars).  This is a movie the entire family will love.   "},{"Title":"Much heart, little brain","Date":"5 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  It's a surprisingly insightful look at commercial pop culture, and both over the top and nasty in its dissection of the teen hit machine.  Some teens might hate it since it makes them all look so stupid, especially during the gut-bustingly funny scenes parodying Nsync and their dancing.  The script is too often by-the-books, and anyone should be able to predict most developments without effort, but the preview audience was in stitches several times, and a character makes a reference to their *original* origins that drew a near ovation of applause from a crowd ranging from li'l kids to greyhairs.  The guy playing Alan is far too scrawny, but Tara Reid **is** Melody. --G.  "},{"Title":"Honk if you like pussycats!","Date":"5 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  To start off I'm not a fan of the comic book, or the cartoon of Josie and the Pussycats, However, i did enjoy the movie. I saw a premiere in Boston for free so i figured i can't go wrong. (expect of course if it was the blair witch project 2, Yuck) Well it turns out i was right, the movie was cheesy fun and i emphasized on the word cheesy.The point of the movie is simple, we live in a age of complete advertisement, you are a target market. Every thing around us is all advertisement, sporting events, concerts, movies, heck just look on the top and bottom of this site and i will guarantee that there is a add for something. this movie surrounds this topic in a slap stick sort of way.The writers exaggerated that everything is controlled by media and entertainment, in this case putting hidden messages in music to brain wash teens into thinking what is cool and what isn't. Example pink is the new red That's where Josie and the pussycats come into play. There Music is Brain Washing teens without them even realizing it.I don't want to ruin anymore of this movie, but i do recommend sometime to check it out. It's not the greatest movie in the world but is entertaining and i feel most people will find this movie was enjoyable unless, of course you take it too seriously.Jon's movie rating 7.5/10  "},{"Title":"Pretty Kitty gets stuck up a tree...","Date":"4 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Just saw a sneak preview of this. Gotta say that I was a huge fan of the cartoon show, and that although I have reservations about the film, I don't think it's entirely bad.First up, the idea behind the film,the government and the Pussycats' record company planting subliminal messages in music to sell stuff to teenagers is a really interesting and clever and topical one, and much of the humor surrounding this is very funny (with some dead-on jokes about boy bands). The catch-22 is that this means the film is telling its target audience You're morons, not least because it dumbs down so much of the story to try and make it work on the lowest possible level - the last ten minutes of the movie absolutely die because of the dumbing down.Rachael Leigh Cook is good as Josie, and Rosario Dawson, Tara Reid and Parker Posey all seem to be having fun (although Missi Pyle's Alexandra Cabot just seems totally grotesque), but part of the film's problem is that it doesn't really build relationships between the characters. They're just sort of there and some of them just seem to be there because they were in the cartoon (something one of them actually says at one point). Sad thing is that in the cartoon, the characters' relationships were much better drawn.But that's dwelling on the bad stuff. There's good stuff too, in both the performances and the satire, and what makes the film most interesting is that the concept behind it makes it not just another teen movie. It could even be argued that the dumbing down of the script is a postmodern joke about teen movies. If it is, it doesn't work, but then much of the satire in the film (references to Leif Garrett, etc) did go soaring over the heads of the 16-year-olds in the audience, so while twentysomethings may appreciate it for that, I doubt many of the kids will. They should either have done it as a smarter satire, and gone for the 18-to-25 audience, or done it as a straighter story and aimed it at the teenagers.Oh yeah, and Josie purists may be annoyed that Sebastian the cat is missing, and Josie's hometown is given as Riverdale.So anyway, as it is, Josie and the Pussycats doesn't exactly cough up a hairball, but it feels like it's been declawed. "}{"Title":"Whipped Cream and Fluff (with a real message inside!)","Date":"4 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Unexpectedly, Josie and the Pussycats has a solid core message--  and enough whipped cream and fluff to make it possible to get that message across to an audience that doesn't want to hear it.The comic strip always taught friendship, the importance of family, and that doing the right thing was the best choice. . . and that not all of your family and friends were likable, but they remain your family.  How do you take a short comic and turn it into an eight dollar plus night with strangers in a dark room with sticky floors?  The recipe  Toss in Rachel Leigh Cook's best performance, mix in solid support from Tara Reid and Rosario Dawson, leaven with a oh so heavy, oh so light Alan Cumming, add a so over the top Parker Posey, and shake and bake with an absurd but just maybe true conspiracy about big business and the government experimenting on mind control. . . and let simmer for a few days after you walk back out into the sunshine.Of course you know they were kidding.But product placement will never be quite so effective again.  "},{"Title":"this movie is tight","Date":"24 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  When this movie first came out i thought it was gonna be stupid. When the movie bombed at the box office i wasn't surprised. But when the movie came on STARZ i decided to check it out and man oh man was i wrong. Josie and the Pussycat blew me away when i watched it in fact i liked it so much i went out and bought the DVD and i downloaded the soundtrack. now keep in mind I'm a guy but i aint gay but i have seen this movie over 20 times. i have seen this movie so many times that i no all the words to the movie. This is the only movie that tara reid is actually good in cuz American pie she was just eye candy. Josie and the Pussycats is one of the best TV shows turned into movies that are out there rite now it goes up there with this year starsky and hutch. 8/10  "},{"Title":"This is a great light movie","Date":"23 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  I enjoined this movie. Rachael Cook was the best. It's a completely harmless film. There are no surprises or plot twists. But, that's fine It's very self-aware of how silly it is. I thought this is a perfect example of how to make a cartoon into a live-action movie. The characters in the movie are cartoon-like in how they act, but not how they look, which is as it's supposed to be. The reverse approach other movies have are actors in spandex trying to be realistic. No spandex in this film.All three girls look perfect throughout. They all look sexy (while keeping their clothes on). If you want an *escape* rent this movie. If you like to critique the artistic merit of a movie, then please don't watch.I wasn't a follower of the original cartoon, and it's not really geared to same age range.  "},{"Title":"clearly the best film in the world.. ever","Date":"31 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Mel Warner introduced me to this classic piece of camp comedy. Everything about this film is ragingly homo, but in the best possible sence of the word. I wasn't particularly familiar with the comic book but who cares... its the most joyfull film any musicologist of popular music and culture could wish for. Semiotically speaking Any film with Misy Pyle and Parker Posey and Alan Cumming is going to have some classic alan partridge moments... but just mix that with the most hillarious product placement, and lyrics such as 'punk rock prom queen, brown paper magazine' and instant quotes like 'we're special... yeah... special ED.', 'i used to summer on the continant, fancy a snog' and the profound meaning of 'take the shevy to the leavy' you get a film which will be universally hated and adored. its a phucking class film, but very very gay. "},{"Title":"Has its moments...","Date":"19 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  but it's easy to see why this bombed.  For one thing it wasn't a live action version of the comic book or the animated series from the 70s.  It just took the names and characters and changed everything.  So fans of the original comic were annoyed and newcomers didn't know what to make of this.  Still, it's not that bad.The Pussycats are a small band from Riverdale who want to make it big.  An evil record exec (Alan Cumming REALLY camping it up) propels them to superstardom overnight (literally) and uses their music to send subliminal marketing messages to teenagers.  Nothing new plot wise but it's still somewhat funny.  There's constant product placement in every frame of the movie--it's there as a joke but it still IS product placement.  The script is OK--no great shakes but there are some really good lines.  There's some good acting too by Cumming, Rosasrio Dawson (as Val in the band) and Tara Reid (as Melody).  Unfortunately, everybody else is pretty bad especially Rachel Leigh Cook (as Josie) and (surprisingly) Parker Posey as another evil executive.  That really weighs the movie down.  Also the songs are, to be nice, forgettable.So, it's a pretty good film with some great moments.  Too bad there weren't more of them.  "},{"Title":"what the hell ?","Date":"7 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  why was this movie made, what did i just see?you see this is what you end up doing on a saturday when you hang out with your girlfriend and her friends maybe its just because im a guy thats why i dislike it so bad it stunk! period it's right up there with rocky and bullwinkle as the worst flicks i've had the displeasure of seeing it's my own fault though i coul have said no i wish i could at least point out some things i hated but then i would just be wasting more time on this crap anyone whos seen this and is over 13 and liked it hasnt seen very many movies avoid this unless you have a REALLY hot girlfriend ! 1/10 "},{"Title":"Rather Entertaining - Great, Light, and FUN!","Date":"2 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" I found this movie to be quite entertaining and enjoyable. No, there was really not any high-quality or serious acting involved, but I say that was the entire point. The actors had fun performing the scenes, and that showed. The entire atmosphere was quite campy, light- hearted, and continually poking fun at itself. If you just sit back and enjoy, you will like the visuals, the subtle jokes, and absorb the good feelings from the performances. Overall just a great movie to watch over and over... and I have.This is certainly my opinion and surely others, like already stated, just don't like fluff or it's playfulness. That's OK, I can see their point of view but I smile too much and feel too good watching this movie to agree... lighten up people and enjoy! "},{"Title":"worth watching, definetly","Date":"31 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  when i first heard about the movie people kept saying it was a waste of time and don't watch it and stuff like that.  personally i think its a really good movie, i mean, don't get me wrong, i don't think it should have been a box office hit or anything, i just think it was better than most people will give it credit for.  also, its especially good, and would be more appreciated, by the musicians that see it.  if your not a musician it won't mean as much to you, but i still think it is a good movie, even if you aren't a musician.  AND, even if you see the movie and don't like, i think everyone(without a doubt) will a agree that u'd still love the soundtrack.  no matter how much u dislike the movie, u'll definetly love the soundtrack, all the songs are really great! "},{"Title":"A great flick that no one gave the chance.","Date":"29 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" I rented this one pretty much as a joke, just to say I finally saw it, turned out I thought the movie kicked ass! I didn't realize that both Parker Posey & Alan Cumming were in the movie, nor did I realize that an upcoming Missy Pyle was so fricken funny! The biggest thing that probably killed this movie was the MTV tie-ins, this movie was so pimped on MTV, and I couldn't help but think all I was going to see is some 90 minutes of MTV marketing hype.I was semi-right, but in a really cool way! Instead it's a movie that's actually anti-marketing, in both music and movies. The basic plot line is how a music producer lays in subliminal tracks on little pop groups for their easily manipulated fans to go out and buy everything they're told too. Then we get the never tiring jokes of all the product placements through out the whole movie, everything from Dawn soap in an airplane to McDonalds in a shower scene. You'd think with so much product placement the studio made all its money back just with that. Actually, it turns out that they felt that taking money for the products was hypocritical to the plot and took nothing at all.I really do recommend the movie, the cast is brilliant their rolls, did I mention yet that Seth Green plays a member of a boy band? As a final note; I do recommend taking a look at the music video extras on the DVD, Du Jour kicks butt! "},{"Title":"Good in surprising ways.","Date":"20 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  For a start, the Pussycats are actually attractive.  Rachel Leigh Cook is both beautiful by Hollywood standards AND beautiful per se (there can't be many women who are both at once), while Rosario Dawson is sweetly, curvily gorgeous.  Tara Reid it's hard to tell about she's not so much a character as a sustained blonde joke.  But hey, blonde jokes are still funny.  Two easy approaches to comedy are `How stupid can we make this character behave while still making him (her) appear to have mental processes?', and `How gross can we get?'  But the former approach requires a little more creativity and is far more amusing.  Homer Simpson is a finer comic creation than Fat B***ard.Also, I liked the music.  Go ahead, snicker.  It's catchy, with surprisingly well-crafted lyrics.  You could do much worse.The think for yourself preaching was a bit too obvious and laboured, but it WAS heartfelt, while the comment on the way corporations package art was in fact rather sneaky.  The fictional world is so saturated with contrived cross-promotion and blatant product placement that we find it hard to believe - when it's really only a slight exaggeration of the way things actually are. "}{"Title":"Loved it","Date":"31 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  I'm 20 years old, I'm a dude and I've seen this movie at least 10 times. It isn't because I think the women are hot... well i do, and i love parker posey, but that is not the primary reason as to why i watch this movie so often. I think that the script is just brilliant. I love how well they played on the corporate tie-ins (from which they received little money if any). I remember seeing trailers for this movie and thinking, oh god some crappy sell out teen movie. Then when my sister was watching it one time I heard Backdoor Lover and couldn't stop laughing at how great it was that they got that song in what could be called a kids movie. There were so many little things that made the movie brilliant. I'm not saying that any of the three lead actresses are the best of actors, they aren't by far... maybe rosario dawson, but the other two.... eh. What makes this movie a 10 is Parker Posey and Alan Cumming. They are brilliant. Not one un-funny line in the whole damn thing. The Carson daily cameo is pretty funny, primarily because of the little jokes made between him and tara reid (movie was made while they were engaged), and then watching it knowing that whole thing is over. Seth green, donald faison, brecken meyer and that other guy are nothing short of brilliant! The scenes they are in and even the one in the end that the three names aren't in, are hilarious. This is the perfect attack on pop culture. It hits every mark dead on and digs its teeth in. I can understand how someone wouldn't like it. Bad acting, mediocre script ( to most people) dumb idea. And it will be dated in about... a year. but if you remember the time when it was made, the boy bands the girl singers, all that jazz then you will at least get a few laughs. If not from the script then at least from the monkey.and check out the commentary, its interesting.i am a sad, sad man  "},{"Title":"Silly Merchandising","Date":"23 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Josie and the Pussycats (Rachel Leigh Cook, Tara Reid and Rosario Dawson) are hired by a big Record Label to become a great success. Josie realizes that their CDs have a subliminal message, forcing the youths to consume many products. A very silly movie, used for merchandising of many trademarks. There are some funny situations that could be improved, but it is not worthwhile watching this great advertisement. My vote is four.Title (Brazil) `Josie e as Gatinhas' (`Josie and The Pussycats')  "},{"Title":"Do you like pussy...cats","Date":"14 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  This movie's first 5 minutes are actually some of the best parts of the movie, where in which the film satirizes boy bands (I love the idea that the guys keep they're head things on at all times) and there fans and music (the song played sounds like something 7 degrees celcius would play on SNL).  Then the film goes into uncharted territory as it examines the start of the new big sensation of The Pussycats (Rachel Leigh Cook, Rosario Dawson and Tara Reid).  Pretty Much (minus a funny cameo from Eugene Levy) all the satire after the beginning is misplaced and doesn't work, especially considering that The Pussycats might be a punk band and that they would go so quickly to conform is beyond the capacity.  The girls are hot, but the movie is sort of lukewarm (sorry for the poor analogy).  C "}]