[{"Title":"Forget everything you may have heard about the Sex Pistols..","Date":"19 October 2000","Score":"34 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Music","Review":"  Forget everything you may have heard or read about the Sex Pistols. Forget Sid and Nancy. This is THE documentary. A warts and all look inside the lives of a band that changed the face of music forever. Never mind Julien Temple's earlier effort The Great Rock and Roll Swindle, the sensationalist Malcom McLaren (Manager of the Pistols) centred documentary. Filth tells the story using the the band (and a lot of Temple's own 1970's 'never before seen' home video tapes).In existence for only 26 months and releasing only one album, the Sex Pistols evolved within a time of massive economic, social and cultural oppression in England. This was an era unlike any other. Staggering youth unemployment; squalid streets where the piles of rubbish became small hills and the stench over-powering, and with the IRA bombing campaign reaching its peak. One of the most amazing things about this documentary is that it actually takes us back in time to the mid-70's landscape of London. Through the use of newsreel footage, television adverts of the day, weather reports and game-show clips, Filth immerses the viewer in everything absurdly English from the time.The documentary not only lets you feel like you're actually there with the band, it tells you so much that you actually believe you were there. Without going into essay length about the story of the Sex Pistols, there are just so many interesting/bizarre facts revealed about the band that you really begin to realise why they are such a huge influence on music today. I may be ignorant, but I now know that Johnny Rotten started spitting on stage only because of his sinus problems, Sid Vicious inadvertently started the pogo dance, and the band were the first ever to say the F word on British television. David Bowie, Siouxie Sioux and Elvis Costello could often be spotted at a Pistols show, and opening bands on the bill ranged from The Clash, The Damned and The Buzzcocks.One-to-one interviews with each surviving band member, as well as extensive interview footage with Sid Vicious (Hyde Park-1978), are revealing and extremely honest. The many sides and angles of the Pistols story have been told by those that lived it. Almost all of the interviews have been shot in silhouette, so the only faces you see are those of the members being The Sex Pistols. The idea being not to spoil the feel or continuity of the film, and from saving us all having to look at a bunch of old blokes talking about those crazy days.Julien Temple proves himself to be the only man for the job of Director. There is a lot to be said about someone who abandons there student film career and goes about documenting a band, but Julien Temple did just that. His ability to display the true personalities of each band member is remarkable, and this has translated over to the audience. In a recent interview he states People have watched the film and been almost in tears at the end, which is the last thing you would expect from a Sex Pistols movie. But it is because there was never anything about the Pistols that you expected, that was part of their power.No, I didnt cry, but the story of the Pistols is a tragic one ending with the split of the group, Sid Vicious being the prime suspect over the death of his girlfriend Nancy Spungen, and then his drug induced death months later.Whether you're a fan of the Sex Pistols or not is really irrelevant. Whether you play in a punk band is also irrelevant (although it'll make you think twice about the term punk). The point is, if your interested in music, popular culture or human behaviour, this is a movie that will reward you. Both entertaining and informative, The Filth and The Fury actually delivers as being the definitive story of The Sex Pistols. "},{"Title":"God save the Queen...she ain't no human being.","Date":"31 August 2001","Score":"21 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Music","Review":"  This is by far one of the very best rock-documentaries I've ever seen. It uncovers the eventful story of The Sex Pistols. The notorious band was active merely about 2 years of time and they recorded only one album, famous classic Never mind the bollocks, here's The Sex Pistols. In a highly small period of time they shake the social system and left their footprints in a rock history.I'm not sure if this is a matter of opinion but obviously no-one can seriously claim that The Sex Pistols was musically an extremely skillful band full of talented blokes because it simply wasn't like that. The Sex Pistols is much more interesting as a phenomenon. Sid Vicious was a terrible bassist, (it's also said in The Filth and the fury) Johnny Rotten was a rotten singer who was mostly brawling on the stage and their music was simple, harsh and noisy.Music is irrelevant because they never tried to sound nice, it's the lyrics and the attitude that counts. After this documentary at the latest you'll find out how obvious it is that without The Sex Pistols there would have never been the whole culture known as punk. This is a chance to see their story as told by the band themselves. If you don't like 'em, you can still find The Filth and the fury interesting. It isn't only a documentary about the band, it's a close look at England in the late 70's. "},{"Title":"Superb docu film and essential for everyone","Date":"4 March 2003","Score":"19 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Music","Review":"  Was recommended this by a pistols fan who is also into the Punk scene. Not being a Pistols fan I was unsure but my friends tastes are similar so gave it a try. Very pleased I did. It's a thoroughly enjoyable docu film with some great footage and really encompasses the whole scene. It's amazing how times have moved on really and this is also a look at how society was so stuck up it's own arris here in the UK at that period.John Lydon has always been much more than just a yob of a front man as every interview I have ever heard with him he has always spoken with true meaning and passion. This has not changed my mind and you cannot help but be moved by his interview, especially on the death of Sid. The best moments for me are the interviews and clips of journalist Nick Kent, an absolute 'kent' if ever there was one. As a big Adam Ant fan it was nice to see some footage of the man behind the song Press Darlings, and boy did he come up trumps. What a complete.... It also reveals McLaren to be the compete t**t he was too. A great film for everyone with even a passing interest in music and not just punk. It's about a change in ideals and the times. And very well done. 9/10 as it does what it sets out to do very very well. "},{"Title":"Review of Julien Temple's documentary of the Sex Pistols","Date":"19 December 2002","Score":"19 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Music","Review":"  In his documentary, The Filth and the Fury, Julien Temple chronicles the rise and the fall of the legendary punk rock band the Sex Pistols. Temple tells this story through accounts given to him by the still living Sex Pistols, as the opposing side to his other Sex Pistols film, Great Rock and Roll Swindle, which was told to him by the Sex Pistols manager, Malcolm McLaren.Temple uses interviews with the band members to tell the story of the Sex Pistols and intertwines it with live footage of the band's concerts and a taped interview with Sid Vicious, filmed before his death.  The band their formation, joining up with McLaren, firing Glen Matlock, replacing him with Vicious, their problems in the United Kingdom and the United States, and the eventual end of the band due to Vicious's heroin addiction.The documentary really got inside of the Sex Pistols and showed a more human side of the band.  While the band is often made out to be a bunch of rowdy, angry, punk rock kids, the documentary showed a different side to them.  Footage is shown of the band during a children's benefit show and the band members are seen playing with and talking to the kids with huge smiles on their faces, their joy at being at the event evident.  Johnny Rotten also spends a large amount of time at the end of the film discussing Vicious' heroin addiction and his guilt at being unable to help his friend before it was too late.I really liked the live footage of the Sex Pistols shows, as it showed the band in their element and also did a lot to show what the scene was like when the Pistols were around, and I could see how little it has changed since then.  The footage shown of the Sex Pistols on a British television show and clips of newspaper articles at the time also did a lot to show the band's image in the eyes of the media as well.One problem with the movie was that live footage of the band would be playing and then the film would cut to scenes from a Shakespeare movie or other random scene, which completely detracted from the film.  Every time one of those clips would cut in it would jar my attention from the story, and it definitely broke up the cohesiveness of the film.I think the film did a good job capturing the image that the Sex Pistols gave off, while also contrasting it with more human images of them, like during the children's show.  Overall, I think the film was very well done, though I would have liked to have seen more background on each of the band members, rather than the Shakespearean ode.  I would give this film a 7/10 and would recommend it to anyone looking for information about the Sex Pistols. "},{"Title":"This one is for Harold Wilson; It's called Liar!","Date":"6 August 2010","Score":"15 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Music","Review":" The Filth and the Fury is directed by Julien Temple and is a rockumentary charting the rise and fall of Punk Rock flag bearers, The Sex Pistols. 20 years earlier Temple had made The Great Rock and Roll Swindle, a bonkers and quirky movie that skewed the Sex Pistols legend as some elaborate hoax formulated by band manager Malcolm McLaren. The Filth and the Fury tells the story from the viewpoint of the band members themselves and goes some way to dispelling the myths that surround them and their self publicising manager. The title of the film is a reference to a headline that appeared in the British tabloid newspaper The Daily Mirror after an interview with the band on ITV's Today show presented by Bill Grundy. The story follows the band members from their humble beginnings in London's Shepherd's Bush, to their implosion at the Winterland Ballroom in San Francisco, and then to coup de grace as Sid Vicious & Nancy Spungen left the mortal coil.Love them or hate them, The Sex Pistols in the mid to late 70s created a wave in the music industry that can still be felt today. Most of it now seems tame of course, swearing on TV and alleged distasteful songs are common practice these days, but it were not the case back when flared trousers and guys wearing make up gave way to Punk Rock Britannia. But is there anything here for those who just don't get that the Pistols were influential and one of Britain's most important bands? Yes, definitely. This is no rose tinted glasses documentary serving only to keep the Pistols name on the high heat. Nor, is it over an hour and half of their videos and live footage. Of course the music features prominently, but it's in context to the story, a story that sees the remaining band members give frank and honest assessments of the time, the place and the now.Interviewing the band singularly in darkened silhouette to give off the impression we are witnessing criminal informers at work, Temple also puts the band into historical context with Britain's social situation in the 1970s. This is crucial to the origins of the band. It was a time of strikes and suspect politicians, so with archival footage from the period, Temple fuses the Pistols ire with that of a country that was limping along in apathy. Haters of the band don't want to agree of course, but the Pistols showed that not all of Britain would surrender meekly, and, that music could actually make a difference and shake up the system. Get Off Your Arse snarled John, and thousands did, as Punk bands formed over night and showed that the youth of the day had a voice. How many bands can say that eh?But as we know, it was to be a short lived journey for the band, one that would end in tragedy as first the press went bazooka over the top with their every move, and then as one out of his depth bass player lost sight of the bands vision. This part of the film is subtly handled by Temple, the sense of impending doom hangs heavy, none more so with the old interviews held with Vicious that are woven into the last third as self destruction grows ever near. These sequences show what many people either forget or don't realise; that Vicious was just a kid of 21 years of age. This part of the tale also lets us into an untapped part of Lydon's neRotten emotional side, a telling moment that brings the sorry chapter to a close.From a time when music could be as dangerous as the politicians running the country, The Filth & The Fury is an essential music based movie. Not just for fans of the band, nor just for curious music fans in general, but also for historians wishing to see just how bad late 1970s Britain was. 10/10 "},{"Title":"A tale told by no idiots, signifying plenty","Date":"5 May 2000","Score":"17 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Music","Review":"  If nothing else, this is the only Sex Pistols film (there are now at least 3) to make explicit and in-depth reference to the band members' working class roots, and the way that experience informed their project. This alone makes the film worth seeing, as it explodes the myth, fostered no doubt by their PT Barnum manager, Malcolm McLaren, that the whole project was an exercise in cynical nihilism and money grubbing. As the band members tell it, nothing could have been further from the truth. I believe them.The film is cobbled together in large part from 2 previous Sex Pistols documentaries, Rock 'n' Roll Swindle, (a McLaren project also directed, ironically enough, by F&F director Julie Temple) and D.O.A, plus clips from BBS television and elsewhere that try to locate the Pistols in the political and social climate that spawned them. This  effort, to give the Pistols a historical context, is by far the most valuable part of the film for those trying to understand how a bunch of working class stiffs, who could barely play their instruments, and who only released one album, could set off an explosion that reverberates in the music world--if increasingly faintly--even today.Best part of the film footage from their last, secret gig at a palace in a working class district (they had been banned from appearing anywhere in England) before embarking on their ill-fated US tour. It consists of two performance on Christmas Day, benefiting the families of striking local firefighters, who had been out of work for many months. The attendees consist of the local lads and lasses, none of whom are punk in any apparent sense of the term.Before the Pistols performed, everyone eats Sex Pistols cake and ice cream; Never Mind the Bollocks shirts are stretched over the pubescent bodies of every bobby soxer. Then, after a thank you from the emcee, the Pistols launch into the searing Bodies, its sarcastic refrain sung from the point of view of an aborted fetus (I'm not an animal!/I'm an abortion...). All the boppers dance like it's a sock hop, with the difference that everyone gleefully throws leftover desserts at one another. Steve Jones is shown playing guitar with his face covered in cake icing, beaming. In his reminiscence about the gig, Rotten grows wistful, saying it was easily their best memory as a band, and the last good one before it all fell apart.I never knew the guys were such sentimentalists.It's hard to believe that there once was a time when rock music could actually matter, when it was possible to actually escape the commodified rebellion that now sells Budweiser, Nike, and SUVs, when it was possible, however briefly to scare the pants of the political establishment. Young pop music lovers who swallow the meretricious rebellion of rap or grunge--whose self-important lyrics and idiotically monotonous rhythms make their authors rich off the  weekly allowances of white middle class kids whose idea of rebellion is big loud subwoofers in the Corolla Daddy bought them for their 16th birthday--might profit from getting a glimpse of the Real Thing.The rest of us, who were lucky enough to have been there when history was made, and who can still recall the opening chords of Anarchy in the UK blasting all traces of More Than a Feeling and Take It Easy out of our speakers cabinets and into the first circle of music Hell where they always belonged, can enjoy the film for what it teaches us about the power of ordinary, thoroughly obnoxious people to make their own history, and ours.Another thing I learned from the film if Tom Cruise were a junkie, he would look just like Sid Vicious. "},{"Title":"Revisit Anarchy in the UK","Date":"8 April 2004","Score":"13 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Music","Review":"  This film is a documentary about one of the most influential (certainly one of the most controversial) bands in music history  The Sex Pistols.During their brief career, the Sex Pistols defined the genre of music called Punk Rock.  The film details the situation in Britain at the end of the 1970s, where widespread dissatisfaction and alienation, combined with a very dull music scene, helped fuel the anger and craziness of Punk, which, according to John Lydon (aka Johnny Rotten), gave a  voice to people who previously didn't have a voice.  The film is a collection of present day interviews with the surviving members of the band (given in silhouette, for some reason), archive footage from concerts and TV appearances, vintage movie clips (notably Laurence Olivier as Richard the Third) and surreal animation.The film mostly sidelines the Pistols' notoriously self-aggrandising manager Malcolm McLaran to concentrate on the band members themselves.  The movie gives a good insight into an often quite disturbing world and a scene that was truly anarchic and exciting, whether you were a fan or not.  There are also moments of genuine sadness, for example when Lydon talks about his friend, the late Sid Vicious. This is recommended to anyone interested in popular music, or anyone who wants to see what real Punk was all about.  "},{"Title":"My mate John","Date":"15 November 2004","Score":"14 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Music","Review":" The first Julian Temple documentary on the Sex Pistols, 'The Great Rock n'Roll Swindle' was a gimmicky treatment that suggested the creation of the band was all a clever confidence trick perpetuated by Malcolm Maclaren. In his version the Pistols were a personal creation that deliberately manipulated the media and the 'suits' that ran the music industry into paying out vast amounts of cash even when the band failed to produce any material. This second version of events is a little more honest. Maclaren is shown to be a self-deluded egotist, the real driving force being 'Johnny Rotten', and the band, far from having the upper hand, were in fact ripped off financially by the very people they were supposed to be rebelling against.It all ended in a shambolic final concert where Rotten wails out 'No Fun' for 15 minutes and then walks off with a smirking, 'Ever felt you've been cheated?'Trouble is; this is a lie as well. The Pistols carried on after Lydon left; sad fun and games with the Great Train Robber, Ronnie Biggs and Sid Vicious' infamous rendering of 'My Way' being the 'highlights'. What's more, within months of Johnny Rotten's noble statement about not selling out at the end of the documentary, the Pistols reformed in the 21st century and gave progressively pathetic concerts.It's still an interesting documentary but I guess the myth has now become so mixed up with the legend that anything approaching the truth is lost for ever.This documentary does feature, however, an archive interview with Sid Vicious &#150; whose real name was John, Lydon affectionately remembers - which I have never seen before. It says more about the times than anything else in the film. Although dressed in his trade mark Nazi t-shirt and initially punctuated with all the predictable anarchic attitudes, this veneer gradually slips away to reveal a young naïve man, who's life along with his heroin addiction was spiraling out of control. No fun, indeed. "},{"Title":"the best music doco I've seen in a long while","Date":"25 October 2004","Score":"15 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Music","Review":" if your not a pistols fan before you watch this, you definalty will be after. at least thats the experience I've had from myself and people i know viewing this film. i was already a bit of a fan. you know i had a thing for sid pre nancy days and i thought johnny rotten was a unique man. but after watching this documentary with my dad ( who is a musician, but never liked anything the pistols did) i realized that this band, was so much more than the punks they were made out to be, they were rebeling against being a product of their surroundings, but at the same time find that it near impossible to achieve. my dad on the other hand, watched the movie, and immediately asked for one of my pistols cd. so i game him never mind the bollocks and set off to listen. the very next day, i find him singing 'anarchy' while doing the dishes. his views were exactly hte same as mine. except this documentary turned him from a non believe to a fan.I'm not really one for documentaries... i thought id cracked it when i watched spinal tap, and then realsied that they were only mocking hte whole genre... so then i felt like a fool (but immediately went to see if my dads marshall went up to 11 rather than just 10). but the filth and the fury held my attention from the very first shot to the rolling of the credits. so naturally when i saw it in the store, i bought it, and I've watched it A lot of times since. sometimes in the row... and every time, it makes me laugh, and cry and makes me want to have lived back in the days of the punk.the filth and the fury is an emotional ride of a doco that combines everything you want in a movie with an awesome soundtrack and some real meaning. this documentary is a MUST for all music fans, whether you think you like the pistols or not. by the end of it, you will be converted. or just appreciative. its an excellent piece of film making that tells the story of one of the most influential bands of the 70's, and indeed of rock history. "},{"Title":"Best music documentary I've ever seen!","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"11 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Music","Review":"  'The Filth And The Fury' isn't only the best music-related documentary I've ever seen, but one of the best documentaries ever made on ANY subject. Julian Temple succeeds in blending archival footage of the band, various ads, rock videos, news reports, TV comedians, Olivier's 'Richard III', and recent interviews, and by this manages to put the Sex Pistols in a musical, political and CULTURAL context. If that sounds pretentious, the movie is anything but. It is fabulously entertaining but at the same time is a fascinating, insightful HONEST portrait that should appeal to both die hard fans and novices. So few movies or TV shows treat music seriously, or show that it can be much more than mass-produced trivialized entertainment. 'The Filth And The Fury' does exactly that and is all the more powerful for it. A revelatory piece of film! I hope every rock'n'roll fan turns off MTV and watches this instead. If they did the music world would be a much better place. "}{"Title":"The Best Rock-Doc of all Time","Date":"17 December 2004","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Music","Review":" Watching the first ten minutes of F & T F, I can honestly say that I experienced the only true religious experience I've ever felt in the matrix of a movie theatre. I had an out-of-body experience, so completely was a swept into the world of Julian Temple's interpretation of what The Sex Pistols were, how they came to be, when they came to be, and the madness of Great Britain that allowed them to come to be. It was probably the only time cheek irony ever really worked, that is, playing majestically classical music during the opening credits. And then that marvelous segue from the lower-income housing courtyard to Johnny's blistering presence. As ferociously brilliant a film as the band itself. But the film is more than just about the band; it's also about the fear of the establishment when its status quo is threatened, the media, and British society. The hypocrisy of the British government is ever evident when we see a public official denouncing the band as a disgusting bunch sub-human runts that are the antithesis to human-kind and then later see this and play a benefit concert and host an x-mas party for the children of striking firefighters. THAT WAS THE POINT OF THE PISTOLS in some respects. Their anger was grounded in the mistreatment of working people. Maybe it was a publicity booster, but I've seldom seen any American bands get their ands dirty and link up with Labor issues. The film is also about Language. It seems that using racial epithets are accepted in some British circles, but airing some traditional four letter words on public television, is still taboo. Anti-drug? Certainly. Johhny Rotten comes right out and extols the evils of Heroin and we see what it can do to a human being in Sid and his ultimate demise. SEE THIS MOVIE! "},{"Title":"Best documentary","Date":"3 February 2010","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Music","Review":" I titled this documentary, although it's so much more. In retrospect England was an empire in precipitous decline. Mortgages were extended to 40 years leaving nothing to posterity. Immigrants - legal and illegal - were taking work cheap and crowding out the council estates, thus leaving youth disaffected with no hope. The Sex Pistols voice that deep discontent, so the Callahan Labour government ginned up a campaign of 2 Minutes Hate as a temporary distraction from his evil party's stupid policies. I was caught up in it too.However, in 1985 I bought a copy of Never Mind TheBollocks. After listening to it enough times to decipher the lyrics, I was blown away! No wonder the government had to shut them up, the Pistols pulled no punches - calling the government a fascist regime was simply going too far. Well, God bless these lads.This film paints the despair of four down and out, yet very real people. I'd buy the fellows a round any time. They are genuine, no phoniness whatsoever. The best scenes are when the band hurled green on the hook-nosed heroin addict from the New Musical Express who was responsible for starting the media's hate campaign. And also the scene during the TV interview with the totally forgettable Bernard Whathisname. The lecherous host came on to one of their fans, so Glen called him a dirty old man. You could see this lilylivered coward blanch with fear, and cringe as he called for a commercial break.The Sex Pistols proved to the world that if you have something to say, then set it to 3 chord rock and proclaim it loudly! "},{"Title":"A fine and informative documentary about the legendary 70's British punk band the Sex Pistols","Date":"27 August 2007","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Music","Review":" Julien Temple's slick mock rock doc The Great Rock'n'Roll Swindle was a delightfully irreverent, but extremely embellished and thus less than accurate depiction of the Sex Pistols' 26 legendary months of unmitigated excess, success, pandemonium and inevitable failure. This far more scruffy and honest down-to-earth documentary sets the record straight sans huckster impresario Malcom McLaren's gross self-serving distortions of the truth. The surviving band members -- angry, fiercely snide and abrasive working class anti-star front-man Johnny Rotten, fellow surly band members Steve Jones and Paul Cook, token happy average guy out Glen Matlock -- are all interviewed, saying in their own shockingly candid, open, often profane and hilariously spiky words their savagely upfront thoughts and feelings about the whole bloody two year fracas that was the band's abrupt and chaotic, yet still glorious and influential reign.We learn about the individual band members' sad, crappy childhoods, the gray, decaying, trash-littered rot and social upheaval of mid 70's London, the group's musical influences (glam rock and heavy metal!), how the punk movement initially encouraged raw displays of individualism and equalized the sexes, the Sex Pistols' primitively rattling three-chord sonic assault was purposefully ugly, sludgy, tuneless and egalitarian, the Pistols' infamous (and truly riotous) foul-mouthed interview on an insipid morning TV chatshow, the band's disastrous record contract with EMI, the Thames River party, how the song God Save the Queen put Rotten's life in considerable jeopardy, Sid Vicious beating up punk journalist Nick Kent, punk's unfortunate downslide into trendy chic mainstream nullity, Nancy Spungen's fatal hold on Sid (the other band members vehemently abhorred her), the abortive feature film Who Killed Bambi? (with Sting in his film debut!), Sid's tragic untimely death from a heroin overdose, and the Sex Pistols' horrendously unsuccessful final nail-in-the-coffin American tour (the frightfully hostile yank audiences expected a freakshow). Moreover, we find out that Sid popularized pogoing at punk clubs, McLaren never paid the band a dime, and that a '77 Christmas benefit gig was probably the Sex Pistols' best ever show.The grainy, gritty, usually ratty and washed-out mostly color, sometimes black and white unpolished archival footage of the band at its supremely rowdy and astonishingly outrageous peak possesses an irresistibly grungy and oddly intimate appeal while the crude blaring music -- such killer classic numbers as Anarchy in the U.K., God Save the Queen, Pretty Vacant, and Holidays in the Sun among 'em -- roars away with a furiously brutal abandon. Johnny Rotten sagely comments at the very end that the Sex Pistols were probably too good for their own good to last very long, but luckily this first-rate picture vividly immortalizes their notorious exploits and substantial legacy for posterity's sake. "},{"Title":"So much better than Julien Temple's first full-length Sex Pistols film","Date":"21 July 2009","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Music","Review":" Twenty years after the release of The Great Rock 'n' Roll Swindle, Julien Temple's weird, incoherent mockumentary about the Sex Pistols, another film about the short-lived but groundbreaking 70's punk rock band, from the same filmmaker, first saw the light of day. Unlike its predecessor, The Filth and the Fury can actually be classified as a documentary. I had never heard of this one by the time I first saw Swindle, but saw both of them (I think twice each) in 2006. This month, I've revisited both films. The first of the two went way downhill for me with my last viewing, whereas this one, which I always thought was the stronger of the two, certainly didn't. It seems my opinion of this 2000 documentary hasn't changed.Temple's two Sex Pistols films tell a different side of the story. The Great Rock 'n' Roll Swindle tells the band's manager, Malcolm McLaren's side of the story. This follow-up focuses on the point of view of the band members. Frontman John Lydon (a.k.a. Johnny Rotten), guitarist Steve Jones, drummer Paul Cook, and original bass player Glen Matlock (featured in silhouette form) give viewers an insight on their beginnings, how the band formed, their experiences and the impact they had during their time together (which obviously included a lot of controversy), and their breakup. They also contradict McLaren's claims about the band. Lots of archive footage is also featured, including clips from Swindle and interviews with the band's late second bass player, Sid Vicious.This film isn't exactly perfect. A lot of the archive footage is shown as we hear the band members talking, and it can be hard to pay attention to both at the same time. Clips like the Shakespeare ones are also unnecessary. Maybe the documentary could have used a more down-to-earth director. However, other than that, I don't have too many complaints. It's still a very interesting piece if you're a Sex Pistols fan, and much more believable than what McLaren says in this film's predecessor. Some good footage is featured here, and the band members have some fascinating things to say. Of course, several Pistols songs are featured as well (at least partially). Like Swindle, The Filth and the Fury has problems with the way it's put together, but it's definitely more coherent, and I've always found it easier to pick up what is said in this film than I have with what is said in the 1980 mockumentary.Comparing Julien Temple's two Sex Pistols films, and the two different sides of the story they show, I would say the band members have a much stronger case than their manager. It seems to me that the first film of the two is pretty much nonsense, with nothing gripping or too memorable. This second film, on the other hand, is an insightful documentary about the controversial band, with some poignant moments. In Swindle, you don't see McLaren crying over anything, do you? However, in this film, that's just what John Lydon does while talking about Sid Vicious at one point! So, overall, The Filth and the Fury is a well done, insightful film about a groundbreaking band, and I recommend it for any Pistols fan. Unlike its predecessor, one can watch this film for more than just entertainment, though it can be good for that as well. No wonder it's more popular than the disjointed mess that came before it. "},{"Title":"A movie about the most influential band in music.","Date":"23 December 2003","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Music","Review":"  A movie about The Sex Pistols. The most important band ever. Music became stale during the late 70s and early 80s. Then came Johnny Rotten, Sid Vicious and The Sex Pistols. Basically, that is what it is about. The story is about The Sex Pistols' failure to conform and be individual. It is also a moving tale of the ups and downs of the music business. The direction of this documentary is a bit sketchy as the interviews with band members blacked-out doesnt really work although it was thought to be creatively unique. But i believe that the documentary deserves recognition as it shows The Sex Pistols and the emergence of the band because of the state of Britain at the time. The social state of Britain is captured beautifully. The speech by John Lydon at the end about Sid Vicious is beautiful and really has true emotional intensity. I really do think that the documentary deserved an oscar-nomination but failed to get one.Watch it. Laugh, sing, cry, enjoy.10/10  "},{"Title":"Best of all, we're all told the answer to the big question ... WHY???","Date":"2 January 2003","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Music","Review":"  MUSIC  In the same way the meaning of the word Scientific means of or pertaining to Science, we all know that Music means of or pertaining to a muse.  It's a sound that punctuates (Punk-tuates?) the feeling, emotion, idea, thought, etc. that the person/s are feeling at the time.There are many today who still wonder how that God-awful noise made by a bunch of underclass hoodlums came into being and caught on as a style that spread.  Especially when they hardly had any musical skills whatsoever. Here's one example of whyIf you listen to the song I'll Never Fall in Love Again, you'll notice that the lyrics are very bitter, to say the least.  But there's nothing bitter about the accompanying music.  It doesn't punctuate nor put to sound the extreme emotion that the singer/songwriter was feeling at the time of the song's conception, it's just cutesy and nauseatingly nice, a sugar-coating until you realize Wait a minute, this isn't a nice song, it's totally angry and bitter.That's why it came into being (in Britain, anyway) the Sex Pistols were not just making the loudest noise at the time, but the noise also seemed to be the only one that fit what they as well as many others were feeling at the time.This documentary is not a P.R. film that is clipped to portray the Sex Pistols as great and wonderful geniuses of music who changed the world, as most movies and documentaries do; it explains what it all meant to the members of the band in THEIR time and place and why they HAD to come into being then and there.  Their sound, their attitudes, their antics represented EVERYTHING they were feeling, had to say, etc.From the way they tell Their case, it seems to me as the plain and simple balancing of Nature in the same way you'll find that the more churches there are in a neighborhood, the more crime and corruption you'll also find.   Don't like that last explanation?  Okay, it also seems to me that they were the necessary musical (and cultural) fuel to one of many fires during an already existing social upheaval.I haven't seen the VHS version but the DVD also comes with a documentary featuring other people who were in the scene during its roots and why THEY were a part of it, as Punk had different meanings, depending where and when you were.  That's probably where the explanation If you don't know what it means/meant, then (up yours) came from.By the way, in case you're wondering about how biased my opinion is, I should let you know that I'm fully aware that such groups as Black Sabbath (who knew more about instrumentation) more or less started that God-Awful Noise approximately 10 years prior to Punk's conception, much less given its title.  So, as much as I enjoy Punk and Metal as well as Mozart, Bjork, 2-Live Crew, and many others (depending on my mood), I know very well that there is nothing new under the sun and that they were no more original than Grunge groups like Nirvana; if you stick a pearly-white tooth and leave it in a glass of cola for a month, is the brown tooth you see later a different tooth?  Of course not.Anyway, for the fans as well as those who didn't understand, this is one very well-told explanation.  Love the subculture and/or the music, hate it, feel what you will about it.  At least you'll have a clue to understanding (maybe not supporting, but at least understanding) why it WAS.  And that clue will also help you at least theoretically understand such other things like Hardcore Rap, Industrial, and any other punctuated sounds from those who at least Felt Like they're in the Underclass at one time or another.Aaaannnnnd ... CUT!  That's a wrap.    "},{"Title":"The Truth, the whole truth and nuffink but","Date":"6 March 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Music","Review":"  I am the Sex Pistols fan from below. The Filth & the Fury is the definitive comment on the often misrepresented ends that 'punk' sought to achieve.This fiery document of bold young upstarts rejecting blank-eyed escapism & dinosaur-rock complacency is a must-see for all music fans. Finally Julien Temple's film exposes Pistols' (mis)manager 'master manipulator' McLaren as the inflated fraud that he is, giving credit where credit is due, & correcting the errors of the laughable self-promotional McLaren tool 'The Great Rock 'n' Roll Swindle'. The film appeals for a time when some fresh-faced kids will continue the path initially laid by the Pistols, hearing the truth ringing through their ears with a totally liberating, unrelenting fierceness of self. As it were, and in some cases still remains today, punk is an essence and an attitude, an opportunity for individuality and uniqueness to fluorish by obliterating old standards and preconceived values. You have to destroy to rebuild. Therefore the old ideals of beauty and acceptability became void, replaced by distinct, often cartoon-like qualities and outrageous peculiar character traits. Johnny Rotten is stunning with his wild eyes, cropped carrot-hair and quasimodo posture, while Poly Styrene's gnashed braces and dayglo clothes elevate her to goddess status.People saw themselves as beautiful in not being beautiful. A lot of punk is challenging and subversive, offering a highly addictive confrontational creativity we are in danger of losing. How many people do you see today walking about in see-thru plastic macs & orthopaedic shoes? However, as the film clearly shows, punk is unresolved, not over, and not going away.       "},{"Title":"Ever get the feeling you've been cheated?","Date":"8 October 2006","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Music","Review":" In interviews done at the time of the film's release, Julien Temple talked about the genesis of this film, and the reasoning behind some of the peculiar and novel gimmicks he used. Basically he had some out-takes that he had filmed for The Great Rock & Roll Swindle, as well as some random British TV recordings from the 1970's that he had recorded on one of the first commercial VCR's. Temple wanted to use this material to tell the story of the Sex Pistols from their point of view, rather than Malcolm Maclaren's point of view presented in The Great Rock & Roll Swindle. He said he included the ancillary material such as the video recordings to give a flavor of the times. The reason he gave for recording the living Pistols in witness-protection style silhouette (and Maclaren in a mask) was to hide their age and make it seem like the interviews were contemporaneous with the other footage, especially with regard to the interview of a non-silhouetted Sid Vicious in London's Hyde Park in 1978. In practice, the silhouettes are annoying and repetitive and make it hard to identify who is speaking on first viewing.This film has exactly the same flaws as Temple's original effort, The Great Rock & Roll Swindle - its account of the Pistols' story is a biased, inaccurate, incomplete, poorly-structured mess, frequently interrupted by unnecessary, gimmicky, distracting, pretentious irrelevant inserts that have nothing to do with the main story. Only this time, instead of portraying the Sex Pistols as mindless puppets in a cynical commercial ploy by a clever manager, they are portrayed (implicitly via news footage from the 1970's) as idealists making political statements about their society, financially exploited by a useless Maclaren. Both slants are fantasy. The Pistols have repeatedly pointed out they were not political, although Rotten has in recent years started parroting some of the fantasies written about him and the punk scene by intellectuals; any quasi-political imagery foisted on the band was largely the doing of the supposedly useless Maclaren and his cronies. We see all the usual tricks of agenda-pushing documentaries, with isolated, possibly irrelevant snippets of visual interest (e.g. a fat racist squirming through a window to rant to a TV camera) edited together to imply relatedness. What's more, many of these clips appear to date from long after the Pistols formed. Likewise we see the bad guys (Maclaren and cronies) in unflattering shots and the good guys (the Pistols) in flattering or neutral shots. That's just childish, as are the sudden dramatic increases in volume every time a Pistols song starts playing.Instead of Rock & Roll Swindle's cutaways to shots of Maclaren singing, mugging and pontificating, we get Olivier playing Richard III or TV ads or weather reports or forgotten comedians. These non-sequiturs are supposedly justified on the grounds of Rotten citing his influences or as a reflection of life in the 1970's, but it goes on and on and on long after the original point (if any) was made, until the original point is lost. When Temple was asked if there was any Pistols footage left unused after The Filth and The Fury, he said there wasn't really, apart from additional concert footage which he considered redundant. This, I suspect, is the real reason for the excessive irrelevant footage, i.e. filler to get a commercial length for a feature film. I would dearly love to have seen the redundant concert footage instead. It would have been infinitely more interesting, entertaining and relevant. Temple's TV archives could have interest in their own right, but they belong in a separate documentary.Ignoring the inept, pretentious directing, this film does have many priceless moments, and does reveal a number of obscure or unknown facts about the Pistols, although I was surprised at how little unused footage there really was, and how much was reused from the final cut of Swindle. The Pistols are shown to be funny, intelligent and personable, far removed from the punk caricatures. The 3 Johns, and John's closeness to Sid, and John's crying over his dead friend are a revelation. So too, the Pistols' last concert before their American tour, a firemen's benefit with lots of young dancing children joining the band in a cream pie fight - not very punk, but oddly touching. We see footage from the Pistols' very earliest days, together with some of the bizarre early fans like Sue Catwoman highlighting the bohemian roots of the punk scene. We get to see footage of the disgusting Nancy Spungeon. In a remarkable stroke of luck, Temple captured skinny teenage punk fan Shane MacGowan, long before he was famous, doing an acapella rendition of Anarchy in the UK on the grounds of a council flat, and schoolteacher Sting playing a gay rapist in a scene from the abortive Who Killed Bambi movie. But by far the funniest scene in the film was the intro to a 1978 American TV music show, in which the Pistols were the most normal, most successful, and least ridiculous-looking band to appear on the program.In summary this film was a wasted opportunity on account of the talentless director. But it's still essential for the odd gem of obscure Pistols footage, which even Temple couldn't mess up. If you want to see the definitive Pistols documentary, check out the Never Mind The Bolloks episode of the Classic Albums TV documentary series. "},{"Title":"godless or mammon?","Date":"11 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Music","Review":" The real story of punk rock will, apparently, never be told. I suppose that's because most of the surviving participants have too much ego invested; or because, as the years fade, and the original social context disappears, the meaning of Punk - at its inception - becomes harder to decipher and easier to forget.I was in NYC in '76, when it was first breaking for the national press, and I hung around CBGBs under a number of pseudonyms, trying to write reviews and articles on bands that nobody ever heard of, many of them breaking up before I could dot the last i in the last paragraph. And I tried out a couple bands of my own, weird blends of Iggy and the Velvet Underground. But I was really an outsider (coming from upstate); and when the London scene started shipping singles over, I knew that, for whatever reason, my heart was really more into Anarchy and White Riot than the metal-surf-music of the Ramones or early Blondie. But this disjunction of 'right time wrong place' or whatever, allowed me to see the development of Punk in a way others seem content to ignore.The fundamental problem that Punk never resolved (and current neo-punks are still struggling with it), is, whether Punk was to be a continuance of the counter culture of the '60s in different guise, or just another pop-music for sexually frustrated young people. This sounds like an empty theoretical issue, but it has one all-important concrete aspect to it no one can ignore - money. Did (do) punks make music to make music - or to make money? That question was never answered; or, perhaps, every punk answered (answers) it in his/ her own way. Yet once we begin adding up all the individual answers, most of them sure come out sounding like money. Yet the memory of Punk survives largely because it seemed to be about anything other than money; so the dilemma continues.That dilemma surfaces again in this film, especially in the discovery of the wretched rip-off Pistols manager Malcom McLaren pulled, not only on the audience, but on the Pistols themselves. The brief moments from the (thankfully unfinished) Who Shot Bambi? make it very clear that McLaren had not the slightest clue as to who the Pistols were, or what they represented. Yet he not only continued to guide their career after their break-up, but is warmly mentioned in Griel Marcus' scholarly history of Punk, Lipstick Traces, which will probably bear influence on punk histories, long after the last photo-album paperback turns to dust. Yet it is clear that from the get-go McLaren's only interest was the profit.The Pistols were right, and are right, to ignore questions concerning their materialism or selling out, since they were never part of the hippies' 'anti-materialism' ideal to begin with, and because they never denied a desire for some paycheck (which they almost never got from McLaren). But also plain is their desire to make the music of the UK working-class slums from whence they came.All of this comes to a head in the brief yet unforgettable tragedy of Sid Vicious - for whom music meant freedom, and money meant - heroin. But junky 'rockstars' don't play at commercial venues to make music. He ended up in NYC, which by then had a punk scene swarming with record-co.-exec vermin dealing dope and poseur sycophants trying to score. Eventually all that was left was the heroin, and it killed him.This film won't resolve any of these issues; but it may help raise them, and place them in a proper light. I can't agree that it is a well-made film - the editing, which is very flashy, is also somewhat vapid, and goes out of control too often. But there's adequate reminder of the era of the Pistols here, and why it was many of us thought, at the time (and still believe) that the Pistols were the most important rock band in history.The segment from the final performance at Winterland is worth the price of the film same-old same-old music concerts are no fun and Jones and Rotten (knowing they've been betrayed by McLaren into performing for the corporate music world they hated) rub our noses in it until they've had enough and stalk off. If you can see this - and know what it's about - and still pay $200 to see Mick Jagger pull his wrinkled pud at you at the age of 65, you don't need a movie review, you need a psychiatrist. "},{"Title":"no complaints","Date":"3 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Music","Review":"  This movie almost seemed to zip by too fast, but then, so did the Sex Pistols. Come to think of it, the last 20 years (when I first started listening to them in junior high) also zipped by pretty fast...they put all the best songs, the best performances in there, along with some rare footage. Sex Pistols fans may have already seen the interview with a nodded-out Sid Vicious and sleazy girlfriend Nancy Spungen (who makes Courtney Love at her worst look like Grace Kelly) trying to wake him up for the camera as he snores. But what no fans may not have seen is a short, heartbreaking clip of an interview with Vicious after he is out on bail after being arrested for her murder. When the interviewer thoughtlessly asks him if he's 'having fun right now', Vicious just chuckles bitterly and asks him, Are you kidding? No, I'm not having any fun, at all. when the interviewer asks him where he wishes he was right now, Vicious' quiet, calm answer to the question is so chilling and heartfelt that it made every hair on my body stand on end. In a scene shortly after, John Lydon talks about Sid getting his wish, and for a minute you think in the voice over he is laughing, because as a rule you don't see him displaying any other emotion other than general crankiness, then you suddenly realize he's actually in tears over his dead boyhood friend. But you can also see the fun the Sex Pistols had while it lasted-especially memorable during a reminisence of how they played a children's party, with footage of them covered in cake later, to one of the Pistol's best songs, Bodies. The soundtrack, timing, and editing are all perfect. As I said, my one complaint that was it zipped by too fast, but talking with my husband after the movie, so did the Sex Pistols. One of the better rock documentaries I've seen. "}{"Title":"When it stopped being fun.","Date":"30 May 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Music","Review":" The Sex Pistols were one of the most underrated bands ever; just listen to the driving guitar of Steve Jones, the wailing dynamic voice of Johnny Rotten and the drums of Paul Cooke driving the rhythm with Glen Matlock on the bass; yes Glen Matlock on the bass and not Sid Vicious; Sid came later and couldn't play the bass, by all accounts, thus giving the band its reputation of incompetence which they didn't deserve; so they only used three chords; so what; so did some of the rock'n'roll greats of the fifties and so did The Ramones.I am not of the same age as The Sex Pistols, I identify more with the likes of Eddie Cochran and Buddy Holly, but I sure envied the fans in the 100 club shown in this movie when they witnessed The Sex Pistols there on Oxford Street with Sid in the audience inventing his pogo dance.In this film we get an early glimpse of their Svengali, Malcolm McLaren, at the store SEX that he owned with his then wife Vivienne Westwood; we see him as he swans around the shop like Sean O'Casey's strutting peacock, wearing a teddy-boy suit and sporting a duck's arse hair cut; here was the opportunist who was to take The Sex Pistols to the top and leave them there; high and almost dry in America with no money, no access to credit and no communication as he refused to take or return any of their calls; McLaren was booked into a luxury hotel whilst the band had to make do with some motel.The Pistols response to this was to tell the audience that they were getting 'one song and one song only as this isn't fun;' Johnny Rotten called on his alter ego John Lydon to relay that pathetic statement to the American crowd; this didn't seem to be the type of crowd that cut Sid's face that night with a missile earlier in an American performance; this was a crowd that took notice when they heard that it wasn't fun any more; it was then that we heard the voice over of Steve Jones saying that he had looked at Sid trying to play a bass, that he wasn't sure was plugged in, and wondered if he wanted to go ahead being a Pistol; he said he left soon after that but had regretted it ever since; he loved performing and loved the sex it had brought him throughout the touring life of The Sex Pistols.Interviews with the members of the band were carried out in silhouette throughout and it became clear that the band trusted the man doing the interviews; one Julien Temple the director of this film who knew the band from his previous movie 'The Great Rock 'n' Roll Swindle' which he had made twenty years prior to this one.Even though it had been twenty one years since the death of the twenty two year old Sid Vicious, the telling of the story brought a tear to Johnny Rotten's eye as it is quite clear that John Ritchie, or John Beverly, or whatever Sid's real name was, was the biggest victim in the whole Sex Pistols story; he was one of the Johns who had always been a friend of the other John the John they changed to Johnny Rotten.There is a lot of archive footage in the film and a lot of it is entertaining; we do see the situation as it was in Britain during the seventies which led up to the famous 'winter of discontent' and we even see the man himself, Laurence Olivier, uttering those famous Shakespearian lines from his own movie 'Richard III' from whence the newspaper sub-editors stole the quote; we see political Britain and racist xenophobic Britain but we also see very funny Britain; there is footage from some of the funniest men of the day where else can we see archive footage of Nat Jackley, Tommy Cooper, Max Wall, Billy Dainty and even Arthur Askey who was as funny as toothache? There is the infamous television interview with Bill Grundy who, we are told by Steve in voice over, was drunk too &#150; we weren't there but it was a terrible interview and the poor fellow deserved to be fired which came soon after that day in 1976.I didn't have anything to do with these people as there was another CS on the scene in London who owned a club and knew Julien Temple but I remember them from afar as their music was as exciting as the first time people of my age had heard Jerry Lee Lewis and Little Richard; it was a terrible shock when they went away and Elvis started to sing ballads but bands like the Pistols hit the dust too when it stopped being fun. "},{"Title":"The Definitive Rock Doc","Date":"14 March 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Music","Review":" I've seen my share of rock documentaries, but this one levels them all. This is a film for anyone who's ever seen The Great Rock 'N' Roll Swindle and said Oh, for f***sake! Could we get some f***ing TRUTH in here?! Julien Temple apparently felt the weight of guilt upon his shoulders after aiding and abetting Malcolm McLaren in his insipid attempt to take credit, not only for every single thing the Sex Pistols ever did, but for the creation of punk rock (which goes all the way back to the end of the '60s, if you wanna get technical...so get stuffed, Malcolm).Here, Temple interviews the band in silhouette and throws at us a barrage of great clips from the hundreds of hours that he shot during the making of Swindle...included are several bits that were featured in the aforementioned film, but they're given a different spin, which actually has a ring of truth about it...as well as a great deal that we've never seen before, no doubt because that footage undermines the whole concept of the first film...namely I am Malcolm McLaren...the Sex Pistols were nothing...it was all me...worship me now.It's quite refreshing to hear Steve Jones (the only member of the band who ever really liked McLaren to begin with) musing as to how everyone in the world knows Malcolm's full of s***. That's right...we do. And especially enjoyable were the band's recollections of how McLaren was panicking after the infamous Bill Grundy incident. Funny, when you watch Swindle, it seems like it was all his idea...just like everything else. Oh, Malcolm...can your own life be so meaningless that you feel the need to take credit for everyone else's actions? Nevermind...that's rhetorical.What this film gives us that its predecessor lacked (aside from the absence of staged McLaren ego-trip material) is a historically accurate account of the band's existence, from its inception to its inevitable self-destruction.Not to mention that it actually contains genuine human emotion...something which Swindle lacked altogether. Especially touching are John's recollections of Sid Vicious's death...and how it was turned into more money in McLaren's pockets. You can't get more evil than that, can you? This was someone that John cared for like a brother, and his absence still hurts, even 20 years later.Overall, this film delivers the goods in every conceivable way. It is not only the ONLY worthwhile documentary about the Sex Pistols...it's also the best rock & roll documentary I have ever seen. Anyone with an interest in the musical evolution of the 20th century should miss this film at their own expense. "},{"Title":"The sound of the 70s","Date":"3 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Music","Review":" The Sex Pistols were a band who combined a mixture of internal fury and energy with pantomime showmanship; but this combination generated such a reaction that it became a phenomenon that the group were no longer in control. Their manager (the recently deceased Malcolm McLaren, who gets no voice in this documentary) - allegedly - ran off with all the money (or was too incompetent to make it in the first place), the group self-destructed and so literally did bassist Sid Vicious, who possibly stabbed his girlfriend before dying of a heroin overdose himself. Julien Temple's film isn't bad at conveying what it must have been like to be a member of the band, although it doesn't explore why punk was so resonant - was it just a marketing trick (as McLaren proudly thought it was, much to lead singer Johnny Rotten's disgust) or did it really strike a cord in a profoundly disillusioned youth? There are no answers here, the documentary is really just a platform for Rotten and I don't understand why the interviews with him were all shot in the dark. But it's still interesting to remember a time when a few young men could induce moral panic through a little faux-yobbery. The truth is that with 30 years of distance, even the Sex Pistols seem quaint. "},{"Title":"No Future For You !","Date":"8 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Music","Review":" A documentary about the rise and fall of the most notorious punk rock band of all time; The Sex Pistols.When I was a kid I was hypnotised by Johnny Rotten / John Lydon, and to some extent I still am. He looked and sounded so different from anybody else, particular the musicians who were on TV a lot, like Abba and David Cassidy. He was scary, unique, funny, and behind his penetrating stare there was an almost ruthless, questioning intelligence. I never bought for a second what the authorities said about how The Sex Pistols would create a corrupt society. I thought a corrupt society had created The Sex Pistols, and I thought their music - and the music of the many bands they influenced - was brilliant. This thought-provoking documentary is a companion piece to Temple's 1980 cult classic The Great Rock 'n' Roll Swindle. But whereas that was the brainchild of their egocentric impresario manager Malcolm McLaren, this is their story in the band's own words. It deals with the social upheavals of seventies Britain which gave rise to them, and then does an excellent job of charting their progress from alternative music club heroes to national pariahs to chart topping music icons, to disillusioned and ripped-off losers, without pulling any punches. Typical Sex Pistols day; internal band punch up in limo, sign prestigious contract in front of Buckingham Palace, get wasted and trash record company offices, record a number one hit single (God Save The Queen, which was subsequently banned) and get fired by your new label. If anyone has the right to call themselves anarchists, it's them. Some of the footage in this film comes from Swindle and other familiar sources, but there is also lots of new stuff, particularly some intimate pieces with Vicious, which make his pathetic, tragic fate all the more sobering. It's also packed full of tub-thumpingly great music and performances from a terrific band who compressed so much energy into their short-lived career. A must for all punk fans and for anybody interested in one of the most influential musical movements of all time. The title comes from a tabloid newspaper headline the day after their infamous Bill Grundy TV interview. For more detailed insights into Lydon and the heady years of the late seventies, read his excellent book No Irish, No Blacks, No Dogs. "},{"Title":"One of the best music documentaries ever","Date":"11 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Music","Review":" It probably takes someone like Julien Temple, who has been intimately involved in the Pistols' history, to make such a compelling documentary. Not being much of a Pistols fan, I didn't expect to be moved very deeply by this narrative, but I found myself fascinated by the plethora of material Temple has dug up, and the sophisticated, multi-layered editing. The film not only follows the Pistols' lives, but gives us a rich and detailed picture of the times that spawned them. And it completely validates their attitude - the Pistols are the only people shown here who appear completely contemporary, in contrast to a stifled society that, looking back, seems almost grotesque. It was time for the Pistols' full history to become known, including the details of their demise. Thanks to the filmmakers, now it is. "},{"Title":"I wanna be Anarchy...","Date":"15 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Music","Review":" Anarchic and crudely thrown together documentary charting the rise and fall of the legendary Sex Pistols. Interviews with the surviving band members and some with those no longer with us (including candid footage of both Sid Vicious and Heroin groupie Nancy Spungen) make up the majority of this romantic yet regretful look back at the Punk-era. John'Johnny Rotten' Lydon has the most to say (no surprise there then) and it is quite moving to see another side to the quintessential anarchist as he breaks down when discussing Sid's death and the extent to which Sid's name has been used as a way of making money. Essential viewing for fans, every bit as shambolic as the punk movement. "},{"Title":"Please don't be waiting for me...","Date":"1 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Music","Review":" I'm sure much of this was redundant for The Great Rock and Roll Swindle fans, but I've never seen that movie and found this quite entertaining.Many have carped at director J. Temple's election to have the boys interviewed in the dark as they look back, but I had no problem with it. We've all seen what John/Steve/Paul/Glen look like today (Fat and 40-to quote Mr. Rotten), as they had a late '90's reunion tour and made the publicity rounds. I thought seeing them only young, loud, & snotty worked just fine in the film, thank you.They were truly a one-of-a kind band, and should never be forgotten The thing that always really bugged me was the way the Pistols were showcased when they got to the USA. Granted, it probably wasn't going to go too much farther anyway (with Sid a walking zombie and Johnny's utter contempt for McLaren at that point), but couldn't they at least have booked them in some clubs where their act would have been somewhat appreciated by more than just a few fans? As I recall from 1978, being a Punk/New Wave fan was tough enough in most urban cities with the amount of verbal abuse taken from your average Van Halen fan. But I can only imagine (and now, I've seen) what kind of reception they got in the Redneck bars of Dixie! Stupid Mgmt. + Stupid Venues=A Total Waste of Time.At least we've still got the LP, which I listened to on my way to work this morning, and it hasn't lost one bit of its impact... "},{"Title":"Never mind the sex pistols...","Date":"29 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Music","Review":"  The Sex Pistols were not the greatest Punk Band (how many albums did they release?.....exactly!) still they did have the knack to develop an unusually obsessive cult following in the midst of political chaos in the 70's as well as influencing so many bands which followed. I give credit to a documentary like this one. It's not so much a history of punk, or the band for that matter, as it is a character study. The movie keeps it at the level of the band. When the band gets together, the movie begins, when it ends, it's over... The movie also is stunning for its incorporating Richard III during interviews. I'd never thought that a movie which appears do disjointed on the surface could work so well. And, you have to give credit to a songwriter who can make antichrist rhyme with anarchist. "},{"Title":"from Fringe Video Fanzine Issue #002","Date":"3 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Music","Review":"  Compiled from over 20 hours of The Sex Pistols own footage, including The band getting drunk and cursing on Bill Grundy's talk show, playing the censored 'God Save The Queen' live from a boat during the Queen's jubilee, and their depressing last performance of 'No Fun' at Uxbridge University. Thrown into the mix with Russ Meyer's Who Killed Bambi, and The Great Rock n' Roll Swindle (1980), The Filth & The Fury is a documentary that finally tells the complete story of The Sex Pistols. Some say they were the most notorious and revolutionary rock group of all time, others say they were never originators of any major social, or real political change at all. They only encouraged teenagers to sing songs about their lack of employment, where previous generations composed songs about their dreary jobs. Front-man Johnny Rotten rebuts manager Malcolm McLaren's egotistical claim that it was he who created and molded the band from beginning to end, and breaks into tears as he talks about how his friend and former band mate Sid Vicious died of a heroin overdose in 1979. Either way you look at things, The Sex Pistols rose from useless street trash that couldn't play nor give a s**t about any future, to becoming a key transitional moment in English social history. This film captures the very essence of the punk movement. As a bonus the DVD comes with an in depth examination of the punk movement by many involved. "},{"Title":"Not just for punk rock fans","Date":"23 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Music","Review":"  Love 'em or hate 'em, you can't deny the importance the Sex Pistols had in rock history. They were more about the message than about the music. In fact, they'll tell you that they couldn't play to save their lives. The Filth and the Fury is the latest Julien Temple Sex Pistols movie, and plays more on the band themselves than The Great Rock N' Roll Swindle (Temple's other Pistols documentary).When I saw this movie in the summer of 2000, it was probably the worst theater experience ever. I was in a low budget art house theater with a projector screen hanging off the ceiling, and old chairs probably bought from thrift stores. The room was dark and sleazy, and looked more like a porno theater than an art house theater. The movie, however, made up for that. It went into depths about the band that no other Pistols documentary ever had.The thing with the Sex Pistols is that you learn something new about them every time you either read an article or watch a VH1 special. It shows that they were (and still are) the most controversial band to date, even though they didn't hit big in the U.S. Forget the phonies like Marilyn Manson or Eminem, these guys were singing about real problems facing their lives. Problems such as unemployment, violence, and the rise of a right wing government.The problems I have with this movie, however, are that they only limit it to interviews with the band and their flamboyant manager Malcolm MacLaren. Why not interview people who could tell the importance of the band such as reporters, people who grew up during that time, and members of bands that formed in the wake of their creation such as The Clash, X-Ray Spex, The Buzzcocks, and The Damned. Also, I don't get what Temple was trying to do while interviewing MacLaren. Instead of showing his silhouette, like he does for the band, he shows an inflated mask. I guess he was trying to be artsy there.Anyway, the Filth and the Fury is not just for punk rock fans, but also for rock historians, and anyone who enjoys a good documentary. My grade is 8. "}{"Title":"We mean it MAN","Date":"15 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Music","Review":"  The unique combination of inferno, high comedy and rock and roll reinvention that was the Sex Pistols is perfectly on display in this great documentary. Anyone who either takes the Pistols too seriously or treats them as a joke is truly mistaken and should view The Filth and the Fury over and over and over until they realize the error of their ways.  Plus the great music and some very intelligent, informative, entertaining, and in Rotten's case, touching interviews with the whole lot.   "},{"Title":"Could have been better, much better.","Date":"11 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Music","Review":"  After looking forward to seeing this for months, I was inevitably disappointed in the end result. The footage was great, and it was full of stuff nobody has ever seen before, which I appreciated. However, Julien Temple shouldn't have been let near this. Keeping the interviewees in the shadows, like they do on Unsolved Mysteries when they're trying to hide peoples identity, was much more annoying than creative. Overall, the material can't be denied, the Sex Pistols were a great band and lots of people were waiting for the definitive documentary about them, but the directing very nearly ruined it. "},{"Title":"An excellent documentary","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Music","Review":"  The Filth and the Fury covers the rise and fall of the Sex Pistols in the late 1970s.  This is fine example of the documentary as an art form.  The film switches cleverly between concert scenes, interviews, and footage of riots and social unrest.  If you are a Sex Pistols fan, the rare concert footage alone make this film worth seeing.Even if you don't like punk rock you will enjoy this movie.  The Sex Pistols were a phenomena that changed the face of music forever.  Their story is both fascinating and tragic.  Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Intelligent Doc Profiles The Punk Scene, As Well As The Band","Date":"25 October 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Music","Review":" The Filth And The Fury Best punk rock documentary dedicated to the Sex Pistols, and this isn't that prestigious an honor, considering the number of ratty, bogus bootlegs in circulation--most of them tainted by the idol worship of Sid Vicious and the unhygienic walking sperm-bank and all-around diabolical c-nt that was Nancy Spungen. Director Julien Temple does a smash-up job of explaining the economic and political, class-based sludge that was England in the 70s, but the moments that detail the hardships of the actual life span of the band (under 2 years) and show how miserable being a rock star was during such turbulent times are the most riveting. The violence and hatred toward the group, the lack of money, the desperate tours, the phony fans who led to the posturing geek show that was to become the punk movement by the end of the decade, all these elements are given a proper, gritty screen examination, and a welcome one. Temple's montages and the band speaking on screen in disembodied voices with their faces disguised--as if fugitives from the law--is clever and funny. There's a good selection of songs and hilarious t.v appearances, including those of the British pop variety, performing alongside artists like the Bay City Rollers and disco, as well. This all makes the band's rise to infamy as exciting as it is tragic. "},{"Title":"Loogie nights","Date":"27 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Music","Review":"  Hagiography of John Lydon, aka Johnny Rotten, who is supposedly the brain trust and the shaker-and-mover behind the Sex Pistols. Personally, I'd prefer to take the hard line of Alex Cox's SID AND NANCY, which, goopy as it was about the Sid Vicious/Nancy Spungen romance, was gimlet-eyed about the non-artistic motives of the band. Here we're sold that the Sex Pistols loved the England they coruscated, that their work was a conscious attempt to make late-seventies Britain more individualistic, blah blah blah. I don't buy it--though I do buy that John Lydon has become a warm, sensible, unremittingly ethical, articulate, well-read man in the last quarter century. Svengali Malcolm McLaren is represented here as a man literally filled with hot air. He's not the fingers inside the puppet in this version; he's just a slick talker who ultimately gets burned.Lydon clearly has bought the ideology of the ubiquitous music critic Greil Marcus' LIPSTICK TRACES, which suggested that punk and dada were the same, merely separated by two halves of a century. I don't buy it--but that said, FILTH is fitfully exhilarating.  "},{"Title":"Sex Pistols Fury!","Date":"1 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Music","Review":" The Filth and the Fury (2000) Dir Julien Temple / Featuring Malcolm McLaren, Sid Vicious, Nancy Spungen, Glen Matlock, John Lydon Documentary about the Sex Pistols regarding their lifestyle and the relationship with fans and critics. Director Julien Temple highlights their short music career as they cause mass hysteria in the media. They formed in 1975 under the manager Malcolm McLaren then they fell apart after with the drug overdose of base guitarist Sid Vicious. He had met Nancy Spungen, which led to her stabbing death in a hotel. With Sid up on conviction he died of an overdose in 1979. It isn't a pretty picture but Temple does an effective job with its documentary style. This is quite different from his comedy Earth Girls Are Easy, but here he goes for documentary appeal without the glamour and succeeds in displaying an image of the Sex Pistols that is less than pretty. Johnny Rotten makes an appearance with statements regarding a former manager. Glen Matlock also appears within the madness and carefree life of fame and drugs. Fans or music historians will witness the conflicts both on the road and within personal boundaries. The musical numbers are explosive and chime in with many of their biggest hits. Despite its graphic showcase of drugs and extreme behaviour, it portray the destruction of talent through drugs and fame. Score 9 / 10 "},{"Title":"Irreverently reverent, silently condemning...","Date":"27 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Music","Review":" English screenwriter and music video and documentary director Julien Temple's fourth documentary feature, premiered at the 16th Sundance Film Festival in 2000, was shot on location in England and is a UK production which was produced by producers Anita Camarata and Amanda Temple. It tells the story about a man raised by his Roman Catholic working class parents who had immigrated from Ireland and three same-aged English citizens named Steve Jones, Glen Matlock and Paul Cook who during a time of significant political conflicts, sectarian violence, football hooliganism, racism, inflation and youth culture, formed a band with their English manager named Malcolm McLaren who had opened a boutique in Chelsea, London, England with English fashion designer Vivienne Westwood, and who later befriended a seventeen-year-old fan of the Sex Pistols who would become the fifth and final member. Distinctly and subtly directed by English filmmaker Julien Temple, this finely paced documentary which is narrated interchangeably from the band members' viewpoints though mostly from the lead singers' point of view, draws an informative and unprecedented portrayal of a timely, socially oriented, intentionally offensive, satirically humorous, distinguishably anarchistic, bilaterally received and influential group consisting of a singer, a drummer, a lead guitarist and two bass players, their experiences and their relationship with their producer, their audience, their homeland, record labels, journalist and with each other. While notable for its respectful silhouette interviews which preserves the atmosphere and remarkable concert and backstage footage, this narrative-driven story about civil disobedience, friendship and the founding of a culture of music and everything that came with it during the year when the Guildford Four and the Maguire Seven were convicted, the Vietnam War ended, German-Jewish political theorist Hannah Arendt (1906-1975) and Czech-American filmmaker Milos Forman's One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest had its premiere, eloquently reminiscences a period in time when the Labour Party was in government and a lasting cultural movement emerged. This densely biographical, coherently historic, sociological and gravitating retelling of real events in the history of a nation and the lives of five sons of England from the early 2000s which is set mostly in England, Northern Ireland and the United States in the late 20th century, is impelled and reinforced by its cogent narrative structure, distinct film editing by film editor Niven Howie, efficient use of archive material, fictional approach which increases the surreal aspects, close to theatrical interviews of Nancy Spungen and Sid Vicious, politicized lyrics, the contrasting and life-affirming scenes from a benefit concert in Huddersfield, England in 1977 for children of firemen who were on strike and the prominent and memorable narration by English singer, songwriter and front-man John Lydon aka Johnny Rotten. An irreverently reverent, silently condemning and ultimately heartrending homage. "},{"Title":"How to change music with one album","Date":"6 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Music","Review":"  The Filth and the Fury is the best musical documentary I have ever seen about one of the most influential bands ever.The Sex Pistols were an explosion that could only last a short time but one whose ripples still influence bands of today which is amazing as they only ever released one album.The footage of the band was excellent with lots of previous unseen shots and I really felt that the film tried to show them as human beings rather than caricature bad guys. I also thought that the director did a great job of explaining the social climate of the time and why punk came about, an honest account about how ordinary people in the UK really felt about what was happening at the time.All in all a fitting epitaph, their music was raw and brilliant, I just wish I could say that about most of todays offerings. "},{"Title":"Good, unclean fun","Date":"11 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Music","Review":" The Sex Pistols redefined an era and became symbolic icons of a generation poised on either self destruction or spontaneous revolution. They were loud, verbally abusive and ungodly swift in their maneuvers, but most importantly they knew how to play the times. The Pistols captured the moment and ran with it.The Filth and the Fury (2000) allows you to see this brilliant band from every angle, and virtually every scene is packed with pure energy, candid slapstick, sticky scenarios and good, unclean fun.Johnny Rotten (John Lydon) was just as savvy & sharp-tongued in 1977 as he is today, and it's quite fascinating to study the band as they glide from early venues (like the famous St. Martins School of Art & Design gig) to an inevitable exclamation point in San Francisco, CA. The Sex Pistols were complete visionary free spirits, and could have continued for another few years if not for Malcolm McLaren's mismanaging, and the exploits of unprepared bass player Sid Vicious (too much, too fast) and his smacked to the bones girlfriend Nancy Spungeon (who had originally road the coattails of the New York Dolls).I'd advise you to rent this tantalizing rockumentary, and watch it alone...with proper lighting. Don't watch it with stupid, unrefined, misinformed, middle American knuckleheads who will comment every five seconds. You need to soak it in and inhale this fabulous film about a colorful place and time not too far away. It captures the moment...and runs with it. "},{"Title":"Real punk rock. Top Movie.","Date":"24 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Music","Review":"  Forget the New York Dolls, Forget The Ramones, Forget the So-Called punk rock bands from todays music industry, Forget the American punk scene these guys did it better than anyone else you can think of. This documentary shows us the real Sex Pistols. The 4 (or should we say, 5) lads who were out to show people what life was really like. The documentary is so well made and even has plenty of funny things too like the animations of the band. We even get an insight into how it began and how it ended and the real truths that they all felt at the time and how they feel now. Johnny Rotten said himself how he hates the fake punk rockers (I think he means people like Blink 182, Good Charlotte etc) who ruined the ideologies that punk stood for. The rebellion and the anarchy that it was meant to be about. The Sex pistols were the most controversial music act ever. More so than Eminem himself if were honest. These guys deserve every credit they get for the way they changed music forever. In the 26 months of there existence they've worked their arses off. They were constantly working for the entire time to achieve all that they did (the gigs and interviews etc) and its all told and shown to you in this film. You definately need to watch this Documentary. It is something i shall be watching over and over again. 10/10 "}{"Title":"Simply Captivating","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Music","Review":"  I didnt know all that much about the Pistols before viewing this documentary, and now after seeing it, I am hooked on this band and the punk culture that they inspired in the U.K. around this era. As a film, it is near seamless without anything worthy of complaint. There is a shot of Johhny Rotten singing God Save The Queen in the studio. He is motionless and yet the anger and spite in his voice really makes you take these guys seriously. They clearly didnt give a f--k about anybody but themselves and the culture that they represented. Their nihilism sends shivers down your spine. Culminating in what can only be called a shambolic performance, this documentary is beyond excellent. It captures the spirit of the era through stationary head shots, quirky yet brilliant post-editing and overall engagement. I dare you to watch this film and not feel the biting and oppresive culture surrounding the band. Utterly astounding. The best documentary ever put on film. Period. "},{"Title":"pure genius","Date":"2 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Music","Review":"  This has to be one of the most incredible films ever made. The editing, choice of images, everything is perfect and it all combines to have a real impact on the viewer, something which hardly any other film has managed with me. I should think this film will still be watched decades after 99% of Hollywood product has dissolved. A real historical document, and very entertaining as well.  "},{"Title":"Great Documentary","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Music","Review":"  The Filth and the Fury is a great movie; a very well done documentary. Anyone with any interest in modern music would do themselves a favour in watching it. The story of the Sex Pistols is a short but memorable one, and for it to be so expertly told on video is a blessing. Clips of everything from the humble beginnings, to the infamous talk show with Bill Grundy, to the Longhorn Ballroom (Sid Vicious smashing his bass on someone's head), to the final moments at Winterland are shown, and much in between. Added interviews and insights show the Pistols' point of view. I suppose that the language content of the film could scare off conservative people, but this is punk at its primitive, raw self. "},{"Title":"THIS IS THE REAL SEX PISTOLS!!!","Date":"31 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Music","Review":"  Forget watching Sid & Nancy.  If you want a real documentary on one of the most infamous British punk bands of all time, this is the one to watch! While it may be hard to feel sorry for the members of the group, considering all the outrageous stunts and behaviour they exhibited back in the late 1970s, this documentary is so fascinating you can't help but be pulled in by it all.  Any Pistols fans out there agree with me?  I'm not actually a Pistols fan, but I do love The Clash and The Stranglers. "},{"Title":"Punk brought back to life","Date":"23 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Music","Review":"  The Filth and The Fury is a beautifully designed documentary consisting of rough, crude, punk memories of the band The Sex Pistols in such a classy fashion that the disgusting, heroin-scented footage is transformed into haunting beauty of a tragic group of punks who began the British punk revolution. Recommended as the finale of a double feature with Sid and Nancy. "},{"Title":"Even better than the Swindle","Date":"13 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Music","Review":"  Made by the same team as the earlier Great Rock 'n' Roll Swindle, this is the definitive documentary, the full story, about the notorious punk band, the Sex Pistols.  Using footage from the nearly 20 hours of footage shot of the band, interviews with the band and their fans, clips from the earlier film, and new clips from various sources, the behind the scenes story of how the band was formed right on down to the breakup of the band after briefly touring the U.S.  To music fans looking for the story of the Pistols, this is it...and its presented in all its filthy and potentially offensive glory. I would urge any music fan to see this and learn what the punk movement was really about.  "},{"Title":"The good and the bad...","Date":"11 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Music","Review":"  The good  I've never really had a clear grasp on the Sex Pistols complete history as a band and this documentary did a good job at filling in all the areas I was sketchy on.  I enjoyed the interviews with Lydon, Jones, Cook, Matlock and Vicious.  The footage of Vicious is especially poignant--it's as if he never died and Temple just went out and interviewed him for the film.  I enjoyed the footage of the show where Lydon was handing out cake to elementary school kids and then serenading them with Pretty Vacant (a strange scene, that).  I liked the live footage of their last show in San Francisco; it was interesting to see all of the live footage actually.  I thought the home footage of the Lydon family was interesting.  I enjoyed the splicing in of some footage that gave a perspective on England's political/economic upheaval in the 70s.  That was helpful in understanding the whole basis of this band.  The bad  What was with those spliced in scenes of Richard III, Hamlet, and other cheesy BBC (?) Shakespeare productions?  I guess these characters were supposed to be like Lydon in some way?  This footage just seemed kind of silly and pointless to me.  I didn't like the scenes where Temple edited in Lydon's, Cook's, Matlock's, Jones' recollections over old live footage.  It just didn't work well for me.  Examples of this were the scenes in McClaren's clothing store.  In many places, this documentary dragged; it was very slow.  Overall, The Filth and the Fury is definitely worth a watch if you are curious as to the history of the Sex Pistols.   "},{"Title":"Anarchy and death","Date":"25 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Music","Review":"  I found this to be an entertaining documentary on the Sex Pistols yet not that revealing. It didn't tell me anything new that I didn't already know about the band. Much of the footage was taken from Julien Temple's earlier documentary The Great Rock n Roll Swindle. Great music though and perfectly captures the period. Julien Temples directing also at times I felt to be self consciously arty. What was with the absence of lighting during the interviews with Johnny and the other Sex Pistols? I found it distracting, and almost intentionally hilarious like out of those old Frosted Flake commercials where grown ups would confess to liking the cereal but not reveal their faces. "},{"Title":"Anarchy, punk rock, Sid nods out, it's cool","Date":"27 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Music","Review":"  This is the best film made about punk rock, period. What makes it so good is the way that the story of the Sex Pistols is spiked with different cultural references and gratuitous bits of raunchy fun.Julien Temple, who as many know, directed The great Rock and Swindle, the Sex Pistol's story as told by their former Manager, Malcom McLaren. This flic tells the Pistol's story from the perspective of the serving members of the group making it more accurate, and in my opinion.For any Sex Pistols fan, or just someone who wants something different, see this flic, trust me. "},{"Title":"The Best Sex Pistols Documentary","Date":"21 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Music","Review":"  The Filth and the Fury is, by far, the best documentary you will ever see on the Sex Pistols.  There is a lot of old footage you might have seen before in other films, but there is also some added footage and some good interviews of the members speaking of their exploits.The Grundy interview is broken down very well while being explained.  They also do refer to themselves briefly on the tradition of anarchy and the Gorgon riots.  There is also a few cuts from `who killed Bambi', while explaining how all their funds was invested in this failed movie that turned into a `the Great Rock and Roll Swindle.'If you're not a Sex Pistol fan, you will still find this intriguing on how the evolution on what Punk rock was, and how pertinent the Sex Pistol experience was.This is also a bipartisan view of Malcolm McLaren.  Which is very significant, due to his involvement in other films, which has casted him as the leader of these group of teenagers.Julien Temple, the great director he is, finally tells the true story.  "}{"Title":"GRRREAT Movie!!!!","Date":"30 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Music","Review":"  The Filth and THe Fury is a GREAT movie and highly recommended to all Pistol fans.  While the interviews with Johnny Rotten,& Steve Jones are fairly enlightening about the history of the Pistols, by far the best thing about the movie is the live concert footage of all their great tunes (almost all from the Never Mind The Bollocks... album). The sound on the movie is outstanding!!! You won't hear any better sounding versions of AnarchY in The UK, God Save The Queen, then you will hear here. The end of the movie re the end of the Pistols drags a little though. Still, a 9 out of 10!!! "},{"Title":"Anarchy in the UK!","Date":"19 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Music","Review":"  The  Filth and the Fury,the new Sex Pistol's documentary is a great film.Directed by Julien Temple,who also did the Sex Pistol's 1980 film,The Great Rock and Roll Swindle.It has commentary from all the band member's.Johnny Rotten proves to be a humorous insightful chap who was the main focus of the band.He explains that the band was always in control,not Malcolm McLaren.It has some old footage of the deceased Sid Vicious.Steve Jones comes across as a streetwise rock and roller,always looking for chicks.The Sex pistols were truly a cultural phenomenon of the 1970's,this film captures that,both good and bad. "},{"Title":"Just jeering and sneering","Date":"23 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Music","Review":" This is the Sex Pistols in their own four-letter words, probably a better way to review punk rock than in Malcolm McLaren's self-regarding version of the story, filmed by the same director twenty years earlier.It is hard to know who could be shocked by this outpouring of meaningless blasphemy and violent rebellion against nothing very much. Yet many people were deeply outraged by the first of the punk rockers. A Welsh town tried to ban them. The giant record company EMI felt obliged to fire them. And the veteran TV presenter Bill Grundy wrecked his career by failing to restrain their foul language on a chat-show.All of this was music to the ears of McLaren, who had been casting around for a new brand of youth-protest to replace the fading hippie culture in which he himself had been so immersed a few years earlier. Something harsher was needed, something with spikes and swastikas, laced with heroin.The answer was Punk, perhaps the most effective four-letter word of them all, literally impossible to utter without anger and hate. The band itself is awash with hate, and self-hate, at its most unmistakable in the Sid Vicious interview, where he says he wishes he was underground. (A few months later, he was.) Julien Temple's treatment has been praised for its subtle interleaving of newsreel to provide the social background that was supposed to justify the excesses of Punk. Personally, I can't see what's so subtle about it, though the apparently irrelevant clips from Olivier's Richard III may be putting out a message too subtle for most of us.Still, the authorised (socialist) version of 70's England is the main theme - an oppressed working class, ripe for revolution. Johnny Rotten probably didn't realize he was revealing the flaw in the argument when he says We don't know who 'working class' means any more. Indeed not. It used to mean manual workers and their families. By the 70's, it had swung round to mean almost everything other than this - a rentamob of full-time anarchists, unemployables, illegal immigrants and striking students and professors. (Johnny and Sid first met in higher education.) In the end, the sheer nihilism of the subject makes it monotonous, and it doesn't help that all four of the band are actually named John, so we often don't know who is describing whom. Like all revolutionaries, they disagree about everything, except their intense loathing for Sid's girlfriend Nancy Spungen. (Never felt such negative energy). Still, there is a nice touch, arriving at JFK, where the customs are determined to do a full drug-search... until they take a look at Sid's underwear, and mysteriously decide to wave them through after all. "},{"Title":"ArTy  documentary","Date":"4 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Music","Review":" i never saw a documentary that so well reflects the artistic values of its subject. so well merging history and art into a very tasty presentation.back in the late seventies, the sEx pIstOLs caused a true pop revolution in england as well as in Europe. in those days the WHirLwinDs of the sixties had slowed down, while the industry kept on GoiNg. It all resulted in pop music mostly lacking FIrE.we all know that sEx pisToLs' music carried lots of fire. what Americans may not appreciate, is that this fire comes from a strong social undertone. the group really represented ENglAnd's lowest educated, socially backward youngsters, with almost no prospect for a proper job + a decent futUrE.that's what the sEx pIsToLs sing about -- love + sex hardly make a topic with them. their image and outfit are quite in line - we all know their torn-up clothing, their safety pins, and their FoUl language. called P U N K. It's all there in this gReAt documentary. "},{"Title":"Brilliant punk-u-mentary and way, way more.","Date":"7 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Music","Review":" The Filth and the Fury is a documentary so well-done that you do not have to like or even care about the focus of it to enjoy the film. The Sex Pistols being that focus, were a short-lived, hugely influential punk band that shook things up for about two years. They shook up a whole society in England and then they shook up America. It didn't take them long and what was born was a whole music revolution that pretty much created the 1980's and the 1990's. I think after viewing this film, any intelligent person will have to admit that if it weren't for The Sex Pistols, there would never have been Blondie, Run DMC, Black Flag, The Beastie Boys, Nirvana or The Killers.I love John Lydon; what an awesome dude. So humble and at the same time so crass. He obviously doesn't care that he is a star. That dude transcends rock star.'You don't create ME...I AM ME...' If you haven't seen this one, I feel sorry for you. If you can't appreciate it, I don't even have one single thing in common with you.10 out of 10, kids. "},{"Title":"One of the more insightful documentaries to grace the screen in recent times","Date":"7 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Music","Review":"  The Sex Pistols, over-rated slightly, but also spectacular punk rock band that revolutionized the industry they almost started, get the documentary treatment in the Filth and the Fury, which examines the group today, and back then in the glory 70's.  All 4 original members of the band (I say original because bassist Sid Vicious came after the group kicked out Matlock) are interviewed in silhouete form as they reckon back to the times when the band first started in 1975, when they first started to notice people in the different clothing that would later be inspiration for the 80's and 90's, and when they first got in trouble on TV (they were the first people to say f**k on the airwaves in Britain).  Throughout, the film is quite enterianing as much as it is insightful, and it is also touching when Rotten points out details that are striking.  Quite well done, with some good editing by Niven Howie.  A "},{"Title":"One of the best rock documentaries ever.","Date":"1 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Music","Review":"  an incredibly exhaustive, informative and suprizingly touching documentary of the last rock band that really meant it. I dragged three friends to it who had little or no interest in The Sexpistols, & while they didn't become fans they were riveted to the hilarious & ultimatley tragic history of the band. Fans (like me) will be treated to never before seen live footage that has been lovingly restored. Right up there with Gimme Shelter' & Stop Making Sense as one of the giants of rock documentaries. "},{"Title":"Kings of anarchy","Date":"8 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Music","Review":"  You can count on one hand the rock and roll documentaries (Woodstock, Stop Making Sense) that have have done justice to the grandeur of their subjects. To that very short list, add The filth and the fury, a great searching, incendiary chronicle of the Sex Pistols, the razor-hearted visionaries of punk anarchy. Made in collaboration between the now middle-aged band members and director Julien Temple, whose first feaure The Great Rock 'n' Roll Swindle was a cynical, nose-thumbing fantasia on the same saga, now puts an arresting face on the brief, unholy reign of Johnny Rotten, Sid Vicious, and company. We're given a definitive inside view of their boyhood, their bitter alliance, and the medious circus that surrounded their grisly flamoue of an American tour, the tragedy of Vicious' heroin driven downfall - which actually inspires the present day John Lydon, ne Rotten, to chock up on camera. And you thought the Sex Pistols had no feelings. "},{"Title":"Two Films for the Price of One","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Music","Review":"  The first two-thirds of this movie is a decent documentary spoiled by artsy-fartsy pretensions. The early history of the Sex Pistols is good, with rarely seen photos of often mentioned Wally Nightingale, & provides insights as to where these guys came from. Unfortunately, this part of the film is ruined by interspersing scenes from a production of Shakespeare's Richard III. I can see the connection, as demonstrated on film, but come on Julien, a Sex Pistols documentary loaded with Shakespeare?! The Richard III clips are excessive & interfere with the flow of the film. More stills of the band members or more early live footage would have served better. The commentary on British social issues works well, especially with Johnny Rotten's comments concerning life in the UK at the time. Halfway through the film, I was ready to give up on it due to the pretentious nature of its construction, but I stuck with it & I'm happy I did. The last third of the movie focuses much more on the group, although Shakespeare appears throughout (but with less frequency). Video clips of the Pistols are used more often in the latter part of the film, & that really helps. Temple manages to humanize the Sex Pistols, especially by showing some of their children's benefit footage (rarely seen & little known), not an easy task for a group generally thought to be filthy. But Temple's greatest accomplishment lies in his humanization of Johnny Rotten (an almost impossible task). I've read many books & articles concerning Rotten (including his own), Punk, & the Pistols, starting in 1977, & it's not easy to be sympathetic for a fellow so cynical, mean spirited, & negative. Even during the earlier parts of this movie Rotten's miserable personality comes through. But when he continues talking about his dead friend Sid, the iron fence surrounding his personal space breaks down & we see that Rotten is actually human like the rest of us & is capable of caring for another human being, one that he previously described by saying I despise him... Johnny got Sid into the Sex Pistols, to use him as a willing pawn versus the Cook/Jones coalition & the Malcolm Problem, & Sid served him very well indeed. But Johnny couldn't control Sid's heroin addiction, & apparently his felt guilt over letting his friend down has gotten to him, & this film shows it. Terrific ending to a terrific band. I rate the first two-thirds 5/10; I rate the second two-thirds 9/10; overall I rate it 8/10. "},{"Title":"My discovery of The Sex Pistols","Date":"31 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Music","Review":"  It was this movie which made me realize that Sex Pistols were a great band and now I'm totally stuck to the music. Before I saw this on TV I hadn't heard one song, but I thought they couldn't play and so on. But as I saw it I got more and more interested and inspired. The movie is really great. I bought it when I was in London and I've seen it almost three times this weekend. I just love the part when they are interviewed in TV and Rotten says a dirty word. It's great! The first time I saw it on DVD it took 2 and a half hour because it was hard to understand sometimes because I'm from Sweden so some parts I saw many times ao I didn't miss anything that was said. =) I just love that band!  "}{"Title":"The Filth and the Fury review","Date":"7 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Music","Review":"  The Filth and the Fury should be named 4 Fast, 4 Furious. The documentary covers the full career of 4 English lads (actually 5, as there were 2 bassists), known as the Sex Pistols, who begin their conquest of terrorizing `the man's' estate with what is now known as `Punk' rock. Controversial news reports and interviews commenting on this anti-establishment establishment are molded with Sex Pistols' concert footage, music videos (the documentary plays like one large one, in fact), comedy skits, and even historical film clips. But that's just the problem. While the film does a fine job at blending the music and the politics with the culture, it becomes almost too much when viewing a serious Pistol speak of a drug overdose, only to be intervened by the flimsiness of Olivier's Richard III.What saviors this uttermost nonsense is the Pistols' brutal honesty. They admit they were not the most musical of bands or, in fact, even talented at all. Their second bassist was so poor he tried to emulate his lead singer's stage presence on stage, rather than playing up to his own aptitude. This man was Sid Vicious, an icon if there ever was one, and a spokesperson for not knowing how to handle `it'. After the breakup with the band, and perhaps with his infamous girlfriend Nancy, Sid died of a heroine overdose on a plane in 1979. He's credited with much of the gothic style (i.e. leather coat, jet black hair) that Marilyn Manson makes so famous today. Even without these immense melodic talents, the band's thematic attitude of attack and destroy was enough to generate a whole movement.The Sex Pistols, along with rockers Billy Idol and The Clash, were able to break out the Punk scene, feeding off the chaos that was dominating the UK at the time a rioting middleclass upset about school and job settings. As quoted by the lead vocalist and anti-star Johnny Rotten, `Sex Pistols should have happened and did.' Nothing could be closer to the truth. This Punk rock music, heavily influenced by scar, Irish folk, metal and David Bowie, along with working class backgrounds, helped the band identify with much of the social strife and race hate that was looking for some answers. The documentary's use of montage and reenactments do an excellent job at displaying the austerity of the riot acts, including an unusual garbage strike that gave rockers a new fetish for fashion.`The Johns,' as Johnny Rotten often called them (apparently all the members birth-name were Johns), helped create new environments to escape from normal everyday life, elevating people to become more individual, original in their ideals. With Punk, women also stopped accepting themselves as second class citizens. Taking notice of this empowerment, ironically, the Pistols still crave groupie sex after all their shows, with nothing else-perfectly normal for these punk-fueled lads, I suppose.3/5 stars  "},{"Title":"Swindled Again.","Date":"5 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Music","Review":"  Maudlin, hindsighted re-edit of 'The Greatest Rock 'n Roll Swindle'.  More than half is lifted directly from the original to cynically milk your sentimental rental dollar.Gone is the freaky little dwarf with his alphabet blocks, as is McLaren's rather nasty looking willy.  Splice in some silhouette interview footage of the band members today, continue to bemoan the injustices suffered at the hands of EMI, spoon-feed us through a more patriotic (if a tad revisionist) interpretation of 'God Save the Queen' (John Lydon seems to belatedly pull the punch from said cultural icon, perhaps he's brown-nosing for a knighthood?), shed a few crocodile tears for Sid--and there it is--all shrink-wrapped for freshness in our contemporary context.Each episode of look how we stuck it to The Man (*gasp* You were so shocking!) is punctuated by a triumphant cha-ching! of an animated cash register, boasting of exactly how much cash The Sex Pistols made out of THAT particular little stunt.  How apt.It all left the band a little diminished in my esteem, really.  So rather than taint blurry memories of those bollocky progenitors of the punk subculture with the moodily back-lit reminiscences of some dull-witted, self-lauding, discarded product of the commercial machine, this humble reviewer suggests renting 'The Greatest Rock 'n Roll Swindle' instead.Pretty Vacant.2/10  "},{"Title":"Sweet but not furious","Date":"4 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Music","Review":"  I remember lying in bed one night many years back listening to John Peel on a small transistor radio with an earpiece and he said he had found a new record that was so good he was going to play it twice in a row - which he did, and then proceeded to play it a third time without a pause for any other records. The song was Anarchy for the UK and I thought at the time that this band was going to make quite a mark. This second quasi-documentary about the Sex Pistols from director Julien Temple attempts to show just how they went on to make that mark. The justification of the music as social phenomena is maybe a bit far-fetched in reality, but told convincingly enough. A better movie than the earlier Sid and Nancy or Temple's ownThe Great Rock and Roll Swindle - due in no small part to the amount of largely uninterrupted music by the band, brought together in a way that amplifies the emotional impact that raw, innovative rock and roll can have. The downside is that, at the end of the day, the characters in the Sex Pistols are neither interesting or likeable - their music seems more phenomenon than the outflowings of artistic creativity. A movie to enjoy while it's on, rather than to savour on the way home. Yet at least they will be remembered long after Julien Temple has gone. Temple only followed another's tune - whether McLaren's or the Pistols - yet he follows tunes but limply and fails to make the most of the material. Even the eternal hallowing is so counter to everything that the band supposedly stood for - the Pistols were fantastic in their time - now they are just archives. Temple, sadly, misses any opportunity to draw analogy with the present day. "},{"Title":"Yet another tiresome, pretentious documentary","Date":"4 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Music","Review":"  Filth is right.  Fury?  Nope fury is an emotion with cognitive structure, and neither the film nor anything in it was coherent enough to exhibit it.I didn't know anything about the Sex Pistols, so I didn't have a clue what was going on - and Temple had no interest in telling me.  He just wanted to leave me with an impression of ... well, who knows what, and who cares.  I got the idea that Britain was exceptionally dirty in the late 1970s.  No-one could afford 35mm film, or hold a camera straight.  It seems this is true even today.  Temple is one of those tiresome documentary makers who fancies himself an artist, and he can't even zoom in on a still photograph without some, blurry, hip, self-conscious shakiness.  When he interviews the surviving Pistols he has them backlit so that you can't see their faces - as if it wasn't already hard enough to tell them apart.  I saw an interview in which Temple was asked about this, and his response was Well, is there anything more boring than a shot of a talking head?  What a stupid thing to say.  The answer is yes.There was one moment of poignancy - just one - in the entire documentary that final concert where everything falls apart.  It's one of those horrible occasions where we think to ourselves, Christ, they really oughtn't be filming this.  Somebody turn the cameras off.  But then, I'm inclined to think that about the Sex Pistols' entire career.  And remember that I knew nothing about the band beforehand.  I came to think neither they nor anything to do with them was worth documenting AS A RESULT of the documentary, DESPITE Julien Temple's manifest, and embarrassing, sycophancy.And my God - don't the songs start to sound identical to one another after two hours.  After two songs, in fact. "}]