[{"Title":"Irony for the wicked","Date":"1 November 2001","Score":"105 out of 118 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  If you understand irony, this film should be a real riotous laugh straight through. It is possibly one of the most brilliant movies so far this millennium, outright disrespectful of the spy theme Brosnan's degenerated, decadent b*****d spy Osnard is just the way one would picture James Bond in real life, had the latter not been so awfully loyal. Actually, Osnard is James Bond minus loyalty and with his self-confidence, decadence and sexism turned up a couple of notches. A brilliant character, brilliantly acted. Another fantastic actor is the amazing Geoffrey Rush in the role as the Tailor of Panama, Harry Pendel.The story is absolutely fascinating, one of the most clever and witty stories to emerge in a long while - the Tailor of Panama reluctantly becomes a spy and conjures up non-existent government plots to sell the Panama Canal to the Chinese, which makes the English and the Americans (portrayed as a bunch of idiots with delusions of grandeur and as militaristic blow-hards with victory as the only goal) react aggressively.It is important that one understands that this film is serious in one respect only its comedy. Don't see this expecting to see a thrilling spy-movie. It isn't, though I find the scope of the film thrilling. It's more of a comedy, and if you can't see that when the American general with tears in his eyes blurts There is a star missing from the American flag!, then you're not really equipped for this kind of film. The reason I'm writing this is that some reviewers have found the movie to be silly... which is just what one would think if one didn't get it.Brilliant. Just brilliant. "},{"Title":"Excellent satire of the intelligence business, told with a straight face","Date":"21 October 2002","Score":"59 out of 75 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  It's too bad about the low IMDB rating for this movie. It is a deft blend of James Bond, Casablanca and Dr Strangelove which directs its often vicious tongue-in-cheek barbs at both the intelligence industry and the spy films which glorify it. While it can be enjoyed straight, that is as a story in its own right, I think those who miss its satirical structure (the film doesn't directly let the audience in on the joke - it must be inferred), miss half the fun.  "},{"Title":"Exciting and Cynical, LeCarre at His Best","Date":"2 April 2002","Score":"50 out of 60 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  There are no heroes or villains in The Tailor of Panama, only exploiters and victims.  Some may be turned off by the cynical tone of the film.  For example, Andy Osnard, the British secret agent, played by Pierce Brosnan (who else?) is a scheming sociopath, not a patriotic hero.  The title character, Harry Pendel, played by Geoffrey Rush, is a liar and an ex-convict.  Don't be put off by these flawed characters, though.  In the great tradition of John LeCarre's characters, these devious, selfish people are endlessly interesting -- and believable.  I suspect that those who did not like this film reacted as they did because of a lack of heroes and because the outcome of the machinations it depicts are sadly grotesque.  Nevertheless, this is the thinking person's spy movie.  Highly recommended, 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"An atmospheric, well-crafted thriller with actors having an infectiously good time.","Date":"24 September 2002","Score":"34 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The Tailor of Panama is an atmospheric, well-crafted thriller in which the actors have an infectiously good time with their characters, especially an excellent and hilarious Pierce Brosnan as Andy Osnard, a roguish British spy who is sent to Panama (superbly described as Casablanca without heroes) to keep out of trouble and get back his government's trust. However, even in post-Cold War diplomacy you have to play the game and earn your wage.  The diplomats still have to listen to their sources.  Osnard selects British ex-pat tailor Harry Pendel (Geoffrey Rush) to be his information source, using Pendel's hidden past to get his cooperation.  Pendel is well-placed as his wife works for the director of the Panama Canal Company, but he also has friends formerly in the anti-Noriega ranks.  Osnard passes on what Pendel tells him to his superiors. These two characters start to spin a web of exciting misinformation that they start to revel in, but this has consequences which escalate beyond their control. The background of Panama, from its laundromats (banks) to its seedy nightclubs, suits the characters and the story perfectly, and gives the film an atmospheric richness of the type director Boorman excels in.  It is a treat for those who love international political intrigue and who may have traveled or lived in such places. This is a thriller which relies not on hi-tech filmmaking gimmicks (and there are many opportunities to), but on characters interesting enough to follow all the way through the film.  It has an old-fashioned feel, and an wry and mischievous humor.  Some may see some implausibility in the final conseuences of Osnard's and Pendel's actions, but on the whole the shamless good time they have bring these (almost) anti-heroes to life is infectious. Great fun. "},{"Title":"unsatisfying but worthwhile venture","Date":"16 January 2002","Score":"32 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  In `The Tailor of Panama,' Pierce Brosnan plays a sort of evil version of his James Bond persona, a womanizing British spy more concerned with his own personal aggrandizement than with duty to queen and crown and all those virtues we, parochially, tend to think of as uniquely `Western' - virtues like liberty, freedom and democracy.Based on John Le Carre's novel of the same name, `The Tailor of Panama' is not quite so positive in its assessment of the West's innate benevolence. It is, in fact, an attack on the evils of the modern nation-building process, wherein developed countries like the United States and Great Britain engage in all sorts of covert skullduggery in an effort to protect their own strategic interests in the Third World community. If this involves propping up or installing immoral regimes - or toppling potentially moral ones - that, as Le Carre sees it, is all part of the game we naively call `international diplomacy.'The setting of the film is Panama City right after the takeover of the canal by the Panamanians.  Fearful that its interests might soon be threatened, the British government sends one of its own secret agents, Andy Osnard, to ferret out some British citizen who may have contacts with the authorities in the city and may, therefore, be privy to information pertinent to their concerns.  Andy alights on Harry Pendel, a good-natured, idealistic tailor who does, indeed, seem to have some entree with the higher-ups in the local government.  Harry also happens to be married to Louisa (Jamie Lee Curtis), who actually works supervising the canal, so, of course, Harry can be quite an informative source of information if he happens to put his mind to it. Andy, knowing that Harry has a few major debts to pay off, moves in for the kill and engages Harry's efforts.  The only problem is that Harry, beyond being impeccably moral, also loves to spin a fantastic yarn or two, and Andy has to figure out whether the information Harry is feeding him is really the truth or just the product of an overactive imagination.The complexity of the plotting works both for and against the film.  On the one hand, the audience has a fun time following the narrative along its complicated mazelike path, meeting interesting people and visiting unusual sites along the way.  Moreover, we are afforded a fascinating glimpse into the sleazy world of backstage nation-building in a so-called `Banana Republic.'  On the other hand, we often find ourselves a bit confused as to the why and wherefore of many of the actions, and, far worse, the movie never establishes enough of a quality of credibility to make us believe it all.  This is certainly the case in the film's final stretches when the too-easily duped U.S. and British governments launch an all-out attack on the city based on only the flimsiest of evidence.  Yet, perhaps, that is Le Carre (and director John Boorman's) thesis  that such takeovers are often rooted in causes that are circumstantial, prefabricated or totally beside the point.  If this is the case, both the writer and the director have failed to create the tone necessary to pull off such a sophisticated idea. For, although there are flashes of sharp humor shot throughout the entire film, the general ambience is never far-out and witty enough for us to classify the work as satirical.  As a result, the final scenes seem somehow more silly than provocative.This is not, however, to suggest that `The Tailor of Panama' is not a worthwhile and interesting film.  In fact, it succeeds almost on the strength of its performances alone.  Brosnan does a superb job poking fun at his signature spy persona, as he utilizes his trademark suavity to get exactly what he wants - be it information, a load of cash, or a roll in the hay with a gorgeous female companion.  As the title character, Geoffrey Rush delivers yet another outstanding performance, somehow managing to make Harry seem both incredibly weak and amazingly strong at the same time.  In fact, Rush, quite literally, carries this film, earning the audience's sympathy from beginning to end.  Curtis turns in her usual fine performance, although her role seems a bit undernourished compared to those of the two male leads.`The Tailor of Panama,' although ultimately unsatisfying, comes pretty damn close to being a worthwhile success. "},{"Title":"How nice to see Pierce Brosnan as a rotter.","Date":"27 March 2001","Score":"25 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  How nice to see Pierce Brosnan as a rotter. Without the man-tan make up, you can actually see his freckles.A co-production of the Irish government and Columbia Pictures, The Tailor of Panama is an old-fashioned British espionage film that is Euro-light on the violence and silhouette-discreet on the sex. No skitzy MTV editing and no hip hop trendy hits. Which may be heaven for some and limbo for others.Starring along with the current James Bond is Geoffrey Rush and Jamie Lee Curtis. Pierce is still handsome as hell and he's still a spy. This time he's been exiled to Central America to cool his heels. Overly ambitious, he latches on to local tailor to the rich and powerful and starts to squeeze him for information becoming more ruthless and despicable with every turn. The colorful Rush obliges him with making stuff up and this leads to all kinds of intrigue. Jamie Lee reprises her wife-who-doesn't-know-her-husband-is-a-spy role that she did in True Lies, but without the little black dress. The humor is very dark and very British. The plot is reminiscent of the 1960 Alec Guinness-Ernie Kovacs gem, Our Man in Havana, an early spoof of the Bond saga.Tailor is taken from the '96 Le Carré novel of the same name. John the spymaster shares screenplay credit along with Andrew Davies and the veddy British director John Boorman, most famous for Deliverance. Yes, this is the man responsible for Dueling Banjos. Receiving Acad noms for directing Hope and Glory and the Banjo movie, he also has a producing credit here.This is the first film done on location in Panama so the look is fresh and it's beautifully shot by veteran, Phillipe Rousselot who is currently working on Planet of the Apes.This film is getting almost no hype and no promotion. Again, it's very low key with no gunfire, car chases or blood. The politics of Panama are in the forefront with more than one reference to the 'Frankenstein' Noriega and how he was set him up by CIA Head, George the First, Bush that is. Ah hem.There are some splendid character actors in the supporting cast like John Polito of TV's Homicide and Martin Ferraro of TV's Miami Vice. Playwright Harold Pinter is in the strangest cameo role you may see this year. Scoop du Jour in the role of the Tailor's son, we get a look and the kid who will star in the Harry Potter film, Daniel Radcliffe.There is some stock footage of the political unrest and references to the thoroughly corrupt Central American government with lines from the Tailor like, 'you know what the poor call those?' pointing to the city's skyline, 'Cocaine towers! And the 85 banks? Launderettes!' You can easily understand why the media isn't getting behind this thing. But then again Traffic didn't win best picture, Gladiator did.  "},{"Title":"The Best Film of 2001 yet...","Date":"14 April 2001","Score":"41 out of 62 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Dumb.  Stupid.  Requires short attention span.  I'm not talking about the movie, but rather the people who have critically lambasted this intelligent, stylish adaptation of John Le Carre's novel.  Kudos to John Boorman, Pierce Bronsnan, Geoffrey Rush and a stellar cast.  If you looking for an alternative to braindead blockbusters and regurgitated teenage comedies, then you've stumbled upon the right film.  Imagine the complete antithesis of James Bond, a man who puts self before king and country, and loves them and leaves them with relish - enter Brosnan's Andy Osnard.  Sit back and watch with sheer delight as this corrupt British spook pulls the strings that sets the U.S. on course for a second invasion of Panama.  Misinformation is the game, and Osnard is planning to get rich on it.  His pawn is the tailor of the title, Harry Pendel (brilliantly played by Geoffrey Rush).  The film moves a snappy pace, the dialogue is witty and often times hilarious, and the cinematography, music and editing are all first rate.  Who cares if two shots of a jet in the air scream bad CGI?  That's not what this film is about.  We're talking intelligent plotting, great writing, excellent acting, and another sexy, devilish turn for Brosnan that is slightly reminiscent of his Thomas Crown character.  Brosnan, in my opinion, always fares best when he's playing against Bond type -- and here he excels.  DO NOT listen to the naysayers on this one -- unless GODZILLA or ARMAGGEDON are your favorite movies.  If you appreciate the dense, textured films of the late 60's-early 70's, then this one is for you.  They sure don't make them like this anymore and you wouldn't know that they had with regard to Tailor, since Columbia's flying this one way under the radar.  As always, they must be figuring that it'll play to the over 35 demo, so why even bother promoting it.  Sad times these are, folks, when a first rate entertainment like this is ignored at the box office, and ignored by its own distributors.  But there's always another Scream, American Pie and Halloween around the corner, so viva la cinema.  Highest rating. "},{"Title":"Great performances, great story ...","Date":"25 July 2004","Score":"24 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  In the present Fahrenheit 9/11 atmosphere on re-watching this film I find much to admire not due to its incendiary political comment but from the skill of its making and its continued relevance which is the sign of a film which, I hope, will endure.Ignoring the politics, for a moment, there is a lot to appreciate in Boorman's quick editing, interplay of farce and tragedy and ability to sum up a very complex story with telling detail. He draws stunning performances out of his actors (apart from the ever annoying Jamie Lee Curtis). Brosnan shifts character bewilderingly but by the end his roguish charm has been fully shed to reveal the horror of the man beneath, making Geoffrey Rush's exploitation believable and pathetic. This ranks, along with the Killing Fields and Salvador (I'm sure I've forgotten many other worthy examples), as one of my favourite angry anti-war, anti-interventionism films arguing that where the justifying intelligence isn't good enough the rich and powerful states do not have the right to interfere, at least unless their motivations are purer than self interest. On the other hand, it is a great human drama with the country which serves as its backdrop used to great effect to emphasise the human tragedies played out within. Watch and enjoy, but you may find the first 10-15 minutes difficult until you have settled with the style - definitely worth a second watching.  "},{"Title":"Geoffrey Rush does it again","Date":"16 December 2001","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This brilliant actor is so reminiscent of Alec Guiness, sinking into his roles so well and in this movie merging with the character, every inch the fawning fussy tailor with other agendas on the side and a secret past. I do not care for Jamie Lee Curtis's performances normally, I find her brittle with no depth, but here she shines with a light sense of humour and a feminist conscience and fidelity that brings a true authenticity to the role.  the marriage portrayed here is highly believable, lots of lovely nuances and the tailor himself fussilly tending to braiding his daughter's hair and making sure the children get to school on time. Enter Pierce Brosnan who portrays an appalling cad here.  You can tell he relishes the chance to play a true unsophisticate, preying on any woman who crosses his path. I will not give away the plot which spins very much like Our Man in Havana another wonderful movie. some of the roles were prettied up for Hollywoodland, Marta was more tragic and mute than she needed to be, Jamie Lee far too soignee and elegant. All in all a 7 out of 10.  John Boorman never lets me down. "},{"Title":"Bespoke","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Sometimes the soul of a book is simply in the story, and that at least gives the film adapter something to leverage. But most good books give value not only in producing a narrative, but producing a perspective on that narrative which is rather difficult to translate to film.The writer here moved into new territory for him, a maturity reflecting an understanding of his own limits. Le Carre's books are well-done fabrications -- good storytelling, or at least good enough to sell books. But he is intelligent and honest enough to get bored with that, so here he explores the debilitating pull of the reader the story needs to be ever more titillating and more strongly supportive of the psychology of conspiracy. Congratulations to him for putting Ludlam and himself in perspective. Too bad that the point is largely missed in this film, which more or less plays it straight.Rush played the same role with the same goals much better in `Quills.' He has some talent for this sort of dual role in the narrative and creating the narrative. He's not my favorite for this (Penn and Winslet are), but he is definitely worth watching when he is supported. Here, he is not. Curtis just doesn't get it, and that's deadly enough. Brosnan doesn't have to get it better if he doesn't. Cruz probably could get by on the natural South American awareness of this effect (even though she is European). "}{"Title":"Good, entertaining and worthwhile, but not quite great","Date":"18 November 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Geoffrey Rush is excellent as Harry, an Englishman with a sadly shady past who has re- invented himself in Panama as the best tailor in the country, making clothes for the rich and politically powerful. Into his world comes Osnard, played by Pierce Brosnan. A morally corrupt, self-serving MI6 spy, sent to Panama as a last chance after seducing a Euro diplomats wife. Many were bowled over by the irony of casting Brosnan, so associated with James Bond, as this much realer, creepier Bond alter ego. A man who is handsome, and self-confident, but whose endless seduction of women seems smarmy not sexy, and who delights in screwing other people while profiting himself. For me the casting was actually problematic. Brosnon's terrific, but the irony is so distractingly obvious, that it pulled me out of the story, and made me think too much about film and our hero images instead of simply accepting the character. Beyond that, Osnard is drawn a little too broadly for my taste. He's so transparent, I have a hard time he gets anyone to trust him even for a moment. If his inner self-serving pig were a bit better hidden, it might have given the audience more to unravel, and make other characters' willingness to do his bidding a bit easier to buy. The mix of tones also was a bit of a misfire for me. Never quite darkly funny enough to ascend into true satire, but certainly never edgy enough to be taken seriously, there's a lack of danger here. Unlike 'Dr. Strangelove', we never really think Harry and Osnard's games will reduce Panama to a pile of rubble, and the intimation of it seems false and a bit silly. Yet, all that complaining is because the movie is good enough, smart enough, brave enough and entertaining enough that I felt frustrated it didn't quite work as brilliantly as is should. But I'd certainly still recommend it, in spite of my long winded misgivings, and I'm also willing to give it another look. "},{"Title":"Geoffrey Rush fabricates a revolutionary force for Pierce Brosnan that pushes the Americans to invasion of Panama","Date":"28 October 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Graham Greene did Our Man in Havana, which is the story of an agent of MI6 in Havana who fabricates intelligence. It's a superb and thorough-going comedy-farce with Alec Guinness in the lead, supported by Noel Coward, Ralph Richardson and Ernie Kovacs. Directed by Carol Reed, a movie doesn't get much better.In The Tailor of Panama, we have an effort in the same direction. An MI6 agent banished to Panama, played wickedly by Pierce Brosnan, blackmails the tailor (Geoffrey Rush) into supplying him with false information so that he can rebuild his reputation and get some loot. Rush's wife, Jamie Lee Curtis, doesn't know about his checkered background and Brosnan threatens Rush with that revelation.Rush is simply terrific in the lead, making more of every bit of even remotely comic material than would seem possible. That's a good thing, because the comic material is lacking, as compared with Our Man in Havana where it permeated the movie. Where Guinness was more or less on his own, here much more time goes to the non-comic Brosnan who has to keep jabbing at Rush (and also handling his seductions) and the other British diplomats in order to keep Rush's nose to the fabrication grindstone.It comes across rather heavy-handed at times. The most satirical portion comes when Rush and Brosnan manage to induce an American invasion of Panama to retake the country. That is the point at which the false intelligence is sopped up by the Americans, whose deep pockets will support a revolution by a group that they can barely identify, indeed, not at all directly. One CIA guy wonders if the leader of this fictional Silent Opposition is presidential material! The climactic part of the farce tries to move along rapidly and lightly, but does tend to clunk along a bit.I like Brosnan's acting, his on screen persona being a kind of slick and devious guy, which he has played in a number of movies. But one thing he cannot do is dance. He does seem to be working at it in this movie and not fully into the role. His comic acting needs a bit of work, whereas Rush is 100%. Jamie Lee Curtis is rather stiff and seems out of place.I think the script lacked a comic character that went through and through it, and the direction could not or did not overcome that. Nevertheless, it's a quite enjoyable flic, just not in the top tier. It's nowhere near a Peter Sellers masterpiece.I should certainly mention that the place chosen, Panama, and its history was not really amenable to a light treatment. The movie should be praised for showing the results of the earlier devastating U.S. attack of this defenseless country and also for showing the U.S. caricature of Noriega. In passing it mentions the disruptions caused to poor people, but not the civilian deaths and detention camps. Then it rather takes the sting out of this by focusing on the banking, lawyer and drug interests in Panama and associating them with Noriega, as if this justified an invasion. The film sends all these oddly mixed messages. "},{"Title":"Insightful but not much deep, intelligent but not so interesting yet with some merits","Date":"31 May 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" The world of espionage got a little less thrilling with the end of Cold War. It survives with different complications than just two economical and political poles fighting each other and quoting a great character from a memorable film in this war the winner isn't the one with the most bullets but the one who controls the information. And it is this still chaotic world post Cold War that an apparent simple tailor might cause a significant turbulence on a country that still crawls as being a democratic nation.In The Tailor of Panama Geoffrey Rush plays Harry Pendel, a British tailor highly requested for his services by the powerful authorities of Panama, a man who seems to know anyone and everything, and he's recruited by Andy Osnard (Pierce Brosnan), a Brit secret agent at one step to finally get retired who needs good informations about what's going on in the country with the awaited return of Canal of Panama's control by the country's officers and no longer controlled by the U.S. Reluctant but wanting to save himself from his debts, Pendel accepts this mission and the money that comes with it but since there isn't much going on he decides to spice things a bit by inventing that the Canal is being sold to the Chinese, and that there's a silent resistance group, led by the drunk Mickey Abraxas (Brendan Gleeson), that wants to take over the power and stop the deal. Pendel's plans get to a lower level when he's forced to spy his own wife (Jamie Lee Curtis), who works for the government. Trouble is set when Osnard shares the amazing information with his bosses, that'll share it with their American cousins, then...chaos again! John Boorman's film loses itself as being a comedy with two or three laughs, with not much depth but staying close to the original work written by John Le Carré, who paid a tribute to Graham Greene's Our Man in Havana. When it gets serious towards the ending the plot gets some credibility. It can be said that the film followed the book's quality and intentions since it's not one of Carré's greatest works, it's quite plain, with plenty of humor but not much interesting. Same thing the movie, that on a first view will confuse its viewers with many plots that aren't so great to follow. A good film, yes, but not on the same level as other Carré's film adaptations such as The Constant Gardener, The Russia House and Tinker Tailor Soldier Spy, all intriguing, attractive, seductive and interesting to follow despite the enormous spider-webs formed by the plots. Through here, we're able to see that small, ordinary people can create huge problems that might affect a country's national security for the most stupid of reasons. Also there's a sharp criticism to agencies of intelligence, so concerned about their reputation and immersed in believing in everything they hear that they forget about their liabilities, check the facts instead of following rumors. It's all about who controls the information to win the war, even if this war is just a personal cause like getting retired in style or pay all your debts, but always remembering that many will suffer with those lies even yourself, like Pendel realizes later that things got out of control.Mr. Rush shines as the title character, certainly the great pleasure of watching the film; Gleeson steals the show in his brief appearances; Curtis is almost purposeless as the tailor's wife, there isn't much she can do here; Brosnan plays this irresponsible agent as a James Bond with plenty of women but without the action and the fast cars, an irony since Bond is hated by Carré, who considers 007 as being an prostitute. Completing the casting there's Catherine McCormack, Harold Pinter, Gerard McSorley, Jon Polito, Martin Ferrero, Dylan Baker, Jonathan Hyde and Daniel Radcliffe, way before of his Harry Potter fame, playing Pendel's son.Here's an amusing and intelligent work from the same director of Deliverance and Hope and Glory that deserves a view. 7/10 "},{"Title":"A nice, tight, old-fashioned spy mystery without a lot of hoopla.","Date":"10 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I found this film to be very enjoyable.  I don't require car chases, explosions, super-villains, or MTV editing to enjoy any film.  The casting was excellent.  You can't go wrong with author LeCarre or director Boorman (a nice combination).  Pierce Brosnan is a pure rascal and Geoffrey Rush the perfect foil.  Lots of perfect atmosphere and gorgeous cinematography.  Kick back and take the ride.  A real treat. "},{"Title":"Spies, Lies And Sun","Date":"19 November 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" On the surface, The Tailor Of Panama is a bit of a contradiction. It's based on a novel by John le Carre, famed for his gritty and realistic spy thrillers, yet stars the man famous for playing the exact opposite of le Carre's thrillers James Bond. But those contradictions are just on the surface, with the film itself resulting in a few surprises,Perhaps the biggest surprise of the film is Pierce Brosnan. Given that he's playing a British spy, and that the film came out in the midst of his tenure as James Bond, one might assume that he would be playing a slightly different take on 007. Nothing could be much farther than the truth. Andy Osnard is a character who is almost unlikeable arrogant, cursing, sexist and ultimately a man with no loyalty except to himself. Yet, despite being unlikeable, Osnard (and Brosnan) is the one you can't take your eyes off of in whatever scene he's in. He's the corrupt heart and soul of the film and the film is, ultimately, better for it.The rest of the cast does well for the most part. Geoffrey Rush as the titular tailor of the title, Harry Pendel, gives a fine performance as the good with a checkered past who, drawn into Osnard's sphere of influence, begins setting a series of events in motion that threatens to unravel everything around him. There are also good performances from Catherine McCormack and David Hayman as well as Leonor Varela and Brendan Gleeson as two old revolutionaries drawn into the events around them and worse off for it. There are also some nice pseudo-cameos as well from Dylan Baker, Jonathan Hyde and noted playwright Harold Pinter as the proverbial spirit of the late Uncle Benny who acts as the conscience of his nephew Harry. The weak link of the cast is Jamie Lee Curtis who, for reasons that are unclear, has little to do in the film.If Osnard is the film's physical heart and soul, then its metaphysical one is the script based on the novel of the same name by John le Carre. By le Carre's own admission, The Tailor Of Panama is a take on Graham Greene's Our Man In Havana, updated from 1950s Cuba to late 1990s (early 2000s for the film) Panama. At the film's heart is a tale of how one man (Osnard) and his corrupting influence of those around him, told through the prism of a spy story. Intriguingly, the film in retrospect almost seems like an odd premonition of events leading up to the invasion of Iraq set in another part of the world British intelligence that is ultimately dubious, as is its source, is used to justify a US invasion.Yet the film suffers from a glaring flaw. The film's tone is all over the place as director John Boorman has the film bouncing around between serious spy thriller, black comedy and domestic drama. The three in this case don't sit well next to one another which can lead to undermining of otherwise key moments (such as when Harry yells at those in his shop as the film begins to head towards its conclusion). The result is a film that is uneven to the point of fault.Despite the tonal issue, the film has plenty going for it. From Brosnan's performance to the strong script from the le Carre novel, The Tailor Of Panama is still an intriguing film. While neither the best spy thriller nor the best le Carre adaptation, for those who enjoy either, the film is certainly worth a viewing. "},{"Title":"Nice, intelligent motion picture!","Date":"7 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Very good, intelligent, funny and entertaining movie.Finally a screenplay worthy of being called that, some good dialog and excellent acting (both Rush as well as surprisingly, Brosnan). Brosnan is much more comfortable in this role than he ever was with James Bond. Here he is believable, charming and evil at the same time... On the downside, even though I am a big fan of hers, I have to admit that Jamie Lee Curtis was totally miscast as Rush's engineer wife, she doesn't even come close...It makes you wonder whether something similar to the plot in this film could really happen (or has already happened)... "},{"Title":"LeCarre pedigree really shows through","Date":"21 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I just saw this again after SO many years.Man it's entertaining! Rogue spy goes in search of adventure and CREATES it...whilst enriching himself. Analogy What Jerome Kerviel did to his bank, a rogue spy does to geopolitics. Gives new meaning to term mucking around in your backyard if you are a prominent superpower (u know which one!).The character motivation and plausible scene-play are just top notch. It all starts with Brosnan's character throwing money at a new recruit and then using carrot stick routine to get something useful (information). Well, as in waterboarding, if you pressure someone to come up with info THEY WILL! How many careers have been made at MI 5/6 this way? How many countries have been played with? I can't think of any other movie which dealt with such heavy subjects so delightfully. everyone can be made to harbor secret feelings of being a spy. how seductive. how profitable. I must read the book because I'm sure it is richer than the movie. "},{"Title":"Agent 007 Wakes Up","Date":"10 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Ah, it's wonderful to watch great actors ply their craft. It is a truly uplifting experience. Don't get carried away I hear you say, but in reality this is the exception rather than the rule. Not to take anything away from the writers and directors and other professionals involved who must add much to the secret ingredients. However, in the end it is the actors that must make it all come together. I suppose it is like most things in life. People who want more than to be average and have the talent and experience to make it happen. The end result as seen from this movie is that it makes us feel part of what is happening, and not just wasting time and hoping that things will get better. From my experience they rarely do, although I have been surprised on a few occasions. No such worry with this movie - great from the start, but can it continue the high standard throughout?Such were my thoughts after 15 minutes - but could it keep up that high standard throughout. Well, in my opinion, not quite. It was however quite well done thanks mainly to Pierce, Geoffrey, great camera work and direction. Jamie-Lee didn't overly impress me, however it was probably just the part she played that didn't provide the space necessary. Pierce really is a fine actor, and always rises to whatever occasion. He is a bit camera-shy of tourist cameras though as I found out at LAX circa 1993. Who did Geoffrey copy that Cockney accent from? Was it Michael Caine, who is proud of his? Pierce plays a rather bent 007. Perhaps he was once a 007 but now realises that after 45 they no longer need you. I note that shengyang uses comparisons to Casablanca. The first 15 minutes had me thinking along those lines also. It is a tall order however in the final analysis.It is marked Thriller but is really a hybrid Comedy-Thriller.Overall - 7 out of 10 in my book. Well worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Intelligence, seduction and betrayal","Date":"7 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" The seductive part is of course played by Pierce Brosnan who hooks at once any woman that may fall within his scope which includes air stewardesses, fellow spies and even friends'wives. But the movie is a bit more serious than this. After a first part rather lukewarm and uninteresting it gains speed, action and rhythm in the second one. The story takes place in post-Noriega Panama in a whirlwind of political intrigue, secret plotting, passion, corruption, deceit, betrayal and lust in which a more or less well intentioned and honest British citizen, himself half tailor half spy is caught with his charming wife. A rather well told and interesting story served by a good cast of players. "},{"Title":"Our Man in Havana in Panama","Date":"28 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Given that John Le Carre is credited as Executive Producer and co-writer, with Andrew Davies and director John Boorman, of this adaptation of his novel then fidelity is assured. But even he has to admit the debt he owes to Graham Greene and Our Man in Havana of which this can be seen as a prescient remake.Pierce Brosnan is Andy Osnard, the disgraced MI6 agent banished to Panama for his sins. In order to justify his existence he needs information and settles on Harry Pendel, tailor and former jailbird down on his luck. But Harry is even more desperate than Andy and like Wormold before him the information he supplies becomes ever more fanciful and dangerous. But where the jokes in Greene's 'Havana' soured into tragedy, here the tragedy is closer to (very) black comedy and very funny it is, too. With marvellous performances from Geoffrey Rush as Harry and Brosnan in a career-best turn and flawless direction from John Boorman, this is a crisp, pertinent and hugely enjoyable entertainment. "}{"Title":"Wow.  A vaguely intelligent film from Hollywood.","Date":"17 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is not a spy film about flying cars, laser rifles, or daring acts of burglary. In fact, this isn't really a spy film at all. If you want that, rent any of the James Bond films. It doesn't matter which one.This movie is really about a caper. Without spoiling the plot, it can be said that a crooked English spy takes advantage of a tailor's idealism to defraud England and the United States out of a fortune in funds intended for a pro-democracy movement. The action is set in post-Noriega Panama, a Panama sick with corruption, fraud, and graft. The spy comes to town, and convinces the tailor that his mission is to take down the drug-enriched aristocracy left behind by the Noreiga regime. Still idealistic from his days as a liberal activist, the tailor clues the spy into Panama high society. Using that information, the spy concocts a story about a pro-democracy rebel network, and runs off with the secret aid money.This film illustrates an aspect of international morality that is sobering yet compelling, and that you will not get from many Hollywood movies the near-futility of idealism. The tailor and his crowd are the only characters who care at all about their country, but they are oppressed, depressed, down-and-out. Meanwhile, the scumbags who supported Noriega and continue to make a living from cocaine are rich and influential, always at ritzy cocktail parties and smoking fine cigars. What's a person of conscience to do? BTW, ignore the ending. It is some crap Hollywood threw in to satisfy focus groups. The book doesn't end that way, and it seems obvious that the film shouldn't, either. "},{"Title":"cynical spin on spying","Date":"25 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  ***Possible spoiler*** The Tailor of Panama is not merely a spy-movie spoof but a critique of the whole spy industry. This film is no earth-shattering experience but it is far from terrible. In my opinion it is kinda refreshing to see the baddie win. If the movies are to be believed the avaricious never get the money when everyone knows they often do. If this film offended your sense of film justice too bad. I am surprised at those who say it was too slow or the plot too obscure. I found it easy to follow and not too hard to swallow, even if the pill was somewhat bitter. My vote 7/10 "},{"Title":"Excellent anti-spy film","Date":"16 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  If you're a fan of John LeCarre spy novels, you'll love this film. If you're a fan of James Bond, you'll also love this film, because it's a perfect anti-spy caper starring none other than Pierce Brosnan--the man born to play Bond. Brosnan is absolutely convincing as a womanizing, exploitative opportunist, who uses his postion as a MI-6 operative to pull a scam on both U.S. and British intelligence. Where Bond is a likeable rake, this fellow is a despicable, sex-addicted, SOB. Kudos to Brosnan for pulling this off. And double kudos to Rush who should get an Oscar nomination. "},{"Title":"Packed with wry substance and vastly entertaining.","Date":"28 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A very successful mix of social insight and deep comedy, this film has some of the best dialogue exchanges since Casablanca.  Pierce Brosnan gets the role of his career as a wickedly hilarious lecher, and Geoffrey Rush is his usual superb self as the Tailor who has travelled down the path to Armani and cares enough to try and keep others away from it.Bringing Lecarre to the screen obviously is not easy, but they did quite a job here.  If you love densely plotted mystery, this is your ticket.  Just be aware that the density is not in the mechanics, but in the fathomlessness of human character and the wit of John Lecarre. "},{"Title":"best of the year","Date":"25 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  saw this last night, and what a treat. i felt a little sad liking it so much.  what appealed was the political honesty the satirisation of corrupt politics, diplomatic farce, emotive militarism (!).  left-wing politics really.  it was simply refreshing to see them in a reasonably mainstream hollywood movie (no wonder so many of the people commenting disliked it - the wrong audience, misadvertised in the spirit of the rampant commercialism it satirizes.  it'll find a following eventually).  but as i said, i felt a little sad, because there were days when radical politics lit up the canvas in films from zabriski point to the battle of algiers (albeit never in america).the film has many strings; double entendres that are actually funny ('it's tight, from lack of use'), that wonderful sanctimonious speech ('the american flag is missing a star'), conceptual play (tale-or of panama, casablanca parody), harold pinter (who is a very nice man).  brosnan is a revelation.  there's a real sense of the bored gentleman about town.  and from the fizzpop of the script, one suspects harold pinter may have had a quick look through the script. although as has been said, le carre is excellent at dialogue.  the material is certainly strong, and for those who complain about a lack of pyrotechnics, it's better than simply substituting fresh ethnicities for russian communists.  (air force one, the siege, and on, and on...)this is an intelligent movie, unafraid to say a few truths - even if not as many as the original novel.  i read an interview with boorman recently where he said he hoped to just make one more film, if he could get the money. he's obviously ruffled a few feathers with this one.  which is again, back to the sadness - imagine what he could have, should have (pop goes the budget) said.  it would have been less polite than this delicious drama, which i hope everyone involved in is proud of.'it's a dark, dirty job... but someone has to do it...' "},{"Title":"Undecisive mix of different genres","Date":"8 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  After seeing this movie I left the theater with a strange feeling. There are a good story and some nice ideas from the directional side.  Geoffrey Rush is excellent as usual and I loved to see Brosnan in his anti-role as an evil spy. Nevertheless I didn't like the movie too much. Its big problem is its undecisiveness. In the beginning it seems to be an espionage thriller but there is no thrill. There are some small historical aspects and political statements but there are too few to make an impression. It's too shallow as a family drama and there are not enough jokes to make you laugh for 2 hours. Later on it seems to be a satire on the whole espionage business (these are the best scenes of the movie). Unfortunately the movie develops the satirical potential of the story too late. When it starts getting interesting the movie is over.A waste of a good story and cast. 5/10Oh ... and go see it in OV. Beware the awful german dubbing.  "},{"Title":"I loved this movie","Date":"10 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I expected a spy thriller.  The last thing I expected was to laugh so hard, by the end of the movie my cheekbones were hurting. This movie starts out rather slowly, and is not for people with short attention spans.  The character development is key to fully enjoying it. I had to use my imagination to connect certain scenes, but the missing facts did not impact the story.  For example, what method did Pierce Brosnan's character, Andy Osnard use to learn about the tailor's surly past? In this movie - technology doesn't matter. What does matter is that the movie starts out so seriously and takes such a twist.  What do you expect from John le Carre but a spy thriller?  OK, it is one...in a unique way.  When an almost cartoon like airplane crossed the screen, I thought maybe I was in for something different.  Then, somewhere along the way, the story became so absurd, I couldn't help but laugh. This, despite the portrayal of the harsh life in a post-Noriega city of cocaine and brothels. Pierce Brosnan is wonderful as the true anti-Bond spy.  Once again, Geoffrey Rush should be nominated for an Oscar.  And the movie is a great contender for Best Adapted Screenplay. The Tailor of Panama managed to pull a great surprise on me.  No flash. No gadgets.  Just an interesting story line with some intelligent, subtle, often brilliant humor.  "},{"Title":"Fun, Poignant","Date":"15 January 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Pierce Brosnan happily plays against type as a rogue British secret agent sent to Panama to be kept out of sight and instead decides to instigate trouble by getting involved with a tailor with a past (Geoffrey Rush) and his wife (Jamie Lee Curtis). John Boorman continues to explore one of his dominant themes--the tenuous bonds of family--as intelligently as he did in films such as `Where The Heart Is', `Hope And Glory' and `The Emerald Forest' and it's a reassuring feeling to find someone who finds such comfort in family. Brosnan is delightful as he subverts his James Bond persona at every turn, reveling in his tawdry exploits both sexual and manipulative; it tells us much about Brosnan's approach that he would even dare to explore the undercurrents of his image as well as that of popular film espionage. All in all, it's a fun film to watch, tastefully done and poignant. "},{"Title":"Spies who really are like us.","Date":"11 May 2002","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film is probably one of the best arguements ever made against peacetime espianoge. LeCarre's satire is so sharp because it is so realistic. Geoffrey Rush is brilliant as always and Pierce Brosnan has never given a better performance. Brendan Gleeson, star of Boorman's last masterpiece, The General, has a nice supporting role. Very cynical, but great fun. "},{"Title":"The most terrific mixing pot of talent I have ever seen.","Date":"20 April 2003","Score":"20 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The combined efforts of Geoffrey Rush's and Pierce Brosnan's acting ability, combined with John Boorman's directing skill, and John Le Carre's frightening talent as a writer of spy fiction, make The Tailor Of Panama one of the best of all time, and the best of this century.Harry Pendel(Geoffrey Rush), tailor to royalty, is one of many members of Panamanian High Society, and a proud partner of Pendel & Braithwate. Atleast, that is the man his friends know. Harry is actually the nephew of a British tailor, a former prisoner thanks to his Uncle Benny's insurance scam, thousands of dollars in debt, and, against his will, a Spy for Her Majesty. Andrew Osnard(Pierce Brosnan), is MI6's man in Panama, and the delivery boy of the death of Harry's well lived lie.In exchange for the money harry has to provide information. Unfortunately the old promises of drunken, one-time revolutionaries just isn't enough. So using his inherited Fluency and his Rock of Eye, as his Uncle Benny put it, he creates a stream of lies, but the boys back home buy it, and Harry has to choose between Panama, or his good name.Also starring Jamie Lee Curtis, and the lawyer off of Jurassic Park, this movie is a modern classic, both in print and on film. WATCH IT!!!!!! "}{"Title":"The Tailor of Panama &#x97; A bad element in international espionage","Date":"3 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Tailor of Panama is, in term of international spying, the antithesis of the James Bond movies. The only similarities are the high stakes and the involvement of MI-6. Ironically the main role is played by a former Bond actor, Pierce Brosnan.In this flick, Brosnan is in a role quite different from his usual cast. Here, he's not likable, not even a little, and he plays it well. You might say he's still a scoundrel, but this time, bearing the full negative connotation. Geoffrey Rush is very good as the deluded tailor. Jamie Lee Curtis, in the minor role of his wife, is not shining at her best, but her performance is good.The premise of the movie is excellent, the story that supports almost as good, as is the scenario. You'll be swept in by the intrigue and the machinations, wondering how it will all end. The final unraveling is quite surprising.I recommend it, but do not expect a feel good film. It is not for everybody. It has no action, and you'll will face the unlikable and underhanded range of human endeavors. It is all deceit. "},{"Title":"An Entertaining Comic Spy Thriller","Date":"27 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Tailor of Panama is a comedy-drama thriller that features Pierce Brosnan, Geoffrey Rush and Jamie Lee Curtis. Brendan Gleeson, Daniel Radcliffe, David Hayman, Lewis Daly, John Fortune, Catherine McCormack and Harold Pinter co-stars.It is based on the spy novel of the same title by John Le Carré, who wrote the screenplay with Boorman and Andrew Davies.It was directed by John Boorman.Set amidst the controversy of the handover of the Panama Canal from America to Panama in late 1999, this thriller follows seductive British spy Andrew Osnard, who has found himself recently banished to Panama. When Osnard stumbles into a tailor shop, he meets Harry Pendel, a garrulous sort with an unmatched penchant for fabricating wild tales with real-life details. Osnard threatens to expose his shady past, until Pendel agrees to provide him with information about the political situation in Panama. Pendel's wife Louisa tries to remain unscathed by her husband's constant follies, which escalate and put him in the midst of international discord, while also threatening the shaky relationship between himself and Osnard, who cannot escape each other's grasp.This film is Casablanca without heroes and that's precisely how Boorman depicts it.It is a melting pot of greed, ambition, and backroom maneuvering.Also,it reveals how a simple fabrication can provoke trigger-happy forces around the globe.This is a literate and entertaining comic thriller. "},{"Title":"A great Greeneland-style spy film with great characters","Date":"1 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is a great Greeneland-style spy film. If you like Le Carre-type British secret servicemen in a Graham Greene setting, this is for you. There are definite hints of Our Man in Havana here and Le Carre takes this feel and runs with it to great effect.There are great three-dimensional characters performed with alacrity by some great acting talent. The screenplay is sharp and witty. There was barely an explosion in sight either.It's been described as a deeply satirical, grown up thriller and that is a pretty apt description.There was a brief and unnecessary scene of bad CGI helicopter gunships but, apart from that, what's not to like? "},{"Title":"Uneven but pretty entertaining","Date":"18 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is a pleasant if somewhat uneven film that takes the starch out of the spy thriller genre and features two fun performances by Pierce Brosnan and Geoffrey Rush.Andy Osnard (Pierce Brosnan) is a disgraced British spy who's shipped out to Panama to keep an eye on the canal. Andy, a burned out, licentious scoundrel, enlists Harry Pendel (Geoffrey Rush) as an informer. Harry used to be the personal tailor of Manuel Noreiga and now makes suits for the rich and powerful men of Panama City. Harry is deeply in debt, lying about his past and married to Louisa (Jaime Lee Curtis), a woman who works for the Panama Canal Authority. Harry knows some things, bits of gossip and unthinking mentions that a man's tailor hears on occasion, but none of it is the sort of information that Andy demands to impress his bosses at MI 6. So, Harry starts making stuff up about the president of Panama looking to sell the canal and how two of Harry's friends are secret anti-government rebels. At first Harry just wants to get Andy off his back, but then he starts to turn the lies to his advantage. Unfortunately, Andy is trying to do the same thing, when he's not seducing a woman at the British embassy. It all leads to tragedy and a potential international incident where Louisa needs to save her husband and the whole country of Panama.Adapted from the novel by John le Carre, The Tailor of Panama is smartly written, effectively directed and well acted. The acting is the standout element of the film, with Rush and Brosnan delivering award worthy work. Brosnan is clearly having a good time playing a seedy, low-rent version of James Bond that's as close as the real world ever gets to such a guy. Rush deftly threads the needle of a character who is both manipulated and manipulator. Jamie Lee Curtis' Louisa is a bit of a third wheel in the story, but Curtis gives her enough substance to stand up to Brosnan's and Rush's performances. The only questionable effort from the entire cast is Brendon Gleeson's plainly variable accent. He's a British actor playing a Panamanian character and he clearly sounds like a Brit playing a Panamanian.The only complaint I could make about this movie is that it has a large number of parts and they're not knitted together that smoothly. The story isn't just about Harry and Andy. It's about Harry and Louisa, Andy and the woman from the British Embassy, Harry and his Panamanian friends, a commentary on post-Noreiga Panama, a look at realistic intelligence gathering, geopolitical farce and even outright whimsy as Harry's old uncle appears to him throughout the movie like the Ghost of Christmas Past. The film never quite creates a tone to encompass all of that, so it's always establishing a certain mood and then jerking you out of it to go in a different direction. It's a minor quibble, though, for a pretty good movie.The Tailor of Panama also gives us a brief glimpse of Jamie Lee Curtis' bare bosom, proving that she hasn't lost much since the days of Trading Places. There's a lot to enjoy in the film besides that, but it's a nice bonus to a relaxed and slightly sardonic take on international espionage. I don't think you'll be disappointed if you give this movie a try. "},{"Title":"Entertaining if foggy spy thriller","Date":"31 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" A thriller with all the same ingredients as The Russia House. This Le Carré novel is also a chessboard population of politicos, dealers, shysters, thugs and opportunists. These are played out by an A-list duo in Rush and Brosnan and a pooled support cast that are equal parts British, American and Panamanian.The delight in this film is less the tripartite characters played out by Rush's confused, eponymous tailor rather, we watch a betwixt-Bond(#19 and #20)-Brosnan playing an MI6 officer almost clinically against the type of his infinitely more recognisable counterpart. It's a joy. Brendan Gleeson's lush, broken former freedom fighter and his ex-lieutenant Leonor Varela are a comprehensive study in impotence. The exquisite Catherine McCormack is, precisely, 'open, but tight from lack of use'. Jamie Lee Curtis always strikes me as awkward on screen but she puts herself right out there. And, of course, there's a little chap by the name of Radcliffe...It's funny and occasionally classy but not always on the perfect trajectory - the ending is terribly rushed. Suspend your disbelief and enjoy the characters. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Rush & Brosnan are perfect in anti-Bond thriller for smart, cynical people","Date":"19 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Rush is the squirmily obsequious and eponymous tailor who learns once again the lesson of the slippery slope. Pierce Brosnan is having a ton o'fun as the ne'er-do-well Andy Osnard, a British spy skating on the thin ice of affairs with ambassadors' wives and mistresses. (A much nastier, suaver version of his role in THE MATADOR). Take these two, add greed and desperation, and the collateral damage mounts. Jamie Lee Curtis is somewhat miscast as Rush's wife &#150; it's hard to see someone calling her Princess when she still has the look of a high school track and field coach. Fortunately, she's doesn't have all that much screen time. The minuet of willful lies and even more willfully suspended disbelief is primarily between Rush and Brosnan, but they eventually draw other equally seamy creatures into the dance.I note yet again that British actors can beat the snot out of American actors any given Sunday. Rush's range is such a pleasure - his mouse that roared tailor is a far cry from the arrogant Marquis de Sade of QUILLS When was the last time we saw, say, Kevin Costner play a role that wasn't Kevin Costner? Brosnan is delicious as the unapologetic bad boy &#150; like the proverbial train wreck, you can't take your eyes off him. Banish all those embarrassing memories of smarmy Remington Steele (the later seasons, that is, after they lost their initial writers, who were excellent). Cinematography is nothing spectacular, but not distracting, either. There's a fun accelerated-speed scene of Rush marking fabric for a suit, and he does get to throw out lines like, You're a disgrace to that suit! Plus you get to see cool shots of the canal and assorted Panamanian brothels. What else do you want? I recall the complaint in some reviews that the plot was simplistic. Hey, that was fine by me. I could follow every development, and it all seemed plausible to me. I think we're too accustomed to thrillers where you need Cliff notes about ¾ into the thing to figure out what the hell is going on. Instead of a far-fetched scenario, the situation escalates believably into a full-scale fiasco. Given the news reports of Halliburton and other government-related crooked dealers, the story is even more dead-on than ever. The underbelly of human nature is cause enough. Take THAT, Tom Clancy. "},{"Title":"predicting story","Date":"31 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" The story projects the danger of the US and UK unbalanced by the USSR. The espionage game has a cycle of self interest and if unchecked leads to bad outcomes. No need to be careful if there is no check on your power, and if you are not careful you act on misinformation. SOund familiar... The acting is wonderful. Brosnan appears to enjoy going against type there is nothing really likable about Andy though he is played by a very likable man. Rush brings some sympathy to a tragic character. When so much has gone wrong and he is to blame, you still feel somewhat sorry for him. The story is compelling and filled with comic jabs at spy movies. Don't expect James Bond here - this is a different kind of fictional spy world - one we hope is not too real. "},{"Title":"Doesn't quite fit","Date":"12 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The premise of John Le Carre's novel, 'The Tailor of Panama', is a good one a series of lies are amplified as they travel up through the intelligence services because it suits each level to believe in them.  Unfortunately, John Boorman's film lacks the political depth that normally typifies Le Carre and, most crucially, also lacks tension.  For this story to work, each individual must surely at least half-believe the tales they are told in this case, everyone appears to recognise them as baloney, spreading the responsibility too thinly and questioning the need for the underlings at all if Pierce Brosnan's spy simply wants to make up (unsupportable) stories, can't he just do so himself instead of getting a fall guy to do it for him?  Geoffrey Rush (as the aforementioned fall guy) never gets the north London Jewish accent quite right; Brosnan plays his part as a spivvier Bond.  Another odd thing is that we are told how corrupt Panama is, but the Panamanian government are the only victims of the plot.  The result reminds me of 'Wag the Dog', but has less effect.  An ordinary film. "},{"Title":"Boorman doesn't quite pull this one together.","Date":"26 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is an interesting film that doesn't quite hold together.  I haven't read the Le Carré novel it was based on so don't know what the author's intentions were, but as handled by John Boorman, it's an odd mixture of humor and political commentary.Pierce Brosnan plays a bad boy British spy, sort of a spoof of his James Bond character.  His womanizing has landed him in a last chance job in Panama - not a very glamorous position.  He recruits a local British tailor, played by Geoffrey Rush, who is in need of money and who wants to continue hiding his past from his wife.  The tailor makes suits for the President and other well-connected people in Panama, so is a perfect choice to cultivate information.Brosnan plays the part for laughs.  His character hits on just about every woman he meets.  When he and the tailor meet at a local whorehouse, he's bouncing up and down on the bed watching porn flicks and oohing and ahing.  At another meeting at a gay night club, he really gets into the part and drags Rush out onto the dance floor.  It appears to be a deliberate attempt to contrast with the coolness of his Bond character.Geoffrey Rush is very good as the lovable con man who just wants to save his marriage, settle his debts,  keep his property, and do what he can to support his old revolutionary pals.  It's his acting skills that make this film watchable, because there are several plot holes and loose ends that leave the viewer wondering what's going on at times.I'll have to read the novel because I suspect Le Carré wasn't writing a humorous spy story.  There must be nuances that Boorman hasn't captured.  It's not a bad film, and I enjoyed the acting - even Brosnan's over-the-top roguish spy - but there's something missing that should hold it all together. "},{"Title":"Excellent Spy Drama Based on Le Carre Novel","Date":"23 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Anyone who was enjoyed the scruffy realism of any of Le Carre's novels will appreciate what a job it must be to cram all that into an hour and a half movie.  Some efforts are not too successful, The Little Drummer Girl didn't seem to work for me.This movie works very well.  Pierce Brosnan is especially good as the crafty elbow twister who recruits an expatriated Englishman stuffing Panamanians into his handmade English suits.  Jamie Lee Curtis also works well as the tailor's wife well placed in Panamanian government.  Andy (Brosnan) the arm twister wants a big espionage score to bring to his superiors to show that he is not the reckless womanizing screw-up that they think he is.  Harry the tailor (Rush) is a man with a difficult past and illusions of radical politics. "}{"Title":"sweaty grimmy alcoholic impirealistic = Entertaining,man","Date":"26 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  It's been over a year since I first saw Tailor of Panama. It's stuck with me - the images of Geoffrey Rush as the tailor, his American wife - a seeming mistmatch in casting - but effective and Anti James Bond played with just the right amount of corpulence.... See it - sweat - enjoy good acting, strong locale, and a plot which serves well to entertain and ends well to satirize America. "},{"Title":"Genteel spy stuff.","Date":"21 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Pierce Brosnan and Geoffrey Rush are a good (but not great) mix in this quiet spy story.  Information, clandestine meetings and semantics take the place of bullets, bombs, hand to hand combat and car chases.  How nice to see Pierce Brosnan in a really sleazy role as a British intelligence operative who has been corrupted by his job.  Geoffrey Rush is like the little mouse up against Brosnan's snarling cat in Brosnan's pursuit of information regarding the stability of the political tool known as the Panama canal.  Director John Boorman's best days are behind him but as true as that may be, his experience for making stable entertainment remains intact. "},{"Title":"Suits fine but needs some trimming!","Date":"20 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  `The Tailor of Panama' is not no 8th wonder of the world but it does have the right fit at times. The story is about a pathological liar, who is also one of the most famous tailors of Panama, who gets entrapped by a devious british spy to utilize the tailor's lies as a manipulative tool to obtain financial dividend for the selling of the Panama Canal. One of the aspects of the film that rises above `see' level is the zany and mysterious performances from stars Geoffrey Rush as the tailor and Pierce Brosnan as the spy. They do shine on screen and their acting was not shaken or stirred. However, what I thought needed a trimming was the overdeveloped story-line of political innuendoes. Nevertheless, `The Tailor of Panama' tailors to those who are into politics but others will fell that they have spent `our-money' on a bad film.  *** Average  "},{"Title":"The total opposite of James Bond.  Hilarious poke at bond.","Date":"24 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The casting was great for this movie.  Took me awhile to find two people who starred in Braveheart as well.  How they got Brosnan to do this movie I'll never know.  (they had fun with the interview too on the DVD.  Notice they switch the image around ? From time to time.) While not the best movie around, it sure was fun seeing Brosnan play the exact opposite of his James Bond role.  (SPOILERS??)I've never read the book, but from what I understand the alternate ending was not in the book.  So I'm glad Brosnan got away with it.  Simply because his boss was the true fool.  And Geoffery Rush was as brilliant as he usually is.  Loved the part when their both on the shaking bed and Brosnan says.  Harry...Are you pulling my pi**er. This is soooo not not James Bond.  I love Bond, but I also love good pokes of fun at it.  It's also somewhat of a True Lies 2.  Watch it and figure that out.7/10Quality 8/10 Entertainment 10/10 Replayable 5/10 "},{"Title":"*** out of 4.","Date":"17 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Pierce Brosnan is a spy who is relocated to Panama after having a scandolous affair. There he meets a tailor (Rush) who services some of the richest and most important people in the city. Since Rush is heavily in debt and he doesn't want his beautiful wife (Jamie Lee Curtis), who works on the panama canal, to know he starts giving the spy information. But since the info. is worthless he starts making up stories so he can still recieve money, which puts everything he treasures in danger, not to metion the city.The three leads turn in their usually solid performances, especially Rush, the scenery is appealing to the eye, the finale is an exciting breathtaker, and the direction, by John Boorman, is impecciable as usual. And Mr. Boorman's direction is richly detailed. One of the best films released so far this year.  "},{"Title":"A slick, intriguing old-fashioned thriller with two extraordinary performances","Date":"13 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The Tailor of Panama is a taut, slickly-written spy thriller that doesn't try to be another 007 movie.  No long action sequences, no excessive blood, no explosions.  This is a real spy thriller that tries to emulate the way real spies would act, and not that shaken, not stirred facade portrayed in all the Bond films.  Don't get me wrong, I have nothing against the Bond films, but a film like this is much more valuable and unique in its approach and doesn't cut corners to please the crowd.  The film is highlighted by two great performances.  I've never seen Pierce Brosnan play a villain.  I've always admired his method of acting.  He has that cool, suave, seductive presence.  Hell, I'm a heterosexual male and I feel seduced by him at times.  After all these years in the biz, he's still a very handsome man.  As a villain, he still plays that cool Bond-like character, but with a dark, sadistic twist.  Geoffrey Rush is one of my favorite actors.  I loved him in Shine and I loved him in Quills.  He's a terrific method actor who WILL go the whole nine for his roles.  In this case, he learned all there was to know about tailoring.  He delivers another captivating, memorable performance and I hope he wins the Oscar this year, to make up for him losing for Quills.  Veteran Irish actor Brendan Gleeson is superb as an alcoholic Panamanian who led the rebellion against General Noreiga.  Just a couple days ago, I watched I Went Down and I was impressed that Brendan--who really has a very thick Irish accent--can convincingly play a Panamanian.  The first time I saw him was in Lake Placid where he didn't have any accent, and I didn't know he was Irish 'til recently.  It's almost as if Brendan's the male version of Meryl Streep.  I hope to see more and more of his movies.   John Boorman is a veteran director (Hope and Glory, Deliverance) and he believes in getting authentic shots of Panama, rather than shooting in Puerto Rico or Cuba like some other filmmaker would probably do to cut corners.  And there are some great shots of the beautiful scenery.  There's no Central Casting Agency in Panama, so all the cops we see are real cops, all the hookers are real hookers.  So we really get an authentic feel of the streets of Panama.  The Tailor of Panama is a slick, ingenious thriller that will keep you on the edge of your seat.  I haven't read the book from which it is based on, but now I'm curious about checking it out.  Maybe the book's even better than the movie, so if you have read the book I may not share your opinions. My score  8 (out of 10) "},{"Title":"A top heavy film in need of a good story.","Date":"12 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Tailor of Panama is a well crafted floparoo...a  comedy/drama which will make you neither laugh nor cry and tells of a British agent (Brosnan) who is sent to Panama where he hopefully won't be able to embarrass the British government with his self-serving spying techniques. An unfortunate exercise which doesn't pan out, this film may make you stick your tongue in your cheek, cluck, or yawn but little else. A reasonably artful shoot which fails to breath life into the characters, jolt us with humor, or inveigle us with mystery, Tailor... just never gets off the ground. Nonetheless, there's plenty of eye candy, a good cast, and some semblance of a story, bland though it may be. "},{"Title":"Quirky and Intelligent. A rare gem for true movie lovers.","Date":"28 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Sly references to James Bond and Casablanca aside, The Tailor of Panama solidly stands on its own merits.  Its quirky excesses(loopy appearances of imaginary characters and serendipitious plot development) may seem, in the beginning, a little out of place for a political spy thriller. But it doesn't take very long for one to realise that this is NOT a political spy thriller per se. Its that rare gem of a movie where one can safely suspend one's disbelief and yet not lose touch with one's intelligence along the way(Hmmmm....).With its tongue planted so firmly in cheek(i.e. atypical casting, a sexy double edged screenplay and 'surreal' sendups of American/ British diplomatic gamesplay), I quickly gave up figuring out what's going on and instead focused on what's going to happen. In layman speak, I went with the flow.Which is a good thing as I soon discovered this movie to be deliciously entertaining both for the audience as well as the actors involved(noticeably having their share of fun in the quirky performances).This is the kind of show(sadly, not many of them around anymore)that demands your attention, but will reward you threefold if you are a willing participant. Not wanting to sound condescending, this is not a great movie. But it is an intellectually entertaining one. Sadly, with the standards of present day popcorn fare degenerating to new depths with each passing pic, I dare to hope that one day, films like The Tailor of Panama will again resume its rightful place - as nothing more than just a top rate pop corn flick.But that day may never come and by default, this show will now have to assume a pedigree normally reserved for greater films. A sad predicament indeed. But that films like these still get made at all is reason enough to hope and celebrate.I would recommend for all true movie lovers out there to go see this show and be thankful(at least for that two hours or so) that we can temporarily forget bum-numbing stinkers like Pearl Harbor ever existed.I rest my case.Thank you and good night. "},{"Title":"Quirky and Intelligent. A rare gem for true movie lovers.","Date":"28 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Sly references to James Bond and Casablanca aside, The Tailor of Panama solidly stands on its own merits.  Its quirky excesses(loopy appearances of imaginary characters and serendipitious plot development) may seem, in the beginning, a little out of place for a political spy thriller. But it doesn't take very long for one to realise that this is NOT a political spy thriller per se. Its that rare gem of a movie where one can safely suspend one's disbelief and yet not lose touch with one's intelligence along the way(Hmmmm....).With its tongue planted so firmly in cheek(i.e. atypical casting, a sexy double edged screenplay and 'surreal' sendups of American/ British diplomatic gamesplay), I quickly gave up figuring out what's going on and instead focused on what's going to happen. In layman speak, I went with the flow.Which is a good thing as I soon discovered this movie to be deliciously entertaining both for the audience as well as the actors involved(noticeably having their share of fun in the quirky performances).This is the kind of show(sadly, not many of them around anymore)that demands your attention, but will reward you threefold if you are a willing participant. Not wanting to sound condescending, this is not a great movie. But it is an intellectually entertaining one. Sadly, with the standards of present day popcorn fare degenerating to new depths with each passing pic, I dare to hope that one day, films like The Tailor of Panama will again resume its rightful place - as nothing more than just a top rate pop corn flick.But that day may never come and by default, this show will now have to assume a pedigree normally reserved for greater films. A sad predicament indeed. But that films like these still get made at all is reason enough to hope and celebrate.I would recommend for all true movie lovers out there to go see this show and be thankful(at least for that two hours or so) that we can temporarily forget bum-numbing stinkers like Pearl Harbor ever existed.I rest my case.Thank you and good night. "},{"Title":"Chain smoking, heavy drinking, and porn...it's Bond but not as we know it!","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Opening with a shot of the MI6 building in London, with Pierce Brosnan gazing out over the Thames, I thought the mistake had already been made. That is, putting Brosnan in a spy movie that ISN'T James Bond, and then sticking too closely to the Bond image. However my first impressions were proved wrong early on, with Brosnan giving a fine performance as Bond's alter-ego Andy Osnard, an unreliable and unprofessional agent, sent to Panama to cool off after a string of botched affairs. It was a risk for both Brosnan to play so close to the Bond genre, and for director Boorman to cast Brosnan, but it has paid off handsomely. Boorman even encourages us to compare the two with many slight touches referencing 007 - that opening shot, the way Osnard sidles up to the girls, and there's a nice line where the tailor likens one of his clients to 'Mr Connery'. In fact, there is much of Fleming's creation in Osnard, one might even say more than in the current cinematic incarnation.Character and genre apart, however, this is a playful, adult espionage thriller that shares little with the action/adventure of Bond. It does slow down towards the centre, but with Brosnan relishing his role, Geoffrey Rush getting his teeth into another eccentric part, and strong support from Brendon Gleeson and Jamie Lee Curtis, there is enough going on on screen to forgive a little tedium here and there. Boorman also gets much mileage from the location and it's turbulent history, turning what could have been a lacklustre outing into, at least, a different kind of spy movie. "}{"Title":"as the plot thickens","Date":"7 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this at a small theater after reading about it. It wasn't getting any press in this area (and not much nationally I believe). It was a pleasant surprise. Rush is great as always as the Tailor who spins tall tales. Although Brosnan's character is being compared to Bond, I don't think the resemblance is that close. Brosnan is a spy, yes, but has been kicked to the curb for having an affair with royalty in Spain if I remember correctly. He ends up in Panama, and befriends the tailor to the rich in Rush. His goal is to get out this hell-hole, and he needs information about the corruption in the gov't. Rush doesn't know anything, but spins a good tale that Brosnan believes.Good writing, good directing. Everything isn't put in plain view for the audience to know, some work has to be done by the audience to deduce what is happening and why. I rate 8. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable spy intrigue the way they used to make it","Date":"26 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film contains many standard elements of a spy thriller - the deceit, intrigue and lies, the twists and turns, the sex and money.  It's a fairly typical story of a holiday in Panama, I'm sure.What lifts this above the ordinary is the gentle pacing - the story doesn't pretend to be something it's not, but glides along, with the actors left to do their jobs.  Pierce Brosnan is a lovable rogue, Geoffrey Rush convincing as the tailor, and Jamie Lee Curtis adds to the mix very nicely indeed.Quirky, but good stuff. "},{"Title":"How not to be a spy","Date":"11 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Although this story starts off as a fairly standard spy story, taking a poke at Bond. with Pierce Brosnan waiting in his office for his superior to give him his latest posting, we soon find out that Brosnan's character, Andrew Osnard, is the opposite of Bond. He is a bad spy and rather a scumbag and he is being sent to Panama to keep him out of everyone else's way.In Panama he recruits a British tailor, Harold Pendel (Geoffrey Rush) to gather information from his high class customers. Unfortunately the tailor is a weaver of tales as well as cloth and when his customers are not as well informed as expected he begins to feed fictional tales to Osnard, including stories about his drunken friend being the leader of a revolutionary movement which includes his secretary. This makes for an amusing, if low key plot until Osnard tells his superiors in Panama and London about his priceless information. His superiors demand to know more so Osnard demands more from Pendel. Since Pendel's wife works for the government (and the canal project which is currently a controversial issue), he has to photograph his wife's documents. Quite unsurprisingly she sees him doing this and thus gets involved with the deception. As the British and the American Government's get more concerned about Osnard's information, they put pressure on him and his friends to reveal their sources, this leads to increased violence which seems to be unstoppable without everyone revealing their deceptions which they are not prepared to do.It is nice to see Pierce Brosnan acting as a scumbag for a change (and trust me he is) and Geoffrey Rush is excellent as usual as the tailor who starts out providing some entertainment which stops being funny as violence threatens. Also the whole story flows nicely from being light entartainment as Osnard stumbles around Panama collected tales, becoming a darker tale of how people react when violence threatens themselves and their friends and also when they realise that it is at least partly their fault.  "},{"Title":"Worth seeing","Date":"20 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  'The Tailor of Panama' is based on a John Le Carre fictional novel that tells the story of a British spy who is commissioned to Panama after he is found guilty of breaking a code of conduct. His aims and objectives are unclear - the assignment is purely a punishment for his crimes.The spy, Andrew Osnard, selects a British ex-patriot to be his source of information. From a list of Bankers, Politicians and other high-ranking officials, he picks out a Tailor. Having gathered the information on the poor and unwilling victim, he proceeds to blackmail the Tailor (brilliantly portrayed by Geoffrey Rush) into providing him with information regarding the Panaman canal that was handed back to Panama by the United States. It turns out that the Tailor (Harry Pendall) was chosen for a good reason, but Osner's decision to exploit this factor soon turns against him. The story soon pits the wits of the Tailor against the charm and charisma of the spy as both men race against time to seek a way out of the unfortunate situation which they both created.I was very surprised by how much I enjoyed this film, particularly since I had big reservations beforehand. Sitting on the Director's chair is none other than John Boorman and a very good job he did to piece together a potentially dull story. The script is injected with large doses of black humour, most of which is exhibited by Pierce Brosnan (who plays a realistic and down-to-earth James Bond!). Jamie Lee Curtis plays the female co-lead as the innocent wife of the Tailor, whilst Geoffrey Rush puts in a fine performance as the film's co-lead who is pulled into a political maelstrom. The film derives its success largely by virtue of the script, though the quality of the acting is clearly a contributing factor. I was kept interested by the sheer weight of good spoken English - something that is rarely seen in mainstream movies these days. I always have a spot for comparatively low budget films that make an impression. This is one of them. "},{"Title":"Good movie, just hard to understand. Read up on it, then go see it. Just don't expect Brosnan in another Bond role. *** (out of four)","Date":"19 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  THE TAILOR OF PANAMA / (2001) *** (out of four)Panama, a land of stunning beauty, known best for the celebrated national hat, its impressive canal, and the notorious 1980's reign of General Noriega. Panama has some of the most remote and accessible rain forests anywhere, with over 900 species of birds, more than all of North America. Jaguars and pumas roam just a reach away from the capital. It's humid, wet, and warm for most of the year, with the rest hot, humid and dry. This is an area ripe for malaria mosquitoes, who reportedly killed numerous individuals who built the Panama Canal. Panama is also a geographic link between North and South America.Excitement ravished the cinematically uneventful Panama City when filmmakers began to shoot the sexy drama The Tailor of Panama, in the early days of 2000. I've made four movies in the tropics, so Panama wasn't wholly unexpected, comments John Boorman, the film's director, co-writer, and producer, in the press notes. Charm, beauty, corruption, drug dealing-this was a potent and exotic mix.Boorman and his film crew capture all gorgeous aspects of Panama on camera, but lack a sufficient shooting script. Boorman's credits include Hope and Glory, and the Academy Award nominated Deliverance. Working from an adapted script by himself, Andrew Davis, and John Le Carre, Boorman captures the vivid imagery and vast mood that entertains and absorbs, but the story never actually takes off and delivers what we might come to expect.The Tailor of Panama is set loosely against the controversy of the Panama Canal after its successful handover from America to Panama in late 1999. The story revolves around a disputable spy, named Andy Osnard (Pierce Brosnan), who, as the movie opens, is banished to the uneventful Panama. Being the ruthless, philandering, James Bond type that he is, Osnard soon locates a popular tailor named Harry Pendel (Oscar-winner Geoffrey Rush), whose clients include some of the richest and most powerful in the country. Pendel also has a few secrets of his own he is an ex con-not even his wife, Louisa (Jamie Lee Curtis) knows about this. Needing something juicy to impress his supervisors, Osnard blackmails Harry to give him information regarding these highly proclaimed officials-he does not really care if it is true or not.The film is deliciously acted by Geoffrey Rush, once again delivering a stellar, flawless performance. He reportedly brought his usual preparation to the role of Harry. Rush took lessons from two different tailors, who taught him the mechanics of chalk and cut. Pierce Brosnan reprises his usual spy role, but this is a little on the rough edge for him. Most of his movies contain characters full of sexual innuendoes and seductive characteristics, but never before has he gone this far overboard. The film is rated R by the MPAA for strong sexuality, language, and some violence. Lets capitalize and underline the word strong. When Brosnan opened his own production company in 1999, breaking free of his James Bond heritage, I had no idea he would come this far. John Boorman attracted the stars, or so they say, but what is it about this story that attracted Boorman? The film has the potential to fly high with its material. We have a sleek, seductive spy hungry and desperate for work. The Tailor of Panama also takes a new twist on the spy genre. Instead of undercover sunglasses and high-tech gadgets, the film portrays a more realistic view on the business of spies. The possibilities are endless, here, but the movie only sets up the story, never lifts off from the ground. We keep expecting Boorman to amaze us, but that never happens. Only in the final thirty minutes does the film realize its potential and induce some well-deserved tension in the audience.I dunno. It's a tough call. I guess I recommend the film because of its underlying thought, the great performances, and the exotic locations. The more you know about the film before you go, the more you will enjoy it. I walked in knowing next to nothing, and didn't like it all that much. It's only after I read information, press notes, and reviews that I fully understand the plot. I would like to see it again, to justify my recommendation. The Tailor of Panama is a good movie, it's just not very well told. Read up on it, then go see it. Just don't expect to see Brosnan doing an unofficial James Bond gig.  "},{"Title":"An enhanced Bond movie","Date":"14 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Yes, I know this has nothing to do with James, except the lead actor, but it has exactly what I'm missing from all Bond films. It has a solid and intriguing plot. While its main goal is somehow vague (it diverts from a serious movie to a parody and then back to serious again), it manages to entertain the viewer. What I enjoyed most is the political message it conveys, like the nature of British-American relations, the idiocy of the American military and the role of the US to Panama. No wonder it's not well publicized.  "},{"Title":"In the right frame of mind, this is good.","Date":"13 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The name Pierce Brosnan is synonymous with James Bond now, wouldn't you say ol' chap? So when I heard that Brosnan was doing a movie as another British agent I thought it would be along the same lines but I couldn't be more wrong. This was one of the few movies that I did not know anything about before I went but I have to say that I was impressed and amused with what I saw.The Tailor of Panama is about a British agent, Andy Osnard (Brosnan) that fouls up his previous mission so badly (Brosnan fouling up?? Is that possible?) that his boss decides to send him to the backwoods of international espionage, Panama. What could possibly go wrong in Panama? There hasn't been anything of any international significance in years&#133;until Osnard shows up. Unimpressed with being sent to Panama, Osnard decides to create something of his own by finding himself someone of British background that is fairly well placed in the upper echelons of Panamanian society. The unfortunate chap to cross paths with Osnard is a tailor by the name of Harry Pendel (Geoffrey Rush). Having found himself a plump target, Osnard begins to pick this gentleman for information and what ensues is an intricate story full of deception, blackmail and skullduggery. You're probably thinking right about now that this doesn't sound like the suave, controlled characters that Brosnan has played in the past. And you're right although you still do see some of that suave demure that he exudes but this time with a bit of a mischievous twinkle in his eye. This movie couldn't be pulled off without a strong counterpart for Brosnan's character and Rush does not disappoint. I've seen Rush in other movies (Shakespeare in Love) and he is definitely a talented actor. In fact, you could probably argue that he's more integral to this movie than Brosnan is and you wouldn't be far off. Rush plays his character so well that at times you can't help but feel sorry for the predicament he's in and Brosnan plays his character so different from 007 that it's just a pleasure to watch.If you're expecting stunning explosions and incredible action sequences, you're not going to find them here. This movie is about scheming, planning and manipulation. What a character says is of utmost importance, which means that you have to pay attention. This could be a weakness of this movie too however. If you see Brosnan as the main bill and you're expecting an action filled movie you're going to be disappointed. The dialogue is intricate and what someone says is not always what they mean and this could turn off some viewers if they have to pay that much attention. I've never been a big fan of Jamie Lee Curtis' but she doesn't do a poor job here but then again she doesn't do a good job either. It just seems like a job to her and she does it. The ending scene with Rush and Curtis doesn't seem believable considering all that has happened up to that point and it did take a bit away from the overall movie.Overall, the movie was pretty good. It's probably safe to say that this movie isn't going to do huge numbers but for those who do go see it and realize that it's an intellectual thriller, you will enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Fun","Date":"7 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  It was great to see Pierce Brosnan in another role for a change and the whole lightness was an unexpected surprise for a La Carre film.  The whole movie was quite a gem, with its usual thrilling climax.  I didn't mind the lack of action or special effects, because the substance of the movie made for a more thinking, intellectual look at how small espionage intriques can spin out of control.  It was in short a nice parody, poking fun at the intelligence community. "},{"Title":"A couple of stitches missing, but still a decent fit","Date":"5 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The Tailor of Panama is an adaption of a good John le Carre novel, which is in turn an adaption of a better novel by Graham Greene. There's nothing wrong with lifting the plot of Our Man In Havana, especially since le Carre acknowledged this at the outset and managed to do some interesting things with his story. Tailor is a fine rumination on the costs of political and personal deception, more downbeat than it needs to be, but le Carre isn't in the business of writing happy books, and he manages to create a pair of interesting characters, in the way-over-his-head title character, one Harry Pendel, and his more opportunistic partner-in-crime, the corrupt and corrupting British agent Andy Osnard.The movie manages to do right by one of these characters, anyway. Pierce Brosnan is inspired casting as Osnard, a clever rake with a heart of lead. As transparent as all that is, it's hard not to like him and admire his randy gusto. Brosnan gets off some funny lines, mostly as he's getting ready to hop into bed with one of his female co-stars. Like Olivier's Richard III, you dislike him, but you can't help but be entertained and wish him better than he deserves. I can't get behind Rush's performance, though. Part of it is the trouble of playing a character whose greatest interest in the book comes from his internal torments. Director John Boorman helps out by having Pendel be visited by the image of his dead Uncle Benny as the plot thickens, and these surreal scenes do work when they happen. But Rush seems to have based his characterization on Alec Guinness's Fagin from Oliver Twist, and he doesn't quite have the screen presence to carry off his more over-the-top scenes. As Harvey Kornman from Blazing Saddles might have put it, too Jewish.The movie does a good job of conjuring the vital, sleazy ambiance of the book's Panama City, and what Matthew Wilder in an earlier review here said so well, the melancholy of ordinary human characters caught in the cogs of wheels too large for their imagining which has been le Carre's M.O. since A Small Town In Germany. The scenes in the British embassy come across particularly well, though without some of the complexities and character insights that made the same scenes more involving in the novel.What I missed most in the movie was the sense of Pendel's bad intelligence taking on a life of its own. Here we just get the feeling right away that he is spinning some threadbare fiction no one would rightly believe if they weren't seduced by the smell of money. It doesn't help that the characters of Mickie Abraxas and Marta, Pendel's allies in the novel, are not sufficiently developed in the movie. Brendan Gleeson actually outhams Rush in the former role, while Leonor Varela is wasted in a handful of scenes and never given her proper place in the story's spotlight.What else was wrong? Too much exposition, especially at the outset. We already know everything about Pendel's and Osnard's dicey backgrounds before the titles are over, and the novel's best scene, a cold opening of the pair meeting for the first time at Pendel's shop, is stripped of its juice because there's no reason for us to wonder why the conversation is taking the turns it does.One improvement over the book was the ending, not as downbeat and catastrophic on film as it was on page. Seeing Osnard winging away scot-free and unbowed was nice, but the overall impact of the conclusion still leaves one cold. Does the punishment meted out to Pendel really fit his crime?I liked this film on the whole, just not very much. I can easily understand the attraction of the story, and hope it finds the thoughtful audience it deserves. It just could have been better. How much better? Watch Sir Alec in the movie version of Our Man In Havana and find out. And the next time Hollywood wants to make a Graham Greene movie about flawed heroes in Latin locales, they should take a good look at still-cinematically-virgin The Power And The Glory. Now that would make a good movie. "},{"Title":"Better than I expected","Date":"3 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I enjoyed this  -  Brosnan is in fine form as a James Bond gone off the rails, Geoffrey Rush is in fine comedic form, and Catherine MacCormack plays the English sex-siren with cool aplomb (she is definitely a talent yet to receive her due recognition).  This film didn't really know whether it was a comedy or a thriller and tended to fall between the two stools, but nonetheless provided solid entertainment during its running period (even if the Chinese-and-Taiwanese-have-joined-forces-to-buy-the-Canal premise was so wild that no-one would ever have believed it still less invested in it).  Worth the money  -  and a lot better than some of the efforts I've seen recently.  "}{"Title":"Disappointing but not disastrous","Date":"28 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Great performances, photography, scenery and music; but adding up to a quirky, patchy, and at times rather slow, movie. Boorman seemed unable to decide what kind of film he was aiming at, switching from caper-like comedy to steamy sex and ugly violence in a rather uncomfortable manner. At the same time, the absurd plot makes it impossible to take the film seriously. (Perhaps, it was because it was so far-fetched that the Panamanian authorities agreed to let the film be shot there, which  certainly adds to its interest.)Possibly the presence of Pierce Brosnan - excellent as a coldblooded charmer and traitor - fixated Boorman on the idea of making a negative of the Bond formula. This works up to a point, but at the same time reminds one of just what makes the best Bond movies so succesful and enjoyable. Indeed, Tailor comes to life in some of its most Bond-like scenes - eg  the send-ups of British stiff-upper-lip diplomats and gung-ho US military.Jamie Lee Curtiss is, unfortunately, a little wasted, hardly having a word to say for the first hour; but Geoffrey Rush's Oscar-standard  portrayal of a Cockney tailor with a shady past is ample compensation. All in all, worth seeing for its parts, even if the whole disappoints. "},{"Title":"flat!","Date":"27 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  If you like dark British humor this is the movie for you. But if you are looking for a movie with purpose, you got the wrong one. This movie was a total flop and kept me wondering through the entire hour and half 'when does this movie going to start?'. It's good to see Pierce Brosnan in a different type of role but the movie needed something more than a few good lines. Geoffrey Rush, who I considered one of the best actors from our times, felt lost. After Quills and Shine, seeing him in this movie makes you wonder 'does he need the money that bad?' Jamie Lee Curtis is kind of a sad story. At her age and point in her career, she still feels she needs to show some skin to get the audience attention. I think the intention and idea of the movie was good but the script and direction were totally flat. "},{"Title":"Oscar contender","Date":"23 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Excellent performances all around. The plot's subleties and twists are well done and entertaining. Humorous and enthralling without gratuitous violence or massive car chases. It is a sad commentary on the state of America  when Freddy Got Fingered out-grosses this film.Pierce Brosnan and Geoffrey Rush should get Oscar nominations for their roles, though the film probably won't be popular enough for a bid. "},{"Title":"Fun but average....","Date":"23 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was fun to watch and was original in it's depiction of an evil spy and the damag a spy can do if he chooses to turn against his flag.Very amusing and tries hard to be intelligent and have less of the typical Bond action formula.It's sort of a fun what if peer into a Bond who gets fed up of being bossed around and decides to retire with big time funds.Well done in this regard but the direction,script,screenplay and cnematography were average.The acting and the sets though was good and I do not mind average efforts such as this movie due to the original ideas keeping the audience involved untill the end.Very memorable performance by Brosnan.The story is unlikely (not such a bad sin for movies) but keeps us aware of the power of government spies.......  "},{"Title":"A clever thriller; acting is superb","Date":"21 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The Tailor of Panama takes place in Panama (of course), and tells the story of a British spy (oddly enough, 007 but not in his style) who has to track down a tailor and then the game begins as they con together (though the tailor isn't as evil as the spy).  From then starts a intelligent, often funny and witty suspense film that doesn't dog you down with constant chases and explosions (not that they are the worst though), but with subtle and sweet tightenings in the plot.  Sure the dialog is good, but the acting by the two leads (yet I put Rush slightly over Brosnan) is great.  By the way, for skin-film fanatics, Curtis has some scenes that haven't been seen in 18 years (Trading Places if you get my drift).  Boorman scripted from Carre's book with Carre and Davies.  A- "},{"Title":"Great story in a unique perfect setting.","Date":"21 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  There's something about villans in films that makes us all want to secretly want them to win.  Sometimes we even like them no matter how revolting and despicable they are.  In Tailor of Panama Pierce Brosnand, as Andy Osnard fills this role to a 'T' in what's one of the most memorable new characters I have seen on film in a long time.We get no mistake about who Osnard is as soon as the film starts.  We are in MI-6 headquarters in London, and Osnard is being reviewed by his superior.  His superior returns back saying, the best he could do for him was to assign him to Panama, also commenting 'that scandal in the papers with the Spanish foreign minister's wife was bad enough, it's not like they don't know about the other ones!  They want your head Osnard consider yourself lucky!'.  To which only Osnard replies, 'It was his mistress not his wife'.  However, while Osnard is sent down, he is instructed to find out any information that might be important to 'England' regarding the security of the canal, perhaps doing everyone a favour by getting as far away from England as possible.Osnard being the scoundrel he is, fits in perfectly with the ilk crowding around in Panama, 'drug dealers', 'cons on the run', 'people who just want to dissapear'.  He decides to pick a tailor played by Geoffry Rush as an informant since many of his clients are the upper-crust of the Panama gossip source.  But it soon becomes clear that in Panama, with all the scum lying around things can get really messy where the name of the game is 'blackmail' LOTS AND LOTS OF BLACKMAIL.I went and saw this movie with my dad since he was born in Panama, and has read EVERY single John Le Carre spy novel there is.  Asking him if the story was true to the book he mentioned the ending was changed, and the witty dialogue is more of an added plus for the audience to be entertained.  But he did like the movie very much, even though the ending is more of a Hollywood happy ending instead of the real unfortunate ending as mentioned by the novel.One thing we did agree on was the setting for this great story.  Panama looks amazing and it was such a great setting.  Also Brosnan is so good as Osnard who is such a scoundrel, and Rush as the tailor who somehow just wants to wash his hands of all the dirt but can't escape it.  And what can be said of Jamie Lee Curtis!  She still looks GREAT at her age and is really good in this film as well.  A perfectly cast film.  The movie is never boring, and I never found it 'difficult' to follow.  It is a refreshing change in that it really follows along how Osnard and the tailor have to need each other to survive in this crazy land.Also the film has some memorable dialogue.'Good deeds, don't go unpunished in Panama' - former Panama resistance leader'Panama City is like Casablanca but without the heroes' - Geoffry Rush the tailor'It's time to add another star to our flag.' - American generalI was kept intrigued by how Osnard and the tailor were going about their stories, 'does he believe him', 'does he care', 'is he after his wife', 'does she care', 'is he having affair'.. there's LOTS of spy speculation  that will keep you guessing end on end.  You really feel for these 2 guys.The perfect spy character film, much enjoyed!Rating 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"a grand feast after long starvation","Date":"21 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Product placement aside, I thought this was a brilliant collaborative effort. It's not just the great acting that makes it so, it's also the thought given to visual details. During the opening credits, we see the tailor mark up fabric for a suit; then the singing in the taxi (accompanied by soundtrack); views of the Panama Canal with captions; camera panning the night street scene. Every interior is interesting --  the apartment with its black and white photos, the embassy office with its view, Brosnan's dark, bare office with it's bright veranda and empty safe; the whorehouse; Rush's kitchen; the boy bar. The dark confessional (this IS a Catholic country) of the dressing room separated from listening ears by a sheer curtain. There are no secrets here. The head of the Virgin bobbing outside the window after the suicide (draw your own conclusions). This is brilliant movie making. SUBSTANCE. Something we're not much used to anymore, hardly dare hope for. Plus there is the added benefit of a good script and an interesting tale of intrigue and betrayal. "},{"Title":"Witty and clever adaptation of le Carre's novel","Date":"9 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The Tailor of Panama is an entertaining, witty, clever, and faithful adaptation of John le Carre's novel.  Although Andy Osnard (Pierce Brosnan) has more visibility in the film than the book, Brosnan makes the slimy and arrogant character highly watchable.  One almost roots for him in the end. Geoffrey Rush is both amusing and touching, and his subtle performance reminds us of what a great actor he is.Le Carre himself served as co-writer and executive producer, but alas, unlike in The Little Drummer Girl, does not make a cameo. "},{"Title":"Bitter, funny stuff, but where did the ending go?","Date":"4 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  No one has done a great political film in over a decade. Boorman tries hard with this one, but he seems to tire of the task in the third act and elects to quickly tidy up all the  wonderful messes created in the first acts. The fascinating energies built up in the first parts of the film dissipate in a very dissatisfying ending.  Perhaps it was the original material-- I didn't read the book.  The British characters are all well drawn and terrific to watch; his Panamanians are a bit stereotypical; his Americans are parodies, all variations on Ollie North. Its a funny, sardonic mix which I could have watched for some time longer. But, it seems like Boorman had to fit the film under the two hour  limit. The end is choppy, lacking continuity, and left me with a sense of betrayal.Brosnan is very good as the cynical manipulator of people and nations. He is underrated as an actor. He does an excellent job in this role and totally dominates every scene he is in.Curtis does a good in job in a very tough role, but her sexual powers is waning and there are shots in which the lighting and angles are very unflattering. In a role in which her sexual appeal is important, she hangs in well but, she has definitely entered middle age. Her job in the film is to react and move the story where more subtle means might have worked better. As a result her's is the least believable of the main characters. Her physical attributes are sadly mis-used. (Did she and Rush adopt the two very Latin looking children?)Rush is, as always, brilliant.  His subtle and complex performance is well worth the price of admission -- AND the popcorn, soda and candy.It seems that no one can write good endings to films these days, not even vets like Boorman (I noticed there were three writers of the film-- a bad sign).  As bad as the finale is, it is not enough to ruin the film's wicked humor. I liked it and would see it again.  "},{"Title":"Amusing nonsense with strong acting all round","Date":"27 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Having expected a black (well, grey) comedy rather than an action film or thriller, I wasn't disappointed at all. Brosnan's portrayal of a kind of foul-mouthed Bond-gone-bad seemed very good to me.His arrogantly unswerving seduction of the alternately outraged and attracted Francesca (excellently played by Catherine McCormack) may have been short on 'chemistry', but it's not chemistry we're talking about here, it's PE.Geoffrey Rush started out dangerously close to the Fast Show's Rowley Birkin, but ended up convincing as a man finally facing the truth.The usual diplomatic stereotypes were enjoyable (bumbling Brits, heart-on-sleeve Ollie North types) and it was fun to see Harold Pinter's cameo as Pendel's guardian devil ('What use is telling the truth? You'll only get found out!')Granted, the double entendres could get a bit tiresome, but they were quite in character and Brosnan could handle them. The visual double entendres (double voirs?) were fun too and snappily done - Pendel's assertion that the Chinese were buying the canal after seeing Asian babes on Osnard's hotel skin flick, for instance.Daft plot, zappy direction, fine acting, well-judged humour  - I found this highly enjoyable. Don't expect an all-action, big-guns tale of the world teetering on the edge of destruction; this is not Bond. It's a (slightly) subtler tale of how people swindle and delude themselves and each other, and rather amusing too. "}{"Title":"The spy who came in from the heat.","Date":"18 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I wasn't totally familiar with John Le Carre's work when I saw The Tailor of Panama. But whether or not you're familiar with his work, you're still likely to get impressed by the movie. If it looks strange that Pierce Brosnan plays a non-James Bond spy, don't let that turn you off; as it is, I like this spy better than his role as James Bond.The plot has British agent Andrew Osnard (Brosnan) getting involved with impeccably dressed tailor Harry Pendel (Geoffrey Rush) in Panama City. Both men have self-serving sides, but Osnard clearly has some unctuous plans up his sleeve, and will likely stop at nothing to get the job done. The potentially explosive political climate surrounding them serves to heighten the tension.I certainly thought that Brosnan and Rush both did a really good job with their roles. Jamie Lee Curtis is actually, in my opinion, a strange person to cast in a spy movie - I've always found it a little bit hard to view her in a tense role - though I do feel that she did a good job with the role. And playing the son is none other than Harry Potter himself, Daniel Radcliffe.So, while it may not be the most eye-opening spy movie ever, it creates a fairly unnerving feeling. After watching it, you may be tempted to go to Panama...just to see whether or not this sort of thing actually happens (although you probably wouldn't want to experience it). Worth seeing. "},{"Title":"a bad production of a good story","Date":"21 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I hate to badmouth The Tailor of Panama, I honestly do. It's based on a book by my favorite author. It stars three of my favorite actors, ever Geoffrey Rush, Jamie Lee Curtis, and, of course, Pierce Brosnan. But facts are facts it is not good.One problem is Rush, who brings a certain flamboyance to his roles which is out of place here. Loved him as Captain Barbossa and the Marquis de Sade, but he doesn't seem to fit in the mild-mannered shoes of a Le Carre protagonist.Another problem is Le Carre's dialogue. Do not misunderstand he's one of the best dialogue writers I know. But not of Americanese. Half the time, Jamie Lee delivers lines that just sound clunky and wrong without a British accent. Britspeak and Yankspeak are fundamentally different in many ways, and it's important for a writer to understand that. Please, John. This is even more disappointing than all your anti-Ian Fleming tirades.Ultimately, too, the story is uncompelling. People mill about, having conversations, and generally just act very British and very espionage, but none of the characters is interesting enough to hold the story together. Le Carre's books are very character-driven, but someone forgot to give these guys their licenses.And again with the ending. Why change it? Le Carre was trying to say something with the ending that he wrote, and it's insulting to assume that film audiences aren't fit to handle it. Like Arthur Miller, Le Carre writes tragedies of the common man. Death of a Salesman doesn't work unless the salesman dies, and The Tailor of Panama doesn't work if the tailor fails to lose anything as a result of his sins. "},{"Title":"Pleasantly suprised. Excellent.","Date":"2 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I got this movie out because my local newsagents has any film for a pound on wednesdays and everything else was out. I'm really glad I gave it a whirl. Not everyone will enjoy what is at times pretty subtle satire and black comedy, but I recommend you give it a whirl. Read on if you not too bothered about hearing the plot...Bronson and Rush are excellent in the lead roles as they work off each other, Rushes fantasies getting out of control with Charles Bronson egging him on all the way.Give it a whirl! "},{"Title":"What a treat","Date":"15 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  They're not supposed to make thrillers like this anymore - one where the actions flow from the characters (not the actions being dictated by the plot as silly as the actions might be) and one where the supporting characters are well written and important.  Wonderfully entertaining with some great black humor and, yes, it is a hoot to see Brosnan play a spy so different than Bond. "},{"Title":"A very mixed bag that is interesting but not that successful","Date":"11 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Losing favour with his MI6 bosses, Andrew Osnard is dispatched to Panama to look after their interests and also keep him out of the way of the action. Osnard uncovers Seville Row style tailor Harry Pendel and threatens to expose his past unless he works as Osnard's own spy and way into Panama society. With money for information offering Harry the way out of his debts, he begins to feed Osnard information on shadowy network The Silent Opposition and, once that well starts to dry up, uses his vague connection to the President to suggest that the Panama Canal is potentially going to be sold to the Chinese.A strange beast of a film this, that perhaps is to blame for its mixed results at the box-office. The plot is a combination of satire and spy thriller with a certain amount of comic absurdity thrown in and, with this in mind, I can understand why it has garnered mixed reviews. Reviewer movieprose has here gone on a rant about the idiots who dislike the films and the dross they must like, but fails to tell me why he loved this and thought it as wonderful as he did. This is a version of snobbery and I won't be held hostage by it. No, the film is interesting and engaging but it is far from perfect and sort of flops in the middle of everything it seems to be trying to achieve. I was still more or less held by it for the majority but I can understand why many viewers wondered what the makers were trying to do. One of the main reason it is worth checking out is for the cast.The casting is eclectic to say the least. I'm not sure if it had anything to do with his next Bond being his last, but Brosnan clearly relishes the opportunity to play with the MI6 spy character and is convincingly self-seeking and greedy. Rush is more subdued and controlled, with his character being a form of mockery of colonial ambition while also working as a character within the story itself. Although his is the title character the film does rather belong to Brosnan. Curtis has a small role that was a good but strange choice for her. Gleeson is a strange bit of casting although he is as effective as Varela. Pinter popping up regularly is another example of the weird casting along with people like Margolis, Radcliffe, Fortune, Polito, Baker, Jenkins and others in mostly small roles.Overall then a strange film that is far from being successful. The cast suggests greatness but, although it has good moments, it doesn't really work as a total film. Brosnan makes for a great central performance and holds a lot of it together, just a shame that the film doesn't make better use of the material to back him up. "},{"Title":"Brilliant, but nót a comedy","Date":"5 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I saw this film just now and was left with a mingled feeling. To ease that feeling I tried to read some IMDb comments. The main featuring comment was as follows It's a comedy.Well, I have to disagree with Shenyang's comment on this film in but one part a comedy it is not. The film is making a serious attack to the governments of panama, the US and Great Britain. All of them are either corrupt or in lust of power. In this attack features a small story of a British spy and a tailor named Pendel (Rush). The British spy Osnard (Brosnan) is of the opinion that a tailor has the best connections within different society's and is therefor the best source of information. However, the man is in great need of money. So he does his utmost best to get Osnard the best information about plans within the Panama government.Shengyang has placed this film in the humor section. Well, it is not. It is satirical, and if that is what Shengyang means, I can find myself completely in his description. The film is meant satirical and not as humor. Because if you see the whole plot as fun, you miss the great value this film has. It shows the corruptness of governments in some parts of Central-America and it shows the horror that was done upon the people of panama. See it as a serious film, with a serious message and you might miss the humor, yes... But what you will get is worth so much more... "},{"Title":"Decent, Low-Key Spy Story","Date":"20 August 2006","Score":"13 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is extremely low-key, too much for most people but I still enjoyed it. In a nutshell, it's about a British spy sent to Panama to see who is going to control the Panama Canal. The public didn't care for this movie because it was so slow-moving. Pierce Brosnan, Geoffrey Rush, Jamie Lee Curtis, Brendan Gleeson and Catherine McCormick are all actors I find interesting so I enjoyed watching them and this film, in general.My only objection was the normal Liberal bias, here making George Bush, the British and the Americans look pushy and obnoxious in their dealings to control the locks.The story is a bit confusing in spots but interesting enough to stay with for the entire 109 minutes. There are a few sexy scenes thrown in to help keep your attention. I was surprised at the number of f-words in this movie. "},{"Title":"Don't Make Stuff Up.","Date":"3 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is a serious movie about spying and the American takeover of Panama in 1989. According to this film, it was all a big mistake based on data fabricated by Geoffrey Rush, a tailor in Panama who is mistakenly singled out as an information source of importance. He and his fellow conspirator, Peirce Brosnan, feed a lot of fake humintel to Britain and America while asking for lots of money for their secret investigations. It's a bit complicated. A Marine Corps general practically drools on the table when he describes God as finally giving them another crack at Panama. There's a missing star on the American flag. It has its comedic moments but they're embedded in a narrative with sober overtones. People commit suicide. And invasion takes place for no justifiable reason. Historically, of course, there was plenty of good reason to overthrow Noriega -- we didn't like him. That's enough of a reason.Brosnan is quite good as the rather slimy British visitor, and Geoffrey Rush is fine as the poor tailor who is driven half mad by unexpected developments in what at first seemed like a simple scam. Perhaps the best performance, somewhat surprisingly, is from Jamie Lee Curtis as Rush's suspicious wife. She puts a lot into the role and delivers.I think I prefer Carol Reed's earlier version of Le Carré's story. It wasn't as splashy and it was in black and white, but Guiness as the harried vacuum cleaner shop owner is funnier. The notion of describing a secret weapon that occupies an entire mountain and looks like it's made of vacuum cleaner parts is funnier. Maureen O'Hara as the assistant sent down from Britain is much prettier than Brosnan. And Noel Coward as the espionage overseer -- constantly followed by a parade of young boys playing the same cheerful Latin song -- is a delight.But this version isn't to be dismissed. If it's less amusing, it's also more tense, and the tension hold up all the way through the complexities of the plot. "},{"Title":"Tailored for Brosnan.","Date":"9 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Tailor of Panama (2001) Dir John Boorman / Cast Pierce Brosnan, Geoffrey Rush, Jamie Lee Curtis, Catherine McCormack, Brendan Gleeson Geoffrey Rush is the tailor and he served a prison sentence for dealings involving the Canal. His job is to cover up until Pierce Brosnan shows up from the British Embassy forcing him to resurrect a past that he would rather forget existed. Directed by John Boorman who previously made the suspenseful Deliverance as well as the unsuspenseful flop The Exorcist 2 The Heretic. This ranks as one of his better films with its provocative themes but it still has narrative issues. We see Rush as an individual trying to do good and live out his life trying to forget his sins. This is a different role for Brosnan and he displays a vicious side that involves blackmail. Jamie Lee Curtis is well cast as Rush's wife who knows that something just isn't right but unfortunately the screenplay throws in a pointless scene where she is seduced by Brosnan. In smaller a role is Catherine McCormack but these roles are not as broad as they could be. Brendan Gleeson is another talent but underused as well. Action and thriller fans may be reluctant to approach this due to its pacing. It is a suspenseful film about skeletons in closets and the struggle to do right again. The good news is that some relationships can withstand anything and forgiveness finds a way of healing the scars of the past. Score 6 ½ / 10 "},{"Title":"Not my cup of tea","Date":"19 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is a semi-light spy movie that revolves around manipulation and getting the upper hand on one another. In another words, the actions sums up to be like a game of poker. Except I personally didn't find this movie to be all that thrilling or exciting. In fact I don't think this is a cup of tea for most mainstream audiences. It's a film that I appreciate though because of the thinking elements, cause you really need to pay attention to what is going on. And the way it comes together was well crafted. But this movie just wasn't in my taste. So the plot is about a British spy named Osnard (played by Pierce Brosnan) that gets kicked out of the company he works for, because he had an affair with the ambassador's mistress. And thus thinks of ways to scheme big by manipulating, using his charm, blackmailing and womanizing in order to get what he wants. In another words he is the type of guy that women just cannot resist. And one of his main cards is a tailor that is in debt, but has many political connections. Also when it comes to the ending, some may like it but I think most audiences won't. Since it strays from the typical ending of the scheming manipulator getting put behind bars. So the outcome might not sit right with a lot of audiences. I give this movie a 6/10 because I thought the movie was sly in a few areas, clever and the interactions is smooth and even sort of memorable.6/10 "}{"Title":"Darkly Humored and Edgy&#x85;Defrocking James Bond","Date":"26 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Successful in Some Respects, Not So Much in Others, this Dark Satire on the Spy Genre has Pierce Brosnan Showcasing a James Bond Like British Spy Who has Lost His Grace. The Name isn't Bond, it's Osnard. Get it?Nothing About this MI6 Reject is Suave, Cool, or Charming in Any Way. He Bullies His Way Around Panama Like a Rabid Dog that has No More Instincts. The Movie has Varying Tones of Violence and Sex, Most are Lurid and Repulsive.The Script was Written by Acclaimed Spy Novelist John Le Carre from His Book. The Director is the Inconsistent John Boorman. The Film is Interesting and Can Intrigue and Amuse if You Let It, but Some May Find it in your face and Anything but Subtle. It Works and Then, It Doesn't. So the Overall Effect of the Movie is Wanting but Those Looking for Something a Bit Different in the Spy Genre will Most Likely Enjoy its Edge and Forgive Some Clumsiness. Worth a Watch to See Brosnan Riff On His James Bond Persona and there are Enough out there Scenes to Capture the Anti-Hollywood Cultists. But Mainstream Moviegoers and those Looking for More of the Same will Probably Not Appreciate the Messy Message in this Very Darkly Humored Display. "},{"Title":"An old school, dialogue driven spy thriller. Solid.","Date":"19 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" An old school, dialogue driven spy thriller set in the far away land of Panama. Even the film techniques are old school (the Thames view in the beginning, editing!). It all feels very 70s (and it isn't necessarly a bad thing). If you enjoyed Tinker, tailor, soldier, spy with Alec Guiness, you should give it a try. The pace is much faster though and the atmosphere less dense. Brosnan as a cynical manipulator is quite believable. G. Rush as Harry the Tailor feels overdone at times but it's all part of the 70s movie convention. For more Bond like, action filled, black white characters spy movies look elsewhere. Set your expectations right and you will enjoy this one. "},{"Title":"Suffers from the comparison to 'Our Man in Havana'","Date":"13 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Andy Osnard (Pierce Brosnan) is being banished to the relatively minor backwaters of Panama by MI6. There are only 200 British residents in Panama and Andy picks the tailor Harry Pendel (Geoffrey Rush) as his contact to the highest levels. At the end of 1999, the Panama canal was handed back to Panama and intelligence is vital for its uncertain future. Harry's wife Louisa (Jamie Lee Curtis) works for the head of the Canal Commission Ernie Delgado. Harry is in terrible debt after buying a farm and he needs money by the end of the month. Harry has a checkered arsonist past which Andy uses as well as lots of money to get an insight into the corrupt and seedy politics. Mickie Abraxas (Brendan Gleeson) is a former Noriega opponent drunken loud-mouth angry nobody, but Harry spins him into a leader of the 'Silent Opposition'.Based on a John le Carré novel, this has a great deal in common with Graham Greene's 'Our Man in Havana'. It suffers from the comparison. The atmosphere in 50s Cuba is just so much more tense and more exotic than 2000 Panama. Graham Greene had the cold war. This movie can't even fall back on a Noriega. They have something much more pedestrian and common; corruption. The acting is solid. Pierce Brosnan is playing Bond without the action. Geoffrey Rush can definitely spin a tale. Brendan Gleeson feels very old school stereotype white man in Latin America. I'd rather have a latino actor. There is a generally fascinating little story. The point where the movie lost me is the Americans. The meeting at the Pentagon is cartoonish from another era. Instead of a poignant indictment, this one degenerates into a silly farce. "},{"Title":"my tailor wants to be rich (rental)","Date":"7 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Of all the fours great spook writers i know, Le Carré (LC) with Robert Littell are the two who have the best writing skills while the two others (Clancy and Forsyth) are more into stuff and intelligence. In other words, LC's work focuses about people and the way the human condition can twist the true and real facts. It was already the case with the « Russia House » in which « falcons » were unable to understand reality as it didn't fit their conviction. Here, it's about the opposite effect some expensive lies made by an cupid asset become hot stuff as they help the « falcons». At the end, LC depicts a acid, paranoid world when human intelligence is a chess-game played by sharks and arbitrated by incompetent but dangerous authorities ! The production here is really top-quality  having Borman as director was giving the keys to a real adventurer who proved his skills in locations. Brosnan was the perfect choice to play this cynical agent. Rush stunned me by his ability to act like a tailor and thus the opening focusing on his skills was a good change from the ultra flashy ones of today. In addition, you have also got a glamorous Jamie Lee, a convincing Leonor and the famous Harry Potter (recognized him at his first scene but needed also the credits to be sure !). Like LC's novels, the pace is a bit slow sometimes but this movie is telling more truth about lies than other propaganda productions that tells lies about truth ! "},{"Title":"A bit mis-tailored","Date":"9 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I am a bit perplexed by this movie. It's an all in all clumsy blend of what you usually get from John Le Carré - that is a clever spy story, with complex characters rich in personality-fed excesses and motivations, with the plot taking place in interesting locations that are shed a cruelly cold light on - and of a satire that seems a little alien to Le Carré, if it's indeed imported here from his book, which I doubt, while not having read 'The Tailor of Panama' yet. The satirical which comes in at moments would not be bad if the whole movie would be a satire, and so one could 'lol' all the time. Instead, it looks as though the makers of the movie just wanted to give a strongly anti-Anglo-Saxon touch to it, and tried to make the usual anti-imperialism pill easier to swallow by putting this chocolate dressing of satire on it. In my view it doesn't work well, and so I am rating this movie 7 focusing only on the serious parts that give consideration to the possibility of an intelligence-fabricator turning things upside down in a remote part of the world, far from the watching eye of the centre. Perhaps even this part I couldn't appreciate so much if I would have read Graham Greene's Havana story to which many commenters pointed as a source of borrowing for Le Carré (which apparently he himself notes in his own novel). Not knowing about the extent of similarities, the part of the story about the fake Silent Opposition growing in the shade of the 'Cocaine Towers' could be quite cool, if only the story at times wouldn't strain credibility too much as a result of those silly exaggerating satirical elements. "},{"Title":"Very enjoyable film--most miss the point though...","Date":"4 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" As others have pointed out, this film was indeed great fun to watch, with great performances all around, especially from Pierce Brosnan, who masterfully parodied his James Bond persona into a something truly memorable and somewhat frightening.What I think most people don't get is that this film really makes almost nothing of a political statement at all. I've read reviews here calling it 'anti-war' and 'anti-interventionalist' etc., and it really is none of those things. Nor does it try to be.The story is about a pitiful ex-con who has managed to hopelessly BS everyone in his life (including his wife and children) nearly to the point of financial ruin, then is pushed over the edge by an unscrupulous spy who encourages him (with the promise of great profit) to spin the biggest lie of his life (which he eagerly does), setting off a chain of events that push several nations to the brink of war.Sure, the American and British generals are portrayed as aggressive and somewhat gullible, but that isn't meant as a political statement as much as it is a plot device. And quite frankly, if the information they had been getting was actually true, their actions would have been reasonably justified.No, rather than reading political motives into the story that simply aren't there, one should enjoy the film for what it is, a true human tragedy, told on a personal level, but with international ramifications. And it succeeds very well at that. "},{"Title":"Brosnan's Excellence is So Palpable, Don't Forget Rush","Date":"26 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Of course, you may have seen the trailer for this movie, and Brosnan's portrayal of a British spy is already understood.I mention this because there will be comparisons to his spy portrayal here and his spy portrayal in the Bond films. There is no comparison. In fact, if you are into Brosnan's work, you will find this character very interesting, extremely well-developed, very multidimensional.This spy story has a complexity and maturity about it that does not exist in ANY of the James Bond films. The Bond films are about Bond being well-dressed; exotic locales; over the top gadgetry; the obligatory notion of getting the woman/women; and pure adventure of car chases, airplanes that explode in the air, etc.This Tailor movie has realism. You are riveted by the characters, their struggles, etc. Even though there is breathtaking scenery in the city of Panama, that does not dominate the film. At times, matters take place in parts that are not so scenic.When you see this movie and Brosnan's excellent performance, it makes his Bond performances seem wooden and one-dimensional. There are also other Brosnan movies in which he was a lot looser Laws of Attraction, Thomas Crown Affair (1999), The Nephew. These movies with Brosnan stick out in my mind better than the Bond movies.Also, Rush was good too. "},{"Title":"Almost Great!","Date":"10 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" There are so many things that i love about this film. I thought the music the cinematography, the acting was all excellent. The story, the plot and the characters were excellent. The humor at times was funny to. The tailor of panama was such a likable person and great character despite his jaded past. He kinda tugs at your heart with the way he displays his new found virtuosity and value for classic romance.I didn't like the anti-American-British sentiment of the movie. I thought the political undertone cheapened the film and its potential. This film was above that kind of groupie left-wing bias. The scene with the general crying tears of honer and saying we need to attack the silent rebellion (which didn't even exist)made a ridiculous mockery of the military. i would have been fine with showing some corruption or whatever but this cheapened a great movie with stupid satire.Over all it didn't ruin the film though because the film was so strong in all the other ways. Its a 10 out of 10 with out the silly political undercurrent but with it its a strong 8. "},{"Title":"Nice work","Date":"8 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I like the Tailor of Panama, it's a film that should be watched for a while, then put on the shelf and watched again later, normally I get rid of films, but not this one. Geoffrey Rush, and Hugo Weaving who is not in this film, are both astounding actors, If I did not know better I would say that Harry Pendel is not played by the same actor who plays the governor in PotC, but they are, and that fact astounds me about both Weaving and Rush, how they can alter their appearances, their voices, and hair so completely from role to role, I did some looking, and these guys look nothing on screen like they do off. Speaking of actors, that's Harry Potter (Daniel Radclife) playing Rob Pendel, what a change, eh? Also, i believe the secretary for Ramon (Bank Mgr) from this film later went on to be in The World is Not Enough. ANother reason I like this film is it has questions to be answered. 1 When does Andy Ausnaught (Brosnan) know that Harry Pendel is smoke and mirrors?. 2 When does the moneymaking scheme get hatched in Ausnaught's mind? 3 how exactly did that bank make money by forclosing on Harry's farm, when to all accounts they all 3 would benefit more from seeing the farm a success? 4 What precisely is Harry Pendel fabricating, does he make up people? does anyone want to try and answer these questions  "},{"Title":"Movie's good ,but le carre's novel better","Date":"18 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Here we have a riveting novel adapted into a movie and  this time  the movie tries to match the caliber of the book.***possible spoilers***To begin with the story takes place in Panama which is a hotbed of politics and the central character is a tailor named Pendel  played by flawless .geoffrey rush who renders his service to panama's who's who.All's well until a british spy (of course 007 brosnan minus all gizmos and gadgets) comes and twists our Pendel to play her majesty's spy and what follows next I shall leave it to u guys to see.And of course we have an added attraction `scream queen' Jamie lee curtis playin Pendel's wife.***possible spoilers***I RECOMMEND U PEOPLE TO READ THE BOOK WHICH IS FILLED WITH HILARIOUS BRITISH VERBAL INTERPLAY.  "}{"Title":"I don't get it... oh, wait, maybe I do... wait, no...","Date":"7 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Wow.  This movie tries to be suspenseful by slowly building its pace, but really it just plods along.  I kept hanging in there, clinging to the thin thread of the story, wondering if I was missing something, and hoping the pace would pick up... it never did. "},{"Title":"A Stitch Not of Our Time","Date":"18 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A major problem with this is that the book it is based on is probably John Le Carre's worst novel, a dull dribble of nothingness.This handicap is really an insurmountable obstacle.Mainly, the plot is boring and totally unbelievable. The direction is flat and plodding and disappointing from John Boorman, a director who is capable of so much more. Geoffrey Rush tries his best in the title role, Brosnan doesn't convince, Curtis is wasted and Brendan Gleeson(a fine actor) is bizarrely miscast. Also,what is it with spies? They are always obsessed with sex and seem to do so much of it that it is a wonder they have the energy to find out government secrets and the like. Still, it's   probably a better living than working in a sewer.This movie is a bore. If you can keep awake for the running time you will be doing well.There are bound to be better things you can do with two hours in your life.    "},{"Title":"the REAL James Bond?","Date":"1 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Some of the other reviews are obviously by kill-joys. This movie rates about a 7/10 or 8/10 for me. It's hilarious to see the REAL James Bond in action. I'm surprised that Hollywood still wanted Brosnan to be Bond after this movie. Brendan Gleeson had me fooled - I really thought he was Hispanic, and the soundtrack if gorgeous. I MUST find Todavia Cantamos . Odd that they chose an Irish singer and Irish composer though. And of course, an Irishman to act as a Panamanian. When will film-makers ever do the logical thing? "},{"Title":"Action lovers Let this be your lesson","Date":"8 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I´m a dedicated fan of good action movies, because there isquality in every genre. But this little gem does not need any carchases or else to be convincing. Fine one liners and excellentclever characters make this a very watchable and sometimescynical movie. Good book, good actors, a little to less Jamie. Anyway A clear 8/10 on my list "},{"Title":"Geoffrey Rush, Pierce Brosnan. Two British con men concoct a wild story in Panama creating international mayhem. Nicely dressed, darkly funny and picturesque.","Date":"12 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The Tailor Of Panama is, as its producer and co/writer John Le Carre would have wished, a telling comment on contemporary politics.        Le Carre of late has gone public eloquently yet again about the treachery, deception and greed he sees underpinning the so called War Against Terrorism. It's no mistake that The Tailor Of Panama is in part a spoof about diplomacy and modern international affairs.	 	Andy Osnard (Pierce Brosnan) is a rakish British spy. He's James Bond with very bad language. Brosnan has played Bond in the last two Bond films. Osnard has disgraced himself by seducing a European high level diplomat's wife and gets sent to Panama as a punishment.	There he blackmails local tailor Harry Pendel (Geoffrey Rush) into introducing him to the elite of Panama and then uses information Pendel gives him to concoct an invasion by a foreign power, all in the name of getting his hands on some very serious money.	Both knowingly deceive one another and accept the deception. It's all a game played for selfish self interest. The ownership of the Panama Canal and a lot of money is in question. No matter if some of the locals get pulverised in the process. 	But all of this is done mostly in a fairly jocular fashion, in an upbeat mood, the tone set by Pendel's rather natty white suits. Osnard seduces a British diplomat (Catherine McCormack) in a genuinely sexy, if gratuitous bonking scene and Pendel takes some delight in concocting his silly story.	But then there's a deadly serious side of The Tailor Of Panama. The suspicious wife (Jamie Lee Curtis) and the deformed Marta (Leonar Varela) and heart broken patriot friend Mickie (Brendan Gleeson) have their concerns. 	But it's also quite picturesque, with Panamanian carnivals erupting seemingly at will, set against the poverty and the corruption of the place. This really is Le Carre territory. His spy stories have a heart.	The Tailor Of Panama glides briefly into Dr Strangelove territory and is also sometimes a travelogue. James Bond lets out ripe language and Geoffrey Rush gets to dress up yet again. It's lively, often fun and politically interesting, if unsurprising. 3 Tourist Flys out of Five.  "},{"Title":"DIRTY ROTTEN SPIES.......","Date":"4 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The film is about two overly ambitious men who try their level best to create a political unrest between the governments of Panama and the U.S.Their ultimate motivation to do this amounts to nothing more than money.The funny bit is one while one perverted Spy the other is tale spinning Tailor who can only along with each other with blackmail and greed.Well it's been a while since John Boorman made a high profile film and more importantly a light comedy.The film does not take itself too seriously and you know that from the the opening scene in London but that does not hurt the relationship between the characters aswell since they are both playing two big loosers'.I could not understand why this film did not receive any publicity because the subject matter can be quite close to home...as in you know there are hidden conspiracies in any government whenever they decide to go to war and the idea of military sanctions are far too common to mention.The film unlike beyond Rangoon or Deliverance(a must see) is not very gritty leaving the plot dry towards the end it almost seems predictable.Jaime Lee Curtis gives the usual strong female lead keeping us glued to the screen with her ......ahem great body!Yes she also helps the film by increasing the tension and bringing out the best in Pierce Brosnan as a nasty British spy who's only interest seems to be to profit from creating tension with situations so he can can either cheat or bed them.His character has the greatest potential  to be every bit the nasty Englishman he wants to be,note his idea's of having a relationships with women(very very Austin Powers and less Bond).Geoffrey Rush  tries to make the best out of character but he's left with nothing new to give out to the audience than a spineless man.I mean you could have given the guy more lines so he won't come out sounding like a guy who's suffering from midlife crisis.If Boorman made this film a bit more gritty/crude I am sure this would have been the next Wag the Dog!!!!!Don't get me wrong though it is a fun film but a bit cheesy maybe......but fun and it is soo nice to see Pierce Brosnan heading in positive direction in his career rather than wasting it like the rest of the Bonds(I don't mean Connery).   "},{"Title":"Hey! Pierce Brosnan can act !!","Date":"29 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie starts out well and performances by Rush and Brosnan carries this movie for the first hour or so.  Then it falls into a kind of `A Fish Called Wanda' plot without the laughs.  Jamie Lee Curtis acts through her breasts in everything I've ever seen her in. This is a rental movie and only if everything else is out.     "},{"Title":"What?????","Date":"24 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I don't appreciate ridiculous endings and this movie had me going back & forth until........what??? Well someone should have landed in jail don't you think? Life goes on? I don't think so! At least not like this. Lives & relationships in this situation, would have been destroyed. "},{"Title":"Entertaining, muddled, thrown-together ending","Date":"22 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I liked it. Geoffrey Rush is always a joy to watch. Pierce Brosnan plays a cold guy in every movie he's in. Jamie Lee Curtis has no talent, and her looks and body are fading.  Entertaining story of a tailor with a secret past settting up shop in Panama and a defrocked MI6 agent blackmailing him and screwing everything in sight, not to mention trying to rape everything in sight as well.  Recommended 7/10.  Oh, and the ending wraps up a bit too neatly given the mess of the blackmail and lies that are told. "},{"Title":"Our Man in Panama is a visit to Greeneland","Date":"19 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is a very enjoyable black comedy that would do credit to Graham Greene. I truly hope these diplomats, attachés, spies and Pentagon bigwigs are more stupid than the real ones otherwise we could be in big trouble soon. It's cynical view of modern business and diplomacy is too close to the truth. Pierce Brosnan has a range as narrow as the Panama isthmus but it is nevertheless a Grand Canyon when compared to Roger Moore's. Only his character's greed and vanity blinds him to the implausiblity of the Tailor's tales, while Geoffrey Rush makes his rather sad character quite believable. This is not one of the Le Carré books that I have read so I was pleasantly surprised by the humour and carnality present, which I presume is in the novel too. It was nice to see John Fortune in a film and he plays his Ambassador's corruptibility and conformity to a tee. I was glad to see Panama from sleazy shore rather than from the veneered deck of one of those cruise liners passing through the canal.         "}{"Title":"GEOFFREY RUSH- A STAR AGAIN!","Date":"13 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  John Le Carre puts together a good movie... confusing at times, but it is supposed to be. I came away with Geoffrey Rush's performance as being top-notch!  Almost as good as he was in QUILLS. View him (and watch the movie)! "},{"Title":"This won't be tailored to everyone's liking","Date":"23 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Pierce Brosnan plays Andy Osnard, a disgraced MI6 agent who's sent to the hardship post of Panama to monitor the situation there for the Brits. No one's happy about handing the management of the Panama Canal back to the Panamanians, least of all the Americans have run it for 85 years.In Panama Andy heads straight for Harry Pendel, Geoffrey Rush, a tailor with Saville Row credentials who makes suits for Panamanian society - he even made suits for Noriega when he was alive. Harry's a perfect target for Andy because he has a secret past which he's hidden from his American wife Louisa, Jamie Lee Curtis, and he has debts. Andy wants dirt and he knows Harry has fitting room connections. Harry is horrified at the prospect of betraying confidences but Andy leans on him and so he obliges with a mish mash of fact and fiction....This was an enjoyable film - although I felt it had no real direction - until about three quarters of the way through.  Brosnan plays a wonderful anti-Bond-esk character, revolting, slimy to a tee.  Rush's performance has a touch of the maniacal but plays well.  Above average. "},{"Title":"Blend of South American Flavor with a pinch of Rush...","Date":"10 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film is an alright film thriller with some laughs for good measure. What really makes this film unique is it's setting. It provides the viewer with a true Latin American experience. The sexuality, color, light, heat, and delightful danger of Panama are all successfully captured here. As always, Geoffrey Rush delivers a charmingly-sensitive, yet both facecitious and dramatic performance. The result is a uniquely set film, with an excellent performance by Geoffrey Rush. Definitely worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Not a bad movie&#133;. good acting makes this better.","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A former British convict, now the premiere tailor in Panama,  is used by  British consulates to get information about Panamanian rebels, and their movements.  The tailor (Rush), fabricates a story to protect his friends and family, but in turn causes more damage than he cared for.  I think the movie was trying to get across how corrupt government's, not only local, but also foreign ambassadors in third world countries, can be.  C+ "},{"Title":"our man in havana is better","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  brosnan is superb but the film and story have been done before. One of the weakest Le Carre books by far.The sets are superb and the film has atmosphere.  lee curtis is miscast and the english diplomats and spies are stereotyped. "},{"Title":"very ironic view of British and American foreign affairs","Date":"6 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I was very amused about the characters and different strands of this movie. They fit well into my picture of the world. But not everybody in the audience seemed to get it. Somebody even asked me what this movie was all about. So, I guess it's unintelligible for those who are not interested in politics or world affairs. To me it was a clear 9/10! "},{"Title":"What did I miss?","Date":"25 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I am still convinced, even now, that I have missed something with this movie. I am convinced that I fell asleep, after all I must have done because I missed the plot.The movie plays fine otherwise, after all the acting is fairly spot-on. Curtis is pouting to her best ability, Rush is as always reliable, and Brosnan has really found a role to suit his style of acting but in all truth, what good is any of that if there is no framework to place it within. A bit like having 30 brushes, all the write paints, a lovely easel but no canvas. Something must have been lost from the script, it has to be. I haven't read the book and so cannot be able to place my own finger on it, but surely this cannot have been all that was in it.There is a clear direction for the film to be travelling in, with the spying and such like, and there is room for some great comedy moments from Brosnan. This espionage style is lost though, as instead it turns into a rather farcical look at greed, desire and lust. The spying is soon stopped and the culmination of the film is that none of what has preceeded has been of any value or benefit. It plays as if there are two films, one which for 90 minutes looked to be boiling up to a twisty turvy crackerjack ending,and the second was a 10 minute ending from a family drama. It is clearly trying to get one over on the audience and its a cliche to say that memoirs of sixth sense spring up but thats all it is, an ending which surprised no-one and pleased only the director. Boorman has slipped on a real banana hear and makes himself look foolish with an amateur ending. "},{"Title":"Just what the doctor ordered","Date":"22 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A delicious little movie, with twists and turns not always obvious to me.  What a treat it was for the plot points not to be of the Oh my god, that's not Tom Cruise but a latex mask! variety. Instead, the plot seemed to be organic and not jerry-rigged for dramatic effect. This thriller (or whatever genre it's being marketed as) has delightful characters and occasionally hilarious dialogue. And the directing is smooth, which gives us blessedly extended scenes instead of the 3-second snippets most music-video directors have been giving us these days.  If you need a little pick-me-up at the end of a horrid day (as I did) give this movie a try. "},{"Title":"No start... a middle, and no end.","Date":"6 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  When I first had a lesson in film studies, the basic fact that I learned was that every film should have a start, a middle and an end. Unfortunately, this film seemed to be missing any definitive start or finish.The acting was above average, however, and this helped to me to rekindle some interest.Brosnan plays a corrupt MI6 agent attempting to gain information in Panama, the one place no other MI6 agent is willing to go to. The general conception is that the Panama Government have agreed a deal which means China and Taiwan come together to 'own' the Panama canal. The news gets through to the Americans, and they are not happy. They attempt to out-bid the Chinese/Taiwan govts. What nobody knows is that there are a few white lies being told. The tailor, of whom Brosnan is accuiring information from, is the suspect.Watch it, but don't expect a huge thrill. "},{"Title":"well done","Date":"27 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The movie is a well done adaptation of the book which I read before seeing the movie.  You cannot complain about the plot since this is exactly what John Le Carre wrote. I lived four years in Panama, just before the 1989 US invasion and enjoyed seeing how the picture describes Panama, its people, the Americans and, of course, the British.It is the thriller-comedy of Le Carre well taken to the cinema  "}{"Title":"Brosnan trying to be fat","Date":"26 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  It seems to have been misguided to cast Brosnan - not by any fault on his part (a fine performance, with an accent just like that described in the book), but because of a common inability do distinguish 'star' from character. One must assume however, with Le Carre as executive producer it was with his blessing. If characters are transferred from literature, is it fair to criticise them if they do not conform to celluloid's narrow stock of characters.If one considers other Le Carre adaptations - notably the superlative Tinker,Tailor, Soldier, Spy - this is action packedAs for the plot - blame that on Graham Greene "},{"Title":"Not bad, not good - just sew sew.","Date":"21 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  When I first saw this movie, I was sorely disappointed.In retrospect, there were enough good moments in The Tailor of Panama to make it worthwhile but, overall, it's a disjointed mess of a film.Brosnan has fun as the 'Anti-Bond' and he gets to swear (which you have to see to understand why that's such a big deal - it just sounds so weird!) His muddled British/Irish/Cockney/Scouse accent doesn't help his performance which is, for the most part, surprisingly good.The real star of the film is Geoffrey Rush - a performance of style and depth in a movie that lacks a little of both.On balance, an interesting film, rather than a good one.  The real shame of it is that you get the impression it could (and should) have been so much better. "},{"Title":"Delicious satire","Date":"20 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is an enjoyable spoof of spy movies, with political criticism mixed in, as well as satirical characterizations of espionage and military establishments.  There is little violence compared to other movies on this theme; instead, the screenplay relies on witty dialogue.  The editing may confuse some, but it appears well done, with several instances of interleaved (interwoven) scenes.  This technique, where the action moves back and forth repeatedly between two scenes, is quite effective.  The sound track by Shaun Davey adds a lush aura to the movie.  If you're tired of blockbuster thrillers and action movies with physically improbable stunts, then you may enjoy this movie.  "},{"Title":"Bloody boring!","Date":"11 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Boorman is one of my favorite directors, LeCarre a favorite author, and the acting in this film is first class.  But it fails to satisfy.  It is too much the thriller to qualify as a character study, and too slow and character driven to qualify as a thriller. It is clever, to be sure, but the plot is totally outrageous -- the end in particular is unbelievable in the extreme. The pacing drags SOOOOOO much. Several members of the audience near me fell asleep!   "},{"Title":"Not what you may expect","Date":"4 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The Tailor of Panama is not one of John Le Carre's better books.  The attempts at sarcastic wit usually fall flat, and the characterization is mediocre at best.  Unfortunately, John Boorman duplicated these aspects of the book too well.Also, this is NOT an action movie.  The only gunshot that I can recall is a cemetery guard firing a warning shot at kids stealing flowers.  If this movie can compare to any James Bond film, that would be Casino Royale. "},{"Title":"Fantastic Film, A MUST see for people that has travelled the waterways of Panama...","Date":"2 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Great casting, fabulous overall movie... (Well my judgement is tinted by the fact that I am from Panama and it was cool to see a movie filmed there ) I would love to have seen more of the beaches in Panama which I think are the best in the entire world. The San Blas Islands or Contadora Island. It was funny how they show this incredible views of the city, but every street they did a close up off it was in slums of Panama. The scenes about the kids asking for money and the beggars are exaggerations, kids don't go around begging for money in panama, yes you see beggars but like in any other city of the world.  "},{"Title":"Political- thriller with brains and fun!","Date":"31 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The movie takes you on a joy ride from beginning to end. The acting is superb and should not be missed! Geoffery Rush can transform himself into any role from SHINE to QUILLS now to TAILOR OF PANAMA, and make it the best acting job of his career. Pierce Brosnon and Jamie Lee Curtis also shine in this film! The plot will keep you satisfied. For this is the first great film of 2001! Grade A "},{"Title":"Adult look into modern espionage with fine performances by Pierce Brosnan and Geoffrey Rush.","Date":"29 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Pierce Brosnan portrays an anti-007 type spy in John Boorman's film of John LeCarre's novel, `The Tailor of Panama'. Boorman has filmed a rich and exciting tale peopled with complicated characters. Brosnan is the antithesis of James Bond as Andy Osnard, exiled to Panama after a romantic indiscretion. He chooses Harry Pendel, superbly portrayed by Academy Award Winner Geoffrey Rush, as his paid informer, the tailor of the title. Pendel is married to Louisa (Jamie Lee Curtis) who works for the head of the Panama Canal Authority.  Now that the U.S. no longer controls the Canal Zone, the future of the canal is up for grabs among the nations of the world. The complex interrelationships of the characters is sometimes confusing. However, Boorman has used creative cinematic techniques to move his story along quickly drawing the viewer into its vortex of betrayal and greed. In particular, Boorman uses music and intercutting of a romantic dance with a love-making scene between Andy and Francesca (Catherine McCormack), a colleague at the British Embassy. It was quite courageous of Boorman to show Brosnan's character as quite reprehensible and yet charming. Brosnan pulls it off winningly. The intelligent filmgoer will not be disappointed by this adult look at modern espionage.  "},{"Title":"El Sastre de Panama","Date":"29 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is not the first film to shoot in Panama. (Sniper, The Old Man and the Sea and The Naked and the Dead are just a few shot in Panama)The characters are mainly expatriate Americans and Europeans, and the only Panamanian character John LeCarre wrote of in his novel is not played by a Panamanian but by another European. (I guess they couldn't get Catherine Zeta Jones). It is similar to House of the Spirits, Zorro and Traffic in that it is another white-wash of characters against a colorful backdrop of an exotic country.  So what's new.Go to see Geoffrey Rush and Jamie Lee who are always wonderful, but if you want political accuracy check out a book on Panama from your local library. "},{"Title":"Adaption of the John Le Carre film of the same name that sets itself appart form the hollywood mainstream","Date":"27 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film was somehow very strange. It avoids all the usual conventions and creates a very unique atmosphere that was a joy to watch. While not really a *very* good movie one has to appreciate this type of film that goes out of its way to be something different from the usual hollywood mainstream crap that, in my opinion, has become far too common in times when formula crap like Chocolat and Gladiator can become nominated for an Oscar, and even win! I haven't read the book this movie is based on and can't comment on how faithful an adaption this is, but I can still heartily recommend this film for  anyone who appreciates a film that really takes a risk and tries to be different. "}{"Title":"Excellent!","Date":"27 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I was surprised by the great performances of both Geoffrey Rush and Pierce Brosnan. Jaime Lee Curtis is extraordinary. If I had to sum up this movie in one word, it would be excellent!. It's just a great movie about spies where the main spy is also the peasant. The photography is wonderful! For those who think it's boring, I will recommend you Armagedon or Godzilla. "},{"Title":"Good laughs","Date":"27 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  One piece of advice never get to a screening late or you'll end up watching the movie from the second row left side... which distorts the characters' faces and makes them appear lopsided. After about half an hour, your eyes finally begin to adjust. Anyway... Tailor of Panama, a spy movie that actually shows you how spies corrupt people for information and then become corrupt themselves. If you're wondering why Pierce Brosnan decided to make another spy movie... well it's definitively because this one is witty. True that the end of the film is somewhat confusing, but overall it's worth seeing (well, that's up for debate in the office at the moment, but I really enjoyed it). The repartee between Geoffrey Rush and Pierce Brosnan is amazing... not to mention the edgy humor that strikes up at the most unexpected times. If you're looking to be entertained by fast talk and crazy characters, without long action sequences and big explosions, then you'll enjoy Tailor of Panama.  "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"28 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Pierce Brosnan, Gregory Rush, and Jamie Lee Curtis star in The Tailor of Panama, a 2001 film based on the novel by John LeCarre.Brosnan plays Andrew Osnard, a British secret agent who had an affair with an ambassador's mistress and is exiled to Panama. He's supposed to locate some of the few Brits who live in Panama who may have information through their contacts on anything going on that the British should be concerned about.Osnard finds a tailor, Harold Pendel, an ex-con who works as a tailor in the tradition of a Saville Row older tailor who was his mentor and teacher. He says. Harry knows a lot of people - in fact, he makes suits for the President. Harry has a family, a wife (Curtis) and two children and a massive debt. Since Osnard will pay for information, Harry makes it up as he goes along, telling him that Panama's infrastructure and the poor are in desperate need, so the President is selling the Panama Canal to the Chinese.Between the two of them, Osnard and Harry end up with a story about former mercenaries out to get rid of the current government. They will work with the U.S. and British for $20 million.The film is reminiscent of Our Man in Havana not only in story but in the new Alec Guinness, Geoffrey Rush, who is beyond fantastic as Harry, a man who gets caught up in lies that started so innocently, just so he could pay his debt.For the people who didn't like this film, I really think you have to be a fan of classic movies to truly appreciate its satire and comic bent. And, like a true comedy or satire, it has moments of drama and truth.Brosnan plays the absolute scoundrel and womanizing Osnard to perfection. He's James Bond with none of the gadgets or class, and he is totally unlikeable.Beautifully done, this is an intelligent script, very well acted and directed, about what people will believe, and why. I loved what Uncle Benny (Harold Pinter) tells Harry Harry boy...a man who tells the truth is bound to be found out sooner or later. Try sincerity, that's a virtue. But truth, it's an affliction! "},{"Title":"The Flopshow of Panama!","Date":"2 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Now this is one movie that may not click with everybody as it shows people getting away with huge wealth through illegal & unethical means. And for that reason, it hasn't clicked with me too.However, I appreciate the performances of actors like Geoffrey Rush and Pierce Brosnan. The former struggles to do the right thing while the latter is effortless in doing the wrong thing! Keeping in mind the brazen character essayed by Brosnan, naturally there are some hot scenes too.Maybe it's too many dialogues & dialogues that makes it partially cumbersome. If not for the steamy moments, I would have easily dozed off! Verdict Partly boring, partly provocative. I'd say, skip it. "},{"Title":"Very underrated","Date":"2 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Can't believe the IMDb rating this film holds. Intelligent, witty and fun - this film is almost but not quite The fish called Wanda of espionage thrillers.Great performances all round and a script that begs a high level of intelligence. It is a complete injustice to compare this film with others at a rating of six. Whilst Pierce has never done a great Bond movie (although I thought him OK in Goldeneye) he is perfectly cast as the lackadaisical spy who puts his own personal pleasures and interests way (way!) before that of Queen and country.8/10 "},{"Title":"Almost a Reamkeof Our Man in Havana but stands alone as a superb film","Date":"28 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This was an excellent and most enjoyable movie, melodramatic satire on almost everybody. I have never appreciated Pierce Brosnan more. He is true to his own real cynical character as a hard bastard who looks after number one , always. The very reason why Brosnan, in my obviously minority opinion, was an unsuitable actor for the part of James Bond. Brosnan is definitely not a gentleman, he is a refined cad-which is his character in this movie- while the James Bond role calls for an old fashioned almost pre-war gentleman, albeit a tough one. The plot of The Tailor of Panama reminds me of Our Man in Havana (1960), that delightful Alec Guinness movie set in Cuba. In that film, based on a Graham Greene story Guinness plays a genuine vacuum cleaner salesman who is pressured into a spy role by a British agent from Jamaica, another refined cad played by Noel Coward. Alec Guinness also indulges in some highly imaginative nonsense in order to get some much needed money (he has a high spending daughter while Geoffrey Rush as the tailor has made some silly investments and owes money to a local bank). The vacuum cleaner salesman in Our Main in Havana has no past, or at least none which is revealed to us, whereas the tailor's murky past is only hidden to his wife. In the Tailor of Panama, the tailor salesman is akin to the vacuum cleaner and the British agent is Brosnan. In both stories, each which can stand alone as a superb, work, the plot is helped along by people believing in what they want to believe. Thus, the plot develops very nicely. It's a good job the director of The Tailor of Panama didn't adopt the alternative ending, a shown in the DVD's bonus material. The ending presented in this wonderful movie is perfect. As one who has travelled extensively on business in Latin America the scenes and characters are very familiar. "},{"Title":"I feel misled, but in a good way","Date":"4 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" When I read the back of the box about this movie, I was pretty unimpressed. The way it was described, it was like Pierce Brosnan was some suave, debonair British secret agent.I thought This sounds familiar, and then the all to obvious conclusion revealed itself. That is a description of a BOND MOVIE. I didn't want to watch a cheap Bond knock-off, but was forced to watch against my protests.I am glad I was shot down, as I was pleasantly surprised to find Brosnan was neither suave nor debonair. His lewd, inappropriate, and tasteless comments made the movie for me.It was a case of being wrong, but glad you were. The story, well, I remember very little of that. I don't think it was that important. Something about Geoffrey Rush knowing some politicians secrets because he is their tailor, or some such.The Important thing is the rude comments of Brosnan. Watch it for that. "},{"Title":"I didn't get a thing","Date":"21 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I saw this movie on TV and to be honest I didn't get a thing of it. Just there it's a tailor who has his own company and make clothes, have two children with his wife. To be honest I only saw the movie because Daniel Radcliffe was in it and I was very disappointed that he had such an small part in it. If I shall see the movie again, I think I read the book first so i can get what it's all abut. But it was great filmed and a great environment. If you like typical adult books this a movie for you. But I have to admit that it was excellent actors and actresses who make's the movie worth to see at all. But for you Daniel Radcliffe fans it's really nothing to see. The movie is 2h and Daniel is with about 10 minutes. "},{"Title":"Does this movie make Panama look like a vulgar place?","Date":"5 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Does this movie make Panama look like a vulgar place? I live in Panama. just so you know and was born here. I know both English and Spanish and I can speak them fluently. Anyways there are either 3 or 4 bridges that go over the canal.(I forgot how many though.) So thats an error with the movie. Also I don't ever remember a helicopter attacking Panama City years after the Invasion of Panama. It didn't show enough of Panama. But this movie is part fiction. This movie was OK but not excellent. Also wasn't this Daniel Radcliffe's first movie? He likes really young in this movie and doesn't say much. So does anyone have any questions about Panama? "},{"Title":"Part Gritty Realism, Part Satire and Doesn't Work Overall","Date":"29 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Tailor of Panama is somewhere between The Third Man and Our Man from Havana and can't quite decide where on the spectrum it is. One minute it's grittily realistic in dealing with corruption in South America, then it's buffoonerish on American officials' Dr. Strangelove-ian attitudes.Pierce Brosnan's character is effectively selfish through all these shoals, similar to his Thomas Crown, and I found this more believable than his Bond (at least he has to spend a few minutes at seduction here; in the Bond movies he has to spend more time fighting women off).Nice touch that reality is debated out within Geoffrey Rush's head effectively (a neat Harold Pinter) while he's living a fantasy as a spy. But it dragged where it should have been taut, and it didn't quite work overall. (originally written 4/22/2001) "}{"Title":"Poorly stitched together","Date":"13 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" So-so yarn about mild mannered tailor Rush, trying to get some spice and money into his life when he's approached by slimy spy Brosnan, looking for information about what's going on in Panama. Rush's lies then lead him deeper and deeper into trouble...The film benefits form being a sort of evil Bond-movie - the setting and Brosnan could surely be taken from one of his 007-films. The exception being that he's a total bastard of course. It's great fun watching Brosnan (who also seems to be enjoying himself thoroughly) going over-the-top with his character. To be sure, this isn't a realistic film - it's more of a dark comedy that has troubles finding the right tone.It's to choppy at times, making it difficult to enjoy as it changes from being funny to serious and back again. Not least poor Rush has a tough task handling his character as the story twists and turns. He's not bad at it, but his character is hard to come to terms with. It's also a bit sad to see that Curtis is wasted in a rather thankless role, where the amount of clothes she's got on (or rather - off) is more important than her character.The film also suffers from having a weak ending, where things start happening without making any sense at all. At one point, it was quite obvious that something had been re-shot, or at least that there were alternate scenes filmed (which, apparently, there were). It is a sloppy way of ending a film that could've been much more entertaining. 4/10 "},{"Title":"JOHN LE CARRE AT HIS FINEST","Date":"27 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  THE TAILOR OF PANAMA is a wonderful film. I saw it at a drive-in theatre in the Niagara Region of Ontario. John Boorman who directed EXCALIBER has his hand in THE TAILOR OF PANAMA. A British Spy played by Pierce Brosnan is shuffled to Panama to prevent a scandal in Europe.There Brosnans character recruits the local tailor as an informant played by Geoffrey Rush. The tailors wife played by Jamie Lee Curtis works for the Panamanian President and the key characters in the story come up with an impending coup tale of mercenaries willing to form a government that will work more closely with AMERICA and GREAT BRITAIN. While working as an informant for the CIA I reported talk of a coup in Canada to the CIA. I don't believe in coups and support the Paul Martin Liberal Government. Thanks to the North American Free Trade Agreement Canada, AMERICA and Mexico are pretty close already. I gave THE TAILOR OF PANAMA a 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Acting drowns the film","Date":"16 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I rented Tailor of Panama on DVD and the atmosphere was quite OK (very much'Casablanca' inspired), but the acting was terrible (well, not all of them). Specially Pierce Brosnan! Does he really laugh like this? He failed completely to convince me. I hadn't notice who the director was, but I wasn't surprised when I found out that John Boorman did. I never was able to sit out Excalibur, because of they were acting like beginners, and that exactly same problem makes Tailor of Panama such a disappointing film. John Boorman is completely overrated and I wonder why people expect so much more of him. As extra on the DVD, there is an interview with Pierce and the other main actor, Geoffrey Rush (who actually was quite OK). They were telling how good John Boorman was to get more out of his actors...  Funniest moment on the DVD.The scenes in the brotel and gaybar have funny potential, but the acting made it a B- film. "},{"Title":"The best Brosnan has ever done","Date":"5 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this movie in Paris and my god was I glad I saw that one! Not ever did I think that Brosnan could act that good and be so funny in the way he handled his one liners. Rush is even better but we knew that before but here he is outstanding as usual as a lying-moneyneeding tailor. "},{"Title":"This is a What the heck was this movie about? comment.","Date":"24 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was wrong on so many levels except for the plot. It would have made a fine movie if we could cut Pierce's unconvincing 'British MI6 agent who swore every other line' role, Curtis' flash of skin for the sake of the film...it's just too much to mention. Did Boorman really think it was necessary to provide sleeze? I suppose he thought the plot couldn't stand on it's own. I fell asleep during this film. I couldn't decipher if this was a comedy or a serious movie? Maybe it was both? Maybe Curtis thought she needed to show she was still a 'hottie' (sorry hon, they look fake)? Maybe Bronson was trying to recapture his youth? To me, this movie joined some great talent to make a horrible film.  "},{"Title":"Watch ONLY if you like Geoffrey Rush","Date":"12 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The summary about covers it. Geoffrey Rush turns in a very good performance, and one of the few real human being ones in this movie. Cartoonish is not an exaggeration for most of the other performances, especially Pierce Brosnan.Great scenery and some interesting performances turned in by minor characters. But not enough to save the movie from itself. Not the worst thing I've ever seen - but MILES from the best. "},{"Title":"Nothing to get excited about","Date":"10 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A couple of years ago I stopped reading the book because it is so boring. This is definitely not Mr. Le Carré's best. Now I was intrigued to find out whether the film was any better. Well I don't think so. The plot remains dull, and the story is a laugh. If it weren't for the acting of Brosnan and Rush, this would be a complete failure. And good acting alone cannot save a bad movie. "},{"Title":"Usual Hollywood entertainment. Fails from complications to convaluted, as usual. One good redeming value....","Date":"24 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  As  old film critic, I'll keep  my thoughts short, if they aren't already. Good premise, but that's what I'd expect from this  type of  fair. Great cast, good performances, but  it's  the  usual twist and turn, so called, drama, intrigue that goes nowhere in a hurry. Or at least in the standard 90 minutes of sting-a-long. One saving grace. If you want to see Pierce Bronson give the best performance of  his life you should watch this.  He's good as a heavy.  Just like Arnold was in Terminator.  That's when the best comes out.  "},{"Title":"So, So","Date":"6 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I've never been enamoured with the novels of John LeCarre, and consequently,have approached the films of his books with some trepidation. The T.V. series;  'Tinker, Tailor, Soldier, Spy' was way above par, due to the performance of the  late Alec Guinness. As to films, 'The Spy Who Came In From The Cold', directed  by Martin Ritt, is far superior to 'The RussiaHouse', 'The Little Drummer Girl', and  'The Looking Glass war', all of which were woeful. So I was in two minds as to  get out 'The Tailor Of Panama' or not. It was only because John Boorman waslisted as the director that I decided to take it home and watch it. As soon as the opening credits rolled, I thought to myself that, perhaps, this time,  'The Tailor Of Panama', would be as good as, if not better, than 'The Spy Who  Came In From The Cold'. The first scene is one long take, as a tailor (Rush), measures up a bolt of cloth in  preparation to making a suit. It's an amazing piece of film. Right, I thought, this is  going to be good. Boy! was I mistaken. Pierce Brosnan's performance is a shambles. Jamie Lee Curtis, who playsHarry's wife, just goes through the motions. The one saving grace is the performance by Geoffrey Rush as the tailor, Harold  'Harry' Pendel. Without Geoffrey Rush, the film would have been an unmitigated  disaster. The director. John Boorman, has made some memorable films like'Deliverance', and 'Hope & Glory'.  With 'The Tailor of Panama', I'm afraid, John Boorman has dropped the ball.  "},{"Title":"This would have been better PG and lighter in tone...","Date":"28 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I found that this was a halfways decent Bond spoof-but somewheres along the way-good perf. by Brosnon, Rush and Gleesan get muddied under by the sheer sleezoid factor. You don't need to hear Brosnan say 'F@#@K!' 45 times, you don't need the 'Blue Oyster Club' stuff, you really don't need to see him working over the Embassy gal with such vile glee. There was something just...Wrong about it.The rest-an under-used 'Marta', ditto Jamie Lee, decent local color, fun 'Strangelove' satire on the US-would have worked better if given room to breathe.As it was-I did find myself wincing a couple times, and kept on wondering, how did this go wrong? No being familiar with the source material I can't 'go there', but I do know-Boorman, Pierce B, etc-are all capable of better.** outta **** for Rush and 'Marta'. "}{"Title":"Extreme disappointment","Date":"14 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Friends had invited us to see the latest Bond film, but we decided to stay in and rent this instead.  Big mistake.There's some promise but the movie is too uneven.  Brosnan isn't quite convincing in most of his scenes as an amoral spy, Jamie Lee Curtis isn't quite convincing as a bureaucrat, and some of other characters were confusing.  I was put off by the discrepancy between the realistic and human portrayal of the tailor, played by Rush, as a caring man on the fringes of intrigue, and the almost cartoonish behavior of most of the other characters.By the time the story begins to involve more important people, it gets more and more ludicrous until somewhere about the one-hour mark we all just gave up on trying to understand it.It's too bad, because beyond the near-parody of a spy thriller, there are some interesting hints at more real-world themes -- the brutality of the Noriega dictatorship, meddling by the US (in both propping him up and overthrowing him), cynicism and hopelessness of the people in those countries.  But not in this movie.If I had seen it in a theater, I would have been even more irritated at the waste of my time.  The only improvement might have been a better view of the scenes of the streets and skyline of Panama City and the countryside, as well as the canal itself.Steven  "},{"Title":"Did Brosnan have money problems?","Date":"9 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  What a lame movie.  I expected subterfuge, suspense, a real chiller/thriller of a spy movie.  What I got was a useless anti-climactic sham. Hopscotch with Walter Matthau is a much better film in comparison.  And what's with this 'ghost' that the tailor keeps talking too?  Where's the foundation/background/point of that?  Has the tailor become a schizophrenic from pretending to be two people -- the real person and the fabricated Seville Row tailor?  I also think Jamie Lee Curtis's character needed beefing up.  Also they need to explain the relationship between the tailor and Marta -- there seems to be more than meets the eye.  Then there's Francesca -- the actress had a better role in Spy Game (Redford, Pitt). In this film, she was just window dressing.  Overall, I was really disappointed in this film. "},{"Title":"This is a bad film","Date":"2 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I am having to wonder what is the point of this film.Pierce Brosnan is a spook that has been banished to Panama for a scandal around sleeping with the wrong woman.He takes advantage of career liar Geoffrey Rush, the tailor, who put in a particularly average performance and you got to hear an Aussie accent even.  Bad coaching!Was this done so that Brosnan can prove he can be a nasty man while he is playing a goody goody James Bond around the same time?Don't bother with it. "},{"Title":"The atmosphere is perfectly sensed, unlike in all the latest movies I`ve seen","Date":"11 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Tailor is a bright light in the tunnel end of a whole latest pop-movie pack, which are made for the show with unreal action, or to boast with the latest-and-the-greatest-visual-effects.The whole action in the movie is based on so-called sharp politics, which are so funny to look at. Pierce Brosnan is an agent, who, from the first sight, is doing his job very well. He is not the type of VERY-VERY secret agents, who are not saying anything to anyone. Main hero is doing his job easily, using everyone around for his own purposes, and getting layed by the way. It is said, that a man must do his job and have pleasure the same time, Pierce is doing that just well.The atmosphere is perfectly sensed, unlike in all the latest movies I`ve seen. People are dancing, whores are sweating and waiting for clients, mob is drinking, fireworks are flying in the sky. I could feel the smell of all scenes.Very serious job in the beginning is turning to games and lies for one person, tragedy and loss of husband to another, and to a big profit for Brosnan, who is looking cool and calm, and glad with sexual relationships.Goverment so Powerful, Smart, Strong, etc. like showed in many films, here is fooled by one simple, but very charming man, who is getting away with almost 15 million of goverment`s money on a plane with a sexy chick - stuardess, in the end.Movie is something - to remember, to think of, to laugh at. "},{"Title":"Mission aborted, movie too","Date":"29 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I consider John Le Carré (David Cornwell) to be one of the greatest novelists of the 20th century (for me his best work is The Honourable Schoolboy). But The Tailor of Panama is an unpleasant novel, riven by the widening divergence between the author's superb skills at observation and characterization, and his post-Cold War loss of moral bearings and common sense. Listen up, David just because some American officials are louts, does not make America and Americans the bad guys of the planet.Conventional wisdom calls Le Carré a 'spy' novelist, but this is not the whole picture. He is really a 'con man' novelist, fascinated by smart self-destructive psychopaths whether they be spies or not. Yet his most interesting and sympathetic characters, notably George Smiley, are the professional spies who are con men only on the job; when they go off duty they at least try to care about some person or thing. The Tailor of Panama has no such sympathetic character for us to identify with. Maybe the author cared about the self-invented tailor, Harry Pendel, whose whole life is a lie, but I never could. In the film, Geoffrey Rush does a fine job of bringing Harry to life, but this is not enough to carry the movie.* possible spoilers follow *Director John Boorman's biggest mistake was choosing to film this depressing and sordid tale in the first place. He seems to have acknowledged this by discarding the entire climax and ending of the book, substituting a sweet dab of Hollywood-style vanilla icing for Le Carré's apocalyptic conflagration. Yes, it would have been a hateful and horrifying movie with the book's ending, but it is a grimly depressing  novel, whose principal redeeming feature is that the con-man tailor ultimately takes responsibility for the horrendous damage he has done (or does he choose death merely to avoid taking responsibility one last time?). In the movie's endings (including the alternatives on the DVD), both the damage and the redemption are watered down to inconsequence, so the whole film winds up as nothing more than a pointless caper. Pierce Brosnan tries hard to be Osnard, but only succeeds about half the time. He is not wantonly cruel enough in detail to make his larger cruelties plausible. Osnard is an intelligence operative for whom getting to hurt and humiliate people is a fringe benefit of being an agent runner, and inflicting pain and degradation is the main interest he has in sex, as well. Perhaps there was insufficient money in the budget to keep re-shooting scenes until Brosnan got the nuances right in all of them, but in those scenes which he does get right, he is genuinely scary.Hmm... I wonder if that's what happened to the ending, as well? Maybe the film makers simply ran out of money. 5.7/10.0  "},{"Title":"Classic Spy Thriller","Date":"15 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I wish LeCarre's book was as good as this film. Not for action film fans. Much more complex than a James Bond Film. Satirical, smart, well-plotted thriller. Much better than the recent Bourne identity. I will watch it again. "},{"Title":"sweaty grimy alcoholic hegemony is damn Entertaining, man!","Date":"26 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  It's been over a year since I first saw Tailor of Panama. It's stuck with me - the images of Geoffrey Rush as the man trying to please, to fit in, to forget, to be accepted i.e., a real gentleman, his American wife - a seeming mis-match in casting - but effective and Anti James Bond played with just the right amount of corpulence.... See it - sweat - enjoy good acting, strong locale, and a plot which serves well to entertain and ends well to satirize the American Empire of the 20th century. "},{"Title":"If you have 109 minutes to kill you could do worse.","Date":"15 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  If you have 109 minutes to kill you could do worse than see The Tailor of Panama, or you could do a lot better and see Our Man In Havana. Since Panama is a re-make of Havana (even down to the title character's use of fantasy segments) it's difficult not to compare them both. By itself, Panama is a decent satire. It doesn't try for much and it succeeds for what it tries for; substituting a little nudity for style and wit. Brosnan and Rush are no match for the original Havana cast that included Alec Guinness, Noel Coward, Ernie Kovack, Maureen O'Hara and Berl Ives. Since Havana is such a far superior film (the checker game has been imitated by many ...and not just in the movies), you'd do better to see it instead. But if you can't rent Our Man In Havana, you might as well rent The Tailor of Panama. "},{"Title":"Worst Movie Ever","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is horrible. It's not a very convincing plot. And the thin plot that does exist is just not told well. I never warmed to any of the characters to care about them one way or the other. The attempts at humor fall flat. In a nutshell, it's confusing and boring.I was reminded of Blame it on Rio in that I couldn't believe I was still sitting there watching it. What a waste of my time and money. "},{"Title":"deception","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" well, obviously, this is not the best film of boorman; it´s a minor work, without great aspirations.the best thing, pierce brosnan as a stupid MI6 agent, changing his image of a perfect guythe worse, that it´s not commercial or author cinema. it´s like a b- series  "}{"Title":"Poor!!!","Date":"19 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I had high hopes, but ultimately let-down by the narrative. I was actually quite bored with the whole thing until the last 30 minutes or so. There's no strength in the film, there's no sense of direction and no depth of the political intrigue.I don't understand the glowing reviews by some critics, there's not enough meat in the story, the film lacks strong a 3 act structure. The film feels lazy.Pierce Brosnan is basically a dirty James Bond, he's miscast here. I didn't believe his character. Jamie Lee Curtis was terrible, her character had no dimension! Only Geoffrey Rush had a decent character to play, but kinda over did it with the acting.The direction is rather lacklustre, although the panavision wide-screen frame is used very well. Do not bother watching in the disgraceful pan and scan edition, you'll miss out on 43% of the picture.A poor film which could've been fantastic. "},{"Title":"Even Geoffrey Rush can't save the mess Hollywood made of the story.","Date":"12 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Le Carre's novel is a bleak little deconstructive fable about the similarities between spying, journalism, writing, tailoring, and arson for profit. It is also very anti-American and doesn't have a happy ending. All that didn't sit well with Hollywood, so the story was substantially changed in the movie, and not for the better. If you liked the novel, you will almost certainly be disappointed with the movie. Geoffrey Rush is brilliant as the tailor; Pierce Brosnan is not quite how I pictured Oxnard, but he is certainly easy on the eyes. The women are badly miscast; Luisa is supposed to be a big, blowsy blond, and Marta should be much darker complexioned and a lot feistier. It's nice to see old Harold Pinter as the uncle, and I would have liked a bigger part for him. Despite some good performances, it's too painful to see what happened to the book Save your time and read the novel instead. "},{"Title":"Boring, pedantic, falsely advertised (spoilers within)","Date":"23 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  How dare they advertise this as an espionage genre movie. I don't care what LeCarre had to do with the writing or production. There is precious little in here along the lines of Smiley's People or The Spy Who Came In From The Cold or The Ipcress File.A bad movie is a bad movie, but that does not excuse the critics letting movie makers get away with it. From the glowing reviews I have seen of this movie, it appears as if the critics reviewed this movie based on its own press releases. They know nothing about espionage thrillers. I have not seen such a poor movie get such good reviews since SouthPark.****** Spoiler Warning ********This movie is about a MI6 ( agent who is posted to Panama. He wants to deceive the Americans into thinking the canal is going to be sold to the highest bidder. So he bribes and blackmails a British expatriot tailor to invent fantastic stories about danger to the canal.At first, the US officials laugh at the allegations of a silent opposition because of their own extensive intelligence sources in Panama. But as soon as the tailor asks for $10 million, the Pentagon concludes the stories must be true, and gives them the money, which coincidentally ends up in Pierce Brosnan's hands. That is basically the story. Not much espionage involved. No double agents, secret surveillance, smuggled nuclear weapons, secrets.... Just a bunch of somewhat imaginative lies and the gullible Americans part with $15 Million. If only Jane Fonda or Jack Lemon was cast in it, it might have been a great 70s antiestablishment retro piece. "},{"Title":"You'd better be half asleep already","Date":"7 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I'm a die-hard LeCarré fan, and this is the worst rendering of one of his books I've ever seen -- even though LeCarré himself did the screenplay. The humour is lame, the characters unbelievable (yes, the plot is tongue-in-cheek, but even so), the story line boring from about the middle to the end.Brosnan puts in a passable performance, but it's too blatantly a heavy-handed spoof of a spy thriller to work. I wound up fast-forwarding it through several scenes. See it for the Panama scenery, see it for what it says about U.S. foreign policy, but don't expect anything worthy of the author of Smiley's People and Tinker, Tailor.What a disappointment. 4 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Horribly miscast","Date":"6 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  All of the main characters are horribly miscast. Pierce Brosnan is much too good-looking to play Andy Osnard--he comes off as obnoxious rather than odious. Geoffrey Rush, for all his talents, has no business playing Harry Pendel (a slightly younger Michael Caine would have been ideal). And Jamie Lee Curtis, despite her charms, is preposterous as Luisa. This small, low-powered LeCarre novel could have made a nice small, low-powered film. Instead, the big stars muck it up and have everyone talking about James Bond and True Lies instead of the witty satire you had in the book. Painful to watch if you enjoyed the book. "},{"Title":"See the DVD, and turn on the English subtitles so you can understand the British mumble in this film.","Date":"22 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  SPOILERS - The IMDB voters pretty much have this one pegged as a 7 of 10 movie. Pierce Brosnan is the deceitful British MI.6 spy exiled to Panama for prior indiscretions, including those with the wives of others. He is out for himself, foul-mouth, and looks to seduce every attractive woman he sees, and in the end tries to make off with all the ill-gotten cash. He is virtually the male version of the role Linda Fiorentino plays in The Last Seduction.Geoffrey Rush is the best actor in this film. He plays the tailor who has a dark secret, even his wife (Jamie Lee Curtis) doesn't know he was in prison, and that is where he learned his trade. Everyone knows him as the story teller, because he tries to please everyone and always has a new story handy for any situation. He has gotten in debt, the bank is squeezing him, and Brosnan's offer of cash for inside spy information sucks him in out of necessity.Jamie Lee is always beautiful, and in a couple of scenes she actually does chest nudity, which is very rare for her. A slender, beautiful actress with such a chest -- who cares if she can act or not?  -)The story is one of intrigue. Is the USA government really planning to take the Panama Canal back? How many of the stories told by the tailor are really true? A pretty entertaining two (almost) hours. However, the dialog is sometimes hard to follow, and some of the storyline is too. Very little action, see it for Geoffrey Rush, Pierce Brosnan, and Jamie Lee Curtis. "},{"Title":"What a mess - who's your tailor?","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" There's a Simpsons' episode where the head of an animation studio accused ofmisappropriating a cartoon character created by a poverty-stricken artist defends himself by pointing out that the whole animation industry is based on plagiarism of film characters. 'Why,' he says, 'if we're not allowed to steal ideas, where are they going to come from.' There's no property in ideas themselves (which is another story) and this movie is derived almost entirely from earlier works &#150; 'Our Man in Havana' (book and film) and the Bond films, with references to others such as 'Casablanca' and 'Dr Strangelove'. We also get Bond's latest incarnation Pierce Brosnan as Andy, an utterly corrupt, depraved, foul-mouthed parody of the Bond character.Boorman, a veteran director (his 'Deliverance' (1972) was fantastic), obviously had a lot of fun being referential and we film buffs enjoy that sort of thing. You can drive your friends to distraction by insisting on explaining them. For example, some poor innocent complained earlier in this column about the shot of the toy airplane against clouds and sky apparently painted by a first year art student. Boorman doubtless did that on purpose &#150; a reference probably to the plane shot towards the end of 'Goldfinger' which is so obviously a model that you can actually see the string pulling it into view.This movie is based on a book by John Le Carre who was also executive producer. As Le Carre has got older he has got angrier especially with the exploitation of the third world by the first. Panama is a choice example and Le Carre is not on the rich country's side. This worthy message is unfortunately blunted by the satire and at the end you are left wondering what was intended &#150; spy drama a la Greene/Le Carre, film buff spoof, parody of spy stories, denunciation of U S policy in Central America or travel brochure. It's a stylistic pastiche.However, I've got to say I enjoyed it, though it failed the watch test (I looked at my watch at one hour in &#150; not good for a spy drama). There's the scenery and the canal itself, the fun of Brosnan being a bad Bond, Geoffery Rush being quite appealing as Harry the tailor who is no better than he ought to be, and Jamie Lee Curtis (albeit under-utilized here as Harry's wife). Here, her peculiar brisk sexiness, honed to perfection in 'A Fish Called Wanda,' is toned down for the role of a wife and mother. I also enjoyed the satire on the military (Gen. Buck Turgidson rides again) and there were a couple of good supporting performances from David Hayman as Scottie Luxmore, Andy's gung-ho and gullible M I 6 controller, and John Fortune as the smooth and seriously bent British Ambassador. The Panamanian actors were short-changed by the Anglo-oriented script, which made their characters little more than caricatures.Nothing new, a bit of a mess and an inappropriately upbeat ending. The elderly moviemaker's hearts' are in the right place (at least from a left angle) and there's a good script and some nice performances, but the film lacks punch - too many genres spoil the broth. If you get angry you need to stay focused to get even. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I now believe that most of the people posting comments here must only like movies that are spoon fed to them. If they have to think and listen to dialogue they get bored and think the film is trite. 'Tailor' reminded me of movies that use to have some thick substance that you sunk your teeth and chewed on. Alas most of these previous idiots say inane stuff like, The part was to dark for Pierce or the direction was uneven or I couldn't follow the plot.  A part is never to dark for a main stream actor, unless the viewer of the movie has the actor typecast. If that's the problem then the viewer needs to pay more attention to what's on the screen and not their own wishes for who the actor should be portraying. If you thought this flm was boring, then it's just another example of how many in the audience need to have ACTION, CAR CHASES AND EXPLOSIONS to keep their ADD personality absorbed. An 8 for this film. If you like movies that are more then just crappy trival exercises, you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Boring, confusing, waste of my time.","Date":"2 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Every once in a while, while watching this movie, I was thinking, Oh, here we go, it is finally going to get moving in a direction that makes sense. It didn't.  It would suddenly switch directions, and not in a good way.  It was almost switching genre's at a moments notice, from trying to be funny, to trying to be a spy thriller, to being just plain stupid.Now, I know some people have commented that if you are unintelligent you won't understand the movie.  I am about to graduate with a degree in History and Political Science.  While I understood the basic concept of the history of this region the movie surrounded nothing of the sort and was still worthless in any sort of educational sense.The acting was so-so, the plot was bleh, the scenery was okay, the concept was bleh.  Don't waste your time. "},{"Title":"Dark Role","Date":"6 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I sympathize with the test-screen audiences. Watching Pierce Brosnan plays a character entirely out of sync with his image and audiences' expectation is a bad, if not worse, movie-going experience. Villain can be charismatic, and I am sure Brosnan can pull off one nicely given the right materials. But the material in Tailor does not allow him to do so.It is the intended approach of the film to give a one-way depiction of an unsympathetic, sex-obsessed, sleazy, foul-mouthed, devilish b**tard. Except for a few funny lines, Brosnan plays the role straight most of the time. While this adds believability, weight and realism to the character and serves the dark tone of the film well, it is just a traumatic experience for the audience to see this extreme change in face. LISTEN PIERCE, THE ROLE IS WAY WAY WAY TOO DARK FOR A MAINSTREAM ACTOR TO BE IN AND THE FILM TOO DARK FOR THE MAINSTREAM AUDIENCE TO ACCEPT AND APPRECIATE.The movie itself though far from crappy, maybe too boring for the general audience not too prone to art house subject. It has too few tense moments to qualify as a triller, too few chuckles and tone too dark to qualify as a comedy. It is a character study at best, but the premise is not particularly interesting. It serves as a good satire, but this genre is the niche of the niche.Bottom line It is good to see Brosnan away from from 'smooth and suave', and it is a right step in the direction for more serious acting. But I think he should do some market research and pick the role and material more carefully.  "}{"Title":"smoky and smarmy","Date":"1 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Although I sort of enjoyed the story line, enough comments have been made about that.  The detail that distracted me from feeling comfortable with this film was the (product placement?) constant frantic smoking by Pierce Brosnan.  It was icky.  There's a point where a person who has smoked for years loses their look of health, and I just didn't like the combination of the look of poor oxygenation of skin and a slight wheezing starting to creep into a sexy man's voice.  Maybe the swimming scene was supposed to be sexy, but it was excruciating to listen to the loss of lung capacity.   Life goes by pretty quickly in the best of circumstances, why so publicly cut short the vibrancy that draws females to your movies? "},{"Title":"Sad Fact","Date":"25 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Pierce Brosnan is a fine actor, but he hasn't really made a truly memorable classic so far. That's probably because he doesn't have the chance to work with some of the better directors of our time. (The reason why I don't know)Again this time (like in Grey Owl), Brosnan chose to work with a veteran legendary director who used to make hits two decades ago, but hasn't really made any commercial movie since then, and has totally lost touch with the needs of today's movie-goers. The film may be a gem of its kind, but is that what we want? "},{"Title":"A flop","Date":"18 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The mumbling of the actors and the turgid direction of this film simply kill it. My companion and I had trouble following what was going on for the first half the movie. Boorman simply isn't telling the story with any clarity.When you finally do get to the climax, there are no thunderbolts or twists.  A real disappointment considering the cast.Yawn... "},{"Title":"Mixed feeling","Date":"8 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  It is definitely a mixed feeling watching Tailor. On the one hand, it is a joy to see Brosnan delivering some eye-opening, Oscar-worthy performance. On the other hand, his character is so despicable that you wish he has never star in it. Perhaps he plays it too well and the character portrayal is too real, or the director's approach is not interesting enough, it ends up seeing a Brosnan most audiences can barely recognised and that leaves a sour taste in the mouth.Other than that, Tailor is actually a decent film, albeit not a pleasing and commercial one, with smooth directing and great performances by all. The change in ending undermines some of the film's integrity, otherwise, it will be a better movie. Still, I give it a 7/10 and would enjoy it more if you view it with an open mind.  "},{"Title":"Overall, disappointing spy thriller that also failed as a character study.","Date":"25 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The characters had depth but they were not adequately explored. In addition, the plot was preposterous.  The old Bond films were far more believable and entertaining. Pierce Brosnan's character was evil, but I was never sure why. And why he went from a career of philandering to international larceny and embezzlement was completely unclear.  Geoffrey Rush's character, the tailor of the title, at least had reasons for his behavior--flimsy though they were.  I kept feeling as though I had missed something in the telling of this story.  What was the exact relationship between the tailor and his old friends who he implicates in the silent opposition?  How did he manage to keep his wife in the dark about their financial problems?  How could he live in and understand the corrupt Panamanian economy, but not realize his banker and his farm manager were in cahoots to bankrupt him?  How did his savvy wife, played by Jamie Lee Curtis, not know her husband's background and faults? And how in the world did she manage that five second forgiveness at the end?  Too many unanswered questions for me. I guess this is where others would say this movie was a spoof.  After reading the other reviews, I felt that I may have taken this movie too seriously.  I may try again, but not until it comes out on video.  Also, I did not feel this was a happy ending.  It was completely unsatisfying!  Hollywood has no idea how to end a movie anymore. The positives I WAS impressed with the performances of Brosnan and Rush. In a more tightly constructed, plotted, and edited movie they would have been Oscar contenders.  I also felt the cinematography was brilliant.  Panama itself was a character I wanted to get to know better.  Wait for the VHS/DVD. "},{"Title":"I wish Geoffrey Rush would cut me a new suit","Date":"23 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The best scenes in the movie are those showing Geoffrey Rush fitting clients and cutting cloth in his haberdashery. Rush is an outstanding actor and clearly does whatever it takes to turn in a credible performance from even the weakest of scripts. Pierce Brosnan is also credible, perhaps a little too credible, as an unprincipled British MI.6 agent. The problem is that his character elicits no sympathy, which makes the improbable ending eminently unsatisfying.Implausibility in films has bothered me a lot lately, but THE TAILOR OF PANAMA sets new heights in this regard. The writer asks us to believe that the United States would launch a full-scale invasion of a sovereign nation based on the undocumented word of a single discredited foreign agent.Based on poor script, glacial pacing, and inept editing, I rated this film a 4 of 10, which is the lowest I have given a theatrical release in a long time. I cannot recommend it even for video rental customers. "},{"Title":"Shaggy Dog Story","Date":"22 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  ** majors spoilers ahead **Critics refer to Pierce Brosnan's character in this movie as being the anti-Bond because he is a slimy, unprincipled cad.  I say the entire film gets credit for being an anti-Bond *movie* because it is so boring.Plot-wise, this is a shaggy dog story  it takes a very long convoluted route to arrive at a fizzle of an ending.  The jet fighters are called off. The spy flies off with some money.  The tailor gets a good talking to by his wife.  The end.Presumably the Tailor goes through all sorts of internal anguish as he spins his stories, but it isn't particularly apparent because we never see what he is like when he *isn't* trapped in a web of spying.I'm also amazed at the amount of completely gratuitous sex and nudity inserted into the film.  It serves little purpose for the plot, and feels out-of-place (particularly the scene in the brothel).  "},{"Title":"implausible, silly and cynical","Date":"20 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  While all the actors in this piece carry their weight, its a poorly plotted film. Pierce Brosnan as Andrew Osnard does a send up or down of a  British secret agent on the make. He enlists a ex-convict tailor who passes himself off as one of saville rows best to Panama's society. This tailor is blackmailed by Osnard to tell of a fictitious underground movement and of an attempt to sell the Panama canal to the Chinese or whoever. Osnard lies to his superiors about this and gets the US to organise an invasion. Thats the storyline and boy is it thin. Theres few laughs in this desparate attempt at international sophistication or geographical snobbery. Theres no sense of tension or comedy and the wacky appearance of the tailors uncle as a ghost like conscience figure just doesn't work. Half the audience of twenty left the cinema where I saw this movie and most of them fairly early on. It reminded me of the Dirty Rotten Scoundrels with Michael Caine and Steve Martin but at some level tailor is trying to be serious as well as satirical. Like  I said earlier the performances aren't bad and some of the ideas are quite recent too. Jamie Lee Curtis plays one of the few credible characters. Shes the wife of integrity and the plot has interesting turnaround from the classic portrayal of the husband and wife relationship. Shes the brains and decision maker in the team and I'm not sure what he is but that might be how women have felt about their portrayal on screen for some time. Still if your not into non traditional views of relations theres always casual relationships and a gay night club scene for those of that persuasion. Interesting sociological and cultural contribution to filmmaking but otherwise lousey and stay well away. "},{"Title":"boring, predictable, not funny, unwitty, offensive","Date":"14 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I am unsure why this film is garnering good reviews but it is at least good to see that the user ratings here have put it in the sixes. It was just another film where you felt ripped off after seeing it if you must see it wait for the video. You won't miss a thing on tape and hopefully you will gain a softening of the glaring bad editing and directing. "},{"Title":"Boorman in Greeneland","Date":"5 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Andy Osnard (Pierce Brosnan) is a British agent who's been sentdown, literally--to Panama, a demotion to punish his rakehellways. Andy--a hardboiled charmer and a cold, narcissisticcreep--figures out a road to a comeback Harry Pendel (GeoffreyRush), a tailor who has covered up his lowborn past withbusiness cards that read Harry Pendel--Savile Row andPanama. Andy needs information about the Panamanian  president's intentions to sell or keep the Panama Canal, and Harrybadly needs Andy's money--and so Harry becomes a sort ofScheherezade of Panama politics. He tells Andy curlicuedlies--and Andy sells them to the boys back home. In short order, ofcourse, this leads to the brink of a very literal apocalypse.The dominant feeling of John LeCarre's fiction--the melancholy ofordinary human characters caught in the cogs of wheels too largefor their imagining--was better grasped by Fred Schepisi in hisunderrated RUSSIA HOUSE. The director, John Boorman, couldn'tput a foot wrong in his last movie, the Irish gangster docudramaTHE GENERAL; THE TAILOR OF PANAMA doesn't approach thatmovie's virtuosic sureness. There is staging that clanks andclonks; Philippe Rousselot's photography is uncharacteristicallygrubby; and there are moments when Rush's and Brosnan'sperformances seem too stylized for the movie's own good. But thisis definitely a they-don't-make-'em-like-they-used-to movie.Boorman manages to hit the fairy-tale-ish quality of Harry'simmolation; as in EXCALIBUR and WHERE THE HEART IS,  Boorman is tops at mating the mythic and the journalistic andoffhand.Rush is turning into the John Barrymore of our age. I don't meanthat in an altogether negative sense. A good Rush performance,like this one, walks the line of overcalculation and stagycartooning, but somehow steps behind that line--or, when hedoesn't, gets away with it by dint of Rush's sheer lovableness. Hemakes you feel protective toward the Tailor's attempts to hold hischin up high in an upper-crust way. (The most cruelly accurate linein the movie Rush tells a Panamanian middle-managementmeatball that his suit is Mr. Connery's choice. You resemblehim--in the build, too. Golfer's shoulders!) Brosnan, not having a lot of technical skill at his disposal, getsaway with lampooning his own image by looking at everyone andeverything with a dead-eyed, half-leering-half-nauseated stare.Boorman adroitly cast Brosnan at exactly the point where hispreservedly-boyish male-model looks are just beginning to rot.And while THE GENERAL's Brendan Gleeson hams it up  fecklessly, there is a surprisingly sweet and modulatedperformance from Jamie Lee Curtis as Rush's high-powered wife.In recent years, in some of the worst movies ever made (such asVIRUS and HALLOWEEN H20), Curtis has made a point of takingdreck seriously and committing herself to giving a realperformance. It paid off she finally got to do it in a real movie! "}{"Title":"A tongue in cheek spy film from the pen of John Le Carre","Date":"1 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is a fun film much more like the Alec Guinness spoof Our Man in Havana, than it is similar to James Bond spy film fantasies.  Jeffrey Rush and Jamie Curtis, as husband and wife, lead an excellent cast.  Pierre Brosnan doesn't seem right for this role as he did not seem right as Thomas Crown in the film of that name.  The film largely follows the book with some modification in the last part.  I would recommend it, but once seen you would probably not be interested in seeing it again.   "},{"Title":"Really Bad (partial spoilers)","Date":"13 December 2001","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  For my money, John LeCarre is one of the best writers of the twentieth century. He has a gift for dialogue, for suspense, and for creating mystery. In my opinion, though, his greatest fault is that his work is very inconsistant -- one book might be great, and the next, not-so-great.Of all his books, I think that The Tailor of Panama has to be my least favorite. Its based on Graham Greanne's novel Our Man In Havanna, and it is meant to be a tragi-comedy. It is the story of Harry Pendel, a tailor who is a hopeless story-teller and an ex-convict recruited by a British spy named Andy Osnard to be the head of a spy network in Panama. The whole thing turns out to be a massive con-game with Harry lying to Andy about the so-called silent opposition in Panama, and the two of them raking in money from England. However, things turn sour when England and America act on Harry's intelligence and he loses everything he holds dear to him.The movie fails on a variety of different levels. First of all, Pierce Brosnon is far too much of a pretty boy to play the role of Andy Osnard, who, in the books, is portrayed as fat, not-particularly handsome, but possessing a certain animal sexuality. The director tries to convey this by having him sweat alot, and walk around with his shirt tails out but it doesn't work. Also, casting Jamie Lee Curtis as Harry's wife (who was supposed to be half-Panamanian) was another absurd piece of casting. Although both Brosnon and Curtis are good in their roles, they just don't seem to fit. Secondly, the ending of the book is VERY different from the ending of the movie. The ending of the book is tragic, but hopeful. Harry loses everything but goes off into the world seeking a kind of redemption. The climax of the book is very important to the story, in that everything has been building to this one moment. It is depressing as all get out, and since it also didn't jibe with recorded history (I think), they changed the ending to the movie to something much more up beat. In doing so, they made most of the movie irrelevant, since it was building towards something that never happens.Since this got a very limited release when it first came out, I went out of my way to see it. I expected to be depressed, but not as bored as I had become after the first fifteen minutes. Had the theatre been less crowded, I would have walked out. It was an immensely unsatisfying movie. "},{"Title":"Not a very exciting or engaging movie to watch.","Date":"26 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" It's weird, I don't even know what made me want to watch this movie in the first place. Perhaps it was its interesting cast list or the fact I'm often interest in spy thriller but anyway, in the end this just wasn't a very satisfying. It's not one that is horrible or even bad but it really isn't a very exciting or engaging movie to watch.This is a movie with way too much talking and not even happening. I at least expected one action or chase sequences in this movie but there is absolutely nothing remotely like that in this movie at all. Of course it's alright for a movie to not feature any action in it and to be one that's all about its dialog and story instead but you still have to somehow manage to present and bring it in an interesting package, which just wasn't the case with this movie.To put it boldly, I just couldn't care less about any of the characters or what was going on with its story. Because of that, this movie just isn't ever a very involving one to watch. It will make you loose interest pretty fast, which makes this movie a bit of a dull one. There are some directors that can get away with telling a story like this in a way this movie does (someone like Michael Mann for instance) but just not a person like John Boorman I'm afraid. Seems to me that this movie would had worked out way better if they made it just a tad bit more entertaining to watch.John Boorman often sound good in potential but the execution is always lacking, even for his most respected and well known movies. No, guess I'm just not a Boorman fan.Can't say that the actors didn't give everything though. They really committed themselves to this project, as if it was something Oscar worthy. Geoffrey Rush was especially great and with Jamie Lee Curtis, Brendan Gleeson and Catherine McCormack the movie also has a really solid supporting cast. It was a bit weird seeing Pierce Brosnan in a spy role, since at the time he was still playing James Bond but he gives some nice different twists to his characters in this movie, that help to make him a different one, though on paper it still really was a James Bond type of character, without the gadgets.Nothing about this movie is horrible but there is also absolutely nothing that makes this a great or special watch.6/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Are you from Plato's Republic?","Date":"15 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This movie is intelligent, very intelligent It is a vacuum of the five senses It will take you inside/out of Plato's cave and you will not even notice the difference because you are a Marxist You believe in -MACHINES-! Rewind and undo Mao is not Marx, for example, and you can read M. Proust in its entirety and still you don't have a clue to the French language Although sin is Catholic, other religions do accept it, including Pagans such as those of Salem, Massachussets The little street of Salem, Massachussets where the -FALL OF THE HOUSE USHER- occurred Marx and Engels had an automatic system hither-fore the lights would turn on or off automatically Voil'a, that is perfect Marxism, perfect lifted! This movie will bring your -SPACEBALLS- in accord with your passes You will need bring a pass, you know all the references, your act as Buddha is finished and now you will only need -LOVE-! "},{"Title":"This movie reminds me Our man in Havana (1959)","Date":"22 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Hi, This movie is good, but when I saw it the first time I was viewed Our man in Havana with Alec Guinness (1959) and I found both movies are very similar an expatriated man living in a country in Latin America whom needs money, then a British secret service agent recruit him to gather information about the government. Finally, all blows in his face and ... As far I remember the ending in Our man... is more happier than The Tailor.... I recommend Our man in Havana.I can not understand all of this because The tailor of Panama was written by John Le Carre, so I was expecting an original movie.Thanks. "},{"Title":"Brilliant, witty Satire, but not as consequential as it could be","Date":"28 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I haven't read anything by Le Carré yet, but I am damn sure I will undo this unfortunate shortcoming. By chance I just completed watching this brilliant gem of a movie... it kinda deludes the viewer a bit, leading her to believe this is an _actual_ spy flick.... But it's so utterly cynic, such an effing sharp humor. Mr. Bond does an excellent job in juxtaposing his own cliché, but not in the flat, thumb ways of usual comedy (And he shows us that he can actually act. Who would have thought that). Althoug there's actually an fair amount of drama in this picture, some scenes are just to hilarious to keep you worried to much. When the Left behind General starts talking of the 51st State (The Channel State... Hey, I bet that'll make some nice number plates) I was crying tears of laughter. It might be my good old European feeling of superiority and intellectual arrogance, but the mere thought of people _actually_ thinking this way is too absurd not to chuckle.The Ending (And that might be a little Spoiler) is a little to rushed and to unbelievable to account for the tension built up before, and too benign (to all protagonists, save one) to live up the high levels of satire of the rest. Nevertheless (And the Semi-Quasi-Spoiler ends here),This is definitely a film worth watching for all Satirically-Intested enthusiasts of dark Humor. Too narrow-minded people should, however, propably avoid this film and watch some Bruckheimer flick instead. (8/10) "},{"Title":"A movie ahead of its time","Date":"15 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Most reviewers comment about the thriller or spy qualities of the movie. However it is very obvious that the moral of the story is about how the secret service of a country needs a story to keep itself going. In this case the British and American secret services are more than keen to believe they have a reason to restore ownership of the Panama Canal.Of course this story echoes the current state of affairs where the secret services of the same countries made up a story of weapons of mass destruction to please their paymasters. In both cases very dubious sources are used, amounts of money are increased as the story reaches the top, trigger happy military men are ready to finish the job they couldn't complete years earlier, etc etc.One scene in the movie says it all the British Secret Service will do anything to please their American Masters. "},{"Title":"our spy in Cuba","Date":"7 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I was disappointed with this film. It is exactly the plot of the Graham Green's book. John le Carré ( the author of the novel) was better writer. The characters made the best in order to save the movie! I saw this film two times because I used to doubt of myself. The result was the same. I  got bored. It is my opinion, no more! "},{"Title":"our spy in Cuba","Date":"7 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I was disappointed with this film. It is exactly the plot of the Graham Green's book. John le Carré was better writer. The characters made the best in order to save the movie! I saw this film two times because I used to doubt of myself. The result was the same. I  got bored. It is my opinion, no more! "},{"Title":"Watched it, don't get it!","Date":"2 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I watched this movie on ppv on Digital.I really could not get my head around the story.  It jumped here there and everywhere, and I may seem thick to many people, but I just didnt understand what it was supposed to be about.Every character talked about everything in such a vague manor.This was described as a 'Thriller' in the listings.  I have spend more thrilling times de-limescaling the taps in my bathroom.Brosnan came across as very sleazy, which I think he was supposed to, and I have always had respect for him as an actor, but this movie to me really was a waste of time. "}{"Title":"it could have been better, and shows an unforgivable acting mistake","Date":"1 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The plot is smart. Pierce Brosnan resembles Bond too much.Music credit contains a mistake at least. The main song's name is Todavía cAntamos, not Todavía contamos. The meaning is very different We still sing instead of We sting tell.  And the song is authored by Víctor HerediA, not Víctor Heredios.But the worst is this When the tailor (Rush) accomodates Abraxas (Gleeson)'s left hand after finding him suicided, it is evident a little movement in Gleesom's fingers (he stretches his fingers)as Rush accomodates Gleeson's hand on his chest. And then, while the camera is facing Gleeson's face, it is perceivable a tiny blink of his eye lids.I cannot understand how John Boorman left this done. "},{"Title":"Good Intrigue; Sex scenes should have given it NC-17","Date":"26 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  With Pierce Brosnan topping the credits, I decided to see this movie.The plot really intrigued me, as it kept me in the dark about what was true, what wasn't, and whether the people spinning the yarns knew the difference.One Caveat  There are several gratuitous sex scenes that do little (ok, NOTHING) to advance the plot.  Both my wife and I were embarrassed by them - her comment was If they can show this in an R movie, how bad must porn be?But hey... if softcore porn wrapped inside a good spy story is what you're looking for, then by all means see this movie. "},{"Title":"Loved this Movie","Date":"2 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Went to see basically to kill time. Thought the plot was great, and got a few laughs.  Geofery Rush and Pierce Brosnon, played off of each other perfectly. I wonder why this was relegated to the art houses and not to general release/.  "},{"Title":"Awful Boorman!","Date":"19 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Very useless and irritating movie! A maverick spy with a rotten pedigree makes fun of MI-5, U.S. Army and CIA...Without any tested argument achieves million dollars to fodder a imaginary rebel movement he exclusively knows.... A shrimp stooge character potentially great as A beautiful mind without rhyme or reason. In front of a promising cast, a superb director and a fantastic screenwriter you will find an awful espionage B-Movie. What a pity! "},{"Title":"Genre Comedy/ Drama/ Thriller - actually, try insomnia cure","Date":"25 September 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" There have been a number of John LeCarre's books adapted to movies, usually with good results (most notable are The Spy Who Came In From The Cold and The Russia House), so I looked forward to a ripping good spy yarn with this one. What I got was a ripping good YAWN, or two, or a dozen. The plot was lame and predictable, never catching my interest, never really prompting me to care about the characters. The one bright spot in this drivel was Geoffrey Rush, who seems to make each character he plays quite different from the next (Pierce Brosnan just plays Bond turned venal). If you decide to watch this movie, don't say I didn't warn you. "},{"Title":"Neither fish, flesh, fowl or good red herring","Date":"13 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" 'The Tailor of Panama' is a ham-fisted attempt at satire that only manages to fumble and stumble over its own large concept and inept script. There are shades of 'Dr Strangelove...' James Bond and 'All The President's Men'. Bits and pieces of tired-out anti-American, anti-military dribblings, sugar-coated in glossy cinematography of Panama City, looking like every other American city that popped up in the 80s and 90s. A city that is as anonymous and non-descript as this mess of a movie.Not even Geoffrey Rush's fine acting can save this turkey from boring the viewer to sleep. The script is clichéd and choppy, the attempts at clever satire fall flat as day-old, cheap champagne. There is gratuitous sex that fails to titillate and pseudo-violence and threatening thugs who fail to alarm or disgust. Failure is the operative word for this dreadful movie. I admit I was expecting much more from John Boorman, one of my favorite directors, and John LeCarré, one of the best writers of the English language in the past 50 years. So the disappointment was acute when I realized that this movie wasn't going to amount to much more than one those adolescent Leslie Nielsen big gun show-cases made more than 20 years ago for the teen-age crowd.'The Tailor of Panama' has a half-complete feel to it. The characters are like cartoon creatures who run around exhibiting lots of angst and tragedy only to be dropped down a hole, to use one of LeCarré's favorite phrases, and forgotten. The ending comes all of a sudden, as if half the third act had been excised, after a drooping second act.Lots of money obviously went into this pile of offal. I wonder if the money might have been better spent on the third world victims of tyranny this movie purports to support, rather than giving a nice holiday for the film-makers in Panama City and environs.Pierce Brosnan plays a vile anti-hero who neither conjures up total disgust or invokes all-out laughs, which Leslie Nielsen, to his credit, could always do. This movie is neither clever, intelligent or exciting and is a complete waste of time.Not one of Boorman's, or LeCarré's, finest hours, to say the least.See for yourself, but rent don't buy. "},{"Title":"A poor copy of a 1959 movie Our Man in Havana","Date":"21 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Tailor is a poor copy of a 1959 movie Our Man in Havana. The story is by Graham Greene and staring Alec Guinness. There are two points here.1. How could le Carre rip off Greene? (I have not read the le Carre book, so I don't know if he gives Greene credit.)2. How could this mediocre remake be taken as a good movie by anyone.Please watch the original then reply.xxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx "},{"Title":"A very bad movie","Date":"22 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was a huge disappointment. The best way to describe it is just plain bad. The plot is thin and difficult to believe, and towards the end turns downright childish. The characters are poor, the acting is good although half the cast is thrown in just for gratuitous sex scenes (excellent decision, at least you get some sex scenes). Special effects (in the final scenes) are a couple of really cheap computer generated scenes which would have been better off left out of it. The whole movie fails to trap you, you get the feeling that *maybe* this was supposed to be some kind of spy comedy or parody... but there isn't a single laugh scene and most of the time if you find yourself smiling it's because of the pathetic and unrealistic storyline. I'm very sorry for John Le Carre (assuming the movie is faithful to the book, which I didn't read) because I believe most of this isn't his fault, I think the same story could have been turned into a real world-class spy film with a little more effort in direction and production. Casting and acting are ok, so if you like Brosnan and want too see him playing an anti-Bond you might enjoy this movie for something like 30 minutes. "},{"Title":"Abysmal","Date":"6 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I hated this absurd, badly made piece of tripe.  Awful, just awful.   Someone said it was good to see Pierce Brosnan as a rotter. This is true, but it did nothing to save this horrible pointless film. "},{"Title":"Zzzzz...","Date":"31 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  For me to pan any movie with Jamie Lee Curtis in it says a lot about the movie.  I'm not going to say a lot about The Tailor of Panama, though, other than recommend you avoid it.  Three of our group who went to see it fell snoring asleep at one point in the film or another.  One person genuinely liked it.  It's very slow-moving, drab and just plain boring.  The plot is silly enough to not even warrant a discussion.  Just skip it. "}{"Title":"Should have been an exciting tale, but it was just slow and boring","Date":"22 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  What a shame to waste such terrific actors on a story that goes nowhere. I didn't mind the slow start, but then the momentem never mounted and when new things happened...I sure didn't care. What was amazing was the lack of chemistry between the actors. Some of the scenes between Pierce Brosnan and Geoffry Rush were okay, but the love scene between Brosnan and one of his female co-stars had absolutely no heat.Too bad. Spend your money on something else.  "},{"Title":"Boring Spy movie","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I watched this movie with my mom. We turned it off after about an hour, this is such a boring movie, no action, no suspense.  We lost interest really quick, I think this is Pierce Brosnan's worst movie, a waste of $3.50 "},{"Title":"Inept spy makes a mess of his mission.","Date":"3 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The characters in the movie all seemed to have a great understanding for each other, but none were very well developed or explained to the audience. Many scenes simply dragged by while the more exciting ones probably took up a whole 10 minutes in the entire film because they were rushed through. Overall, the movie just seemed to be lacking the ability to amuse its audience with novice writers penning the script.  Watching it seems to be a waste of a few perfectly good hours. "},{"Title":"So awful I had to comment...","Date":"7 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I've never felt so strongly about a film that I contributed a comment, but The Tailor of Panama is so thoroughly terrible that I couldn't resist.  If my comments can save just one person from seeing this film, then I will have done a good deed.How is it that such a bad film is garnering such positive reviews?  What film are these reviewers watching?  Surely it's not the one that is so sloppily edited that at times it makes no sense at all;  so cheaply produced that a shot of the airplane on which Pierce Brosnan flies to Panama looks like a model airplane against a background of sky and clouds that was painted by a third grader in art class; so badly directed that Pierce Brosnan looks uncomfortable playing a British spy.Granted, the film has some nice scenery.  But, although I like Pierce Brosnan and Jamie Lee Curtis and thought Geoffrey Rush was tremendous in Quills, I thought they all stunk this one up.  And the story reflects how desperate some spy writers became after the end of the Cold War took away their supply of stock bad guys and forced them to try to find new enemies and new stories to tell.  Too bad that we've all met the bad guys in this movie before - standard-issue South/Central American druglords.  And forget about the story, which is completely hokey and unsubtle.Thank goodness that at least one person agrees with me about this film whoever's in charge of marketing at Columbia.  Their failure to promote the film is truly a gift to the movie-going public.  In appreciation, I pledge to find a Columbia-distributed film that I like and write a positive review. I only wish that they would give me my eight dollars back from this one. "},{"Title":"Cliched characters, sloppy directing - very disappointing","Date":"29 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is easily the worst film of this century.  The plot is absurd, the characters are, at best, stereotypical and, at worst, cliched and wooden.  The dialogue is unimaginative, unrealistic and turgid.I was astounded at how bad the film was as I sat watching turgid scene after turgid scene, but I kept hoping for some redeeming twist that would save it by the end.  The Tailor of Panama needed the twist, but it never came.  You are left with a feeling of time wasted and money thrown away - for both the viewer and the actors/filmmakers. "},{"Title":"Couldn't stay awake","Date":"18 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Despite performances by 4 players I enjoy , the glacial pacing and obvious plotting let me down. I was a huge fan of early LeCarre, but his post Cold war efforts have ben disappointing. Mildly interesting to see Pierce Brosnan play against Bond type, but the character here is too much a replay of his Remington Steele/Thomas Crown smarmy sneering jerks. Geoffrey Rush, on the other hand is wonderful and subtle and almost believable in the improbable character he is given. But even he can't overcome the script. Jamie Lee shows her age with dignity and sex appeal. The brief sex scenes play on this well, but her talents are wasted. Mary McCormack is also wasted in a supporting part. After her star turn in Dangerous Beauty, I expected better things. Like Jamie Lee, she is mainly just scenery , and a plot device. A shame.Viewers would be better off revisiting Casablanca. "},{"Title":"read the book","Date":"4 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  3/10 for Geoffrey Rush and (always beautiful) Jamie Lee Curtis.  Kudo's for filming in Panama.However, since this is a very, very sophisticated spy thriller and I did not read the novel - I found most of it rather slow and boring.  I hate it when the director demands that you think and then gives you nothing.  Waste of time as far as I'm concerned.  I had no sympathy for any of the characters even though watching Rush work is worth it - even though he had little to work with.Pierce Brosnan was poorly directed and is not a great actor on his own. He is unbelievable as the english spy looking for his retirement allotment.Poor direction totally. "},{"Title":"Ludicrous mess","Date":"8 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I grew up in Panama and this movie is a complete dog...really, really stupid.  It is filled with factual inaccuracies.  It makes Panama look terrible when it actually is a very nice country.  The book is just as bad as the movie.  "},{"Title":"DVD Alternate Ending #2 Turn it off.","Date":"2 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Early in this movie there is promise. We hear about the colossal errors made by former U.S.A. CIA chieftain George H.W. Bush installing Manuel Noriega in a puppet government in Panama. Then, he has to take part in extricating Noriega and sets up bombing raids on the exact parts of Panama City that harbor the friends of the US CIA, killing them and wiping out their city. Then, Bush takes part in the actual capture of Noriega after the drug running becomes known to the whole world (before it became known, the drug running was A-OK).Enter the British. Noriega is gone, and along with the rest of the 'civilized' world, there is concern over what will happen to this most important waterway, the Panama Canal. The Brits have a network of spies in clandestine operations all around the city, one played by Geoffrey Rush...and the only well-played role in this whole fictional fiasco.Rush's character, Harry Pendel, a simple tailor, has his thumb on the pulse of international politics, and he and, against her will, his wife (Jamie Lee Curtis), become pawns in the British game to take over what was never theirs--the Canal.Ok folks, time to change channels. It all goes downhill from here. Don't bother with this one, unless one of the stars rings a particular bell with you. It is another example of a good book that just goes floppo when it changes media. -( 1/10 stars. "},{"Title":"A mess","Date":"21 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie couldn't decide what it wanted to be - a spy thriller, a drama, a spoof of a spy thriller, so it ended up being a poor version of any of them. The performances and settings were OK.  I'd blame poor direction for the problems. "}{"Title":"I should have gone to Mummy Returns instead","Date":"14 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  `The Tailor of Panama' looked like an interesting story going in. With all the lightweight garbage dumping itself out in this, the worst Spring movie season I've ever witnessed, a film by a reputable director seemed like a safe bet. Having never seen some of John Boorman's more recognized work such as `Deliverance', `Excalibur', `The General' or `Hope and Glory', I was going on reputation alone. But after seeing this fiasco, I am not eager to see any more of his films. Only a few minutes in, I knew I'd made a big mistake. But I sat through it because of one inevitability  eventually, it would have to end.MI-6 operative Andy Osnard (Brosnan) is on suspension for bad behavior in the field, and is given an assignment as watchdog over the Panama Canal, which has only recently been turned back over to the Panamanian government by the United States. Osnard will need someone who has connections to people in high places, someone corruptible. He finds the perfect pawn in Panama City's most noted tailor, Harry Pendel. Both are desperate men for different reasons. Harry owes his bank fifty grand (or something) and works in a business in which timely payment by clients is rare. He's already in over his head when Osnard comes along and, just like the devil making him an offer he can't refuse, takes advantage of Harry's desperation. Eager to repair his reputation as a field agent, Osnard needs any information that suggests that the Canal might fall into 'the Wrong Hands'. Harry makes suits for everyone, from former anti-Noriega freedom fighters to Panama's president. He basically tells Osnard what he wants to hear, which leads to degree upon degree of lies. On thing leads to another, culminating in an American invasion of Panama City.Back to the script, I don't think Andrew Davies is to blame for this mess. I'm afraid it's Boorman, whos visual ideas only distract from the story. Harry's uncle Benny, who he models himself after and uses as a cover for his true identity, is his conscience. Benny appears once in a while, offering Harry advice he almost never follows. In a film we're supposed to take seriously, I found this visual annoying. I think Davies included this sort of thing because he envisioned this as a comedy. But Boorman plays the whole thing as a noir thriller, an exotic spy drama. It does end up being funny, but not intentionally.This material is ripe for comedy and Boorman just doesn't see it. It's a spoof! Is he blind? (straight elements such as Mickie and Marta's backstory could stay, to give the story some weight) We see just a glimpse of comedy near the end, with the introduction of Dylan Baker's General Dusenbaker. He's all too ready to go back to Panana, where he suffered the worst defeat of his career. The scene reminded me of the greatest black comedy ever made, `Dr. Strangelove' but comes far too late to redeem anything.One way to fix it cast Rush in the Osnard role. Curtis is right for Louisa, Harry's wife, but the role would have been much richer if it were part of a black comedy. But Brosnan shouldn't have been anywhere near this.What no one realizes about Brosnan taking over the role of 007 is that he and everyone else (except maybe Timothy Dalton, the only actor to even come close to re-inventing Bond) has been a spoof of Sean Connery's 007 (Clive Owen for Bond now!)  For him to do a spoof of an MI-6 operative assumes that anyone takes him seriously in the role he's spoofing.Grade D  "},{"Title":"a total disappointment!","Date":"2 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  What were they thinking?! -the people involved in the making of this movie(?)- This film represents a total waste of time! Its whole plot is meaningless, it's boring-to-the-death! About the performances They suck! They are pathetic! That's enough, i just want to protect some innocent people who want to spend pleasantly a couple of hours! "},{"Title":"Warning Not Your Usual Brosnan Movie!","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  So, we rented this movie because it had Brosnan in it, and it dealt with spying and treachery. Unfortunately, we could not get through the end of the movie. This movie was terrible!The plot was suffocated by the over emphasized role for Brosnan. His character was surrounded by extremely graphic scenes that seemed to be inappropriate given the basic plot of the movie. You expect him to have a passionate affair with co-worker. After all, he is a spy. But, I did not expect that graphic scenes of homosexuality and adultery. That was a bit much, and seemed gratuitous at best.The content of the film made it difficult for me to get into the plot. So, we hit the eject button before the movie ended. It is pretty painful to watch, and was generally disturbing and uninteresting.2/10 at best. "},{"Title":"BORRRRRRRRRRRRRING.","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is easily one of the 10 worst movies I have ever seen. I was clueless as to what was going on from the start. The actors mumbled a lot of their lines, the quality of the photography was awful. If we hadn't gone with another couple I would have left the theatre within half an hour. A root canal would be more fun than this mess. "},{"Title":"The story had potential, but the movie ruined any potential it might of had.","Date":"22 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This, frankly, was a terrible film.  I could not believe the way in which the makers directed the story.  I was appalled at the onscreen sex scenes, and I did not think they were at all necessary for the film's plot.  They say sex sells, but there were only four other people in the theater when I saw this movie.  Sex does nothing when the film absolutely sucks.This is one of those times I wish I had spent my money on a film I had already seen.  Instead of wasting your time with this film, go see 'Memento' two or three more times!  "},{"Title":"2 hours of my life I'll never get back","Date":"20 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is my first user comment ever, but this movie was so painful for me I felt I had to do what I could to warn others.  How on earth the producers lured Geoffrey Rush, so amazing of late in Quills, and the  intelligent and charming Jamie Lee Curtis into this slow, horribly written sleaze-fest is beyond me.  Pierce Brosnan is so smarmy, every bit the misogynistic dinosaur Judi Dench so aptly dubbed him in his first Bond movie. I was completely repelled by everything about this movie. "},{"Title":"Kept the audience laughing, and its not a comedy...","Date":"14 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I don't have a lot to say about this movie really.  It needs to be seen so that you will have a benchmark from which to judge all other movies.  Once you've seen this movie you know what a 0 (ie. 0 to 100) or a 1/2* movie is all about.  What boggles my mind and literally tricked me into seeing this garbage was the cast.  I have no idea how Geoffery Rush couldn't have seen through this laughable/painful script.  Don't walk out like I wanted to to... stay to complete the painful experience so that you will never make the same mistake again.0/10 (gave it a 1 cause there wasn't a lower score available) "},{"Title":"I Had A Problem With The Casting","Date":"13 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The thing you have to realise with John Le Carre is that he`s not Ian Fleming , he`s a writer similar in many ways to Graham Greene , his novels are human dramas dressed up as spy stories in order push forward the idea that people will always be caught up in circumstances beyond their control . If you go into a Le Carre novel expecting dialogue like  No Mister Bond I expect you to die  and seeing the hero defuse a thermo nuclear device in the nick of time you may receive some shocking disappointmentHave I made the point that THE TAILOR OF PANAMA isn`t a James Bond story ? Good because someone thought it be a great idea to cast Pierce Brosnan as an MI6 secret agent and open the movie in the MI6 headquarters just like the opening sequence of THE WORLD IS NOT ENOUGH . This must been seen as a dual failure because everybody in the audience who loves Bond movie will be deeply disappointed not to see Brosnan racing around on the Thames trying to capture a fully armed bimbo on a speed boat while Bond haters won`t be able to look at this film as anything other than a slow paced entry into the Bond series . For this film to work it`s imperitive that no one associated with playing spies should have been cast in the role of Andy Osnard but that`s exactly what the producers have done , So when we hear Osnard say lines like  Oh I`d f*** her  the whole illusion falls apart Secondly this might sound unlikely but I thought Geoffry Rush was rather poor Harry Pendel the eponymous tailor . Pendel isn`t Jewish by chance ? Ah a stereotypical Jewish tailor maybe this is why Rush plays the role in much the same way Topol would have , in fact I was expecting Harry to burst out singing  If I were a rich man  , yeah never mind the quality moi dearz , feel the width   "},{"Title":"Yawn. What a waste of film.","Date":"8 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This was so exciting I fell asleep during part of it.  To make up for a thin plot it had AC/DC sex where every body got screwed, a make believe General who could hardly speak his lines, and Brosnan's character out to screw every one, one way or another. Take all that trash out and the movie would have only run about 15 minutes.  Geoffery Rush lowered himself in my view as an actor.  And  don't forget, crime does pay, around $15 mil worth when Brosnan's British spy character did a turn coat manuver and stole the money originally provided by the good old USofA to save Panama. "},{"Title":"So muddled the story is incomprehensible - i'll give you a dollar if you haven't read the book and you can follow it.","Date":"26 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this before I started getting into film, so all i expected from it was the simple demands of a good story - so I can confidently say that the wide audience will feel what I felt that this movie is so muddled and uneven that its nearly incomprehensible to anyone who hasn't read the book.Its substance is two characters secret agent Pierce Brosnan, and his tailor (Geoffrey Rush), who he manipulates into all kinds of illegal activities.Its a strange, unsatisfying, impossible to follow movie experience with nasty, unpleasant characters.It also has one of the strangest scenes i've ever seen the two men talking on a vibrating bed. A very sketch-comedy attempt at humour.0/5. "}{"Title":"Bond goes bad in this cinematic piece of crap","Date":"23 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film is really awful. I mean the cast kind of promises a pretty good film, but it just all fails. There is no fun, no action and no tension WHAT SO EVER. This is one of the worst movies I've seen lately (since Spy kids). How could anyone make this movie, especially Brosnan??? If he was interested in making a good spy film with good effects and action could have waited 'till 2002 to make the next Bond film. Not even laughable. STAY AWAY!!!2 out of 10 "},{"Title":"worst ever, possibly.","Date":"19 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This must be one of the worst movies I have ever seen! Well, maybe together with Beethoven's II, but that one was still more movie than this one.I don't understand why people find this a 'clever thriller' with 'great acting' because I found neither in this piece of trash. You think, with established actors like Jamie Lee Curtis, Geoffrey Rush (so good in Elizabeth!) and Pierce Brosnan, you'd at least have some good acting, even if the story if a little thin. But not even that! I found myself wondering if the actors hadn't protested while making this movie because every scene was just plain bad. Every movie cliché that can possibly be used, was used. There was a veil of melodrama over the whole movie that spoiled anything that was remotely interesting.Everything about every character was a cliché. Can lines be so bad that all these good actors become just a bunch of amateurs trying not to be themselves? There was no chemistry, no credibility, sometimes I wondered if the whole movie was to be laughed at. It was too sad for that, though. We sat it through, but at times we had to exclaim 'no, PLEASE! This is SO bad!' (video, not movie theater thank god).I'm appalled! How can such a bad movie be made!? What were people thinking? (or smoking).. I wouldn't even waste one star on it, and yet others have given it higher rating otherwise it wouldn't come up to 6. It's a mystery.You know these movies that are bad but you can still enjoy? This is NOT one of them. Worst ever. I'll give it a 1 because I can't go lower. "}]