[{"Title":"is that man insane??","Date":"30 August 2006","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Documentary","Review":" this movie had me laughing to the point where i found it hard to breath. some jokes are risqué and a little raunchy, but then so is life. this movie can be watched safely by adults young and old as i can attest to as i watched it confidently with my mother (!) who was in tears. everyone i know who has watched it tells me stories of laughing to dangerous extremes. one friend watching it in a less than crowded theatre was concerned she might choke and there would be no one to save her! each comedian has strong memorable material that rings true. my only problem with it is finding it on the sightread in the UK, better distribution of all black movies please. "},{"Title":"Funny as ****","Date":"9 September 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Documentary","Review":" If you enjoy stand up-these were certainly the Kangs-as Steve said) They take you back to recall your history, childhood, life. The subjects are funny because you know people like those they mimic, or are like who they comment on! Simply this film shows us why these men have remained the top of the most funny (alive) male comedians for as long as they have. As the man above,don't try to review this as a movie with plot, character development, etc. Steve Harvey was the Host so his sets were throughout and he had his own later.It's a reel of a night of standup-THAT'S ALL! These men are Funny-You can see the reaction of the crowd as they get that You know that's right moment, or have to get up and do that dance-laugh cos they will have you rollin! I can watch it every time and the reaction is the same(gut laughs)-my whole family is nearly in tears watchin Ced and Bernie. These men are crazy funny fools! Just watch it and see how much you laugh...I hope you get it-it's just COMEDY! It was also nice to see them off-stage and see the real relationship, brotherly bonds between adult black men who have done good with their lives! Entertainment at it's finest. "},{"Title":"These men are hilarious!","Date":"21 August 2000","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Documentary","Review":"  The success of this tour surprised many whom were not familiar with these comedians, mainly because they are superstars on the African-American, not mainstream, comedy circuit.  These men are funny as hell! The TV shows they appear or have appeared on do not give them the freedom to turn loose like they do in this film. One of the best sequences was when Harvey complained about rap and urban contemporary music (he was so right!) and gave respect to old school R&B. This is absolutely the best comedy that was released all summer. "},{"Title":"A Lot of Laughs","Date":"20 August 2000","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Documentary","Review":"  As a sometime stand-up comic, it was a great treat that this summer brought a big-name stand-up concert film, namely Spike Lee's The Original Kings of Comedy.  The film, a record of the highest-grossing comedy tour of all time, is not revolutionary and says nothing new about comedy or those who practice it.  But it's chock-full of laughs, magnetism, and good, rollicking fun.The concert in Original Kings was taped at Charlotte, North Carolina's Charlotte Coliseum, and it's a great testament to the often unfairly neglected stand-up art that comedy performers could fill such a prodigious space.  The MC of the evening, who holds forth from an elaborately decorated stage set, is the WB's Steve Harvey, who has a wonderfully exasperated stage persona and a voice full of gusto as he sounds off about the stupidity of Rae Carruth, the idiosyncracies of black church elders, and the asininity of the band on the Titanic playing as the ship went down.  He's got a rip-roaring sense of energy that gets the show started on a good note.D.L. Hughley's set is perhaps the lowlight of the film.  His delivery is not as punchy as that of the other performers, and unlike Harvey, he seems to use profanity as a crutch rather than as a proper comedy tool.  Still, his performance has its moments, and he's likable enough that his onstage time doesn't get too dull.Fortunately, things pick up when Cedric the Entertainer, a big, cuddly bear of a guy in a chocolate brown fedora, takes the stage.  His set is the highlight of the film, full of sharp commentary about Tiger Woods, blacks on the space shuttle, and the particulars of a ghetto wedding.  He fills the stage with his expansive body language, and his silly dance interludes are among the best moments in the picture.  Someone should give this guy his own TV show, and fast.Closing things out is Bernie Mac, an abrasive, raspy-voiced, pop-eyed provocateur whose act is the most down-in-the-dirt of all the performers featured.  His riffs on the virtues of beating children, the problem of living with a gay six-year-old nephew, and the importance of a certain twelve-letter-word to the black vocabulary, are sometimes more hostile than funny, but his gritty delivery and fast pace socks the best jokes home nicely.  Besides, the audience in the theatre where I saw the film gave him applause at the end of his set, the only performer onscreen they did that for, so who am I to argue?Lee's direction sometimes gets in the way of the performers, with showy camera moves that distract from the words.  The film is at its best when Lee's cameraman, Malik Sayeed, just plops his camera down and lets the comics do their stuff.  There are some nice reaction shots of the crowd, who are clearly having a great time, and the way that the laughter of the onscreen audience blends with that of the people in the theatre really makes you feel like you're part of the show.The Original Kings of Comedy is not as great as earlier stand-up films like Bill Cosby Himself or Eddie Murphy Raw, films that fell together more cohesively than this one does.  Still, if you're looking for some Friday night laughs, you would be well advised to head to the theatre and hail to the Kings.      "},{"Title":"Tomorrow's Amos","Date":"17 March 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Documentary","Review":"  Some of this is very funny. And these people are genuine.But the sanctimonious Spike Lee will be embarrassed in a generation or two as this humor is considered today's Amos and Andy. Doesn't matter that it comes from blacks. Doesn't matter if everyone thinks it is funny now.Plus. No element of American culture is natural today, and this is especially so with Black culture. It is now in the hands of record, fashion and media companies. Spike may insist he is a free man, but he is not, and now complicit in another big company's inventing of a culture. "},{"Title":"Look,mommy filmed our comedy show with her camcorder.","Date":"19 August 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Documentary","Review":"  2 hours of incredible comedy from 4 incredible comedians.Easily the best comedy showcase since Eddie Murphy  Raw, possibly since Bill Cosby's Himself. If you have never seen these stars perform their stand-up before, you are really missing out.  The only problem with this film is the filming itself.  I use quotes because this movie was recorded entirely with digital cameras, which, at times, look like your mom's video tape of your 8th grade school play. I don't understand how Spike Lee can even credit himself in this movie.  It doesn't take a genius to put a camera on the  front of the stage and periodically pan to the crowd.  (-Groundbreaking work, Spike! ) In conclusion, this is the best comedy film I've seen in years even if it does look like 1985 CBS file footage of an NBA game. "},{"Title":"Good, but could be better","Date":"4 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Documentary","Review":"  Bought the DVD from store, sat myself down and grabbed a bag o' popcorn. Watched it and felt great. It was damn funny yet reasonably censored. I recommend it to anyone who has even a little sense of humor. Although i think that it was poorly edited. Some scenes could have been better. There was a lot static on my DVD but i guess the fault could also be in my player. I also would not recommend it to people who have weak spots in racist jokes. Every second joke was about white people and i as a 'gringo' don't like that. Besides i also would like to mention that this is a one-time-looking piece of work. Anyway i recommend it if you want to have a little laugh after work.  "},{"Title":"great fun!","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Documentary","Review":"  This was a great stand-up movie, and it's wonderful that stand-up is coming back in this form.  I have been exposed to stand-up ever since I was a little kid, and I have seen the evolution of stand go from 90 min concert movies like this one, down to 1 hour specials, and even down to 30 min specials as well.  And The Kings bring back a variety show for us in the movie format, and the result is a masterpiece.For those of you who only saw racism in the jokes, then you really weren't paying attention to what was being said, and knowing the attention span of the average American, that's not hard to believe.  Did anyone notice that the WHITE people in the audience were laughing just as hard as the black?  I think that it's because most of us white folks can take a joke, and understand that the comic is really playing around, without doing a my god, that's a racist remark defense that many people here seem to be doing.  What these men were doing with comparing black and white is NO DIFFERENT than when Jeff Foxworthy compares and contrasts rednecks and sophisticated people.Now, the fact that the comics were using stereotypes...hmmm.  How do I  say this?  Folks, I have collected comedians for years, and my collection spans from CD's, DVD and VHS tapes.  I have comedians that few people have heard of.  My collection spans over both genders, different nationalities and ethnic groups, and I must say that every comedian needs to joke about something that the audience can and will understand, and stereotypes are the key thing to do just that, because everyone understands stereotypes. And besides, some comedians will even take a common stereotype and make it their act...Tim Allen used the stereotype of the man's man; Roseanne Barr used the disgruntled housewife, and Jeff Foxworthy used the redneck angle.  Now, a comedian can go without stereotypes, but he/she runs the risk of losing the audience.  And besides, it's not the stereotype that makes the joke, it's the exaggeration behind the joke.And as far as the comedians in the movie here, they really strive for a good show.  Steve Harvey did great jokes, and even did things, that while not really funny, were great entertainment, like when he was playing samples of different songs for the audience.  Hughley was funny as well, especially when he was interacting with the audience.  The other two comics I have never sen before, but I have no complaints, as they round out the show nicely.  Each comic owned the stage when they were on it, and they would be hard to top.  And folks, I like Chris Rock, but he wasn't as funny as these guys are, simply because he tries waaay too hard, and these guys are just here having fun.A great performance by some great comics, and I would recommend this to anyone.  A+++++ "},{"Title":"HILARIOUS","Date":"15 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Documentary","Review":"  I just got home from this flick and I loved it.  Not so much a movie, but a filmed appearance of the four comedians (Steve Harvey, D. L. Hughley, Cedric the Entertainer, and Bernie Mac) at a show in  North Carolina.  It has been my experience that concert-comedy-type movies can often be boring, certainly not matching the experience of actually seeing a comedian live. This was not the case with Kings.  Granted I was in a crowded theatre, but the expert direction by Spike Lee really pulls you in and makes you a part of the studio audience.  Audience reaction shots and multiple-camera angles keep the viewing fresh and behind the scenes peeks all offer more than simply being there live would have.  As far as laugh volume, this was the funniest movie I've ever seen.  It has everything swearing, raunchy sex jokes, clever comparisons between blacks and whites, pop culture jabs, and even some insult comedy.Each comedian does about a half-hour of material, but you'll wish they each got an hour at least.  The soundtrack is excellent as well.  Well, it's not technically a soundtrack, but the songs played in the stadium at the show were a great mix of old-school love songs and funk.The Original Kings of Comedy is not a movie.  It is a concert-comedy piece with elements of a documentary.  After a lack-luster summer of gross-out comedy flicks, it was very nice to see genuinely talented and witty word-slingers come together with a consistently pleasing director in certainly the funniest movie of the summer.  Maybe ever. "},{"Title":"Some hits and misses.","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Documentary","Review":"  Stand up comedy on the big screen. A smart move on Spike Lee 's part. The bad part was him picking the wrong distributor. ORIGINAL KINGS OF COMEDY might have picked up first place on its opening weekend if it was given more screens to be shown on. But the overall box office was not as big a legend as THE BLAIR WITCH PROJECT. Therefore we would never know, let alone care. ORIGINAL does have its moments.The concert, KINGS OF COMEDY is filmed and documented by Spike Lee, shot on February 26-27 in Charlotte, North Carolina. Four leading comics are featured.More shots of the preparation of the show and more behind the scenes moments would have been made ORIGINAL more interesting. More moments with the audience such as Boogie would have been just as fun. Every comic has their ups and downs. A completely mediocre effort on a genre that has more potential. "}{"Title":"Filling the room with its own self","Date":"19 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Documentary","Review":" Two of the guys are a bit crude here, the first two. Harvey in particular makes me wonder because he seems to be closest to the world the jokes come from, the most genuine presence. He establishes great rapport with the audience, in turns R&B showboat from the chitlin days and church pastor. But every time I see him he's also a crotchety, country bumpkin uncle, not entirely an act this. One of the highlights is when he gets thousands of people to hoot and swoon as he reminds them of the value of love while playing old favorite songs; but frames the moment as the good old days by comparison to modern rap.Bernie Mac was a bit of a cipher, in that I couldn't make head or tails of half of what he was garbling about and then he has an aggression (one of the jokes I think was about having a gay 6 year old nephew) but it seems to come from a good-natured bedrock so I couldn't tell if he was being off-putting or not. It's obvious with Harvey where similar jokes seem to come with a streak of nasty dismissal.It was Cedric out of these 4 that stole the show for me. He's cool, an Isaac Hayes whereas everyone else were manic James Browns. All the others focus on other people and how they annoy, he surrounds common folly. Two of the best jokes in the whole show were his, black people running if they see someone else doing it, and black people cruising in space cars to the moon after white people if they tried to sneak out the planet.But my favorite performance here was the whole as a give and take with this audience, the whole room as the show. It makes a world of difference that they are before an audience of their own people, the audience no less a part of what's being performed. It would simply not be the same in Wyoming. It's the difference between Sam Cooke's show at the Copacabana as polite Sinatra surrogate and his appearance at Harlem where all this spontaneous energy is circling the room.People swoon and holler, dance and spontaneously get up from their seats, entered by the spirit of what's going on. There's nothing quite like being able to enter a world as it is of its own self, filling the room with itself.Some fabrication will be there almost unavoidably by us being there to see but it can be leveraged. So I don't mind here the presence of a camera, as others seem to. Lee finds and shows us people having a good time. There's nothing quite like seeing people enjoy themselves either - those delighted looking women in particular. There's a certain loving-kindness that goes beyond what's being said in words. Something moving about a whole room erupting into applause when asked about god, swooning over love songs and laughing without compunctions at life. "},{"Title":"Gimme 52 cents on Pump 1","Date":"18 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Documentary","Review":" Spike Lee directs The Original Kings of Comedy, a concert film recorded at the Charlotte Coliseum, North Carolina. Playing to a massive crowd of about 24,000, four African American comedians &#x96; Steve Harvey, Bernie Mac, Cedric the Entertainer and D. L. Hughley &#x96; each deliver half hour segments of material.The film's best routine is arguably delivered by Bernie Mac, who spends 25 minutes essentially advocating that we all cave in to the Id, to do and say as we please, to speak our mind, to not bow to social convention. Gradually, however &#x96; and the audience is giggling too hard to notice this &#x96; Mac's jokes stray into abusive, twisted and violent territory, before he tells a joke about a misunderstanding between a child, a bus driver and a mother. The audience cackles at this joke, not realising that it's revoking and calling you to re-evaluate everything that went on before.Visually the film is conventional, though Lee does places a larger emphasis on audience members than is typical of such concert features. His cameras stay close to the crowds, and he uses an abundance of audience reaction shots to heighten the levels of intimacy between performer and public. Ironically, The Original Kings of Comedy bolsters the kinds of African American stereotypes Lee's films tent to critique and destabilise.7.9/10 &#x96; Worth one viewing. "},{"Title":"Okay funny","Date":"6 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Documentary","Review":"  The comedy was okay, with Bernie Mac being the funniest.  I liked the way the film was put together, and it showcases these four comics in a great light.  Steve Harvey, DL Hughley, and Cedric all seem to have the same style and average jokes.  5/10 Average "},{"Title":"raunchy entertainment","Date":"11 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Documentary","Review":"  A funny stand-up film featuring four of the best comedians in the business. Although offensive at times, the jokes are very truthful. This aspect of the film doesn't make it for all tastes. It's a toss-up as to which two comedians are the best Cedric the Entertainer and his goofy dance routine, or Bernie Mac and his foul-mouthed depiction about babysitting. Good if you're in the mood for some solid laughs. 2/4 "},{"Title":"Not Kings, that's for sure.","Date":"14 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Documentary","Review":"  I am a big fan of Def Comedy Jam and BET Comicview, both of which were/are almost always laugh-out-loud funny, and I was expecting The Original Kings of Comedy to be just as hilarious. Well, that wasn't the case. If you rent this movie, do yourself a favor and just fast-forward to the last act, Bernie Mac. He was definitely the best comedian of the bunch that night, since his act was based on actual comedy and getting LAUGHS, and not on playing old school songs (like Steve Harvey) and getting APPLAUSE. If I wanted to hear music, I would have turned on a radio. Anyway, Mac's comedy was a little cruel (repeatedly referring to his six year old nephew as the f*ggot), and your laughter may be accompanied by squirming during some parts. Overall, it's a pretty average film, and I'd give it 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"It was fabulous was wondering where I can get the songs from the old school","Date":"10 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Documentary","Review":"  I found this to be hillarious and especially liked the part about the old school. Those songs brought back great memories. If there is anyone out there who might know those songs please send me the names of the songs and the artists "},{"Title":"Better Off Watching the Chris Rock Show","Date":"11 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Documentary","Review":"  I did not learn much about the four black comedians in the movie, and I did not learn much about black/white race relations.  And the editting was quite annoying - inserting clips of audience members laughing raucously.I suggest you stay at home and watch the Chris Rock Show on HBO if you want brilliance and insight and laughs. "},{"Title":"Blair Witch and Me by Spike Lee","Date":"5 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Documentary","Review":"  The Kings of Comedy, black comedy as seen by Spike Lee. The script, in a word FUNNY. Judging from some of the movie theater audience reactions to some of the jokes, The Kings demonstrate the power of today's leading kings of stand up. Pryor and Murphy would be proud to pass the crown down to these funny men. Steve Harvey (the best MC in the business, sorry Martin), stole the show with his antics about ol' school music and black folks on the Titanic, stirred the crowd to a frenzy before each of his fellow Kings took stage.So why do I hate this film? Answer SPIKE LEE, The RIGHT movie, wrong director. I paid $9.50 to watch a bad Spike Lee home video. Try sitting through a feature-length film of images transferred from video onto a giant silver screen, It is no picnic, believe me. The production values were non-existent. Transferred video images show pronounced jaggies from anti-aliased edges, a obvious result of bad video compression, VERY distracting. I'm sitting in a Loews state-of-the-art theater with stadium seating, a curved screen, dolby surround sound, getting dizzy from all the fuzzy, out of focus, video images with scan lines flying across the screen. My portable DVD player has better resolution than that. To add insult to injury, Lee placed a unmanned, motorized video camera in front of the stage, making it pan left and right by remote control (for a similar effect, try taping a videocamera to a remote control car and let it go back and forth, at full throttle while filming a subject). PRODUCTION NOTE to aspiring film makers Jerky camera movements will induce motion sickness and bad headaches.Dumb move, Spike. Documentary style filmmaking can be funny too. Learn from Robert Townsend who directed Murphy's RAW. Watch Alek Keshishian's Madonna Truth or Dare. Why not take the viewer to really meet the Kings while on their tour? Lets meet some of the Kings family members. Why shoot the entire film in North Carolina? It is a 2 year tour right? Why not do more backstage and behind the scenes? Why did you not interview audience members? Spike, Wazz up??As for production values, Spike, we gotta draw the line. Just because it is easier for you to shoot video, doesn't mean you have to. People get up and go to theaters and pay good money to watch FILM. NOTHING compares to images captured on conventional film. WE GOTTA HAVE IT!Coincidentally, one of the trailers played before the Kings feature is an upcoming feature film also directed by Lee entitled Bambozzled or something like that. it looks like Lee shot the film by himself, left the mike in his pocket. Used the same damn camcorder, too. Its like watching a TV through a dirty fish tank. I'll skip that one and stay home, watch HBO instead. "},{"Title":"2 Out of 4 Ain't Bad","Date":"21 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Documentary","Review":"  I thought Steve Harvey and Cedric the Entertainer were laugh your butt off funny.  I'd love to hang out with them any day of the week.  Unfortunately, having them on there showed what light-weights the other two guys are. D.L. Hughley is not in their league, but he's a name so I understand why he was on there.  The fourth guy (I don't even remember his name) was so bad, I kept hoping Steve Harvey would come on stage and interrupt.  So much for wishful thinking.The movie would have been much better if it was just Steve Harvey and Cedric the Entertainer doing their thing. "},{"Title":"Funnier with an audience","Date":"21 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Documentary","Review":"  I saw this movie on a Thursday night at my theater in Coon Rapids, MN, and it was OK. Later, I watched it with a crowd and found it much, much funnier. Not that it wasn't in the first place. The Original Kings of Comedy is a raucous comedy that spotlights the final performance of the Kings of Comedy tour, which itself spotlights four African-American comedians who discuss racial differences, being poor and beating their kids. That last one isn't that nice, but big whoop! Nothing is to be taken seriously by these genuinely funny fellows, who we can only hope set a course for a follow-up tour so I can see them in person. "}{"Title":"The Kings are the Kings.","Date":"19 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Documentary","Review":"  I saw the a preview of this film in Ottawa Thursday night and it was so very, very funny.The crowd was small, about 60, and with 3 exceptions, white like me. There were 20, I counted them, walk outs.I had no intention of leaving.  I have seen tons of stand-up and this left me breathless.The only thing for me, a white Canuck very far out of the loop of urban US black culture was the fact that I did not get a lot of the stuff.  But, even with that said, I got enough that I will go back, I will buy the movie, and I will watch it on a regular basis until my dying day.Dan Shields, Ottawa. "},{"Title":"I wish this were funnier","Date":"11 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Documentary","Review":"  As a document of an occasion, this film works well. As a comedy film, it leaves something to be desired. Steve Harvey and Cedric the Entertainer are very funny, but D.L. Hughley and Bernie Mac are less so. Themes keep coming up again and again, which is to be expected, but specific topics recur too, which is inexcusable in a two-hour comedy film white people die in groups, Big Mama, the inadequacies of modern music. None of this humor is subtle, and it becomes monotonous in its brashness; the profanity eventually becomes grating; Bernie Mac saying I will expletive your kid up is funny the first eight times and much less so the next 60 times. Bernie Mac calling his sister's kid a faggot is similarly unamusing. Cedric and Steve Harvey are talented comedic performers, and these two in particular are always good for a buncha laughs per minute. But in some ways this film might be too much of a good thing, and sometimes it's way too much of a questionable thing indeed. "},{"Title":"Ups and Downs, but mostly a funny movie","Date":"22 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Documentary","Review":" Here are my summaries for each of the comedians Steve Harvey He mostly acted as the host of the program, while some of his material was funny (such as the one about blacks on the Titanic), others seemed flat. Most of the time, I was waiting for him to hurry up and introduce one of the comedians.D. L. Hughley He CAN be funny, but he stuck mostly with the white people, black people jokes which made it seem as if he ran out of material.Cedric the Entertainer He can live up to his stage name, because even though some jokes weren't that funny, he had me entertained all the way through, especially when he talked about the ghetto wedding.Bernic Mac ABSOLUTELY THE FUNNIEST ONE THROUGHOUT THE WHOLE MOVIE. HE USED FACIAL EXPRESSIONS TO GET THE JOKES ACROSS AND CAME OFF VERY NATURAL. ALMOST EVERY JOKE HAD ME LAUGHING MYSELF TO TEARS, FROM HIS SISTER'S CHILDREN TO BIG MOMMA. "},{"Title":"A mixed bag.","Date":"5 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Documentary","Review":"  This is a concert film done about three or four years ago in Charlotte, NC.  It features three comedians and an emcee, and for the most part it was a pretty decent show though there were lots of dull spots.Bernie Mac went on last and he was by far the funniest guy.  I was laughing so hard I was crying at times.  Bernie had his delivery down perfect, and it's no surprise he's gone on to be the most successful of the trio.  His humor wasn't as race-based as the other two.  He talked about being black but that wasn't his entire act.  His voice and his facial expressions while delivering the lines were great and I almost wish the film had been just him.D. L. Hughley was the opening act and I liked him.  His humor was more the social commentary type and more biting, and he had his delivery down good, but I don't think he's a natural comedian.  He almost snarls up there on stage.  Still, I enjoyed his set and hope he sticks with it.Cedric the Entertainer was the middle act and I thought he was awful.  His humor was all the black stereotype stuff and his delivery was flat.  I see his name on television so he must have an audience - maybe he was just off the night they filmed this.  Somebody named Steve Harvey emceed the show and he was mostly bad.  He tossed in a lot of preacher stuff and nostalgia for the soul music days, but I didn't think he was very entertaining.All in all, not a very good movie except for Bernie Mac's half hour.   "},{"Title":"Great stand up film","Date":"4 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Documentary","Review":"  TOKOC take one back to the days of Richard Pryor , Eddie Murphy and Chris Rock. Steve Harvery, Cedric The Enetariner, DL Hughley and Berine Mac are all hilarous in these movie. The comedy by these four gentlemen is hialrous and Spike Lee digital camera direction is top notch. I give these film ***** out of *****. "},{"Title":"Its Comedy Central The Movie!","Date":"20 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Documentary","Review":"  Why is this a movie? This is nothing but 4 episodes of standup from comedy central cable tv. And 4 BAD episodes at that.  Steve Harvey is about the only one of the 4 that could even begin to be considered a king of comedy, let alone an original king. I had not seen trailers or lists of performers and had only heard the title when i was subjected to this film.  I assumed with a name like Original Kings of Comedy it would have actual comedy genius like George Carlin, etc....  I mean come on, D.L. Hughley?  How is he a king of comedy???, he had a tv show for about 2 episodes before it was canceled and thats it. If you want to see standup just sit at home and watch comedy central, its better and doesnt cost you $8.50.  I give this film my lowest rating for being nothing but a long tv show and a fairly untalented and unfunny one at that. "},{"Title":"Down right funny","Date":"1 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Documentary","Review":" Forget what the last guy said about this movie. If you're looking to pee your pants laughing, then this is the movie for you. Spike Lee is a genius no matter what anyone says. This happens to be one of my favorite movies in the world. You couldn't ask for a better line-up. I had a new found respect for each of these comedians after watching this movie. I strongly recommend you buy this movie. It is worth every penny. If I have to add any criticism, I would say that Cedric the Entertainer could have been a little funnier. However, he still gave a great memorable show. After watching his act, you'll understand why they call him the enteratiner. Awesome movie no matter what the critics say. "},{"Title":"Hmmm...","Date":"7 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Documentary","Review":" I just had to comment on this documentary.It is funny, but to paraphrase Ralph Wiggum, not ha ha funny. It seems most of the jokes revolved around race, drugs, sex, homosexuality and child abuse. You know, the typical amateur hour fare with African-American comedians far less talented than the insightful and intelligent Chris Rock. (I miss the Chris Rock show)The behind the scenes footage is interesting though. You do not often get to see that part of a comedy show. Like all Spike Lee joints, it is interesting enough to watch once, although, the target demographic appears to be African-Americans. And also, turn on closed-captioning during the Bernie Mac routine. He is about as incomprehensible as Boomhauer of TV's King of the Hill fame. I couldn't understand a word he was saying sometimes.**1/2 out of *****  "},{"Title":"Spike Lee...the laughs on you!","Date":"8 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Documentary","Review":"  I rented this locally for only $2 and it would have been funnier for me to watch my $2 blow away out the window on the way to pick up this filth-ridden piece of boredom.  I didnt laugh once.  I watch BET sometimes and have by amused by that channel's comedy shows, but if these guys are the kings - look out commoners, and guys as the sayin goes don't give up your day jobs!.A long segment making fun of a supposed homosexual child nephew and beating children with the frequent use of the MF swear was particularly disturbing.  Not a one of these guys is funny and Spike Lee...I am laughing at you for spending time with this dreck! "},{"Title":"How DARE they?!","Date":"25 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Documentary","Review":" I like Black people, okay? I talk to Terrence at my job sometimes, and I even liked Urkel on 'Family Matters.' I don't understand why these particular Black guys have to get up on stage and tell jokes about race, which I understand to be racist. I don't think their jokes about Black churches or Black families are funny. It's not just because I've never experienced either, it's because I have simply deemed them unfunny. Who cares if they were the biggest selling tour in America for several years? I never heard of them, so they must not be relevant. They probably all portray drug dealers on their TV shows. I know funny. Jerry Seinfeld, Dane Cook, Gallagher and... Richard Pryor (only because he's dead) are it. These filthy negroes are NOT it. It's okay when George Carlin or Jon Stewart curse, but when these guys do it, it's profane. To sum up Andrew Dice Clay = good, a bunch of Black guys = terrible. BONUS!!! Spike Lee is involved, so that makes it extra, EXTRA racist. Not that he wrote one word of this movie, a CONCERT film, but it just always comforts me to call him a racist because he talks about non-white things. If it ain't white, it ain't right. Sincerely, The Authors of the First Twenty Comments on This Movie "}{"Title":"We run when somebody else runs.","Date":"23 March 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Documentary","Review":" This was a very disappointing comedy show. It wasn't even so much the profanity or vulgar scenarios that they were discussing that bothered me (because I love Chris Rock's work so much), but instead it was more the way that these four men presented themselves and represented themselves on stage. The self-proclaimed ringleader of them all, Steve Harvey, was the worst. The fact that he didn't even have enough material to survive on stage was pathetic enough. That set the tone for the rest of the film that was not a positive tone. His cheap monologue was filled with community insults and personal insults to the audience. I know they may have been all in fun and jest, but to me it never really came across as fun. Either Harvey was upset with the audience presented to him, or he just wasn't ready for his moment on stage, but it just came across as a completely different person than I was expecting. The same can be said for all of them whom were somewhat more concerned about their image than the jokes that they were telling.I don't know why Lee chose this project to place his name on and why he proclaimed these four to be the Original Kings of Comedy. To me that is a bit misleading. If he is speaking about African Americans being a part of comic culture, then I don't think these were the four to best represent it. What about Eddie Murphy, Red Foxx, or even the great Richard Prior? What about Bill Cosby? There just seemed to be a self-proclaimed stigma already attached to this project before we even began it that was hurt with the opening of each of their mouths. I was not impressed by any of them. If I had one dollar to give to one of them for their performance from the evening, and was forced to hand it to one of them, it would have been Cedric the Entertainer. He just seemed the most genuine of them all. His performance on stage was honest, yet bold all at the same time. He was talking to the audience, not above them, as the other performers seemed. While I don't think he was the most liked in the audience, I did think that he was the most talented of them all.Another huge problem that I had with this film was the cut sequences. You know, the moments that we spend talking to them off-stage about their lives and opportunity ahead. This tries to give them a sense of humanity, showing the audience this different side to them than when they are on stage, but what I witnessed was something a bit scarier. It seemed as if each was trying to grab the attention of the camera. Were we dealing with a group of camera hogs that were willing to step on anyone to get to the next level? Whether it is true or not, nothing is said to speak otherwise. While these were created to show their brotherhood, it felt more like filler delaying the inevitable consequence that we were going to go back to a sub-par routine. It was like a tease that hurt.Overall, I was not impressed. I have seen some comedians take an opportunity like this and blow it out of the ballpark, but what I saw with this documentary were four men (possibly five if you count Spike) that just wanted the opportunity to showcase their talent. They were not interested in the audience, or in trying to actually be funny, but instead just be on television. Notice that most of them are doing well now after the release of this film, which means that something worked. I just wish that they had put the same excitement behind their work in this film. From utter confusion to just downright profanity (without a joke), these guys felt as if they were winging it instead of demonstrating to us the power of their trade. I was embarrassed for everyone involved, even the people in the audience, but hope that others will see this review and take heed &#133; The Original Kings of Comedy is not worth the time or effort that you are going to put into it. If they are not willing to work to make me laugh &#133; than why should I laugh? Grade ** out of ***** "},{"Title":"I love comedy.....but this wasn't funny","Date":"23 December 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Documentary","Review":"  Im sorry but I am not on this bandwagon at all.  There were good moments, but overall it just wasn't all that at all.  I rarely laughed.  MOst of it was 'humourous' but not fall out of your chair and roll on the ground funny.  Don't waste your time with this.  You've got better things to do. "},{"Title":"A portrayal of what today's society thinks is humorous","Date":"24 August 2000","Score":"13 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Documentary","Review":"  A lot of this movie was funny, but I was so disturbed by how intentionally racist these guys are. Half of the show was White folks vs. Black folks. If these comedians want to continue rebuilding the wall of intolerance, then I hope that they aren't allowed to make any more movies. I was disturbed by what these men thought that they knew anything about me by the color of my skin. Leave the prejudice behind. One can still be funny talking about how they were raised or about how their family/friends act, but generalizing actions to an entire race is flat-out wrong. I am ashamed to say that I stayed throughout the whole movie. I am saddened by our society. And this sort of movie makes me lose hope in equality. Amen.  "},{"Title":"This was sooooo funny!","Date":"10 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Documentary","Review":" Okay first of all, I just read some guys comment saying that he didn't think it was all that - that it wasn't very funny.....WRONG! My husband suggested watching this because we had just watched Guess Who w/ Bernie Mac.....we both love that movie. So we rented this and it was GREAT. I busted up so many times, especially during D.L. Hughley and Bernie Mac. When Bernie said something about, when a kid turns 1, I believe you can hit them in the throat or stomach....I about DIED...(we have a one-year old boy w/ an attitude and we hit him in the throat and stomach all the time....LOL JK) but damn - so funny! And D.L. skit about sex in the bedroom........OMG.....these guys are great! "},{"Title":"Steve Harvey RULES!","Date":"15 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Documentary","Review":" I have to admit that I just watched The Original Kings of Comedy for the first time. I found a lot of dead on observations presented in such funny ways that I laughed a bunch. However, while I found Bernie Mac interesting to watch and listen to, I didn't laugh when he was on. And while Hugley and Cedric made me laugh a few times each, I was mostly observing and making mental notes about their material and delivery. It was non other than Steve Harvey who cracked me up almost the whole time, every time he was on stage. I'll admit that I'm just a generic white guy with a very limited knowledge of the black experience, but, it seems to me, if Harvey could keep me laughing that much, the other three could have been able to give me a lot more motivation to laugh as well. Until now, I figured that Harvey must be considered a lower tier comedian than the others, since he hasn't gotten the TV sitcoms and other primo gigs that they have. And, as he was just the MC here, it would seem that the producer and director thought the same thing. But, as far as I'm concerned, he not only stole this show, he owned it! "},{"Title":"Funny.","Date":"7 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Documentary","Review":" Why no love on IMDb? I couldn't tell you.All I could tell is I thought that this film was hilarious. Cedric the Entertainer was the one comedy that stood out the most for me. But they were all good. You can't base this film off anything more than the performances themselves, and the performances were good. Now, I don't think that these guys are the Original Kings of Comedy, but they are still funny. Between the backstage action, just seeing the guys interacting with each other, and the fans interactions, I give this film a 8 out of 10.RIP TG. "},{"Title":"Where is Def Jam?","Date":"12 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Documentary","Review":"  My only comment this time will have to be, that even though these stand up comedians are of a very high standard I've heard much better in episodes of Def Comedy Jam. The only other thing that bothered me was Cedric's performance because most of it was copied from an episode of Def Jam in which he was the host. rating 6/10 "},{"Title":"right on target","Date":"25 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Documentary","Review":" Wildly insightful, highly profane, racially observant comedy shot in documentary fashion is a segment of a stand-up concert featuring four black comedians and their hilariously blunt views on sex, sports, gender, and racial stereotypes. Harvey, as the host, is probably the freshest bringing something new to the table in each segment; Hughley is laser sharp in his observations about the differences between black and white employment and lifestyles; Cedric is hysterical in his views about the impact of black culture on mainstream sports; Mac is silly and energetic about his exhausting obligations to his dysfunctional family. Consistently racy, raunchy, and ribald, but, sharp, sidesplittingly funny, and boldly honest in the humor it displays. *** "},{"Title":"Put the kids to bed and try to keep it down!","Date":"31 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Documentary","Review":"  In my opinion, one of the funniest documentaries of all time.  While there are four superstars to this excruciatingly hilarious movie, each one individually tears the breath out of you with their routine.  The acts run the gambit of comedy.  The language is explicit, but this show is meant for those that can handle it with a smile. "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"8 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Documentary","Review":"  This was 1 of the funniest Comedy performance movies I've seen since Raw! And, seeing this on DVD was even better because you get a chance to see DL Hughley's deleted scenes, which were so funny!  All 4 men shined and were just awesome!   "}{"Title":"How many times can I watch this?....","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Documentary","Review":"  I've probably seen it 20+ times already.  In fact, we're watching it right now.  Cedric is doing his parallel parking  This movie is one of my favorite comedy tapes ever...and I have a lot of them.  I have the whole collection of Def Comedy Jams & all kinds of stand-up comedy.  This is one that I can watch over & over & over. I'll probably have to buy a new tape! All 4 comedians we're excellent (including the host - STEVE HARVEY!)**The KANGS (not the kings) need to come to San Francisco!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"** 1/2  So funny but too long!","Date":"22 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Documentary","Review":"  Spike Lee's original documentary that follows the live performance of four very funny comedians would be so much better if it wasn't so long! By the time you get to Bernie Mac, the sensational closing act, you find yourself so tired of watching the film (in truth, stand-up comedy is a very different experience when sitting in a movie theatre as opposed to seeing and feeling it live) that no matter how funny Mr. Mac is, the truth is the whole thing's just run out of steam. That said, you will get a lot of laughs out of these truly hysterical guys.  "},{"Title":"Very funny, and nothing else.","Date":"3 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Documentary","Review":"  I had no idea from watching their bland sitcoms that these performers were capable of some incredibly funny observations.  While targeted at African-Americans, the humor can be appreciated by anyone willing to laugh at cultural differences.  The theme of the American racial divide runs throughout the film and the four performer's acts.  Nothing hateful is said about any group (with the possible exception of some remarks made by Bernie Mac having to do with homosexuals), and a good time can be had by all.Steve Harvey is a brilliant performer, and he blends standard rehearsed material with jokes he was apparently making up on the spot for the audience.  Cedric the Entertainer had some wonderfully inspired material as well.  My favorite performance came from D. L. Hugely, who's humor hit really close to home for me.  I was less impressed with Bernie Mac, who's style is a bit meaner than the other three performers.  Mac is a funny guy, but after the more light-hearted material of the 3 prior comedians it was difficult to shift gears into his sharp, angry style.  Directed by Spike Lee, this film puts its emphasis on the performances of the so-called Kings (or as Harvey put it Kayngs).  Very little of the film is spent outside of the actual concert.  Interview clips are only a few minutes long, and are not so much interviews as extentions of the performances.  (Slightly more insightful footage is used as supplemental material on the DVD.)  This is not a movie about a concert or a tour, this is a 2 hour comedy special.  It's good for some laughs, but don't expect anything else.   "},{"Title":"A ROYAL CARPET FULL OF LAUGHS!","Date":"1 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Documentary","Review":"  If no else is willing to say it I will. Original Kings of Comedy is one of the most funniest concert films since Richard PryorLive On the Sunset Strip. Steve Harvey kicks it off with riffs about Rae Carruth, the hit movie Titanic,old school music vs. hip-hop music,and many more. In between he lets D.L. Hughley, Cedric The Entertainer, and Bernie Mac have the stage. D.L. has his moments as he riffs about bill collectors,Viagra,and Jesus being black,and snapping on any audience member in his sight. Then Ced gets on stage talking about reggage singers,space movies,golf,differences between hoping and wishing,nicknames,and a whole lot more. But, the most funniest jokes come from Bernie Mac as he riffs on his sister's kids,different types of sex,a mentally retarded relative,and more. Spike Lee did a good job with this movie. Once you see your going to feel like your sitting in the front row of the arena,instead of your couch at home. This movie is a royal treat!   "},{"Title":"Who thought these guys were funny to begin with?","Date":"13 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Documentary","Review":"  I saw this piece of drek, and came to a sobering conclusion Spike Lee made only one good movie, Malcom X. Everything he made before that, and everything after that was garbage.These kings are more like paupers. Their jokes are truly unfunny, uninspired, racist, and just plain stupid. I was amazed to see the audience (on the film) laugh hysterically at ... nothing! This is a waste of time, effort, and money.I suggest you don't waste any of the above on this joke of a film.  "},{"Title":"Far from hilarious","Date":"9 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Documentary","Review":"  Read the reviews on here to see if I'd missed something.... I watched Kings over the weekend. I didn't like it. This movie was not hilarious like about 8 out of 10 reviews say here, it was mediocre at best. Maybe my sense of humour has changed throughout the years, but I thought that this was way over-rated, and not anything new. I've seen the white folk vs black folk crap done over a million times. Cedric was probably the best, since he moved away from this in his comedy a bit. But for the most part, alot of retread on jokes I've seen done many times before, sometimes my better comedians, sometimes worse. To me, it was like watching Sat Night at the Improv, hit and miss. Sometimes a good joke, but mostly alot of tired, egotistical up and coming or down and out comedians. The four of them were good with their delivery, but the material was not as hilarious as everyone who reviews this movie keeps on telling us. I'm giving it a 6 out of 10. A D+. I don't think this film needed to be made with all the Stand-up shows that have invaded cable since the 80's. Plus those annoying shots of the crowd! Jeez Spike, give us a break.    "},{"Title":"DAMN FUNNY!","Date":"24 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Documentary","Review":"  RATING *** out of ****  This movie will not be seen by some because You can see the same thing on Comedy Central. Well, this isn't CC kind of stuff, this is more like Def Comedy Jam...only with older comics. Spike Lee also does a great job directing. In the hands of another director, the movie could of looked like somebody in the audience taping the audience in his seat. But Spike makes it interesting. He uses different styles of film and video and many camera angles to show the movie. It's really cool-looking. The funniest comic was Steve Harvey. Anything he said was hilarious. All of them were good in their own way but Harvey RULES! Bernie Mac was hilarious as well. Cedric the Entertainer was funny too. D.L Hughley too. Possibly the funniest part in the movie is from Cedric. His Peanut Butter song. My only complaint is that sometimes the performers slurred their lines and I couldn't understand it. Rent this movie! You'll have a blast. If you're still skeptical, remember I'm a white guy from Texas.  "},{"Title":"Three-fourths hilarious","Date":"10 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Documentary","Review":"  I rented this movie with some expectations.  I expected to see four of the best comedians out there at the top of their games, and I did see three of them.  Steve Harvey just didn't measure up to Bernie Mac, Hughley, or Cedric.  Every time Harvey came out, the film ground to a halt, as much of his routine seemed forced. The last time I saw Steve Harvey on television I laughed quite a bit.  Here he seems to be trying too hard to swear at the expense of his routine.  Mac, Hughley, and Cedric the Entertainer all swore as well, but their routines had me on the floor.  My favorite parts were when Hughley was talking about work and when Bernie Mac was talking about everything (it was so right to have Bernie Mac on last).  I came into this movie not ever having heard any of their routines, and came away appreciating their comedy very much.  If you're interested, I do recommend it because it's a very funny movie.  Parts of this film measure up to some of Richard Pryor's best work.  In my opinion, Steve Harvey falls flat, and that surprised me. "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"27 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Documentary","Review":"  I have seen many movies with many different plots and all types of humor. This movie has no plot and does nothing to try to interest you in a story. It just comes right at you with raw comedy that is made better by the comedians involved.  This is one of the only movies I have ever laughed so hard at that I was physically tired of laughing before the last man even came out.  Even with me being tired and not wanting to laugh any more I couldn't help myself, Bernie Mac, was out of control funny.  It should be noted that this type of humor is not for everyone.  If you are easily offended by bad language or making fun of others situations you will not like this.  If you are open to having fun with no meaning, plot, purpose, or taboo you will love it.  Sometimes its good to not have to figure the meaning of the movie out to get it and to just be able to have fun. "},{"Title":"P** In Your Pants Funny.","Date":"4 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Documentary","Review":"  More of a TV special than a movie, but funnier than any movie I've seen in quite a while. I laughed so hard I was covered in tears. Not very PC, but funny as can be. Four comic perform in concert. The language is raw as can be, the humor is racist, but not mean spirited. As a whitey who loves black people and culture I thought it was a real hoot. "}{"Title":"Extremely funny...","Date":"4 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Documentary","Review":"  The original kings of comedy are just that king of comedy. These comics can make you laugh at almost anything. From Rae Carruth to Bernie Mac beating your kids at daycare, they pretty much go after anything and everything. Steve Harvey is the MC of the night while he doesnt have a set of his own like Cedric the Entertainer, D.L. Hughley or Bernie Mac he does have small comedy bits between each performer. You will probably not find all the comics funny if you are young (It's rated R you shouldn't be watching it!) But if your like 25-30 or so you probably get all the jokes. But its all good since most people will get the bulk of the jokes. An extremely funny movie that puts 4 funny comics together for the price of a movie ticket. "},{"Title":"Genial","Date":"13 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Documentary","Review":"  For somebody with a reputation for the ham-handed and the single-minded, Spike Lee has a crazy love for the diversity of blackness. In the most beautiful moment in this concert movie (shot just a few months ago on digital video), Spike Lee recreates the Coney-Island-snapshot sequence from HE GOT GAME using real Kings of Comedy audience members--a pudgy couple in matching Hilfiger, grannies with towering beehives, bespectacled hicks. The cinematographer, Maleek Khan, photographs black skin with loving nuance. (See NURSE BETTY for contrast, where Chris Rock and Morgan Freeman are turned into near-literal tar babies.) And clearly Lee has an affection for the cornpone standup of the Kings. The moment you can feel is nearest and dearest to him comes when the MC, Steve Harvey, assails rap music and extols the virtues of the Al Wilson/Luther/Teddy Pendergrass era. These chitlin-circuit gagmeisters are a throwback to another era--an era before Def Comedy Jam, before the concept of Russell Simmons. Even when their bits sprinkle the F word, they're still clean.The material runs together (white people are like this and black people are like that; music ain't what it used to be; black women got a lot of rules) but the performers save it. My favorite is Cedric the Entertainer, a stout hipster whose offstage persona is ratherly dourly celebral--his bits on the first black President have a nice not-sold-to-death quality. The scariest is Bernie Mac, a countrified aggression artist who does a long aria on beating his kids. His bit, critically praised for its resemblance to the naked, confessional work of Richard Pryor, is the dullest in the movie. (He's still fairly compelling.) "},{"Title":"bernie mac was of the hook!!!!","Date":"5 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Documentary","Review":"  Bernie Mac was great, he stole the show.  Bernie was funny from the time he started to the time he ended.  I thought Cedric was neck the neck with Bernie, but Cedric had a couple of duds, although he was great.  I would go see this again just to see Bernie and Cedric. "},{"Title":"Like a two-hour HBO Special... it was good!","Date":"1 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Documentary","Review":"  Like the summary says, it was a two-hour comedy special, with a little behind-the-scenes documentary featuring Steve Harvey, D.L. Hughley, Cedric the Entertainer and Bernie Mack.Don't get it twisted, this is NOT a movie.  There's no plot, it's all just good comedy.  Go see it, though.  It's pretty cool watching it on the big screen.BTW Notice the R rating.  There's IS a reason. "},{"Title":"It's hilarious!","Date":"28 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Documentary","Review":"  As I sat down to watch the Kings of Comedy, I was taken back.  All of these guys are my uncles.  Steve Harvey is the old school player.  D.L Hughley is that uncle who's always talking about some one.  Cedric is the laid back uncle, and Bernie is that uncle who everybody only invites because he's family.  You know the one.  This movie or rather concert/documentary is hilarious.  All four comedians have been in the game longer than many may believe.  In my opinion Bernie Mac was the funniest of the three if only in his style of delivery.  It's like your right there and holding a conversation with him.Bernie is next on my list.  He is as funny as Steve Harvey but I connected with him better.  His delivery is like that of someone that you hang with every weekend.  Steve Harvey is third on my list.  He was the MC for the night and he smoothed out the seams between breaks.  His routines were funny and paced perfectly.  He does a routine with a audience member that is not to be forgotten.And last but not least poor D.L.  I like D.L., but I feel he was thrown into the mix here.  He lacks the old school qualities of the previous three performers and some of the jokes the he told I've heard before.  His set was funny enough to get me by, but I could have done without.Spike tried to film this as a Docu-comedy, but failed.  I only say this because we could have gotten a better insight to the comedians and their travails.  Instead we were given mini skits with the comedians being funny.  Hey save it for the stage.  All in all as I said the film is enjoyable and hilarious.  It deserves 3 out of 4 stars.  And on a side note.  For all of the people who were offended  there was nothing too offensive racially within the movie.  You must understand that black comedians, with the exception of Bill Cosby, have been doing it for years.  It is nothing new.  There is a lot of sexual comedy, but that is to be expected also.    "},{"Title":"FUNNY!! But what's up with the picture quality?","Date":"28 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Documentary","Review":"  This concert film is hilarious.  For those of you who say it is racist, do you dare criticize a Margaret Cho, Paul Rodriguez or even Jerry Seinfeld for making jokes about the differences between ethnic groups?  The Kings (or should I say Kahngs) of Comedy do this to a funny effect.  They are not saying anyone is better or stupid just that yes there are ethnic differences between blacks and whites in the same way that there are differences between Italians and Germans.  For all of you folks crying racism do protest the fact that in the history of Hollywood blacks have won about 6 Oscars total?  If anything that is the real racism.  As a black man, it was nice to see a movie starring 4 blacks that was funny and intelligent and didn't involve shooting or gang banging.  Now to review the movie, I have not laughed this consistently hard in a movie in a long time.  All four of the comedians are hilarious but I think the guys who surprised me the most were Steve Harvey and Bernie Mac.  Steve never struck me as especially funny on his sitcom or on Showtime at the Apollo.  But in this special he is on fire!!!  The best bit is his take on Rae Carruth, Titanic, his exchange with an audience member and his daily trips to church as a child.  Bernie Mac had a tour de force turn as well, his description of taking care of his brothers kids had me in stitches (think Robin Harris and BeBe's kids).  This isn't to say DL Hugley and Cedric weren't good because they were (kudos to Cedric for his take on black people vs. white people when it comes to office violence and running from trouble). I applaud all of the comedians for pointing out some of the ridiculous aspects of hip hop and the youth culture today.  My one criticism would be of Spike's early direction of the movie - Spike let the show speak for itself we don't need images you insert ruining the show on stage.  For those of you who have seen it I'm not talking about the vignettes in between the acts I'm talking about during Steve Harvey's first set when Spike decides to splice in some posed pictures of the country folks who are at the concert. My other criticism I have after viewing this film - Why MTV, why Spike Lee did you decide to shoot this on video transferred to film rather than straight to film?  The picture quality is bad (think Blair Witch when they showed scenes shot with the video camera).  I'm sure when it comes to TV it will look much better but it is too bad for the theatrical release that they went the video route.  All in all, I recommend this movie.  It is funny  funny  funny.  PS for those of you who want a preview clips are on Napster. "},{"Title":"H-I-L-A-R-I-O-U-S!!!!","Date":"27 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Documentary","Review":"  As part of a collboration between MTV Films,Latham Entertainment Paramount Pictures,and director Spike Lee--finally lets on the biggest entertainment secrets out of the closet and into the heart of theatres across America. The secret is the phenomenal success of the Kings of Comedy tour,which generated over $37 million in ticket sales last year and stands currently as the top-grossing comedy tour in history. Not since the days of Richard Pryor or Eddie Murphy for that manner,has there been four comedians who take the stage and captivates an audience like never before(It was no wonder that the movie version of this grossed over $20 million the day it opened being it was the #2 movie in America,and still is!!!). There maybe some flaws here,but the first part of the material is packed in the first half--given with esthusiaism by Steve Harvey(of the WB's The Steve Harvey Show)as he goes on a rant here about the movie Titanic which he pokes fun of as well as the escape plans of former Carolina Panther Rae Carruth,and also pokes fun of old folks in the black church.Then the stage is set for D.L. Hughley(of the show's The Hughleys,which was on ABC now moved to the UPN network),who explains why blacks do not bungee jump because the concept is very similiar to lynching....Then we have Cedric The Entertainer (also from WB's The Steve Harvey Show),who notes that Bill Clinton would be the closest thing we'll ever get for a black president,and also goes into detail on other things as well like a ghetto wedding,and family members.Rounding out them is Bernie Mac who goes into detail about children and people around his house(which is hilarious as heck when he talks about a 2 year old niece and a gay 6 year old boy going for some milk and cookies).It is for the most part rib tickling laugh out of your seat,but it is one of the best concert films of the year not be missed by a long shot! Kudos to Spike Lee and Steve Harvey for making this a reality!!!!  ***1/2 out of ****  "},{"Title":"BERNIE MAC TO THE RESCUE!!!!!!!","Date":"27 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Documentary","Review":"  The Kings of Comedy is like rush hour traffic....stop..go...stop...go....then all of a sudden...PEDAL TO THE FLOOR when bernie mac came on!!!!! Geared to a black audience...as most Spike Lee Joints are, Kings of Comedy had some hilarious jokes in it...and some that were just the same recycled humor you hear on BET every weekend You have to have a sense of humor going into the movie and cannot be easily offended by off-color jokes and especially (KEY POINT HERE)jokes about the caucasian persuasion..it is just entertainment!!! Steve Harvey does a good job MCing the show..while D.L. Hughley is ok in his bits...Cedric the Entertainer was mostly disappointing as he didnt seem to come up with anything new for his act...but Bernie Mac stole the show! See it just for Bernie...he makes it all worthwhile! "},{"Title":"One for the library","Date":"26 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Documentary","Review":"  When this movie is released on video, it deserves a spot in your permanent comedy collection, right alongside Eddie Murphy's Delirious and Richard Pryor Live in Conert.I noticed that a lot of the reviewers at this web site weren't able to warm up to D.L Hughley's heckling of the crowd and Bernie Mac's no-holds-barred finale.  Too bad.  The brothas and sistas I was in the theatre with with were dying with laughter all the way through this flick, and ESPECIALLY when Bernie Mac was laying it down.  His example of how a certain word (hint the first part is mutha) can be used a variety of ways in casual conversation between fellas was brilliant because it was grounded in the truth.  Go to any place where some self-styled playas are just cooling out you'll see 'em capping on each other and cussing like pirates just like Bernie Mac.  But just like Bernie's standup, it's all in good fun.I love how the concert was staged so that the two old heads, Steve Harvey and Bernie Mac, emcee and anchor the show respectively.  This was a shrewd move since these guys were the most experienced and therefore just a little more adept at working the crowd to a fever pitch.  DL Hughley was his usual wisecracking, crowd heckling self --I counted at least 8 people that he absolutely nailed -)-- and Cedric unleashed his rapier wit and off-the-wall dance routines that, one point, had me laughing until my stomach hurt. Cedric has always represented St. Louis well and I'm already seeing folks out on the street repeating his classic bits in this movie verbatim.I reiterate  this ain't just a good concert movie.  These four titanic talents provide the sharpest, frankest, and most outlandish comedic insights into black culture and mannerisms to date.  Pryor would be proud.  "},{"Title":"Lots of Laugh","Date":"23 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Documentary","Review":"  This movie is bust-your-gut funny!  No one should be offended by this movie. These four comedians have been around for years and have always used black/white comparisons in their stand up routines.  They make fun of white and black people.  No one is off-limits.  It's only comedy folks -- funny comedy at that! "}{"Title":"FANTABULOUS MOVIE IF YOU DON'T RELATE TO THIS MOVIE ,DON'T REVIEW IT.","Date":"22 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Documentary","Review":"  This is a great comedy about four comedians who illustrate their lives in their comdey.Their comedy left me inspired and on the floor .This is one movie i can say is worth my money.Throughout the movie they tell stories of their lives and about america, it is a definite must see. "},{"Title":"Long live The Kings!","Date":"28 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Documentary","Review":" THE ORIGINAL KINGS OF COMEDY (2000) *** Steve Harvey, D.L.Hughley, Cedric the Entertainer, Bernie Mac. (Dir Spike Lee) Spike Lee's latest joint is his lensing of The Four Horseman of The Apocalypse, or as they're better known as The Kings of Comedy, during their trailblazing, barnstorming tour of the United States that sold out major venues and is captured in their Charlotte, North Carolina concert with ecstatic, electrified hilarity ensuing.Harvey, best known for his eponymous titled sitcom and host of 'Showtime At The Apollo', effectively balances two jobs as emcee and performer and opens the show with a strong set and may seem surprisingly profane from his tv show image. Resembling comic icon Richard Pryor and very at ease with the adoring crowd, Harvey's is the most polished of the foursome and has some very funny bits on rappers (who he disdains even though they appear frequently on his series; joke taken!), being an old-school arbiter of r&b/soul of the 70s music that whips the crowd into a jump out of your seat dancing frenzy, and his take on the film 'Titanic' ('The band went down with the ship? ?' and proceeds to pantomime Kool & the Gang hustling out with their instruments and equipment hastily and how if black folk were on board making a makeshift raft from a small table and a dinner napkin setting as a sail.Hughley, also known for his eponymous tv hit, hits some high marks with the audience busting on them including a dubious type in the front row who looks like a homeless rap star, and includes bits on hygiene, how black people aren't the most athletic thrill seekers ('Bungee jumping? That's too much like lynching to us') and for my money his best quick take on Jesus being black by enacting the miracle of turning water into wine at a wedding ('Normally, you know, I don't do this &#150; but go on, keep the party goin'!') Chubby and charismatic Cedric The Entertainer perhaps steals the show with his amusing takes on money, being a 'grown adult man', the martial arts, the first black president (on the national debt 'Yo dawg, man tell 'em I ain't got it') and his funniest as a breakdancing machine that has the crowd in stitches. He clearly is having the most fun on stage and it shows.Perhaps the edgiest and angriest of the four has to be Mac who comes on strong and doesn't back down from his verbal assault on children (particularly his sister's three kids he's currently raising) that is funny only when he says that he's saying what we can't but are thinking, his realization that he's not the sexual dynamo anymore with his wife and the overall feeling that this is one comedian who will not compromise his stage persona for a quick Hollywood buck. That's their misfortune since Mac seems to be cut from the same cloth as Pryor in his going for the jugular by incorporating the most painful of his personal struggles.Pryor and Eddie Murphy clearly resonate echoing during the concert yet all four of these talented men have their own unique brand of stand-up and to say them in the same breath as the aforementioned trend-setters is definitely a compliment of the high order.I haven't laughed this hard all summer (except for the shamelessly funny 'Me, Myself & Irene') and have to admit I've only seen these comics intermittently hear and there on tv. They definitely should and do deserve more exposure and it's a damn shame the media didn't give them props in the beginning on reporting the extraordinary business they've accumulated in ticket sales (you have to go all the way back to the Seventies when Steve Martin's Wild & Crazy salad days were selling out arenas and larger venues).This unprecedented happening is only truncated by the lame tack ons Lee splices of the Kings playing poker, hanging on a b-ball court or chilling in their stretch limo. The fact that all 4 are sartorially splendid only underscores just how classy they are even if they're expletive riddled acts are spicing up their material, which only accentuates rather than offends. "},{"Title":"not a funny comedian in the bunch","Date":"31 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Documentary","Review":"  on a whim i decided to watch this movie, dear god i'm sorry i did, the name was quite misleading, i had assumed that there would be some humor, but it was the usual trash which is to be expected from these comedians, if you havent seen this movie, please, do yourself a favor and dont, it's almost as humerous as runteldat looks "},{"Title":"Here We Go Again...","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Documentary","Review":"  Well, here we go again...yet another offering of pure egotism, this time exploited by the likes of such predictable comedians as Steve Harvey, Cedric the Entertainer, Bernie Mac, and D.L. Hughley. As if the self-indulgence wasn't enough to ruin any chance of a laugh, we're also given offensive, self-stereotyping racial remarks, by comedians who claim to be against prejudice, racism, and biggotry. Just one more video to throw into the look at me, I'm black, insert laugh track here pile. The documentary insults itself and its own purpose (if any), as well as many people, of several races, who strive to bring an end to biggotry and stereotypes. A shame. "},{"Title":"Jon Monsarrat review So much anger! Racism? Avoid.","Date":"5 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Documentary","Review":" We know what a racist joke is. A Polish guy walks into a bar... An Irish / Southern redneck / Maine hick guy is so dumb...The movie is basically the video recording of a theatre evening, a series of standups. I've seen plenty of African-American comedians in various guises, but never before have I seen the us-vs.-them blacks vs. whites mentality so starkly as in The Original Kings of Comedy. It floored me.This isn't Chris Tucker in Rush Hour, who gives us a little black / white humor but he winks at the camera to let us know he's kidding, and there's plenty of self-deprecating humor on both sides of the racial divide. This stuff is real, it's angry, and I didn't see anybody winking. I watched about half hoping the tone would change but it didn't.Clearly the jokes are based on stereotypes the comedians and the audience think are true, sometimes about blacks but usually about whites. I find it difficult to find a definition of racist humor which doesn't include much of the humor in this film.I'm not saying that the anger from African-Americans isn't well-justified. Of course it is. But the civil rights movement was all about moving past that and having tolerance and respect for all people. Right? African-Americans have struggled for so long under stereotypes that it's hard to see them caught up in perpetrating them. Is this mainstream culture? Scary.Who should see this film-- nobodyI'm going to give The Original Kings of Comedy a 1 out of 10, as I would any racist media regardless of the target. Check out my other reviews and you will see I am quite a normal guy, not some sort of reactionary. "},{"Title":"Utter poo..,","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Documentary","Review":" Disturbingly racist, unintelligible (especially the Bernie Mac portion), humor that appeals to the denominator, badly directed, self-indulgent, this pretty much sums up The Original Kings of Comedy, a Spike Lee joint. Could you see the audience laughing as hard if these were white performers cracking racial jokes and routines about beating their children? I do not think so.   "},{"Title":"Reigned With Laughs!","Date":"16 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Documentary","Review":"  I must admit I did laugh many times during `The Original Kings Of Comedy.' This Spike Lee joint features stand up routines from Steve arvey, D.L. Hughley, Cedric the Entertainer, and Bernie Mac. These 4 comedians have received more public attention from all ethnic groups because of the film. But I guess when Spike Lee could hook it up for you to be in his movie than it is `good to be the king.' **** Good  "},{"Title":"The Unoriginal Subjects of Crassness","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Documentary","Review":" Let's begin with the title, The Original Kings of Comedy. Original implies one of two meanings either previously unknown or unpresented, or the first of some series or set. Clearly the latter usage is out, since these men are not the first kings of comedy. The originals of modern comedy are men like Jackie Gleason, the Marx brothers, Charlie Chaplin, Buster Keaton, etc., and not these 1990s comedians. The former meaning of the word orginal is also a misnomer. Since when did four-letter words and racist stereotypes (a staple in Spike Lee joints) constitute originality? Kings is an easy one to shoot down as well. How can one be a king of comedy if he is not funny? Between them the only one with any success was the emcee with a moderately successful network show to his credit. The rest are clearly usurpers at best. Finally, why should the word comedy ever be associated with this movie? Racism, profanity, misogyny, homophobia and other negative attitudes pass for comedy only to the lowest common denominator of our society.The only aspect of this movie to which I give any credit is that it is a movie consistent with Lee's other celluloid garbage. Lee's joints never fail to appeal to the basest urges of this society's groundlings. Continue your foul work, Lee, and see to it that our country's racial divide is perpetuated. "},{"Title":"A mind is a terrible thing to waste","Date":"21 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Documentary","Review":"  I, too, am wondering why this was released as a feature film. In about three months this will be one of those movies you can buy for ten dollars at Target. But don't even waste your ten dollars then. Not only is the humor mainly sixth-grade level potty and sex jokes, but we are treated to the all-to-familiar generalizations about white folks. Sorry, but racism is racism, no matter whose mouth it comes from. When was the last time you saw a white comic start a joke with Ever notice how black people...? Thank God they aren't allowed to do that anymore, and black comics shouldn't be allowed to either.  I am a child of a happy interracial marriage, and both my African-American and European-American sides are offended by this scummy, low-budget retarded junior-high shuck and jive. Spike Lee should really be ashamed of himself for pimping out these old-school has-beens. I saw people of four different ethnic backgrounds walking out on this one in the first 45 mins. I stuck it out, hoping it might get better. It didn't. "},{"Title":"Genuinely Funny","Date":"20 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Documentary","Review":"  Now, before I saw this movie, I knew that Steve Harvey and D.L. Hughley were stand up comics and had there own shows, Cedric the Entertainer had a guest appearance on Chris Rock's show and Bernie Mac has been in various movies and TV shows.  But until yesterday, I never saw there acts.  Well, now I have.  And there is only one thing I can saw- There are some funny mother****ers in that movie.  Now, they might not be as funny as say Richard Pryor or George Carlin, but, there material does reflect some great underlying meaning (even though the average person wouldn't notice).  Steve Harvey definately is the funniest one as he does an impression of a black guy escaping from a sinking Titanic, and Bernie Mac is also a big laugh machine by showing what a woman looks like as she's givin' pleasure.  Hughley and Cedric also get laughs, and all 4 are conected by 2 things, 1 that most of the humor conveyes the hilarious differences with blacks and whites and 2, they are all directed by Spike Lee.  One of the greatest stand-up comedy films ever made.  A+ "}{"Title":"Why was this film made?","Date":"19 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Documentary","Review":"  What I can't figure out is, why would anybody go to a theater and PAY to hear these run-of-the-mill comics, when they could stay home and watch them for FREE, any night of the week, on BET or on Comedy Def Jam! The material is totally unoriginal- just the usual boy, those white folks sure talk funny, c**p that every Richard Pryor wannabe breaks out. "},{"Title":"I never thought that Spike Lee could do comedy; boy was I wrong!","Date":"5 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Documentary","Review":" Knowing what Spike Lee's movies have portrayed over the years, I always pictured him as a serious director, never one for comedy. Therefore, I was pleasantly surprised when I saw The Original Kings of Comedy. I'd never heard of Steve Harvey, D.L. Hughley, Cedric the Entertainer, or Bernie Mac when the movie came out, but they made me crack up. I think that my favorite line in the movie was the rip at Titanic; I couldn't have agreed more with him.So, this may very well be a look at the possible direction of stand-up comedy in the 21st century. I hope that humor continues as TOKOC portrays. A very funny documentary. "},{"Title":"Big laughs all around","Date":"9 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Documentary","Review":"  Now I usually do not like the comedy stylings of Steve Harvey.  In this film however he is at his best.  The film has some great laughs from beginning to end.  When this first came out I must have heard the jokes a million times.  They never stop being funny.  This film is great if you are in need of a pick me up.  Everybody needs a good laugh sometime and this is where you can get them. "},{"Title":"Laugh Out Loud Funny","Date":"15 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Documentary","Review":"  How is this, as one person commented, disturbingly racist? The comics in this film make light of differences between African-American culture and white culture, but not in a hateful or angry way. Bernie Mac is a master of the put-on, and I agree with an earlier poster who said his bit about his sister's kids was hilarious. Those who call this movie racist would do well to remember that the oppressor cannot be the oppressed, despite what folks like Rush Limbaugh and Bill O'Reilly want you to believe. "},{"Title":"must see must own","Date":"25 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Documentary","Review":"  If you need some laughs this is for you, Steve Harvey is excellent as the host and I found his comedy better than most. Harvey and Cedric the Entertainer really put on a great show in this film. I didn't care much for D.L. Hughley or Bernie Mac, but I still would buy this tape its a must have for comedy fans out there, but if you aren't sure just rent it and check it out you will love it. "},{"Title":"Check That Out!","Date":"17 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Documentary","Review":"  Did anybody notice several coincidences during the order of appearances in this film?  #1... Alphabetically by last name Steve HARVEY, D.L. HUGHLEY, Cedric KYLES (his actual real last name), Bernie MAC.#2... Alphabetically by first name (backwards) STEVE, D.L., CEDRIC, BERNIE.#3... The amount of movies they're credited for (not counting this one) If you check each comedian's filmography on IMDB, Steve Harvey starred in the least, D.L. Hughley more, Cedric The Entertainer more than D.L., and Bernie Mac starred in the most.#4... Their skin complexions Steve Harvey (lightest), D.L. Hughley (a lil' darker), Cedric The Entertainer (dark), Bernie Mac (darkest).Organized by SPIKE CoincidentaLEE  LOL -) "},{"Title":"What's wrong with you People?","Date":"28 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Documentary","Review":"  First off the movie was so funny. All the comedians had their own different style. All were equally funny but I got to give my props to Cedric. He was the highlight of the show if you ask me.Second of all RACIST, how dare you say these men are racist. I'm am black (and proud)So I've been through my share of racism. REAL racism. Not this white people are different than black people crap. That's not racism. I'm insulted that some of you (no offense) white people call those men racist. Because for you to say stupid stuff like what they say is racist is insulting because if you think little things like that is racist you must think we (blacks) were angry at dumb stereo types like that. No we were angry because we were sick to death of being treated like we weren't people just because of the color of our skin.That is real racism and those men went through it so you might want to have a little respect. They were jokes that's it some are true and the ones that were, were really about us. They know that all white people arent the same. That's the joke. DUH! I mean really. if you can't handle race jokes you shouldn't or should not have seen this movie. As for the language. Does the term Rated R mean anything to you. If you were expecting clean cutt jokes- I'm not even going to comment. By the way I'm 14 years old. "},{"Title":"Pretty funny...","Date":"18 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Documentary","Review":"  And this is coming from a white guy in northern New England.I think Steve Harvey was the Best, his routines about the great Philly Soul music-Al Wilson, King Floyd, etc were right on the money. It was amazing to see the reaction these tunes got from the audience the second they started. Harvey plays on the generation gap of 'rap vs r & b' quite well. I think he was dead-on and the most self-assured of the lot. Best routine-Rae Carruth.Hughly struck me as the youngest acting, his stuff wasn't quite as good or original as the others-but his 'heckle the hecklers' schtick was good. His worst problem is that we've seen his stuff done elsewheres, that's all. He's fine otherwise.Cedric I had never heard of before, and still donno what to make of him. His routines tended to leave me flat, but then he pulls this hilarious Curly Howard 'RUN!' bit that had me going. That stuff I liked quite alot. He's first shown backstage in the john doing Gregorian Chants(!?) and makes a cryptic, off-hand comment about it being from 'a previous life long ago and far away'. If anything I'd like to know more about him, maybe Spike coulda done more background on these fellers.Lastly we have Bernie Mack. Bernie looks like the late Howard Rollins from 'In the Heat of the Night', he's the one closest to Redd Foxx in both subject matter and delivery seems to me. I liked some of his stuff, had trouble understanding a few of his more mush-mouthed lines, and generally thought he is what is generally called a 'regional' comedian, ala Tim Sample in Maine or like Pat McManus in his hunting tales. He had a rural air about him, despite being from Chicago. Mack is funny of course, don't get me wrong. But he like Cedric left me a little flat. Harvey I liked better.It's overall a pleasing, fun flick that does get somewhat tiring towards the end, two hours is a longtime. Spike Lee directed this-in what way? Point the camera and show the comedians, do a little audience cut-in, etc. That seemed to be about it. I liked his approach actually-letting the comedians do their things-though of course more bio material would have helped, esp. with Cedric and Mack.*** outta ****, it's funny. "},{"Title":"good in spurts, somewhat unsatisfying overall","Date":"20 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Documentary","Review":"  One thing that needs to be understood from the get-goThis is a BLACK FILM. It was made by, and for, Black people.This is not to say that White people cannot or will not enjoy the film, but the comedy in this movie revolves around Black culture and the condition of Black people in America.I don't mean to harp on a point that may seem obvious, but the fact that this is advertised as A Spike Lee joint may be a bit deceiving since many of his films, though they may center around and star Black people, often contain timeless themes that are universal in scope and understanding.Anyway... had to get that out of the way.It kinda depends on how you look at this. There were many, MANY moments in the film that, looking back, were the highlight of my week. I mean, just drop-dead, laughing-so-hard-you're-losing-your-voice-and-you-can-barely-breathe funny. My personal favorite of the four comedians was Cedric the Entertainer. His was the most clean, and his laid back style is personally the most appealing to me. He has one bit about how folks start running without explanation... oooooowweeee... just thinking about it makes my sides hurt.Steve Harvey came in at a close second. He's got more of a ranting style. It's funny. And surprisingly, although he also cusses a lot, sometimes that even enhances the humor because it's so absurdly inappropriate. At one point he's talking about the good ol' days of soul music, and he's like, Listen to these godd@mn lyrics!DL Hughley and Bernie Mac, I didn't like as much. Both of them had a lot of sexual humor that I didn't find that funny. They both had their moments (especially Hughley) but neither one were especially hilarious. Hughley also spent a lot of time doing his trademark anti-heckler business, cracking on people in the crowd. Some of it was funny, but not very.In general, if you are like me and not a fan of people using the F-word gratuitously, you might find this movie somewhat unsatisfying. Bernie Mac especially spent the last portion of his bit trying to explain his use of the F-word and at the same time trying to make it sound like it's a staple of Black culture. If a White comedian would have done that, I would have resented it. Because Bernie Mac is Black, and because there were apparently many people in the theater in which it was taped (and in the movie theater where I sat) for whom that bit seemed to resonate, I just had to sit there and feel slightly ashamed. It was the same feeling I had throughout 1/3rd of Scary Movie.I wouldn't (and didn't) spend full-price on it, but it was still a good time.  "},{"Title":"Enjoyable time","Date":"20 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Documentary","Review":"  I loved this film.  People should give credit when credit is do.  During the voting, there should not be any discrimination when deciding how funny this film is.  Just don't take offense and this movie will have you laughing in your seat.  I didn't let the color of anyone's skin, stop me from giving these comedians what they deserve, don't let it stop you. "}{"Title":"All hail!","Date":"16 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Documentary","Review":"  This is not for the squeamish, let me tell you that. Not that I'm squeamish, but 15 minutes into this when the blood starts pouring, I found myself wanting to throw up into my popcorn! But, that's not to say that it was bad,actually it was quite good. Chock full of great special effects and laughs galore, this movie couldn't be better.   "},{"Title":"Offended","Date":"8 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Documentary","Review":" As I watched The Kings of Comedy, my jaw dropped when Bernie performed his brazen, insensitive portrayal of a person with a severe stutter. I stutter, have my whole life and, it's no joke to me!This subject is serious to me and, I'm sure, to people who have this affliction as well.You can't imagine the harm you have done to people who stutter, their families, friends, teachers and others who love and care about them. Just imagine how much work it takes to lift up the spirits and confidence of those who have little control over the hand they were dealt in life. Think of how the mothers, fathers, sisters, brothers, aunts, uncles and on down the line probably felt.Did it cross your mind that children may have been wounded by your shenanigans? You know how kids take everything to heart. And you know, also, that if people are hurting their children, mothers feel it too. As a child, I used to cry with frustration, embarrassment and rage that I was not able to say what I wanted to say. Mr. Mac you have single-handedly crushed thousands of people who want to be able to have people take them seriously and offer compassion as far as their disability.I've never understood why people think of this disability as a time for merriment and joviality. It hurts real bad to not be able to speak your mind. Incidentally, I also have Multiple Sclerosis; perhaps you want to do a comic routine about people who suffer with this disability too?!! Now that the Internet has made global issues real, think about all the people globally who you've offended. Celebrities have access to many, many ears and I believe that they should do so responsibly. If you are a religious man, Mr. Mac you may want to ask forgiveness for your behavior towards others in this world with you. In my opinion, that is what you need to do religiously, but socially you need to apologize to people who stutter. For example, you can reach out to schools for people with fluency problems. I feel, Mr. Mac, that you really should do this because it's like you're taking mankind one giant leap backwards. I especially feel for the children.Patricia Charles "},{"Title":"Spike Lee's sharp direction is the movie's best element. Hilarious. ***1/2 (out of four)","Date":"22 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Documentary","Review":"  ***1/2 (out of four)The Original Kings of Comedy is a documentary filmed in Charlotte, North Carolina during the Kings of Comedy tour where four stand up comedians, Steve Harvey, D.L. Hughley, Cedric the Entertainer, and Bernie Mac, crack jokes about race, sex, families, and human responses. This film works as a behind the scenes look at a standup comedy routine and just as a plain comedy. There are many incidences of explosive hilarity thanks to the perfect timing and audacity of the comedians. Although more appropriate as an HBO comedy special, Paramount Pictures made a wise decision to release this production nation wide as box office reports prove. That proves American audiences are thirsty for insightful comedy, regardless of format.Steve Harvey is the movie's opening comedian, the most smooth, clever, charismatic, and aggressive towards the audience. He comes on between each performance and does a short reaction analysis with the viewers. Harvey makes some very funny wisecracks about the music industry, the movie Titanic, and stereotypes black churches. He ventures an energetic, high-spirited sense of humor that really gets the audience revved up.Next up in line is D.L. Hughley, the star of the television sitcom The Hughleys. Steve Harvey is much more charismatic in his style of humor than Hughley, who concentrates more on a macho approach to racism, sex, and profanity. That is not to say this comedian's humor is not sharp with an observant comic edge. He cracks some very funny jokes about Christianity and Jesus. He is not quite as energetic or punchy  as the three other performers, though.The third performer is Cedric the Entertainer, who does a perceptive routine on white people's secure hope lifestyle and black people's confrontational wish lifestyle. He also observes how each race deals with presidential debates and Monica Lewinski. Cedric also humors white people's cowardly sights on violence, as well as smoking, the music industry, Tiger Woods, and even space shuttles. All of this is right on the money with his wide range of body language, including a hilarious dance routine. Cedric the Entertainer is perhaps the best of the four comedians in The Original Kings of Comedy.Finishing off is Bernie Mac, star of movies such as Life and The Player's Club. He is the most racially profound and fastest on his toes with perverse humor. His jokes about sex are absolutely hilariously correct. He also explains what the word m*therf*cker means in the black language a noun, a person, place or thing. Although Cedric the Entertainer is the most entertaining, Bernie Mac is by far the most hilarious comedian in the film; he got thundering, explosive laughter from the audience.The Original Kings of Comedy is unsparing in racial humor. However, it is not really prejudice, just racially observant. It compares both black and white people in amusing methods, but does not rip on either race. It takes careful consideration to discuss race in comedy and not go over the top.Spike Lee's sharp direction makes the movie involving. He often observes backstage life of the comedians to give us behind the scenes entertainment; several of the individual comedians are interviewed; studio audience members observing the comedy routine in the film are often examined to see their reactions to the comedian's antics. Lee, who's most recent credits include the raunchy, gritty Summer of Sam, and fable-like Bamboozled, is what gives this film its intelligence, and even though he captures many other aspects of the production, he never lets his style get in the way of letting the comedians bring down the house.  "}]