[{"Title":"Merchant Ivory takes up kickboxing","Date":"23 October 2001","Score":"122 out of 159 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  In 1765 something was stalking the mountains of south-western France. A 'beast' that pounced on humans and animals with terrible ferocity. Indeed they beast became so notorious that the King of France dispatched envoys to find out what was happening and to kill the creature. By the end, the Beast of Gevaudan had killed over 100 people, to this day, no one is entirely sure what it was, wolf? hyena? or something supernatural? Whatever it was, shepherds had the same life-expectancy as the red-suited guys in 'Star Trek'. The Beast is a popular myth in France, albeit one rooted firmly in reality; somewhat surprisingly it is little known to the outside world, and perhaps incredibly it has never been made into a movie. Until now, and what a movie!Categorising 'Le Pacte des Loups' would be tricky, but I'll try. Its a period costume horror martial-arts werewolf movie and surprisingly all those pieces work together provided you don't concentrate too hard. Why no one has previously made a period costume horror martial-arts werewolf movie before is a mystery, but I expect plenty of imitations in the future.Taking the Beast as its starting point the movie quickly diverges from historical fact and steps up the pace. We are introduced to the two heroes, Gregoire de Fronsac (Samuel le Bihan) and Mani (Mark Dacascos) in the midst of a torrential storm that culminates in the first of many magnificently staged fights. De Fronsac has been dispatched by the King to find the Beast. De Fronsac represents the new rational world of the Enlightenment which is being forced to confront the backward, superstitious France outside of the capital. Mani, an Iroquois shaman and hunter befriended by de Fronsac whilst adventuring in the Americas brings another type of wisdom entirely. At the time of the movie America was a dark and mysterious place, home to all of the fears of Europeans. Of course it was shortly to become the home of the very republicanism that would sweep across France and remake the Old World in a new image.'Le Pacte des Loups' wears its republican colours on its sleeve and uses the conflict between rationalism and the stereotypical backward villagers to drive home the point. This is good old-fashioned horror movie territory and the source of much of the plot. Guvaudan is the sort of village that would give the inhabitants of Sleepy Hollow the creeps. If it were in England, Christopher Lee would be the lord of the manor and Peter Cushing the priest.'Le Pacte des Loups' has one of the strongest French language casts possible, a mix of veterans and some up and coming talent. Here it is dominated by the priest Sardis (Jean-François Stévenin) and the saturnine Jean Francois (Vincent Cassel), a crippled hunter and explorer who rapidly becomes more dangerous than the Beast itself. Both are scornful of the changes coming from Paris and seek to shield their world from the future. The remainder of the population are either stupid, indolent, superstitious or just evil, holding back the new rational world of the big cities. The Beast is very much an extension of their way, as much as it is a physical monster, the Beast is a projection of all the villagers hatreds and bigotry.A strong female role is unusual in movies, but two? And such different characters. There is the strikingly elegant and almost hypnotic courtesan Sylvia (Monica Bellucci), playing her role of seductress with frigid professionalism. In a world where women had little more than their wits to protect them, she is the most dangerous of all and far more than she first appears. For most of the movie you are unsure if she is going to help or hinder the heroes, she is always mysterious and captivating.In complete contrast there is the innocent, fragile, and astonishingly beautiful, Madeiline (Emilie Dequenne), younger sister to the protective Jean Francois. Surrounded by evil, prejudice and superstition on all sides she is clearly the romantic heroine, but is also intended to represent the French Republic; the very symbol of which gives her name. De Fronsac falls hopelessly in love with this witty and charming woman, but in doing so he risks further conflict with Jean Francois.The two leads are fantastic and share a chemistry reminiscent of the relationship between Butch and Sundance. Le Fronsac is wise when needed, with a sensational put down for those who think that Mani is less than human. Mani is a man of few words but utterly dominates the screen when present. Needless to say, they are both fantastic fighters.Horror movies live or die by the creature and fortunately this movie delivers. Wisely there is never a chance to get a good look at the animal - it is enough to know that it is big and nasty, the viewer's mind will fill in the details. The creature is also used surprisingly sparingly. When the viewer might expect it to pounce it doesn't, a few minutes later it appears out of nowhere - wonderful, shocking stuff reminiscent of 'Alien'.Whilst the design of the animal from the Creature Workshop is perfect, some of the CGI work is a little below the standards we have come to expect - a couple of the daylight shots are well-below par, but the nighttime work is outstanding. Indeed one shot where the creature stalks out of the fog behind the hero has to be amongst the most effective CGI work in film.Cinematically this is some of the best work of late; it bears many resemblences to Ridley Scott's 'Gladiator' - luscious slow character-forming scenes mixed in with frantic camera work for the action scenes. Again, this strange hybrid style works exceptionally well, although perhaps it can get a little too frantic. Just about every camera and digital trick is used at least once, some to excellent effect (one flashback scene is particularly striking, using a strongly solarised effect to give it an otherworldly texture).One of the designers was previously involved with Merchant Ivory productions and the luxurious interior scenes have every bit as much detail as any period piece, (and a special word for the costumes that use some of the most sumptuous fabrics possible). A good deal of the film is lit by candle or fire light, filling the screen with warm oranges and flesh tones (and the movie *never* misses a chance to show lots of flesh).In contrast the exterior shots are frequently chill blues and washed out hues, making the French countryside look like a hostile world that could conceal all forms of dark secrets. The countryside itself is magnificently filmed and quite different to the stereotypical French landscapes.Tragically all this splendour is playing to minuscule audiences, I saw it with just five other people whilst the queues for 'American Pie 2' stretched across the auditorium. Do yourself a favour and try a foreign language movie. For those people who think French cinema involves two middle aged peasants smoking Gauloises whilst arguing about the finer points of philosophy this film will come as a revelation.At 140 minutes perhaps the movie runs a little too long and there are one too many plot twists (there is one near the end that is VERY difficult to accept, but just wince and accept it), but it doesn't outstay its welcome.For the English-speaking market the film has been subtitled. Sadly they seem to be quite workmanlike translations and some of the wittier dialogue isn't translated, a shame because the script (even to this very poor French speaker) sparkles. A number of misspellings and grammatical errors in the subtitles should have been caught earlier, but for once you can actually read the subtitles.This isn't great art, it doesn't redefine the genre and it doesn't preach. Horror by is very nature is irrational, there is nothing to learn from horror (apart from don't split up a group and never go down to the basement to check why the lights went out). This movie delivers over two hours of solid entertainment, you'll probably come out with a silly grin on your face - and what more do you want?Finally, a word of praise for the most imaginative dissolve between two shots I have ever seen - a woman's breast fading into a mountain. No doubt the women of the World are eager to find out just what Christophe Gans can do with the Eiffel Tower.In short, I have to give 'Le Pacte des Loups' two paws up.  "},{"Title":"A brilliant genre film ...","Date":"24 November 2003","Score":"63 out of 82 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Candle-lit interior cinematography, lush misty landscapes, strong characters, exquisite costumes, an authentic boudoir recreation of 18th century French society, a new kind of savage 'monster' and some of the finest stylized fight scenes ever laid down in a 'genre' film, place Brotherhood of the Wolf among the classiest horror adventure films of all time.Great moments include the culminating rage of Samuel Le Bihan's gentlemanly character 'Fronsac' who explodes into a Conan-like fury as he meets out 'justice' to those that wronged his Iroquois-Mohawk 'blood brother' played by Marc Dacascos, Vincent Cassel suitably creepy as the decadent 'Morangias', sensuous Monica Belluci as the dangerous and vicious 'Sylvia', interesting historical plot-points, and a bond of friendship between an unlikely pair of frontier adventurers, make director Christopher Gans Brotherhood of the Wolf an original  masterpiece of 'genre' film-making... "},{"Title":"VERY Cool Movie","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"66 out of 96 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  From what I saw in the previews this looked like an interesting movie, then I heard from some friends that it was pretty good, so some buddies of mine and myself went and saw it.  I have to say that I LOVED this movie.  I knew it was going to be subtitled, and I knew it was a French movie, but other than what I saw in the trailers, I didn't have a clue what to expect.I must say that the trailers were PERFECT, cause they showed just enough to get you interested, but not enough to ruin the cool parts in the movie.I was truly shocked at how good the Beast looked, I was really fearing that it would barely be shown and when it was it would look bad, but I thought it looked great!  It was no T-Rex in Jurassic Park, but nonetheless, it looked believable and quite real at times.Then there's the fight scenes.  These fights were incredible.  My hat is off to Mark Dacascos, I saw him in two of his earlier films; Double Dragon and Only The Strong and was really impressed with his fighting in both of those films.  As far as fighting goes though, I think this film takes the cake.  Truly impressive, if you ask me.His buddy in the film, Samuel Le Bihan, was a great fighter too.  Mark seems much more of a martial arts fighter though, whereas Samuel is more of a weapon wielder, but equally impressive.Like most movies there were a few scenes that I could have done without, but overall, I was really happy with the film.  It was worth my $9.Another thing I wanted to mention is the wardrobe.  Normally I'm not one to really pay attention to the wardrobe, but it really stuck out in this film for some reason.  The costumes were great in this film, I really liked the outfits that the two main characters were wearing in the beginning of the film when they're standing in the rain (the costumes shown on the poster).  They just looked so cool.If I had to complain about something in the movie, I'd say that the director went a little overboard with the slow-motion.   And more specifically, the slow-motion-to-full-motion shots.  There were certain times in the film where I KNEW the directer was going to slow the shot down and surprise, surprise, I was right.  But it didn't bug me enough to get me upset, just something that struck me as odd.Well, I hope you like(d) the movie as much as I did and thanks for reading my review.-Chris "},{"Title":"A Rainy Day Extravaganzza","Date":"4 August 2004","Score":"62 out of 96 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  When it is cold and wet and foreboding outside, leaving one to fend for a good escape into fantasy and a time gone by, then this movie DELIVERS. Say whatever you want about miniscule holes in the story, or the tedium applied to the cinematography or the excessive use of slow camera effects in the fight sequences, THIS IS ENTERTAINMENT. This movie carries the viewer into a whole new world- not like the one inhabited by Hobbits and Elves, and other creatures that obviously DO NOT exist- but rather a world of old France where the people are stranger than fiction and the times are changing. Fables meet their demise AND their verification in this film.It's not a movie I would call a favorite, but it IS a movie that I consider a guilty pleasure on a day that affords me three hours to slip out of my existence and follow a satisfying and well-presented fantasy. Every millimeter of every frame is a work of art, and that alone is worth getting lost in.  "},{"Title":"An extravagant B-movie from France with all the right matinee-adventure ingredients.","Date":"4 February 2002","Score":"37 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is a grandiose monster movie from France that delivers the perfect blend of slick style and unsophisticated, gothic melodrama to make it one of the most appealing film fantasies in a long while.  The international success of the film is not hard to understand; it's exhilarating in the same way that the old Hammer horror films were in their heyday.  Everything about this elaborate movie is terrifically tacky, particularly the stunning production design.  It's like seeing those artless, wilderness paintings containing hidden animal images come to life.  The characters come off as if they were lifted right off of some garish paperback romance-novel cover. Best of all, the film has some nifty  flourishes of sex and violence sadly missing from the current spate of half-baked, PG-13 Hollywood product. While some seem to be complaining of one martial-arts fight too many, faulty creature effects or simple-minded plotting; in this case, it's like bitching about KING KONG being over the top.  This is a contemporary B-movie (albeit an expensive, subtitled one) for those who appreciate a good time at the movies.  It delivers the kind of satisfaction audiences used to get seeing the work of Mario Bava or Ray Harryhausen; and that's saying a lot! "},{"Title":"This film is excellent.","Date":"29 December 2001","Score":"34 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I am very pleased to see French cinema depart from the if you don't understand my movie, then you are not an intellectual approach to film making.  More often then not, French films have been explorations of relationships or psychological dramas.  And they have generally been very difficult to sit through.  Take Place Vendome for instance.  It won all sorts of awards at Cannes, but is basically a very boring, unwatchable arthouse movie.  This film is nothing like that.  It is exceptionally well-made, it is exciting, horrifying, and will keep you glued to your seat. I have rarely been so impressed with a film.  The plot is a little far-fetched, but it is based on a folkloric creature that stalked people in the 18th century in southern France.  Therefore, if the movie gets a little bit super-natural, than I can accept it.  After all, the real wolf was supposed to have killed over 100 people during it's reign of terror 200 years ago, and there must have been something odd about a wolf capable of such carnage.Christophe Gans is the same person who directed Crying Freeman, still one of the best action movies of all time (in my humble opinion).  Mark Dacascos of Crying Freeman is equally in Le Pacte des Loups, playing an Iroquois warrior, a traveling companion to the French protagonist.  Where an Iroquois learned to fight like that, I will never know, but then again, I wasn't around during the French-Indian wars to verify how they fought)  Suffice it to say that the action sequences are terrific, the beast is terrifying, and the story is engrossing.  This movie cannot be simply branded a horror film, nor an action film.  It is a fantastic escape into pre-French Revolution France with a very large wolf thrown in.  I loved it when I saw it in France in French.  I bought the DVD as soon as it was out and watched it again.  I am very pleased to say that it did not disappoint the second time around. I would highly recommend this film to anyone, providing they understand that  a) it is an action movie b) it has elements of a horror movie c) there are some supernatural elements to it d) it is set in 1780 in France e) it was originally filmed in FrenchIf you can handle all of these points, you will love this film.  Truly superb film-making.  This is the only film I have rated to which I have accorded a ranking of 10. "},{"Title":"Unique adventure movie, solid all around","Date":"31 October 2003","Score":"23 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Le Pacte des Loups is a fairly impressive movie.  What other movie can spend two and a half hours on a ravaging monster fought by a scientist and his loyal Iroqois brother in 18th century France, and keep its audience enraptured?  Its plot is a bit obscure in places, admittedly, leaving the audience not so much in suspense as confusion, but this is the unconventionality that comes with such a unique work.  The acting was a bit above average, the actors and actresses combining well with the enchanting atmosphere and succeeding in making memorable characters.  The score also contributes to the film's mysterious mood, and great cinematography (although occasionally overdone) helps it out too.  While all this goes a long way to making a great film, it is the dazzling action sequences that make it a classic.  The choreography is great, the sound effects make you feel as if you're standing a foot away, and the mystery of the movie is such that nearly every battle's outcome is uncertain.  If the romance is trite, a few lines seem out of place, and the plot falters a bit, overall, this is still quite a movie to watch if you're looking for a lot of adventure and action. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Like a lion I will devour your children and tear out their entrails.","Date":"15 April 2003","Score":"32 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I am very much in awe of this movie.  Brotherhood of the Wolf encompasses every genre of film; martial arts, action, romance, thriller, horror, drama, everything.  Keeping with the spirit of all these genres, it invokes many emotions from the viewer.  A beast is terrorizing the countryside of Gevaudan and the villagers believe no man or bullet can put it down.  Enter the ultimate Jack of all Trades, Grégoire de Fronsac, and his brother-in-arms, Mani, who have come to town to stop/capture this menacing beast.  The story starts here and has so many twists and turns it could make your head spin.  The cast is incredible.  I have no idea who this Samuel Le Bihan guy is, but he absolutely rocks it as Fronsac.  This also has potential to be a breakout role for Mark Dacascos but we'll have to wait and see on that one.  Even if he doesn't make it beyond the B action flick, Mani will always be an unforgettable character.  And Vincent Cassel is incredibly suave and creepy at the same time.  Brotherhood is an absolutely beautiful example of what film can look like.  The cinematography combined with the editing makes for some truly fantastic scenes.  Let's not forget the fight choreography.  There are some tremendous fight sequences that rival those from Hong Kong cinema.  Some movies become great because they have that one moment that will forever live on in your memory; Moments that are undoubtedly awesome.  Brotherhood of the Wolf is simply just one big moment.  Other than the films by Luc Besson, I've never really been a follower of French cinema.  But with the coming of this movie and the equally dark and beautiful Crimson Rivers I could get into it. "},{"Title":"No classic, but with food for thought, thrills AND Monica Bellucci naked, go for it.","Date":"22 December 2001","Score":"40 out of 69 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The presence of Robert DeNiro and Charles Grodin in Midnight Run seemed to cause many people to wildly overrate that standard action movie; similarly, the we-hate-Forrest-Gump crowd approached the quietly compelling Cast Away with too much prejudice to view it fairly. In Brotherhood of the Wolf (the English-language title of Le Pacte des loups), a character says that lies told in Latin can be seen as truth; the fact that this is a commercial film in French (with subtitles so you can fool yourself into feeling clever that you're watching an art movie) may explain why some are very, very enthusiastic about it. Not that the movie doesn't deserve praise (it does in a lot of ways); it's just that I wonder if they'd have been as impressed had it been the identical film shot in English and with an American cast (or with Americans other than Mark Dacascos).Based on the French tale of a deadly creature that roamed the Gallic countryside in the 18th century and was never caught, Le Pacte des loups plays like a better, more coherent, more frightening version of Sleepy Hollow, with the representative from the major city (Samuel le Bihan)and his Iroquois Indian blood brother (Dacascos) sent to investigate the gruesome goings-on, and gradually finding out there's far more than meets the eye - although unlike Sleepy Hollow, which went overboard with the decapitations, the murders are kept to a minimum in the early going (we do see the beast attacking two of its female victims (the beast only attacks women and children) in the first half, but most of the details are kept to our imaginations... unlike later on in the movie). The movie takes its time setting the pace and mood, slipping in a few clues to the resolution - one hint watch out for the gun - and risking losing the audience because it really is pretty methodical; but once all the main characters have been introduced, and once past the halfway point, the movie really starts to deliver.Director/co-writer Christophe Gans leaves several narrative threads hanging, but barring a few plot holes this doesn't damage the movie's overall effect because so much stuff is woven into it; the tunnel vision of several of the characters, religious symbolism, conspiracy, a hint of incest between a crippled aristocratic hunter (Vincent Cassel) and his sister (Emilie Dequenne) that comes up in a crucial moment of the plot... provided you don't think it over too much afterwards (for starters, why does the beast not go after men?), or simply think on the movie's impressive visuals (the first fight scene and several thereafter are in slow motion, but when le Bihan launches an attack on the baddies towards the end - for reasons I won't divulge here - they come in regular speed; some of the CGI effects are a bit awkward, but the work of Jim Henson's Creature Shop is thankfully less like the Bloop in Lost in Space and more like their usual effective stuff, with a creature guaranteed to give you nightmares), it works just fine.Mention should also be made of the fine score from Joseph LoDuca, no stranger to scoring uncharacteristically zesty historical stories after Hercules and Xena - his cue for our heroes going hunting and the final scene are standouts, although I could have lived without that song over the credits (sung in English, by the way); of the cast's acting, with special nods to Cassel, Dacascos, and Monica Bellucci as the prostitute who turns out to be more involved with the plot than it appears (if only American actors (and while we're at it, British ones) were as multilingual as their Continental counterparts); and of the brutal but effective fight scenes, with a particularly impressive climax. While this isn't the all-timer some say it is (that first hour IS a problem), I enjoyed it in the end; despite its reputation, French cinema has always had its accessible offerings (let's not forget it gave us Diva, Brigitte Bardot, La Cage aux Folles and Luc Besson, The Fifth Element notwithstanding), and this is further proof.As for Monica Bellucci naked - definitely one of the most memorable (and unlike the other ones, decidedly pleasant) moments in the movie, with Gans throwing in an amazing dissolve from Miss Bellucci's topography to that of the French mountains. For once, Jim Henson's Creature Shop doesn't contribute the most impressive bodywork to a film. "},{"Title":"Good atmosphere, fine styling.","Date":"20 July 2003","Score":"15 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  *Slight Spoilers*This is a movie I kept *meaning* to watch but for one reason or another never got around to.  Last night I finally settled in with the requisite snacks and prepared to enjoy a werewolf movie.I was surprised to find it was something different.  It's a period mystery, set in 18th century France.  That's not to say lycanthrope is not a subject of the movie but... well, you should watch it and see for yourself.I'm not knowledgeable enough of France during that time (or most other periods) to comment on whether the movie is authentic in its detail.  I can say, however, that the style is superb.The director, Christophe Gans, uses Hong Kong choreographer Philip Kwok for the fight scenes.  A smart move as many directors try to take on that job themselves.  Action choreography is a discipline unto itself and, though a director may excel in dramatic or comedic execution they can fail miserably here.  Gans' use of Kwok gives the movie a well presented quality throughout.The story is also nicely done.  As I said, it's a tale of mystery.  A fantastic mystery, to be sure, but fans of the genre will surely be pleased.  Le Bihan makes for a charismatic investigator and Dacascos as his Native American ally provides further dimension to the story.The pacing could have been better.  I saw the directors cut, which is well over 2 hours.  As a mystery movie, one cannot expect constant action but there were times when the movie tended to drag under the weight of unnecessary scenes.And then there were deleted scenes that should have, at least in part, been included.  In the deleted scenes section of the DVD, Gans commented that the first fight scene (an exciting sequence in the rain with our two heroes facing a troop of French soldiers in drag) was shortened to delete Le Bihan's participation.  Gans stated that he didn't want the audience to see Le Bihan in full action so early in the movie.  However, when he does go into full martial arts mode late in the film, fighting the titular group, it's a little disconcerting.  Since he displayed *no* martial arts prowess beforehand in the rather lengthy movie, we're left asking, Now where did this come from?As far as the language, I recommend whichever method allows you to best watch the movie with the least distraction.  I preferred the dubbed English so I wouldn't have to look at the subtitles.  HOWEVER, the dubbed voices are not well acted.  I will undoubtedly watch it again in the native language without subs now that I know the story.Overall, this is an enjoyable mystery movie with plenty of action, a well done plot and fine acting.  Check it out!6.5 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Luxurious period piece  marvelously filmed with good production design ,  evocative cinematography ,and spectacular combats","Date":"1 February 2014","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Interesting as well as exciting epic movie plenty of violent fighting , thrills , inevitable ending confrontation and resulting to be a mix selection of genres . The picture is full of tumultuous sequences with frenetic action , surprises , wolf attacks , fierce combats and groundbreaking struggles . In 18th century France, a dashing hero , the Chevalier De Fronsac (Samuel Le Bihan) and his native American friend Mani (Mark Dacascos) are sent by the King Louis XV to the Gevaudan province to investigate the killings of hundreds by a mysterious beast (based on facts about an unknown animal who killed more than one hundred people in France at the end of 18th century) , a werewolf-like creature (made by Jim Henson factory) that has been massacring villagers . As an Iroquois valiant fighting alongside white blood brother . A huge wolf-hunt produces a pile of carcasses , but the attacks continue . Meanwhile , Chevalier and Mani visit a bordello , there meet Sylvia (Monica Belucci) , in fact the only person who knew the whole truth to both sides of the story regarding the beast and she manipulated Fronsac into dreaming and nightmare . Then , Chevalier falls sin love for a mysterious courtesan (Emilie Dequenne) and they are hindered by her jealous brother , Jean Francois (Vincent Cassel) . All of them become caught up in religious , political intrigues , rampant superstition and the vested interests of local aristos . At the end The French Revolution has swept the land and The Revolution has become the Terror.This sumptuous period drama displays action-packed , Chop-Socky , thrills , swashbuckling , fast-paced and wild fighting images . It is an action-filled and violent film , being splendidly filmed by Christopher Gans . Director carries out an alchemical fusion of cinematic elements such as scary monster film , mystery , thriller , Kung-Fu and period drama . The movie was released in January 2001 and was a great success , as more than five million people saw it. Fights , attacks and exciting combats very well staged by expert Philip Kwok , the result is a strong entry for action buffs . Marvelous production design , set in 18th century France , though imbued with a 21th century sensibility . The picture was based on true events , in fact there actually was a Beast of Gévaudan which was a real wolf-like creature that prowled the Auvergne and South Dordogne regions of France during the years 1764 to 1767, killing about 100 people, often in bizarre circumstances and all the primary characters, except the Native American Mani, actually existed and lived during reign of King Louis XV. Extraordinary support cast formed by prestigious French actors such as Jérémie Renier as Thomas d'Apcher , Jean-François Stévenin as Sardis , Jacques Perrin as Thomas , Jean Yanne as Comte De Morangias Bernard Farcy as Laffont , Edith Scob as Mme De Morangias , Bernard Fresson as Mercier and Philippe Nahon as Jean Chastel . Thrilling as well as evocative musical score by Joseph LoDuca . Colorful and glamorous cinematography by Dan Laustsen . The motion picture was stunningly directed by Christophe Gans and achieved big success at European box office . Universal Pictures paid $2 million for the rights to distribute this movie in the United States, and this movie went on grossing $11.2 million in limited theatrical release in the United States, making it the second-highest-grossing French-language movie in the United States since 1980 . Its director Christophe Gans is a good French professional who has realized a few but stunning films . Gans first realized Shorts and he then decided to make movies and directed one of the three parts of Necronomicon (1994) called The Drowned , later on , Crying Freeman from the famous Japanese Manga. And finally the big budgeted horror ¨Silent Hill¨ , he is nowadays preparing a new version of Beauty and the Beast . "},{"Title":"He's an Iroquois from the Mohawk Nation...","Date":"6 November 2002","Score":"10 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  OK... that line was from the movie (or some variation of that line)... what do the French think the rest of the world is... IGNORANT?  These were two different Native American Nations... VERY different.Also, why did this movie feel like some sort of late night soft porn HBO b-movie?  Those sediments also reflect the acting as well as the poor martial arts.  You know the martial arts in a movie is PATHETIC when the camera gets too close to the character and the audience cannot tell what the heck is going on!  ZOOM IN!  PAN OUT!  ZOOM IN!  PAN OUT!  Enough of that already... that was an 80's, early 90's era trick to make the audience think the martial arts was good.  No longer... examples are Crouching Tiger, the Matrix, Once Upon a Time in China, Fong Sai Yuk... etc. etc.Not even worth a rental... "},{"Title":"Interestingly eccentric blend of horror, period piece and martial arts - but it loses a lot of steam towards the end","Date":"2 January 2007","Score":"14 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Beast of Gevaudan roamed the region for three years in the mid-18th century, killing 80 - 100 people in this time range and prompting the king to call upon numerous hunters to track the beast and kill it.To this day, the Beast is an unsolved mystery. Some claim it was a deranged wolf with a blood lust (since it rarely ate its victims and would instead crush their skulls with its jaw), while others believe it was an extinct species of hyena. Others believe the beast has been exaggerated over the years and it could have merely been an escaped lion. Then there are those who believe it was a trained creature working with a human counterpart - an early serial killer using an animal to help him kill.The movie is interesting because, like Mark Pellington's The Mothman Prophecies, it takes an engaging urban legend and instead of trying to find any direct answers or make it a film entirely _about_ the creature itself, it uses the backdrop as a means to explore other elements.Le pacte des loups (The Brotherhood of the Wolf) takes the story of the Beast of Gevaudan and twists it around quite a bit. Some of it works well - the mix of period piece and action movie is a nice blend - but particularly towards the end, once it turns into an unbelievable Jet Li-style martial arts flick, it goes down an awkward path and ruins a lot of what it has already established. It's the one thing that pushes the genre-bender over the edge and it really does feel too bogged down by that point. Also, the revelations during the finale - involving the beast and the plot behind its motivations - are fairly weak.However, the setup is fine, and the movie is an interesting oddity a weird little mix of genres that offers a bit for everyone, even if its ending is a let-down. "},{"Title":"Confusing, but really entertaining","Date":"6 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Brotherhood of the Wolf is all over the place. It's a French Revolution/ horror/ martial arts epic with style to burn, and makes up for the gaping holes in its story with sheer energy and sensory assault. Director Christophe Gans packs every moment of Brotherhood of the Wolf with either bone crunching action, (imagine if John Woo had directed Dangerous Liaisons), or some crazy audio / visual effects or busy scenes with beautiful people. Gans knows how to amuse the eye, he just isn't much of a storyteller, but Brotherhood of the Wolf is so entertaining that we'll forgive him just this once. "},{"Title":"Don't take it too serious","Date":"21 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I wonder that so many people take this movie so serious. Common, it's not a historical lesson, it's just entertainment, isn't it?! Although it has some historical background the movie is still some kind of fairy tale.The movie itself was very pleasant to me. I was really caught in the atmosphere. The martial arts scenes were kind of misplaced in my opinion, especially because everyone seemed to be a hidden Karate black belt. But I don't mind, it added a special spice to the movie. I like it.    "},{"Title":"a bit of a mess if you want the truth","Date":"8 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film can't decide what it wants to be, and ends up just being way too long. You  will probably have read other reviews here before mine which mention the terribly out of place Kung Fu sequences, the pointless violence, terrible plot line and rather bizarre choice of ending.What most have failed to mention is the incredibly weird sexism that is going on on this film. SPOILERS follow.... Why the beast is referred to as a she is never explained. Nor why it only attacks women and children. It is also unclear why the brotherhood of the wolf is called a brotherhood when there are clearly women in it. The whole thing was bizarre; and don't get me started on why they have a high official from the Vatican who is not only a female (I don't know of many high ranking Vatican women now never mind in the 17th century!) but also parading as a whore (seems unlikely don't you think) Finally a comment on some of the previous reviews - many of whom seemed to be American. I have noticed many of them attack the French in some intense need to declare their own cinematic superiority. Yes i agree Brotherhood of the Wolf isn't a great film, but have these people never seen or heard of Delicatessen, or Amelie or Cyrano De Bergerac or Betty Blue all fabulous French films. And by the way didn't the Americans give us films starring Sinbad, as well as Hudson Hawk, The Animal and anything starring Adam Sandler. People in glass houses.... "},{"Title":"Greatly entertaining and deeply stupid potage a l'aventure","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  They threw everything in the pot on this one -- oversized mysterious woman-eating beast, Machiavellian court intrigue, religious espionage, hot enigmatic gypsies and even hotter enigmatic Italian prostitutes, a rakish knight accompanied by a jujitsu-master Peau-Rouge (it appears, in fact, that martial arts instruction for both sexes was de rigueur in 18th-century provincial France), life-saving potions, conspiracy paranoia, incest, racial intolerance, amputees, bizarre weaponry, several cans of Whup-Ass, and a little French revolution tossed in for seasoning. And I've left out a lot.  A ludicrous popcorn movie that should be very very bad but is redeemed by sheer reckless enthusiasm (the tone is demonstrated by our martial-arts Iroquois shaking out his long black tresses in Miss Clairol slow-motion).  If it seemed fun, they threw it in.  Check your brain at the door and enjoy The Dissolve - a cut so ridiculous and juvenile it has become an instant classic. "},{"Title":"Brotherhood of the Wolf is one kinky French mix","Date":"27 September 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Brotherhood of the Wolf is what happens when you mix a cheesy and violent American kung-fu movie with an elegant Renaissance romance. You get quite an interesting mix to watch. For an experiment group of, say, four people this type of gamble will result in two either leaving or falling asleep from boredom, the third trying to understand what the hell the movie is about, and the fourth one glued to the screen with his eyes not willing to miss a moment, even if he or she has to keep one eye on the subtitles at all times.Taking on a semi-historical event, the film tells the story of two people hired to help find a beast believed to have caused a series of brutal killings in a French province. The setting is a pre-revolution France with the elegant realm of local nobility bordering the realm of a sci-fi thriller. The story starts strong, even if a bit cliché, but starts to weaken towards the end. In fact, it feels like the peak of excitement gets reached about 2/3 of the way through and from then on the pace slows down, as if the makers were starting to get tired. This causes for the resolution to be not particularly exciting and, considering the full version of the movie is almost 3 hours long, it makes one feel as if some parts were perhaps not necessary at all or that they should have been better connected, like an extra circle in the story spiral that should not have been made. Nonetheless the ending is quite satisfying.The special effects are acceptable for a move made in 2001, but it's clear that the creators tried to steer clear of having to use them much, rather showing more of what's going on in the faces of the actors. Especially in the beginning of the movie, there is an accent on different characters, on helping the viewer establishing who is who, which is important in a movie with a lot of conversations. Thankfully all the actors are doing their part very well. Even the non-French viewers will recognize a few familiar faces.Although Le pacte des loups mixes genres, it still takes a certain kind of viewer, for this particular type of mixed genre, to truly like the movie. There are flaws in the plot, but in general, it succeeds keeping you connected, and at the end, the leftover feeling is that of interest to see the whole thing again in order to understand it even better. The actors are good and the film has style. All together - a success. "},{"Title":"or brotherhood of the wolf","Date":"26 October 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I went to see this film alone on a day off as I did not think any friends would like it.  I expected an atmospheric 'name of the rose' type film, which it was for about the first half hour. About forty minutes into the film it became a cross between the matrix, dangerous liaisons, jurrasic park, eyes wide shut, braveheart, crouching tiger, the mummy, sleepy hollow type affair.  This is possibly the most multi genre film I have ever seen. There were only about eight people in the theatre when I saw it and its only on two fairly small screens in my city.  I can't believe that its not doing more business as its the best blockbuster I've seen all year. I expected an intelligent french horror film and got an intelligent french film with the effects and action of a hollywood no-brainer.  Its hard to rate this film because its not what I expected - I read a very small review in a uk broadsheet, but do go and see it, it looks gorgeous, its spectacular, it has a good plot, its reasonably well acted and its very entertaining. This is top-notch, high-brow, no-brainer, excellent trash. "},{"Title":"When the French make a Hollywood-like movie","Date":"26 August 2011","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Brotherhood of the Wolf has all the ingredients of a mediocre Hollywood action film. Don't get me wrong, my favorite movies tend to be American, but Hollywood also produces many cliché action flicks lacking in originality, but champion in cheesiness. With this film, one can see the French have masterfully picked up on it.Let me list examples showing how Brotherhood of the Wolf looks like a typical Hollywood movie  -A narrator presents the movie to make it look more intellectual than it really is, -Fight scenes in the rain with slow motion moments, typically with one dude kicking many people's ass all at once using eastern martial arts (in 18th century France), -Cool American-Indian thrown in, whose medicine and knowledge is somehow better than that of a developed country, cause he's so close to nature and all.., -Very politically correct denunciation of racism and ignorance (but granted, typical French movies also do that a lot), -References to real historical facts in order to flatter the more cultured audience's intelligence,-Female characters who other than their hotness are absolutely useless,-Lack of character development (does anyone actually care for the main characters?), -Surreal dream-sequence added to make the movie seem mystical, -Uninteresting romance seemingly thrown in the movie for the Hell of it, -Scene where the main character takes his revenge in a hate-fueled bloodbath, -White guy goes all Rambo on the bad guys, dressing like an American-Indian in the process because he surely learned how to be a commando when he fought with Indians in North America, -Unrealistic conspiracy theory revealed like it's something awesome, -Final face-off fight during which the antagonist explains his actions,-Many anachronisms, -Cheesy ending which tries desperately to be tragic.I surely forgot some moments, but these are examples which made me smirk or sigh. Brotherhood of the Wolf stays a relatively entertaining movie, although sometimes I wished it could just cut to the chase, so I believe it at least deserves an average 5/10. But contrary to what many people have said, it most certainly does not look like a French movie. I believe many non-French people rated the movie highly because in truth it looks American, yet it's French so it felt exotic and they were perhaps pleasantly surprised. But if this movie were American, it wouldn't have been praised so much in my most humble opinion.If you want to see a typical French movie, don't watch this one. If you like Hollywood action movies which aren't particularly original, you might like Brotherhood of the Wolf and then feel good about yourself for having watched a foreign film. "}{"Title":"worst film","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I don't have much to say about this movie, because of the fact that it was pure garbage. I've never felt the urge to bash a film more than this one. The plot is terrible.I laughed a total of two times in this movie. One at the acting, and then after the credits were over. I was laughing at myself for actually paying money to see this film. I don't even think that this movie deserves to be called a film.Why didn't this go right to video?ZERO STARS OF FOUR (X/****) "},{"Title":"An awful piece of movie!!!","Date":"3 October 2003","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is one of the most awful movies I have ever seen. I cannot understand how it is possible that it could get this high ranking. The actors are miserable and the plot is a farce.  If it is based on a true story this fairy tale would be more credible. Sorry but this is my opinion! "},{"Title":"What the hell was that?","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Since I'm a big fan of Vincent Cassel and horror movies I was looking forward to seeing Le pacte des loups. Unfortunately the movie was a complete letdown. Started out interesting but then the story got more and more ridiculous. It seemed as if the makers didn't know what they wanted action? horror? romance? drama? All and nothing. The martial arts were the coolest thing but didn't quite fit in. In the end I was glad when it was over. "},{"Title":"I'll say this much...I did make me laugh out loud","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Every time a new genre was added to the mix it surprised me to the point of laughter. This movie seems to have been thrown together by many minds - all with a different vision of how to tell the story. It started out as a period film about the mysterious deaths in 18th century France, there was horror (expected) - then someone decided to add the action of martial arts with ferocious kick-boxing bouts. Someone decided to add prostitution, sword fighting, a desperate romance, the supernatural, and Frankenstein-esque science fiction, and all the blood and gore of a slasher movie. It ended up seeming ridiculous and the plot was lost amongst all the sensationalism.  "},{"Title":"Tone down the cheese","Date":"22 February 2004","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" If a movie wants to look like its art, then it should actually mean something. At least make sense and wrap up subplots that were left hanging. But if the writers just wanted to play around by splicing together every B-movie/popcorn-flick gimmick- then they shouldn't take themselves too seriously. A good example of genre mixing would be Kill Bill.  There is such a tongue-in-cheek, wink-wink, nudge-nudge feeling to the ultra violence, corny dialog and preposterous events (i.e. who needs physical therapy when you have will power?). Some completely unbelievable, messed-up stuff goes down in that flick. But hey, it's just a romp down grindhouse movie memory lane. I may be wrong, but I don't think that was the intent of the writers for Brotherhood of the Wolf. Basically, the tone and look was all wrong, wrong, wrong for such an ultimately low brow endeavor.***Warning contains spoilers***First, it was way too long for such a cheesy mess of a film. Now I think Tarantino made the right move by splitting Kill Bill into two movies. BOTW didn't need to do that. Instead they should have cut the useless scenes, subplots that lead nowhere and the aristocratic romance. That's the second thing. Frosnac & Marianne's relationship was completely unbelievable. Sheltered, stand offish girl is the desire of every man in the province why? Because the characters said so, and the camera does close ups on her. Then this cocksure naturalist (with no aristocratic blood) waltzes in and wins her heart. So predictable -it gave me the dry heaves. But even worse was that he's like 35 and she looks like she's 16, 17 tops. Help, someone call CPS!! They should have done away with Marianne all together, and concentrated on the relationship between him and Sylvia. The intrigue and danger surrounding the witch/prostitute/undercover spy would make a much more interesting story than the banal affair with virginal Marrianne. At least it would be more believable- Frosnac looks like a dirty guy. Third- poor Mani. I had a feeling he was gonna die the second I saw him step onscreen. Following the formula, I knew someone had to be killed in order for the lead character to go ape sh!t and seek revenge- I was just hoping it would be Marrianne. (Sigh) I can't wait for Kill Bill Vol II to come out.  "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies I've ever seen.","Date":"12 January 2002","Score":"16 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I'm all for brainless action/horror movies with lots of gore and nudity. Unfortunately, Le Pacte des Loups tries to be more than that, which makes the entire movie unbelievable. After a short setup, the film starts with a shot of pretentious religious imagery. Two strangers arrive and then save some woman and her father. One of the strangers is a martial-arts ass-kicking spiritual Native American (HE HAS A F*CKING TOMAHAWK AND MAGICAL HEALING POWDER FOR GOD'S SAKE! YEESH.) stereotype and the other is a dashing daring French hero main-character stereotype. It should be noted that the two hardly talk to each other throughout the entire film, which makes the last third of the film illogical and stupid. In fact, all of the characters are pretty much one-dimensional. The acting is not bad (it's not amazing either) given what the actors had to work with. Onto the plot The film is a horror film wrapped by French royal court and religious intrigue. But since the film is mainly a horror film, the other stuff is just mentioned in passing and thus the imagery seems pretentious. Especially when you consider that the main character is resurrected. (Also, at one point the Native American character is laid out with his arms spread in a crucifixion position in a room where there is religious imagery all over the ceiling. Hmmm.) Anyway, to sum it up, the plot is stupid and unbelievable and the film is filled with gothic and religious imagery. None of that would matter if the film was a brainless action film. Unfortunately, the martial arts was pathetic. Maybe I've been spoiled by the fight scenes of some recent films (e.g. Crouching Tiger Hidden Dragon) but I thought most of the battles were pretty lame. There's a lot of dodging and slowmotion kicks. Nothing spectacular. The final battle was funny because the French-guy main character, who suddenly gained kick-boxing abilities in the middle of the film, shoots flaming ARROWS (HE HAD A FREAKING GUN!) at people and SCALPS a guy. As I mentioned before, the movie sucked because instead of being a normal action/horror movie (the action is horrible; it's scary if you consider wolves in a procupine suit scary) it tries to throw in religious themes (which isn't in the film enough to justify all the freaking imagery everywhere. Even the Native American character is part of the imagery.) Oh yeah, most of the plot of the 2 and 1/2 hour movie makes no sense too. There was a lot of gore and nudity, which is always good. But I'd have to say that this movie is utter crap. "},{"Title":"A few blunders but Good Overall","Date":"11 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Ok so Mani can't be both an Iroquois and a Mohawk, and as for the martial arts skills they were a bit extreme for an indian.  However, this movie was done fairly intelligently, with great dialogue and a decent plot.  Some people claim that the plot of this movie is unoriginal, but since it is based on a 250 year old event, it is not being unoriginal, all the other movies like it are the unoriginal versions.The action is fun, the dialogue is great, the effects are good.  What more do people want?  the plot is based on a historical event and is no more off base than Young Guns was on the Billy the kid story.  No one really knows what happened in France, there were several killed beasts and even today the actual truth has not yet been revealed.  Watch the movie and try to enjoy it.  "},{"Title":"a lot of style, nothing to say","Date":"5 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The trailers were calling this a masterpiece. I went with high hopes. I was exhilarated at first. The movie was incredible. There was so much style, and I love style. Then, after the 100th unnecesary slow motion shot, I started to feel bored. Then, the Beast appeared on screen, or, better said, the obvioulsy CGI beast appeared onscreen...This movie mixes the worst aspects of the modern hollywood blockbuster with the worst aspects of the artsy pretentious french festival film...What you get is a boring mess. I was so eager for it to end, and it only dragged on and on and on, putting more nonsense on top of the nonsense. You don't feel anything for this characters, not even hate, you just don't care what happens to them. And on top of it, on top of everything, is the style. Slow motion, fast motion, cool disolves, pretty shots, nice music, martial arts fighting, extremely hot girls in, of course, very stylish sex scenes...and what else? Nothing...Not even a thrill, never one good scare or emotion. There is, I gotta admit, one very good sequence that should have set the style of the entire film when a little sheep is crying for help and another pretty french girl goes to help it...Unfortunately, this comes after 2 hours of really stupid stuff. And I don't mind stupid if it's entertaining. But this is boring...If you want to see a stylish filled movie with more respectable elements as plot, for example, check out Minority Report. "},{"Title":"Disappointment","Date":"27 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I was very excited to see this film, having read reviews that made it sound like a magnificent experience.  It wasn't.  It starts out promising, with a great fight scene, but it gets worse and worse and more boring as it goes.  Beautiful women and a moderately interesting plot save it from being a bad film.  But missing it aint missing much, despite what you may have read.   "},{"Title":"How does one review a film like this?","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Brotherhood of the Wolf is so over the top, so manifestly ridiculous, that it simply defies criticism. Once you have seen 18th century French peasant women engaging in kung-fu, as you do in this film's first quarter hour, any qualms about lapses in plot or historical innacuracy become somewhat redundant. If that wasn't enough for you, it also contains an Iracois warrior done up in 21st century tatoos, who also, for some reason, is a kung-fu expert, a naturalist who can fire two guns at once, an evil, hatchet faced villain who can wield a wicked knife-chain, and one big armoured cyborg wolf.Did I mention all this takes place in pre-revolutionary France? So in addition the film manages to include a classic tale of the wiles and trials of aristocratic courtship. Got all that? No? well it doesn't really matter. A film already straining to contain a reference to virtually every kind of film ever made (action, martial-arts, werewolf, monster, period romance) was never going to be very credible, and it would die if it took itself seriously. Fortunately, Brotherhood does not; it just pushes ahead full throttle distracting our attention with some excellent fight scenes and, of course, this being France, naked women (A dissolve in which Monica Bellucci's breasts become mountain peaks tells you everything you need to know about this film's style). As long as it entertains, Brotherhood's rather obvious flaws can be ignored, however, this film is a ludicrous 140 minutes long and after a while tedium does begin to set in. Still, all in all an enjoyable experience.  "}{"Title":"Cheesy action flick in sheep's clothing","Date":"3 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Spoilers liberally sprinkled within.I have to encore the earlier comments of Victor Field. I think if the same film were made in the U.S. by American filmmakers in English, the film would be considered roughly equivalent to a poor Jean Claude Van Damme flick. The most obvious influences on this film are anime and Double Dragon video games.Limited-release period-picture though it is, this is obvious intended to be a horror flick. The reference to philosophes aren't at all insightful. The epilogue during the French Revolution seems forced and disconnected. The whole idea of the wolf being part of a conspiracy by the pope to punish the king of France from meeting too much with philosophers was laughable. Anachronisms are liberally mixed in.It was hard to get into the actions because the characters weren't particularly likable. Fronsac has his cake and eats it too, making time with both the noblewoman Marianne and his prostitute. As Marianne says, how can he be in love since he just met her. Their romance seems pretty superficial and unrealistic.The action sequences are gimmicky and subpar compare to many Hollywood films. Every sound, including a pumpkin being shattered, explodes into a huge kaboom. Excuse me, this is a cover-up to obscure how intrinsically lacking the sequences are. How many times can we Mani block with his weapon and than kick the opponent in the stomach - very repetitive. Wider shots should have been used in the action sequences, because the POVs are too close to see things well. Continuity was somewhat lacking from move to move.  "},{"Title":"It's starting off great... Oh, false alarm, Kung fu movie","Date":"2 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This was no bad film, but some how, everyone knows kung fu. How? It seems that in every movie these days, it's just understood that all people know, and are good at, kung fu. It's not that easy, I used to take lessons, I know. It just seems kind of unimaginative to do that. Anyway, the rest of the movie was interesting. It reminded me of Sleepy Hollow. People are out to get a strange creature responsible for a number of killings. The movie, unfortunately, falls apart towards the end a bit. Visually, this film was incredible. There were many interesting shots and techniques used to bring an otherwise dull story to life. In terms of sound, however, it's just overkill. It seems that no one can do anything without a heavy bass THUD, a loud WOOSH, or an ear-splitting CHING. Sound can be used to advance the effect of visuals, but this one went too far. All together, I'd say this film is worth the while if your not expecting a masterpiece. It's good, but you will almost want to cry when you think of how much better it could have been. "},{"Title":"Come on","Date":"1 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie just couldn't cut it.  There was a good amount of fighting, but since when do Native Americans know martial arts?  After the first 20 minutes I knew that this movie would be a flop, and I was forced to sit through another 2 hours of it. There were so many different ties to different characters as to who was involved in this Brotherhood that the film leaves your head spinning trying to figure it out.  Yet, it is horribly predictable at the same time. The attempt at Matrix special effects failed to save this movie from itself.  The trailers said that this movies stormed Europe.  I should have checked up on that before I wasted my money on it. "},{"Title":"A Brilliant, Multi-genre Masterpiece!","Date":"17 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The scope and beauty of this tour de force are awesome. Le Pacte Des Loups is a martial arts gem, a fine period piece, an atmospheric horror flick, an engaging whodunit, a poignant love story and a compelling exploration of religious and political intrigue orchestrated into a vast symphony of cinematic greatness. The acting is incredibly good, especially the performances turned in by Samuel Le Bihan and Mark Dacascos. The two female leads are gorgeous and pleasingly contrasted. Although this film is unique, in terms of quality it can stand toe to toe with the likes of Citizen Kane, 2001 A Space Odyssey, and The Godfather. There is no movie I've ever seen which I could rate as clearly superior to Le Pacte Des Loups. This film gets better and better with repeated viewing and should be included in any list of the top 50 movies of all time. "},{"Title":"Good action in 18th century France","Date":"24 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Recap In the province of Gévaudan, France, there is a beast attacking the villagers. Childs and women disappear, just to turn up dead and partly eaten days later. The king himself takes an interest and dispatches Gregorie de Fronsac, a soldier and biologist, to take part in the massive hunt. But Fronsac also finds interest in the daughter of a nobleman, and soon there is much more going on than a simple hunt.Comments I had expected a story with far more fantasy in it. A journey taken, a mission to be accomplished. Something like that. This is set in historical France and actually is (loosely) based upon a real story. No journey, no mission in that sense. But I wasn't disappointed.Instead the story is built around two very likable characters, Fronsac and Mani. An odd element in the French aristocracy they really shake things up. Both of them are experienced warriors and put up some serious fighting whenever they get the chance.No ordinary costume drama, even if there are plenty of costumes around. Apart from the action though, it is mostly a mystery or thriller. Fronsac plays the part of the detective trying to solve these murders, only that it is set in the 18th century France.And it is good. Not too hard to suspect whom the villains are, but easy to stay interested in to see all the details. And enjoy the action scenes. Only some special effects are a little poor...Also an interesting cast. Vincent Cassel rarely gives a poor performance but have a more or less supporting role here. But neither Samuel Le Bihan nor Mark Dacascos disappoint so there is nor problem there.7/10 "},{"Title":"Extremely boring confusing yarn (yawhn...)","Date":"22 January 2002","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Initially pleased due to its excellent photography and production design, I quickly became bored to death. In this movie we get to know no one so there is no one to root for or to care for, not even the villain. To make things worse, the plot is convoluted to the point of absurdity (and I love scifi and fantasy!), not because of being unusual but because it offers nothing in terms of coherence or jeopardy that truly moves the viewer. The action sequences are boring since we don't care for the protagonists, who seem, despite their efforts, just a dull pair riding their horses. They spend a lot of time having fights with assorted bad guys and gals of no interest whatsoever. THIS IS A REAL DUD, NO REDEEMING VALUE, TO BE AVOIDED (If its financier, Studio Canal Plus was not the owner of Universal Pictures, this badly translated French dud could have never been inflicted on American audiences).    "},{"Title":"This is a horrible movie","Date":"11 October 2003","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is so, so stupid. The main characters are arrogant and not worth wathing. The violence is superflous and without meaning. The so-called love-story is a torture to wade through. The computeranimated monster is so so boring and wouldn´t scary anyone. Really the worst of France. I except the country itself to be far more interesting than this piece of trash.  "},{"Title":"bad beyond all hope of redemption","Date":"6 October 2002","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  What an awful movie! It was simply a gore/shock fest.  How can a movie be described as entertaining when it boasts brothel scenes, animal cruelty, gratuitous violence, and incestuous rape?   And--as if all that ridiculous crap wasn't enough--the plot is lame, the special effects are laughable, and the camera tricks are beyond annoying.  This is a movie with NOTHING going for it.   "},{"Title":"Exquisite boredom","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is merely excruciating boredom. In the beginning I was thrilled by the atmosphere it had and the whole potential, but I was quickly disappointed. The script is immensely poorly-written, without any balance or consistence. Instead, all we saw was incredibly dull and irrelevant battle scenes, while the movie itself seemed to be of gigantic approximation. I soon prayed it ended to go to bed. As for the whole supposedly amazing revelation of the mystery, we learn it all in one prison scene by Monica Bellucci, without any further explanation. The director was constantly bombing us with scenes with fast-motion or slow-motion completely pointlessly and the movie was totally uninteresting and meaningless. Not to mention the desperate attempts of copying other movies.  I was shocked to find out how highly it was rated by users, higher than other, much better films. What can I say? "},{"Title":"Great substitute for a sleeping pill.","Date":"5 June 2003","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I watched this garbage because it was recommended by a friend. I had written the title on a scrap of paper. Now I wish I could remember who recommended it so I'll know never to take his/her advice ever again.I kept wanting to abort, but something would tell me surely it's nearly over, so I might as well see how it ends...But it never ends! It just drags on and on and on until you feel like ripping your hair out by the roots. I was cursing the unknown jerk that told me to watch it and I'm now convinced that whoever-it-was must have done it as a joke, or maybe as punishment or revenge for some horrible crime I may have commited.So, unless you're into watching a lot of French sissies running around in the woods pretending to be badasses, be warned to stay away from this abortion. "}{"Title":"Horrible","Date":"20 December 2002","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Flat out one of the worst movies I've ever seen in my life.I got it from a friend who had bought the DVD without viewing it before...it was so horrible that he gave it to me just to get it out of his house.I honestly couldn't finish it. It was that bad.The script is a mishmash of every successful gimmic over the past five years, the acting is second rate, the special effects look straight out of 1994 and the editing leaves you scratching your head.None of the actors seem to know what the heck they're doing there. As soon as you realize this, you wonder what you're doing watching it.  Its like sticking around at a party no one wants to be at. Its not fun and no one wanted to be there in the first place.Thumbs WAY down.  "},{"Title":"Great....Up Until Bias Reared Its Ugly Head Once Again","Date":"12 December 2006","Score":"12 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This was on its way to becoming part of my DVD collection until the last 30-40 minutes when religious bigotry reared its ugly head once again. All the villains turn out to be Christians (Catholics). Every bad, every evil person is shown with a cross on them which is distinctly shown to make its point equating Belief with evil. All those villains mention God and prayers, of course. Atheists, whether they are French - as in the case of filmmakers here - or some other nationality, are never too subtle about their anti-God agenda.Meanwhile, the heroes - one in particular - had supernatural powers that heal and even resurrect! In other words, that voodoo magic works - that's something you can believe in - but the prayers of thoughts of Believers, well, what a waste of time.The photography was magnificent, too. The dubbing on the DVD version I had was decent. This was a fine, horror-type Last Of the Mohicans story but with all the religious people shown as the bad and ignorant ones. Too bad they had to have all that bias because the story was interesting and moved well, especially for a long film. "},{"Title":"A powerful, ambitious production","Date":"12 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This modern French epic is a strange, definitely unique amalgamation of a number of different genres set during the French Revolution, the storyline starts off as a classic horror yarn, with peasant girls being hunted down by an unseen beast (presumably a werewolf); then things move into a mystery-thriller with plenty of conspiracy and dark shadows; finally the film reveals itself to be an action-adventure, incorporating some very visceral and exciting elements of the classic revenge story into its design. There are also plenty of moments of drama and not a little romance thrown into the mixture. The result? Well, sometimes its muddled, sometimes it doesn't feel right and sometimes the whole thing gets a little bit silly, but for the most part this is an enthralling, thrilling film with a fresh feel and an unpredictable narrative. It's also one of the most surprising and entertaining films I've seen in a long time, lacking the predictability of most modern movies, sequels or otherwise.Director Christopher Gans is obviously an accomplished technician, taking care to deliver a film with a distinctive visual style. The colour palette is exaggerated yet beautiful in equal parts; for the best example, check the splendid red costumes of the French aristocracy in comparison to the subdued, dull gloom of the haunted woodlands. Atmosphere and suspense are strong throughout, and definite care is taken with the sound editing, whether it be the ceaseless patter of the driving rainfall or the heaving atmosphere of a noisy brothel. The horror or 'attack' sequences are artfully played out, coyly refusing to reveal the identity of the creature; but when at last it is shown, the special effects do not disappoint. Gans uses some graphic violence and bloodshed sparingly, adding to the impact, so although this is not a bloodbath, it is sometimes a fairly strong film in that respect.Unfortunately by necessity I watched the dubbed version of this film. It has to be said that the dubbing (by one or two English actors, seemingly) is fairly awful, reducing the effect, so the subtitled version is the one to go for if possible. The acting, as far as can be told, is strong, especially with Samuel Le Bihan's charismatic lead. A whole host of familiar French actors fill out the supporting parts, from Vincent Cassel's almost caricaturish turn as the one-armed de Morangais to Monica Bellucci as an alluring French prostitute. The only non-European actor is B-movie martial arts specialist Mark Dacascos, who undoubtedly gives us his best performance yet as the honourable Native American companion, Mani. Dacascos also takes centre place in the numerous martial arts sequences in this film, delivering a wide array of powerful kicks and bone-breaking punches. Gans goes a little overboard with the slow-motion in the fight sequences, but they can be genuinely electrifying, and get better and better as the film progresses until some moments literally drip with death-dealing power.BROTHERHOOD OF THE WOLF a strange film, yes, with a myriad mixing of genres which can be a little confusing, or unrealistic in places. Yet the overall impression is one of a powerful, ambitious production, created with infinite care and technical skill; I recommend it to one and all, just to see the kind of cinema the French are capable of when they feel like it. "},{"Title":"Almost a perfect film","Date":"24 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Brotherhood Of The Wolf is the kind of film that has juuust a bit too much packed into its two plus hour running time to be an instant classic, but at the same time I can't help but say to me it's a personal favourite. It's tailored towards my love of grisly adventure, comic book style frames and wilderness set action mayhem. It's based on the allegedly real 'beast of gevaudan', a massive carnivorous monster that terrorized rural France during the 1700's. That historical event is built upon to create a mythic, larger than life cinematic whirlwind that resembles The Ghost & The Darkness, mixed with The Last Of The Mohicans with a touch of occult intrigue. Samuel Le Bohan plays a womanizing french debonair who takes it upon himself to hunt the creature, and the impressively athletic action star Marc Dacoscas plays his native companion Mani. Together they scour the misty french wildlands and shady, vaguely corrupt small town aristocracy, searching for clues as to the creatures origin. It's a curious film, one that transcends the genres a bit too much, but at the same time in a fun way that finds you never correctly guessing where the film might take you. It's part Sleepy Hollow, part B Movie and part decadent soft core porno in the vein of caligula, and is certainly never boring. It's great strength is in set design, and especially cinematography. There are a whole bunch of shots that are so lush, so gorgeous that they seem almost like an exquisite oil painting. The creature is kept wisely out of sight for most of the film but it's eventual appearance is shocking, and shows how much work went into the effects. It's almost a perfect film, with a bit of editing out the unnecessary bits (that DTV lookin melodramatic orgys gotta go, man), it could be truly something special. But nevertheless it's still a rip roaring, atmospheric action horror silver bullet of a film that deserves praise for its undeniable imagination and creativity. "},{"Title":"The Big Trouble In Little China of French cinema in 2001","Date":"20 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Supernatural antagonists, sexy without being distracting, post-colonial martial arts, pre-French Revolution intrigue, mystery, romance, arcane Catholic mysticism, 1700's CSI, etc. This *beep* covers all the bases, loosely. It's a ton a of fun. A great story and it develops perfectly for 2.5 hours. Nothing in excess and very little wasted. (watching the director's cut) I can't recommend this movie highly enough.So, this review requires 10 lines. I'd add that the shots look pretty film school in the beginning (probably quite sharp for 2001) and develop quite a bit over the time frame. Action, mystery, and horror for the price of one ticket. Your usual film critics can suck it. This one rules. "},{"Title":"love the kung fu action","Date":"12 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" In 1764, the beast arrives in France. In one year, the fear has spread far sending the region of Gévaudan into darkness. Grégoire de Fronsac is a naturalist from King Louis XV's court. He and his Iroquois companion Mani investigate. They examine survivors and bodies. They encounter Captain Duhamel and his men who are hunting the beast. Fronsac figures the beast to be 500 pounds.This French movie marries a costume period piece with some kung fu action and the horrors of a werewolf. I don't find the costume drama that compelling. Other than Mani, I don't find anybody that compelling. I love the kung fu action though. It's a fascinating marriage. There are some fun moments with an interesting idea. The wolf horror isn't that scary but it's still good. "},{"Title":"A mess but it definitely has its' moments","Date":"8 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is a French film that combines many genres such as werewolf and monster movies, 18th century costume dramas, romance, action/adventures, political intrigue and martial arts. The big problem is that it changes gears so much that the movie feels muddled and uneven, also the movie overstays its' welcome as it runs for nearly 2 and a half hours which is way too long for a movie like this which isn't supposed to be taken seriously. Out of all the stuff they tried some of it did work well like the action and the martial arts, there's one kick*** revenge sequence where our main character snaps and goes on a killing spree that was pretty choice and an ending battle that I really got into (I was lying down throughout most of the movie but it got me up). Brotherhood of the Wolf is kind of a mess but it's an interesting mess and it does have some moments of excellence.My Rating **1/2/**** "},{"Title":"Interesting Mix, but it loses shape at the end.","Date":"4 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  After all the mixed reactions of Brotherhood of the Wolf, I was glad to finally see one of the most interesting films of 2001. Is it perfect, no, but then what film truly is under the scrutiny of the eyes of the worlds population. The first thing it seems I have to comment in on is the fighting, since eighteenth century French Nobleman having the fighting skills of a less talented Donnie Yen is weird for some. Personally I felt that the director might be tired of generic action scenes that clutter movies like these. The scenes themselves aren't as intrusive as one might believe, and don't achieve the epic grandeur of fights like those found in the Once Upon A Time in China films.  The story itself is a minor disappointment. The first half of this long film is perhaps the best half with its hunts, courtings, and of course maulings. Its a tight well told, fun horror adventure conspiracy yarn that kept me entertained throughout. But then the second half rolls around, and thats where I thought the film started to lag a little. Not enough to hurt my enjoyment, but as soon as the monster attacks Gregoire and Marriane at the house it looses some type of story element that held the first half together for me.  Next are the actors who didn't really seem all that bad to me. Even Mark Dacassos who I've never really watched in his American films has some type of magnetism that he lacks in roles.  In fact the only problem other than the story that I really wanted to quibble with was the beast itself. When its finally revealed after several clever attacks, I myself began to wonder what the hell it really was with its spiny back, and head that looks like a Triceratops head with religious symbols carved into it. Was it a lion brought back from Africa and made to look more spooky by the cult. Or was that how Christophe Gans inteded it to be. Whatever the answer it dosen't diminish my appreciation for this fun movie. "},{"Title":"Overall, an excellent film! (Hollywood meets French Plays!)","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is Jean-Marie Messier´s (Vivendi-Universal´s ex-CEO) dream come true!  French and American melding together into an excellent picture! (media analysts will appreciate that that first comment ...).  It represents the best of French movies with (some of the best) Hollywood special effects and the mixture of genres (horror, fantasy, action ...) is quite something.Although during the first 60-70 minutes the storyline moves along quite sluggishly (perhaps too much dialogue or maybe it was done this way to escape the lack of storyline critics), when the pace picks up it is quite breathtaking.  Action scenes very unique and the excellent sound is perfectly fit to the ambience of the movie.  Any serious monster movie should have good sound to increase the suspense and keep you on edge.  It is true that near the end there may be one too many plot twists ... however, the fast pace of the picture and the never-ending action sequences make it easier to swallow and at least I was willing to accept those twists and turns.The feeling I had while watching the movie was that of great novelty ... the time frame (late 1700's) mixed with those terrific action sequences is something I had not previously experienced ... and I do believe there may be some copy-cats on the way sooner than we think.  I gave the movie a solid 8, not because it didn't deserve a 10 but because there is still room for improvement, especially plotwise.  With regards to this, I think that making the story very complex does not necessarily make it a great movie ... although it was not the case here, if it didn´t have those matrix goes medieval action sequences it well could have fallen into that trap.All in all, I highly recommend it to anyone seeking genuine and original entertainment.  Get ready for serious subtitles, although French speakers (ahem, like me) will enjoy it a bit more because you can enjoy the visual delicatessen without following those bugging subtitles.  Once again, the action sequences are fast, furious and uniquely well captured (there are some freeze-frames mixed within wild sequences that take your breath away).  The sound is amazing and heightens the overall good feeling that you have during the movie ... and, unlike some of its Hollywood predecessors (no offense meant!), you actually remember the main story the day after, and not only the action scenes! Cheers and vive le cinema! "},{"Title":"Strength and Honor","Date":"21 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Fight scenes, Asian style. Beautiful women, European style. Facial expressions, Hollywood style.Please, don't take this movie seriously, just enjoy yourself. "}{"Title":"You either love it or hate it...","Date":"15 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this movie in the theatres in France, and the moment I did (January 2001), I said that I wanted it on DVD.  The DVD version that I purchased (3-DVD Region 2 Collectors Ed.) did not disappoint, but all of my friends moan and groan when I talk about this movie, since that DVD set didn't include english subtitles.  Hopefully, this english version will include all of the wonderful extras that were included on that setup, including another 50 minutes of deleted scenes that help you understand the depth of the storyline.This movie reminds me of the first time I ate sushi and didn't realize that the green stuff was wasabi.  I went in expecting some fighting and some cool cinematography.  I was blown away by some of the grisly violence and sex that was put into this film, and on the first viewing, the film may seem a little confusing.  After seeing it several times, I have learned to appreciate the film for its positive points (great fight scenes, amazing cinematography, beautiful women, interesting plot twists) and ignore some of its shortcomings (a bad actor here and there, CGI effects that might seem outdated due to the lower french budgets).In France, people rated this movie either 5 stars or zero stars.  This is a type of film that you either love, or you hate.  I really enjoyed it, and I hope you do too.Try out Crying Freeman (also with Marc Dacascos and Directed by Christophe Gans) if you liked this film, though it is tough to find. "},{"Title":"Great acting, great action, great story, and a GREAT MOVIE!!!","Date":"11 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Based on an old french urban legend, this movie is about a beast that killed close to 100 people in 17th century France. An investigator of the King of France is sent to investigate murders that are supposedly committed by a viscous, and cursed wolf. When this 17th century detective arrives, accompanied by an american indian who he treats like a brother, they are immediately given the cold shoulder in the village in which the killings have been occuring around, and very few cooperate, and the ones that do know very little or nothing at all about the beast, other than it kills indiscriminately. The movie starts off fast with very good action and acting. It does get a little slow in one part, but the acting and the story gets you so intrigued you can't take your eyes away from the screen. Now don't think for one second this movie is about a werewolf or that anything supernatural is going on. Don't forget it is based in the 17th century. I'm not going to give much away about the beast because the beast is only part of the mystery, the other is a seedy underworld movement that has issues with the Vatican. But by the end of this wonderful and beautifully crafted film you will understand why this beast appeared and why nobody really wanted to talk about it.There's more than meets the eye of this film from its advertisements, and trailers. So if you want to see a truly original film, with a surprising amount of action and a great amount of quality acting, this is the movie to watch. In my opinion the second best movie of 2001(first being The Lord Of The RingsThe Fellowship Of The Ring), I give this movie a perfect 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"The right way, is the French way!","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this one on the shelf in the movie store. I bought it, knowing I would love it, and so I did.The thing about French movies, the way I see it, is that they can make great movies without having to put those clichés in them, unlike Hollywood.This movie has so many of the things I love!You got 1700 France, costumes, action, beautiful women, horses, swords, woods, fog, drama, story with twist and turns, good actors, great story! All wrapped in by beautiful camerawork and strong French DTS digital sound!I don't speak French, but as long as I have subtitles, I'm happy!I give this 9,5 out of 10! If you loved this movie, I also recommend Le Bossu (1997)!! "},{"Title":"Apparently even the French can fail","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Le Pacte des Loups is one of the most boring films ever made. And that in spite or rather because of its many action sequences. It just doesn't make any sense - mainly because it tries to pack all genres into one film. Starting as an action flick (including martial arts in pre-revolutionary France!), going on to become a sort of critical view of the french aristocracy but never delving into that, intertwined with a rather ludicrous love-story, evolving into supernatural horror and finally turning into a conspiracy-piece that is so far-fetched as to make the alleged Kennedy-assassination-plot a fact. Some films may indeed have succeeded in combining diverse plot elements. This one doesn't. That's why it bores - at a length of 140 minutes at that. I'd love to point out the lou(o)pholes both in the storyline and the direction but in this case it would mean to reveal pivotal scenes to future viewers. Though, without revealing anything, I might point out that the director shows - completely illogically - the beast once as an illusion and then again as (CGI-generated) reality. In this case not even the suspension of disbelief (Stephen King) works - as for that you have to believe in the first place. Any work of art doesn't necessarily have to convey a so-called message. But at least there should be a reason of existence. In this case there is none. Why was it made? What is the point? Where does it lead to? No Answer. It is neither entertaining nor emotional or thought-provoking. It is ... thin air. Possibly this is what European cinema begets when it tries to imitate Hollywood. "},{"Title":"hmmmmmmmm","Date":"5 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I'm having an awful time reviewing this, but i felt i had to eventually. Im absolutely 100% in love with the concept, and mostly the execution is good and proper, but there are some incredibly amateurish handywork involved right next to the brilliant stuff that manages to give it all an aura of awesome mediocrity.Most of this movie has been covered by other reviews; Yes its overly long, yes it has some decidedly cheesy characters, and yes the kung fu is out of place, yes the beast looks less cool than it should have. Where this film succeeds however, is in the boyish, childish glee it presents its subject matter. The biggest problem for me was the fight scenes. Directly inspired by the video game Soul calibur, these could have been great hadnt it been for the ridiculously poor editing and liberal use of slow motion to detract from their authenticity. As one character falls back, i count 4 different camera angles rapidly flicking in and out. it gives the fighting an ethereal unreal and chaotic appearance that simply make them confusing and unpleasant to watch.If the editing hadnt been so bad, this movie would have been tolerable, even in spite of its length, but as is, the film BORDERS on goodness, but ends up being rather annoying and pretentious. "},{"Title":"Dumb plot,fun movie.","Date":"29 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is really ridiculous,and unexplainable,but you still manege to have fun wile watching it.Its actually a serious plot,that,as it is developed,turns out to be ridiculous.If you dont pay attention to the plot(I strongly recomend that)you may have fun wile watching it.The characters of the movie,who were very well build and the action scenes are what really saves the film.The brotherhood of the wolf is the best horror/epic/martial arts film ever...becouse it is the only. "},{"Title":"A True Hybrid","Date":"20 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Brotherhood of the Wolf is truly a hybrid of genres creating a different sort of beast from other films especially French cinema.  The movie is based on an actual legend of a strange creature that terrorized the town of Gevaudan in the 18th century.  The film takes this premise and then adds on and embellishes it even further.  The film is part martial arts, historical drama, romance, thriller and horror.The film follows a Chevalier who is a botanist for the King's gardens at the Palace of Versailles and his trusted Iroqouis Indian friend.  They represent scientific and spiritual enlightenment in a place where ignorance and deep dark secrets are plentiful and have to investigate the strange brutal mutilations of young women and children by what appears to be a large animal.  Of course, the locals and the Noblesse think its a wolf but the bite radius found on a victim rules this out.The movie is a departure from the typical French cinema which has been changing direction in the past decade with films like La Femme Nikita and City of the Lost Children.  There is definitely influences from Hong Kong action films which is well filmed and moves the pace of the film nicely and the slow motion is used effectively to evoke the terror that the beast's unfortunate victims feel.The film's plot twists too many times and it runs 30-40 minutes longer than it really needed to.  The acting and the characters are interesting and I wished the film focused more on the creature. "},{"Title":"Neat Movie... a little of everything.","Date":"15 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"      So its not a art French Movie and if your an American you will complain about subtitles. Otherwise its fun, chilling, entertaining and beautiful movie to watch.  Who cares about subtitles ?!  Get moving and watch it...     Photography is great... Wonderful women... and very different characters to say the least. Many good and well known european actors.   Turn off your reality check before and just enjoy it.    "},{"Title":"a mixed bag - one of the best b-movies i've seen","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  the effects, acting and action sequences are quite amateurish, but the cinematography, music score and and most of all good plot save alot. with better actors and a little less enthusiasm from the directors part this could've been a fantastic film. as is it's a fantastic b-film. "},{"Title":"Great saga about 18th century France.","Date":"24 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is directed by Christophe Gans who also directed Crying freeman which is a great movie.This movie is just as great,but it is hard to compare since they are different genres. The brotherhood of the wolves is a beautiful movie about 18th century france.It has some incredible landscape and wonderful costumes and clothes.It is the story about a beast who killed a lot of people and the men sent out to track the beast down and kill it.This movie has like Crying freeman, Marc Dacascos in one of the leading roles and he are one of the best martial artists out there. This movie has some great fight scenes which is all great filmed with slow motions and good camera angles. I really like this kind of saga movies about legends and heros. I dont know what it is,but i just loved this movie,it has a special atmosphere and the scenes is just amazing. All i can say isIf you like adventure,mystery,sagas,action,thriller or simply a good movie,then you have to watch this one. "}{"Title":"Don't be put off by the subtitles, this is great!","Date":"19 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I first saw this film in France where it was generally loathed by critics and cinema goers alike. However, I loved it and have seen it several times since, eagerly awaiting its Irish video release. Basically, this is top notch entertainment. The French seem to be extremely obsessed by the ongoing style versus substance debate, and so, needless to say, those looking for substance didn't find it here. However, when the French choose to concentrate on one or the other, style or substance, they always do a great job-  I mean hey, France WAS the birthplace of cinema after all. The result is a Hollywood-style blockbuster with subtitles.Plotwise, it's a sort of Sleepy Hollow only with sex, drugs and a lot, lot more blood thrown in for good measure- definitely not one for the squeamish. The effects are dazzling, the cinematography breathtaking, and  it beats the hell out of the Matrix for fight scenes (primarily involving Mark Dacascos of Crying Freeman fame) any day of the week. There's some fine performances too, especially from the always reliable Vincent Cassel (L'haine). The film does lose a bit of momentum in the middle, but who can nitpick about a film that features the extremely sexy Monica Belucci?If it's roughly two hours of pure entertainment that you're after, then this should be tip-top of your list. "},{"Title":"how many genres can we fit into one movie?","Date":"4 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  okay, this is a great film, but you need to realize that the reason it's so great is because it's so horrible. and if you don't like spoilers, don't read this review. but go see the movie anyways.the plot is thin, but gorey. the action is great but the heros never battle anyone they can't take down with one punch. the costumes are lavish and show all the right parts. the characters are ridiculous.you've got the frenchman gardener/artist/martial arts master who takes the occasional trip to a whorehouse with his american indian friend who is also a martial arts master and voodoo priest. while in france there's some weird wolf that only goes after young women and children and nobody's able to stop it. there are also some odd wild natives who seem to be quite obsessed with this whole lupis lifestyle.there's the love interest and her really creepy incestual brother who only has one arm but actually he just keeps it bound up all the time because it's horrible disfigured. somehow what happened to his arm is linked with this evil wolf he found while traveling the world. which he controls with a penny whistle. the wolf is really just your regular evil wolf inside an even bigger wolf suit made out of sticks and twine and bones.the thing is, you hardly ever see it until the end. there's a reason for this. at first you only see its shadow, or a bit of its muzzle. and as you're watching it, you think that this is to build suspense, and you can't wait to see what the monster really looks like. trust me, it's not all that fearsome. the cgi is so bad you can tell why they were trying to hide it through most of the movie.watching this in the theatre was one of the funniest experiences of my life. by the end of the movie half the audience was laughing so hard that we actually upset the people who were taking the movie seriously. but it IS a good flick and i recommend it to anyone who wants to see a french historical/martial arts action/werewolf/mystery/romance.  "},{"Title":"Great action flick, no mystery movie, no romantic period piece....","Date":"27 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Ok, think The Wicker Man meets The Last of the Mohicans meets The Hound of the Baskervilles meets Sleepy Hollow meets Les Miserables, choreographed by Yuen Wo Ping, produced by Ismael Merchant, co-directed by Tim Burton and Ken Russell for Hammer Studios.And somehow those crazy kids manage to pull it off!Clever plot, stunning cinematography, mouth-wateringly beautiful costumes, gorgeous and talented cast.And, as a bonus, just when you think Hong Kong style chop socky fight scenes can't possibly be improved, some mad genius puts Our Hero in a buckskin loincloth!Vive la France! "},{"Title":"Fantastic Film!","Date":"16 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I loved this film! From it's settings to it's action to the gorgeous Monica Belluci, it's an enthralling film. So what if it's not exactly true to it's time? It's fun, it has an anti-religious bent and it's action packed with tremendous acting and a great story. This is like watching a Hong Kong film. Just sit back, turn off the reality meter on one's brain and enjoy! "},{"Title":"CAPTAIN KRONOS redux...","Date":"14 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Anyone familiar with CAPTAIN KRONOS VAMPIRE HUNTER will find themselves in terra cognita with BROTHERHOOD OF THE WOLF. As will anyone familiar with Asian martial arts movies. Ditto, those who enjoy well-made French films (regardless of genre). There is much to marvel at here. Unfortunately, there are also some sour notes struck along the way that are nigh unto unfathomable. Why, for instance, insert what are undoubtedly some of the worst cgi in the history of the relatively short-lived process? They add nothing to the film, and detract much. (A horse standing outside a house doesn't respond at all to the appearance of the cgi monster. Shades of RELIC!) If there's one thing LORD OF THE RINGS should've taught professional filmmakers, it's that cgi isn't always the way to go. In fact, from what I've seen, it should be a last resort in a live-action film. Many cgi look like what they are, and take the viewer out of the film and place them squarely in a large, dark room watching a gussied-up cartoon. Enough! Use a little discretion, people. Elsewise, we might as well be playing video games...     "},{"Title":"Beware of the Beast!","Date":"12 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This kind of movie has not been produced in France for ages, and, in that regard, came as a surprise (along with similarly realised Vidocq). Effortlessly, it intertwines genres that normally seem mutually exclusive; it is, thus, a period picture, which is also an action movie, not to mention a suspenseful thriller. And it can pull all this off.   What captures the eye first, is the stunning photography, reminiscent of many a Tim Burton film, with a hint of Merchant Ivory. In this picturesque French countryside, a horrible and mysterious beast kills peasants by the dozen. Enter an equally mysterious gentleman and his exotic friend, envoys of the current King of France (Louis XVI?). The enlightened man from the capital finds himself in a close-knit society, full of dark undercurrents - typical of rural areas the world over. Soon it becomes obvious that some people in the lordly manor know something or other about the beast, even though they stubbornly insist it is a wolf. Of course, we learned from Sleepy Hollow that every supernatural scourge must have a master in the world of the living... A sense of danger permeates the atmosphere when the otherworldly shadow of the beast appears in the background, but even more so when some of the very much flesh-and-blood characters enter a scene.Among the many people with hidden agendas, Monica Bellucci's Sylvia shines in the most enigmatic role of the story; even though it is quite clear from the beginning that she is no simple prostitute, you probably won't guess until the very end what her real involvement amounts to.And so we follow the many twists and turns of the plot, some of them expected, some far from it - including one near the end that looks very final. In spite of its considerable running time (142 minutes), the pace of the movie never slackens. The showdown is a rather bloody spectacle, but it does tie up all loose ends. In one last twist, the narrator reveals himself and his ultimate fate, as if to remind us of the historical context of the legend.   "},{"Title":"Is it Man or Beast?","Date":"1 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  To say too much would be to give the whole thing away - but even if you know what is going to happen, it's worth watching at least once.During the early 1700's, a Beast was ravaging the rural countryside of France. The King - all this takes place during a time when the love of the monarchy is decidedly fading - sends a 'naturalist' and his faithful Indian sidekick (sorry, couldn't resist) to find out more about the Beast, and possibly stop it.Immediately as the movie opens you're treated to horror that happens offscreen - usually the best type, as Alien showed us. Slightly different views of the French countryside lead to the arrival - during a storm, of course - of de Fronsac (the King's naturalist) and his Indian companion. Since The Matrix (and later Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon), more movies of all stripes are throwing in flying martial arts fight scenes... and Brotherhood of the Wolf is no different.The fights are well done, with only a slight bit of jerky camera movement at times.The lighting in the movie is intense, done in a 'natural' style (torches, firelight, hazy sunlight, pouring rain) which goes well with the movie. The period costumes are well done, but we've seen all that before.The plot is fairly basic, but it does throw in several twists... some of which you won't believe even when you see them. The acting is also fairly basic, but done well enough where it doesn't detract from the movie.Most of the actors are French, so most American audiences won't recognize them... the only face I recognized was Sylvia, the Italian prostitute who has a mystic side to her, but I couldn't remember her name until the end credits - Monica Bellucci, an Italian actress and model.The horror in the movie is for the most part understated... and it works quite well that way. Just when you're sure what the Beast *isn't*, something happens to change your mind... and they do it subtly enough that you don't really care.If you're looking for a period piece full of boring royal dinners, with noblemen standing around looking bored, then don't bother with this movie. If you're looking for something that will entertain you - and perhaps make you jump a bit - then go ahead and check this one out. If you speak French it's even better, but the subtitles are done well enough that they don't distract from the movie.I'll give this one a solid 8 out of 10... one I'll definitely look for on video (or even better, DVD)  "},{"Title":"Angry at the ignorant critics","Date":"26 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Foreign films like this get no respect, and it's hard to see why. Popular American films are often noisy, cheap feeling, shallow, and drowning in special effects, yet it is the foreign movies that get trounced and laughed at.Much like Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon, another underrated gem, Brotherhood of the Wolf is restrained but stylish and populated with imaginative characters. Unlike most movies, I went into this one not knowing what to expect. Oh sure, I've heard the praise on tv and seen one good review, but it wasn't enough to tell me just exactly how good it was. And having not seen the bad reviews, I wasn't spoiled or set up to be disappointed. It turns out to be the right choice because I have no idea where all these bad reviews came from.The beast in this movie is cleverly realized as the astute viewer will notice that it is not a werewolf or a product of monster movie conventions. While over the top, the beast in this movie could just as easily pass itself as another natural animal, despite its terrifying and vicious nature. And bravo to the movie's creators for throwing out horror movie cliches. If you think men and women in horror movies are divided into the running, screaming, panicky people and the super cool macho men and women, then watch this movie because it has none of it. The beast in this movie is far more stylish and clever than that. It delivers its terror and the right moment and in the right doses. It remains hidden in shadow, hardly ever seen, by audience and by character. By the time it kills, it's already too late, but before it does that, both the character and the audience are on the edge, gripped by terror and wondering where the hell this blasted creature is.Then there's the other side of the movie's story. Brotherhood of the Wolf isn't a monster movie but a detective story/period piece/romance novel with a little martial arts thrown in. In this movie, the people are nervous and angry at each other, but it isn't because of the beast. Something else is going with this movie, but it remains hidden until the very end. The movie then ties the beast with this hidden machination of the movie in a very clever way. Everything comes together nicely to climax in a stunning ending that will blow your mind. In the meantime, we get lots of action, terror, style, and sex.Don't believe what you hear about this movie being ugly, brutal, long, boring, and incomprehensible. The movie crafts its story cleverly and masterfully and ties its slowly unfolding elements into each other. Oh sure, a lot of people will hate it. But if you have the right mindset for it, it's a brilliant and thrilling ride and the most fun I've had in a long time. "},{"Title":"Thrillingly Wonderful","Date":"24 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This was one of the rare films from France that truly captivated me.It held my suspense closely -- up until they finally revealed the monster and  it's master.Then, for me, it seemed to take an odd turn.I had a  hard time figuring out what exactly they did to this beast to make the armor attach to it.   Not once did we see the beast outside of it's armor. I was left to only assume it was a   dog. Also, there was no explanation as to why they had it in the armor to begin with. "},{"Title":"A great piece of work","Date":"23 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was amazing.  If you can handle reading French subtitles, then you'll be fine in understanding the film.It's weird, I loved this movie, but I just couldn't take in all of Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon...I just had a hard time following it...plus, listening to Chinese the whole movie was just to much.Anyways, this move is simply wonderful and is a must see! "}{"Title":"French period piece martial arts sci-fi movies never looked so good","Date":"19 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I went into the movie forewarned that it mixed a bunch of genre, so I was expecting it to be more confusing than it actually was. Who would have thought that a French period piece that seems like a random hybrid of elements from Gladiator, Sleepy Hollow, The 13th Warrior, Last of the Mohicans, and Crouching Tiger could make so much sense? I was really entertained and not confused at all. The acting was good, the subtitles well written (IMHO) and the cinematography, costumes, and set design were fabulous.  I thought the romance subplot was kind of underdeveloped and pointless, and the movie could probably have been about twenty minutes shorter, but overall well worth seeing.   "},{"Title":"Disappointing given the talent involved","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Well, I had managed to lower my expectations substantially for this after sampling the reviews at Rotten Tomatoes, but even still I came away disappointed. I was prepared for it being a mess, but I thought it would at least be fun if I didn't take it seriously. It wasn't, particularly. It seems like Christophe Gans had a really good idea for the movie, but then just didn't know what to do with it. Hence it rambles on for 2 hours 20 minutes without ever seeming like it has a particular point or purpose.My friends and the rest of the audience seemed to enjoy it quite a bit more than me though, so perhaps my expectations were low but still high in the wrong places. Mainly I was there for the action scenes I think... with Mark Dacascos and Philip Kwok on board, and Gans' love of Hong Kong Cinema, I thought these should be quite a treat. Sadly, there's not that much martial arts in there, and what there is has been filmed and edited in an awful Hollywood-esque style. Worse in fact. Close ups and over-zealous editing make it impossible to see what people are doing, and render Kwok's choreography and Dacascos' skills pretty much redundant. On top of this, totally spurious switching between slomo, full speed and freeze frame totally kills the feel and momentum of the fights. In Tokyo Raiders such manipulations of time really enhanced the experience, but here it just seems to have been applied randomly with no particular effect in mind. Very disappointing! Still, I made it through the full length without having to leave for a cigarette break, which is pretty impressive, and others there seemed to be having fun... although the movie got lots of laughs that obviously weren't intended by the makers. I was quite impressed to see that the theatre was full to capacity for a subtitled film - promising signs - although it was clear that a good percentage of the audience hadn't known it would be subbed going in. It didn't seem to offend any of them once they realised it though, and I really hope that Miramax and pals will learn to trust people in the US to handle 'foreign stuff' than they seem to believe possible. "},{"Title":"COLORFUL and EXCITING. Mesmerizing Moviemaking. GOOD FILM.","Date":"10 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Apparently the presence of English subtitles in this French film has kept it out of the mass American market. I waited a long time for it to come to a nearby theater but it never did - to my surprise. I had to make the effort to seek it out and travel to it. Either the average person is too dumb to appreciate a dubbed film, or the distributors had no confidence in the public's ability to do so. I suppose it could have been dubbed into English, but that is always a poor option.For those who missed it, that is their misfortune and lose. This is an exciting, colorful, and original movie filled with fabulous martial arts, vivid sets and costumes, creative direction. Yes, it was slightly long, and surely some plot holes could be found, and the denouement of the movie, its conclusion involving a religious cult (the Brotherhood, even though it includes women), stretched credulity, the movie worked on all counts. I was entertained throughout.The killer monster, or whatever it was, was slightly odd. Based on plot explanations and its size, it must have been a lion captured in Africa, and then dressed in some sort of spiked armored suit. It was a little too strange-looking for me, but it was adequate. It also didn't appear until well into the film, perhaps too long.Regardless, I will be getting this on DVD to better appreciate the direction, costumes, scenery, and fights. All in all, it was a lot of fun. Recommended. "},{"Title":"The Best Movie I've Seen in a While","Date":"6 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  May Contain Spoilers Who would think that a movie that is part horror, part period film, part romance, part suspense, part fantasy, and part martial arts film would work? I had my doubts when I heard about this film, but when I saw it my doubts were no more. All the actors were pretty good, with some out-shining others. Mark Dacascos did very well. His acting has improved since Only the strong. One of the reviewers mentioned that the guy who plays Fronsac (LeBihan) was another version of Christopher Lambert. I disagree. LeBihan has more range than Lambert, who tends to be kind of wooden. I will say that the wolf was kind of a disappointment. I was expecting something like An American Wolf in London. Maybe I got my hopes a little to high. In addition, another reviewer commented that the movie got its facts wrong about the French fighting against the Native Americans, in the French and Indian War. Well, that's not true. Now most of the Indian tribes did side with the French, but some did side with the English. Also, some reviewers complained about the noble savage concept throughout the movie. Now this is the 18th century, it's not like the French or almost any white person during that time was going to be hand-shaken with Mani. Society forced Mani to play second tier to Fronsac; not Fronsac or the director. Although I loved Mani, I also loved Sylvia. Even though she was a prostitute, she still had a certain strength and way about her that made you want to fear her and respect her. In addition, Jean-Francois de Marangias was a villain and a tragic character at the same time. Is it me or did anyone start to think of Gladiator, when he started to confess his love/obsession for his sister? The fight sequences were good, but comparing them to Crouching Tiger is a little much. Like another viewer I did notice that during the fight scenes the bad guys tended to attack one at a time. However, it wasn't as bad as some Van Damme and Norris movies. There were times when they did attack two or three at a time. Some people complained that there were too many people who knew martial arts in the movie; that it was 18th century France not 18th century China. Look! The movie is part fantasy, so lets not be picky. Besides it was understandable that Fronsac and Mani weren't the only ones to know martial arts, Jean-Francois knew it. Since he was a hunter/traveler he could of learned it during one of his travels. Also, that could be the explanation for why Fronsac and Mani knew martial arts too. I will say that the Gypsies knowing martial arts was a little far-fetched. The movie was damn good. The best movie I've seen in a while. In fact, to a certain degree it's better than Lord of the Rings. This is the movie I should of went to see two weeks ago instead of the dismal Queen of the Damned. What has happened to Hollywood in the past 3 or 4 years? The movies they're producing lately are for crap. Many people in the U.S. are starting to look overseas to get good entertainment. I give the movie a 9/10. I had to take off for the wolf.  "},{"Title":"Second best fantasy film in past couple of years.","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  One of the best and most original takes on a horror film, in some time. Taking a que from Alien, in that the creature behind much of the story is rarely seen, allowing for the imagination to flow.  Spun with brilliant photography and well paced action sequences, Brotherhood of the Wolf (For us in the United States) takes a little known french legend and lays out a twisting tale.  A bit long in parts, the movie itself has a good pace that helps this wonderful story flow along.  I think this movie falls into the Alien genre and should be viewed as such.  Don't expect any Oscar caliber performances.  So just sit down and hold on for a good time.  I must say that this is one of the best foreign language films I have had the pleasure to view.  If you like suspenseful horror films, with a dash of action thrown in and you can get by the subtitles, this movie is well worth your time. "},{"Title":"a great action film with mystery and romance","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  If it was in English, it would have been a big, big hit in the USA. It has action, mystery and romance. I would see it again in a heartbeat. The martial arts scenes were first rate. The cinematography was excellent. A strong candidate for Foreign film of the year. "},{"Title":"good story, bad movie","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The script could have made a great movie with horrific killings in the countryside, two tough men sent to investigate, the court of france and the church drawing strings - you'd get not only sex, crime, politics, but also fights, lovestory and nice scenery in one package.Sadly, the direction messed up what was good in there. Mr. Gans was left with too much toys to play with, and he wasted too much film minutes with cheap effects and martial arts. I am not against martial arts - quite to the contrary; and I appreciate well-placed effects, even in high dosages.But everybody and his nephew being capable of spin-kicks, sword-fighting and skilled at shooting? Come on, this is supposed to be medieval France! One or two characters with these proficiencies would have done the film well, supplementing other characters with other proficiencies. Apparently Mr. Gans got over-excited by having an expert martial arts trainer on the set, and was too eager to make a video clip lasting over two hours. Which does not work out.Also, the story does not connect well. The basic concept is good, with several separate story parts, interwoven stories of politics, horror, cults and love, told from only two perspectives. But the way the pieces are put together, it stays lifeless at best, becomes hilarious at worst. I recall the whole audience laughing at a point that was supposed to be impressive.Next time somebody tries to follow up on Sleepy Hollow, try to get it right, please.  This movie could have been so much better, now its only an popcorn movie for teenagers (if they get admission).An 3 for the movie as a whole; an 7 for script, locations and visuals; evens out at 5. "},{"Title":"Does anyone know, if real wolves were shot for this movie?","Date":"3 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I really liked LE PACTE DES LOUPS. It was entertaining and suspenseful, it seemed logical to me (although the solution may be a little bit far-fetched), and it had some really great characters of which Fronsac and Mani were my favorites They are real individuals who harm no one and accept only their own rules. Moreover the movie is a convincing portrait of France in the time of absolutism.And please Do yourself a favor and watch out for the very beautiful and talented Monica Bellucci, who plays a fascinating role whose true intentions are revealed only one at a time.But there is one question that really bothers me The movie contains a wolf hunting scene, in which some wolves seem to be authentically shot. You can't see it clearly, but it seems as if two or three shot wolves stumble and fall, after they have been hit by bullets. My question is Does anyone of you know, if real wolves were shot for this movie? The end credit contained to sign of that being not the case.If real wolves were shot for this movie, I would absolutely criticize this, because no piece of art is worth the killing of animals like wolves. I surely hope, the scenes were faked (and if so, then they are quite convincing!). In dubio pro reo 8 out of 10 (otherwise 7). "},{"Title":"One of the best films I've seen in years and the best foreign film I've ever seen.","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I randomly selected this movie as my afternoon entertainment today at a 12-plex cinema in dowtown Vancouver. Definitely worth my $5.50 CDN!Let me get the negative stuff out of the way first. I do like action films, but I can't help thinking what a GREAT movie this would have been if the film makers had not resorted to all the Kung Pow! martial arts crap.Having said that, this film still has a lot of good things going for it.My french isn't good enough to judge the quality of the translation, but the subtitles are at least highly readable.The production values are among the highest I've seen in a movie. Through the visual richness provided the viewer is able to feel that he is actually an inhabitant of the movie.The film has a solid and intriguing basis in 18th century French history. Using the story of the Beast of Gevaudan as a starting point, the legend is embellished to create a very effective plot and storyline.The casting is very strong. Vincent Cassel in particular is extremely effective....YES! GO SEE THIS MOVIE! "},{"Title":"A fantastic anachronism, worthy of a viewing","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A crisp, well-paced, almost mechanically precise plot, with just enough dramatic irony that it doesn't poison the revelations at the end. Excellent performances from Bellucci, Dacascos, and the rest of the cast.  The decadence of pre-Revolutionary France is beautifully presented with period costuming and period morality weighing heavily in the interpretation.De Fronsac, a naturalist, and his Mohawk companion Mani are sent to the south of France to investigate the beast of Gevaudan, which murders women and children at the behest of a malevolent spirit.  On their arrival, a great hunt ensues, and the nobility slaughter nearly every wolf in Gevaudan. From that point, the story becomes progressively weirder and more beautiful; a paean to friendship and a warning against the mob, and a lament for the very real beauty that leavened the cruelty of the ancien regime and was lost in the Revolution. "}{"Title":"Definitely fun to watch.","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I would not call this movie The movie of the year, but it was definitely fun to watch. It really represents an interesting mix of genres. However, it is enough to say that if you like action movies, you should enjoy it. I really liked the camera work - a little bit Matrix- or Gladiator-like (as funny as this combination may sound) The fights were pretty good too - I would not expect anything less from Mark Dacascos, but the French guys were not bad either (if you saw The Crimson Rivers you know what Vincent Cassel is capable of, but actually he did not show off to much in The Brotherhood...). In conclusion - it was entertaining and worth spending a couple bucks for a ticket (I would really suggest watching it in the theater), but do not expect something comparable to The Lord of the Rings. "},{"Title":"Behind every good Brotherhood, there's a&#133;","Date":"21 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  18th century French politics combines trickery, mysticism and superstition in a way that any student of current events would recognize as ripped from the headlines.  So The Brotherhood of the Wolf brings us closer to understanding the sausage-makers of DC since Redford and Hoffman brought Deep Throat to the big screen. This allegorical tale packs more action, color and portraiture in each frame than any other film in my memory. And who says action/adventure can't be artistic?The special effects won't blow you away but the level of performance will. Brotherhood offers more serious acting and you won't be disappointed with the story either.  Though not for the squeamish, the gore is not gratuitous.Your senses will be challenged. "},{"Title":"Hollywood of the Wolf","Date":"20 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  too much blood has been spilled, you need to leave i have unfinished business! whats that, a line from the latest schwarzenegger flick?  Nope, but close. Its from Brotherhood of the Wolf; a new french film thats trying hard to be an american action film.Before i start bashing, im gonna give it respect where it deserves; as a dumb horror movie it has its entertaining moments. Its horrific and gory (mostly gratuitious), its got some cool visuals (though theyre very american and very trendy), and its got naked chicks. However, a good film it is not. Now im gonna pick it apart. Lets start with the directing; it suffers from what i call the Cell syndrome. The director boasts good visual ideas (though not as good as the cell, and mostly rip offs of other movies) but everything in between is mediocre at best. The actors come off as wooden, emotionless, and cliche'd. Although im sure the script, which is another huge problem area, should share the blame. Had this man made this movie in america with this script, and a little less horrific, it would have been titled The Mummy Three.  The actors, like most action flicks, lack real character development. The only change in a character was with the main blonde dude after his indian brother was killed; he got angry and tore s*** up. Just like every Shwarzenneger movie if you ask me. Make Ah-nuld mad, Ah-nuld tear s*** up.  Scenes early on, like a scene when many people are gathered to hunt the monster, and the Indian gets in a fight with ten people and whoops their asses, seem to be screaming see! we can do hollywood too! But why would they want to mimic that kind of hollywood? Its trash! But then again, it makes money every time. But in retrospect, maybe im being a little too hard on it. I just expected more from the french. As an attempt at making a genre flick with cool visuals and people shooting dogs (always fun), it does work most of the time. 6/10  "},{"Title":"Not worth the praise lavished on it","Date":"20 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  First the good thing about this movie. It definitely shows that you don't need Hollywood budgets and cast to make a special effects heavy action/horror movie. But unfortunately I also realized again why I considered European movies superiors to Hollywood blockbusters.Pacte de Loups can't decide what exactly it's going to be so it manages to not be any type of movie consistently. Sure, the martial arts scenes are nicely choreographed but there aren't enough of them to make it an action movie, they are out of place and especially the showdown is ridiculous and would fit better in the next Mortal Kombat movie than here. The Horror aspect is ok too but the solution is revealed too early for the horror motif to provide suspense to the end. The love story is weak and the ending kitsch at its worst. The movie is actually best when showing court life and providing a few witty lines of dialogue but since that part is the smallest of the entire run it can't save it either. All in all I was strongly reminded of Kiss of the Dragon which was a similar half hearted effort too but which had enough of the nice fighting to cover up the weak story and the ridiculousness. French directors shouldn't try to emulate Hollywood productions, they are good enough in their own right, as shown by La Haine and Doberman. "},{"Title":"Long Live Christophe Gans !","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Well,I think this movie is an outstanding one!While it´s been quite a success in France, it seems that the rest of the world will close their eyes to this fantastic movie. I´m not sure why, but to me it seems, that especially the US Audience has enormous prejudice for the European cinema. Christophe Gans did a few years ago CRYING FREEMAN,also starring Marc Dacascos, a movie that lived through it´s story and the unique cinematography.Le Pacte des loups is a little bit different,there´s more story in the movie and it surely has,for people who worship stuff as MI 2, too much length and too less action.Anyway, it´s a wonderful fantasyflick with outstanding camera work and I´m sure that Monsieur Gans is a force to be reckoned with in the future. All those who think that the French cinema only exists of lame movies should check out CRYING FREEMAN and then BROTHERHOOD OF THE WOLF! Open your eyes! "},{"Title":"Long Live Christophe Gans !","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Well,I think this movie is an outstanding one!While it´s been quite a success in France, it seems that the rest of the world will close their eyes to this fantastic movie. I´m not sure why, but to me it seems, that especially the US Audience has enormous prejudice for the European cinema. Christophe Gans did a few years ago CRYING FREEMAN,also starring Marc Dacascos, a movie that lived through it´s story and the unique cinematography.Le Pacte des loups is a little bit different,there´s more story in the movie and it surely has,for people who worship stuff as MI 2, too much length and too less action.Anyway, it´s a wonderful fantasyflick with outstanding camera work and I´m sure that Monsieur Gans is a force to be reckoned with in the future. All those who think that the French cinema only exists of lame movies should check out CRYING FREEMAN and then BROTHERHOOD OF THE WOLF! Open your eyes! "},{"Title":"Double-Fisted-Kung-Pow-Wow Action!","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  When the flyer for Brotherhood of the Wolf first graced my TV screen, I immediately jumped up from the couch and raced to my computer to check out its website. The realization that the film was subtitled did not dampen my excitement. In fact, I was even more intrigued-and frustrated that I would have to wait so long to find out what French film could offer the horror genre. Moreover, I love werewolf movies, and BotW certainly seemed to be one. Would it stand the test of time alongside such greats as The Howling and An American Werewolf in London ?In a word no. But not because BotW is a bad film. Actually, it was excellent. Well-acted and suspenseful, this epic kept me guessing right up to the end, even if that end was about a half hour too long in coming. Yet at nearly two and a half hours, it contained enough gore and violence to keep most horror fans tuned in. The opening sequence in which a young woman in ripped apart by an unseen monster was especially gripping. For those viewers also interested in stunning and unusual visuals, this film will certainly satisfy.Still, it has its problems.First off, it adds nothing to the horror genre because it isn't really a horror movie at all. Startling and action-packed, yes, but not at all horrific. Call it a...historical forensic film, if you will, with the emphasis on historical. That's where the other problem comes in.Historical horror is my favorite type. However, 17th century hairstyles and social mores do not accuracy make. Authenticity is paramount. Sadly, BotW blows accuracy out of the water with its Mani character, an Iroquois native transplanted to provincial France.Don't get me wrong Mark Dacascos is a great actor, though the casting of an Oriental gent as a North American native will raise some eyebrows. More iffy, however, is the Oriental fighting style this native displays. Imagine Crouching Tiger, Hidden Werewolf , replete with roundhouse kicks and walking up opponents faces very, very quickly. This Kung-Pow-Pow action, as well as a somewhat improbably weapon near the film's finish, sticks out terribly, completely ruining all chance of suspension of disbelief.That said, Brotherhood of the Wolf is still a good movie. A movie completely misrepresented as a horror and suffering from an overabundance of artistic license, but a good movie nonetheless. As the first film to be reviewed by Malefica, I give it 3 and 1/2 stars out of 5, with a half being docked for length and a full star snipped off for the glaring inaccuracies. But that scene at the beginning...brrrr.  "},{"Title":"Hey, it's French","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  In 1764 a French town is being ravaged by a beast that kills women in children.  Two men try to stop it and become entangled in a battle between God and Nature, Savage and Civilized and Good and Evil.  So what is there to say about this film.  For one it was a beautifully directed film, so well directed it was almost gaudy.  Yet being French much of this 3 hour film was a drawn out and rather pretentious discussion on philosophy and other things.  The thing I liked most about this film was its refreshing look at film. It was dramatic, disturbing, and thought provoking all at the same time. While most films are dramatic they lack volume, they lack girth and they lack intelligence.  I am beginning to like this winter, where all these great movies are coming out and Brotherhood of the Wolf is one of them.  Call me crazy, but I think the French actually did something right! I give this film an A- It had great acting, a great (if sometimes pretentious) script and its action sequences where a feast for the eyes. Go see this movie!!!  "},{"Title":"A mind-blowing, oddball combination in a gorgeous package","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Brotherhood of the Wolf (Le Pacte des Loups) is a period costume horror martial-arts werewolf movie with political overtones, based on a true story of a beast that terrorized a mountainous region of southwestern France in 1765, killing over 100 people without ever being tracked down and becoming a legend.  In the movie it is tracked down, by the heroic and appealing Gregoire de Fronsac, who discovers a subversive cult behind it led by a diabolical priest.  Gregoire travels with an American Indian shaman pal named Mani, a cool mystical looking dude who can kick box like you've never seen and can detect your animal spirit by touching your palm.  There are not one but two glamorous babes, one a young aristocrat and one a powerful courtesan. There's also a young marquis who's quite charming and who befriends Gregoire and Mani.  It's pure cult material, with a preposterous mix of genres.  You'd expect something tacky, but it's a gorgeous movie with good actors, good dialogue, and bold and striking cinematography.  Is it all a waste of quality on poor material?  Not if you give in to it and enjoy it. I guess it's all very twenty-first century.  Certainly the sight of kick boxing in lushly reproduced eighteenth-century French crowd scenes is a rare and new thing.  So is the high volume high velocity violence.  At the moment it seems clear that hardly anybody is going to see the film till it gets to video.  The theater was almost empty when I saw it and I had a feeling that the people who came weren't great readers, and may not have been to a movie with subtitles before and weren't at all comfortable with it.  It reminded me of when I saw a James Bond movie in a packed Cairo cinema house and had to sit in the front row with fellahin who couldn't read subtitles in French or Arabic or English any other language.  How this film got made is a bit of a mystery but obviously the makers looked to The Deerslayer and The Last of the Mohicans for inspiration and not to Eric Rohmer or Jean-Luc Godard, yet brought totally French sensibilities to bear in molding the classy performances and luscious mise-en-scene.   I can't say that period horror adventure martial arts movies are my thing, but I wouldn't have wanted to miss such a unique and basically excellent cinematic creation.  "},{"Title":"A visual feast.","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I knew going into this film that it was going to be something completely different. From the trailers it looked like an action film with some horror undertones. The film turns out to be about a mystery and a very good one at that. First let me say that this film is a visual feast. The atmosphere is amazing. The amount of rain in the opening shots, the mysterious men on horseback, the religious overtones. This film has it all. Some have voiced their opinion about the martial arts fighting in the film. My comment is...why not? Have we reached a point in society where our fiction has to have rules and guidelines. I always thought a good story was a good story. Society has been pre-programmed by films and music, even literature. We see one film we love and then we seem to spend all of our time looking for films with only slight variations. Such as the same story with a different set of actors. Brotherhood of the Wolf is not free from cliches, it merely embraces them in a new visual and fantastical fashion. The director is a new visionary in my opinion. Films should always be original. Brotherhood of the Wolf is proof that even after 100 years of cinema, an original idea is still out there. "}{"Title":"Not bad actually !","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Very entertaining with some cool action and nice cinematography. If you're a Thinking Dude who's looking for a wakeup call or into some deep arty farty type of stuff which makes you think then stay away from this one cos its not for you. But if you're into movies just for the sake of fun and munching some popcorn then go see it . You will love it. Don't mind the subtitles though . 9/10 "},{"Title":"P.U.","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The camera angles need a barf bag, the plot needed to have been decided before the  filming started.  In short, it is even worse than Attack of the Killer Tomatoes.  No plot, corny  monster, historically in accurate, terrible effects.  The French can not make movies.  Save your money, stay away. "},{"Title":"Oh no!","Date":"7 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Started off excellent.  Camera work and action was great.  Then, unfortunately, they showed The Beast.  Big mistake.  I felt like I was staring at some stupid Mummy Returns character.  The movie itself seemed to be a mix between Last of the Mohicans, Braveheart, Enter the Dragon, with Triple H from the WWF thrown in for good measure.  What a disappointment. "},{"Title":"GREAT!","Date":"7 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The movie was VERY Beautiful.....even the violence. I loved the imagery. I do agree it was about 45 minutes too long. It tried a bit too hard to cover too much ground and in doing so might have lost a bit. I liked the way that the protagonists visited a brothel. No namby-pamby nobility. And the eerie countryside!!!!  I'm almost sorry about the ending...would've been nice to see the two heroes together again in future adventures. "},{"Title":"8/10 fun epic","Date":"6 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  If it walks like a period piece, and it talks like a period piece, it must be a period piece, right?  Well not necessarily.  The Brotherhood of the Wolf is a fun, violent, sexy, horror, period piece that should appeal to almost anyone.The film is like an all you can eat buffet, there's a little something for everyone, but it is possible that you can get a little too full with this cinematic treat. "},{"Title":"2 Hours and 21 minutes of 90% Extreme Boredom","Date":"6 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is a French film with English subtitles. It is set in 18th-century France which, as we all know, was where everyone fought with kung-fu. They just didn't fight with kung-fu as skillfully as the indians in French Canada. Yaaahhh.The film is set in a French province where some kind of beast is attacking women and children. It has a bigger jaw than anything France has seen. Hunts are fruitless, and the beast cannot be found and killed, so its killing spree continues. Some think it has supernatural powers, while others don't believe in ghosts. I can't give much more away because there isn't a lot more to give. The film drags on endlessly with more killings, beast hunts, chases and kung-fu fights. It makes me sleepy again just thinking about it. Zzzzzzzzz. "},{"Title":"Squandered potential. . . .","Date":"6 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  In 18th-century France, a mysterious, wolfish beast kills and maims countless people in Gevaudan. Grégoire de Fronsac, his Iroquois friend Mani in tow, is summoned from colonial French Canada to unravel the mystery of this monster, which can seemingly appear and disappear at will. People are in a panic; how can the beast be stopped? And if it can't, what will the king do?Brotherhood of the Wolf is a sprawling (and I do mean sprawling) tale of magic, adventure, conspiracy, and intrigue, where things are not as they seem, over and over. The film is stylishly shot; impressive to look at. These 18th-century knights and nobles have apparently had martial-arts training, as just about anyone who fights in a major film post-Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon suddenly does. Some of the ideas in the film are somewhat interesting. For example, a character mentions that a popular book claims the wolflike creature is God's punishment to the king for being overly indulgent toward philosophers. This reminds me of Puritans in Elizabethan and Jacobean England claiming that the bubonic plague was God's retribution against the monarchy for allowing theater to exist and thrive. It's an important element to the film, but the narrative unfolds in such a leisurely, almost episodic way that its potential effect is diluted. When we finished watching this film, I asked, How old were we when we started watching this film? So much younger, for sure.  "},{"Title":"Simply brilliant and amazing","Date":"6 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film had the mixture all out action packed adventure, romance, thriller and a touch of humor. a completely out of this world experience and may be a new stepping stone for fantasy and fiction. Simply great. The dialogue the location and the mood was when Predator meets sleepy hollow and a touch of blood sport. "},{"Title":"Not half the movie as How High","Date":"5 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  After seeing this movie I wasn't sure what to think. On one hand, the subtitles were very annoying. On that same hand, was the fact that the movie was only filmed in one location. While contemplating the movie in my head, I decided to see the movie How High. Let me tell you this, How High should be nominated for no fewer than 12 Oscars (even though Hans Zimmer didn't write the music). Some people, like Tung, might try and tell you that How High wasn't even filmed at Harvard, rather filmed in L.A. However, Tung is very wrong. How, might I ask, were Method Man and Redman able to knock over the Harvard sign if they weren't at Harvard? Huh? In summation, the WWF's Right to Censor could kick the Saviors butt anyday. "},{"Title":"CROUCHING FRENCHMAN, HIDDEN MOHAWK","Date":"5 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This was a wild ride of a movie!!  I can not recall ever seeing a film that blended so many disparate elements and did so successfully.  Brotherhood of the Wolf can loosely be described as a historical mystery/action/horror/martial arts film and as odd as that mix sounds, it really works!!!  The film was so well put together and filmed that I found myself suspending disbelief about such things as french and indian martial artists, armored monsters and vatican assassins.  My only complaint is the film was a little too long and could have been trimmed slightly.  Otherwise this is a beautiful, exotic and strange treat that I would recommend to anyone who can watch a film and avoid the temptation to overanalyze things.  Check out the wildest scene fade in history too!!! "}{"Title":"A messy, boring film with an identity crisis","Date":"3 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  It's hard to say if `Brotherhood of the Wolf' is an action movie disguised as a costume drama, or the other way around. French director Christophe Gans has given us a schizophrenic film that can't seem to make up its mind about where its loyalties lie. As a period piece, it's quite boring. As an action flick, it's, well.still horribly boring. Either way, this orgy of blood, guts, powdered wigs, and rouge is a sloppy and formless mess, one that could be an hour shorter were it not so intent on inflating the gravitas of its flimsy characters and story with slow motion and ridiculous sound effects.In late-18th century France, while spoiled nobles are playing sexual mind games in country manors, the local peasantry is being munched upon by a mysterious beast. Some think it's a wolf, others a demon. Whatever it is, the king has seen fit to send his royal naturalist, Gregoire de Fronsac, to investigate. Fronsac is accompanied by his pensive Native American sidekick Mani, who like all Indians, can predict the future and communicate with animals by picking up a handful of soil and rubbing it through his fingers. Mani is also an expert kickboxer (again, what Native American isn't?), as we're reminded about fifty-three times throughout the film. To disguise how skull-numbing all this is, Gans periodically jams in distracting martial arts asides that become nearly self-parodying for all their slow motion pageantry. But `Brotherhood of the Wolf' isn't just a bad action movie. It's also a silly period piece that purports to explore racial and class divisions with facile insincerity. True, we have the enlightened Fronsac, friend of backward peoples like Mani, sympathizer of the poor and persecuted. But we also have Fronsac's own taste for high-priced whores, and a beast from darkest Africa, that has had its most savage instincts honed and developed around the will of its master. There are some who will argue that the ultimate force driving the beast is a metaphor for contemporary religious and class conflicts. Yet the explanation of the beasts' origin and purpose seems a much more telling metaphor of the true sentiments on display here.All this is mashed together in a confusing goulash with some real continuity problems. WARNING SPOILER AHEAD There are elements of a love story between Fronsac and the Countess Marianne de Morangias that are interrupted by Fronsac's visits to a mysterious gypsy-whore at the local brothel, who may be more than she seems, or perhaps is merely what she seems. In any event, she kills Fronsac, only to bring him back to life almost immediately to seek his revenge. The beast itself appears to be covered in melted cheese, or sticks, or something (we're told it's armor).`Brotherhood of the Wolf' looks good, but its colorful and moody cinematography can't get out of its own way, savoring every drop of rain and every muddy footprint. It's pulled in many directions, but is too tentative to explore any of them in any detail. There are the seedlings of several good ideas here, but the film can't follow through on any of them. As a director, Gans is assured and confident behind the camera, but he needs to reign himself in if he wants to avoid p***ing off even more audiences than he has here.  "},{"Title":"French tribute to Hollywood & Hong Kong","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Enjoy the style, don't bother about the content. This is a great looking swashbuckler. Part of the pleasure is that French male actors don't have the Plastic Babe look yet (big eyes, small noses, pouty lips and a bland expression, common in young actors of both sexes, think Brad Pitt, Johnny Depp). Not that there aren't Babes of both sexes Bellucci and Dacascos are magnifique. It's interesting to be told a story about a legend of the French countryside but the plot holes and muddle tell you they didn't take it too seriously, so why should you? Have fun.  "},{"Title":"kinda fun and different","Date":"26 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Brotherhood of the Wolf is an interesting concept, mixing the werewolf, martial arts, costume drama genres with lots of style. What I was surprised to find is that this is pretty close to being The Hound of the Baskervilles.******Spoilers********OK, a twisted individual gets his hands on a savage yet natural beast, trains it, costumes it, and uses it to bring an old legend to life in order to get his way. Rational & resourceful individual with capable sidekick is sent to the rural & creepy location to investigate, and they are not confused by the supernatural mumbo-jumbo. Beast gets killed, young target is saved at last minute, and man-behind-it-all gets done in with poetic justice. Sherlock Holmes is back, but he's French and kick-boxes!This movie was just fun and atmospheric, but it DID run a bit long. Titanic & Lord of the Rings were also long but were worthy of the length, this one is less so.I understand that a website 'theunexplainedsite.com' has the true version of this tale filed under 'Beast of Gevaudin'. "},{"Title":"One Long Homage...","Date":"24 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  In one of my film classes, my professor told a joke that in the film world there is no such thing as a rip-off or copying, it's a homage. Well, if this is true than Brotherhood of the Wolf (Le Pacte des loups) makes a living in homages. The film takes elements from the slow-motion photography of martial arts films (ala John Woo) to the first-person POV camera perspective used in several horror films such as Sam Raimi's The Evil Dead. Because of these many traits the film covers a lot of ground from horror to action to romance. The action scenes grab your eyes, although director Gans does over use slow-mo too much. The scenes of horror and romance don't work nearly as well as action sequences. In the end the film, while not groundbreaking, provides a small fix for horror, action and fantasy buffs. A 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"7 of 10","Date":"23 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  **SPOILERS** I really wanted to see the film that took Europe by storm and Monica Bellucci.  So I dragged a couple of heads over to the film and we all saw it.After the movie, they looked at me and asked what was that all about?  I realized they missed integral points of the film, like the Roman Catholic church's involvement even the time setting of pre-Revolutionary or near Revolutionary France.  I sent them an e-mail explaining it all.  But also, being a foreign film, they had trouble accepting the validity of a Ninja whore sent from the Church and the ability of people to return from the dead and be healed by Indian fairy dust.  Perhaps it's the ignorance of many Americans evident in the overwhelming sigh and sucking of teeth heard when they realiezed it was a film with subtitles.  Maybe the studio should have given audio tapes for those in want of hooked-on-phonics.  It can maybe also attested for the stereotypes regarding foreign films the French do arthouse, Hong Kong does kung-fu, etc.  This is why I like this film, for attempting to show that conitnental films do action as well and it gets pretty fantastical.I enjoyed the bad-ass action sequences, especially with the characters fighting in their time's garb.  The characters were all solid and the plot was interesting.  As I said, I'd normally rather watch a film in the luxury of my own home unless it's a visual spectacle because I can't deal with talking or clapping.  Just try to peel me away from my ten dollars.  But I think it was money well invested and can even swallow the fact that I paid 4 dollars for a coke and four dollars for a bottled water.Monica Bellucci- what an amazing woman.  She is definitely the most gorgeous actress on the screen and will argue with anyone for hours who refutes that point. For one, I can't believe she's married to Vincent Cassel but after seeing him in La Haine, I can see how his badboy qualities can seduce.  He also is a great actor but was the all too predictable bad guy.  SPOILER- Who didn't realize that he was behind it when they showed that crinkled hand of the master before pulling a spike from the beast's back and sending it to a howl that the townsfolk interpreted as evil triumph.  -END SPOILS That guy from the Crow TV show, he was always good in that and this role wasn't a stretch at all.  But he knows how to act like a bad mutherf--ker really well.  Everyone else is great even the punk who gets his hand bitten off and loses his life to the Revolution.  Lots of action stereotypes here and the only real surprise was ninja whore from the Roman Catholic church. But still, it's better than most action flicks and that's exactly what it is.  Except it's in French, set in a time where we expect costume dramas, so suspend all the stereotypes you may have about films and have fun.  It's not mind boggling unless you're a complete idiot, but if you're sucking teeth when you see the subtitles, go down the cineplex and check out Collateral Damage.  And don't say I'll be back, just go. "},{"Title":"Sound is commendable","Date":"23 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I must say that the best thing about this movie is the soundtrack and by that I don't mean mood music.  During most of the fights and at other dramatic points each image on the screen was enunciated perfectly with exaggerated sound.  For example; during a rain scene an actor stepping in a puddle of water was heard as clearly as if the viewer was standing there being splashed.  This might have bothered some people, but I saw it as a step closer to making movies a virtual reality. "},{"Title":"Great movie... A+++","Date":"22 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I would just like to say that this is a GREAT movie. Im fixin to buy it on DVD as soon as it comes out. I will admit that it has flaws, I have yet to see a movie that has none, but they are all absolutely forgivable if you really put your heart and mind to the story. Absolutely enchanting, plus it has very good acting.  "},{"Title":"Wait for it to come out on cable.","Date":"22 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I will admit it I wasn't hyped to see (or shall I say read) this movie. I generally dislike subtitled films, but Crouching Tiger made me think twice about skipping a movie strictly because it is subtitled. Here's my thoughts1. Way too much Matrix-Kung Fu-SlowMo-Cam. The action would have been much better if every single fight didn't have this. There can be too much of a good thing.2. It seemed like the director was trying a little bit TOO hard to develop every single character. He could have chopped at least 30 minutes of the film by getting rid of useless background.3. The story is good...very good. There is an originality you don't see very often...Perhaps the director could have filled some plot holes instead of giving us a bunch of background that doesn't mean anything?4. I'm sorry, but did they *have* to make the beast look like an ROUS (rodent of unusual size) from the Princess Bride?5. 10 minutes of staring at a boat was completely useless.6. Some of the fades and wipes are extraordinary...Look for them.7. Be prepared to be disappointed at least three times that the movie isn't over.8. The acting is impeccable. Bravo to the casting director.All in all, I liked this movie. It wasn't a complete waste of time, yet it doesn't live up to all the hype. I recommend waiting until it comes out on cable.  "},{"Title":"Not Sure about This One","Date":"22 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The French are never more interesting than when they're trying to imitate Hollywood, and in this case they've made their own version of Sleepy Hollow.  However, Brotherhood is so dense, so plot heavy that it makes Tim Burton's movie look the rough draft of a children's story.I have no idea what to make of this movie.  There's so much to dissect that I'd be here all day trying to cover it all.  Basically, you have Last of the Mohicans meets Sleepy Hollow with a little From Hell, Crouching Tiger, Texas Chainsaw Massacre, Romeo and Juliet, American Werewolf in London, and Dangerous Beauty sprinkled in for good measure.  The whole thing left me scratching my head.  Why would an Iroquoi and French peasants know martial arts?  Why, if the Beast is serving the purpose it is, would it attack the victims it does?  Why would one character in particular keep the secret he does?  And are wolves benign spirit guides or members of vengeful, murderous pacts?  And, I'm sorry, but the explanation of what the Beast is at the end is just not satisfactory.I honestly can't say if I liked Brotherhood of the Wolf or not.  I'm only giving it a 5 because it's such an over the top, muddled mess.  I mean, I guess I should give it some credit because it actually gave me a story I had to try to follow and left me thinking about it later, but I don't know if either are enough for me to tell anyone to see it for themselves. "},{"Title":"unintentionally a great time","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The entire crowd in the theatre laughed all the way through this movie... Normally, since Le Pacte des Loups isn't a comedy, this shouldn't be a good thing. But it's a bad, bad movie in a very entertaining way.It's beautifully shot (despite the Hong Kong-fetish slowed down shots) and the scenery is gorgeous. But.A Mohawk Indian who knows kung fu. French peasant women in eyeliner. The hero with a perma-tan despite the harsh winter. Conveniently reviving dead people. Victims getting bashed against rocks like the plastic dummies used to be on Saturday Night Live. More peasants who have secret lives as fur-wearing Mongol warriors. Appropriately heaving bosoms (and one set that even turns into snow-covered mountains). Slowed-down action scenes complete with melodramatic music. Evil clerics. Wicked nobles. True love at first sight... every cliche in the book is used here.There is no way to identify with any of the characters -- they are all two-dimensional walking stereotypes -- and you won't especially care what happens to them. But if you go into this movie thinking it's a comedy, then you'll have a fine time.  "}{"Title":"Wonderfully schizofrenic blockbuster","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Christophe Gans' masterpiece proclaims the trailer, which took Europe by storm. Well, I didn't notice that in The Netherlands and it wasn't too big in the U.K. either (it was a huge hit in France, but then again, it is a French film). And that masterpiece tag? Well, that's too much praise (although I have no doubt Gans will make one in the future) because The Brotherhood of the Wolf definitely isn't without its fair share of flaws. All the same went for a little film you may have seen about a year ago Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon. That's also a foreign film combining epic period drama with some distincty populist elements (kung fu and fantasy). The Brotherhood of the Wolf introduces martial arts into 1766's France but adds another element; that of the monster movie. The result is a film which is not as groundbreakingly original as some might have you believe (Sleepy Hollow is also similar in many ways) but one that is so frequently inventive you'll probably be willing to overlook that.Those of you familiar with Crying Freeman, Gans' attempt at live action Manga, will have some idea what to expect of The Brotherhood's direction. Although he omits filming every fight sequence in full slow-mo this time, there's still a lot there. His abundant but excellent use of fades (Monica Belluci fading into a snowy landscape is one for the books) and sudden changes in camera speed (a good example is the mudpool attack, featuring two very dramatic freeze-frames) give the film an almost lyrical feel. For the more exciting scenes, however, he ditches those stylistics in favour of some very strong dynamism through fast cuts (I would have preferred the longer-takes-and-wider-angles-approach for the fight scenes though). But it's not just empty visual flair, Gans creates a film which is thick with atmosphere. From the French woods to the Brotherhood's den, everything is alive. Set and costume design and cinematography are all top notch.Beyond the direction, however, everything becomes a little hit-and-miss. The script succeeds in bringing together a variety of wildly diverse elements into a almost seamless whole. That said, it does lack a little momentum during the first hour where a lot of scenes are presented which seem to go nowhere. The scenes do pay off later (the film has clearly defined characters and relationships at that point, which makes the following mixture of spectacle and plot twists a lot more satisfying) but you wonder if it couldn't have been a little sharper. What also didn't work for me was having the story related to the audience by a supporting character. Much like in Titanic it brings up a host of plotholes (how could this character have known that?) and it simply doesn't play well. Thankfully, the wraparound tale doesn't last too long either. What it does have is an interesting second layer, that of (corrupted) religious conservatism reinforcing its influence on a changing society through brutal terror and backstabbing. What goes for the script goes for the acting as well. Vincent Cassel is, as always, great and it's fun seeing Mark Dacascos fighting, speaking French and acting remarkably well in one and the same movie. Simon LeBihan, on the other hand, is a little inexpressive and too much of a pretty boy to convince as the vindictive wannabe martial artist of the final reel.Did I mention it was subtitled (yes, U.S. moviefans, SUBTITLED - ok, I'm generalising, don't flood my mailbox please)? The trailer handily cuts around such irrelevant material like dialogue masking the fact that EVERYONE SPEAKS FRENCH. So if this is making you a little itchy, by all means, stay away. Trust me, if you're happier watching bad dialogue in English (avoid the unavoidable dubbed version - didn't you see what happened to CTHD?) than good dialogue in French, this film is far, far too different for your tastes. For everyone else The Brotherhood of the Wolf may be imperfect, but the mere fact that it combines an imaginative creature feature, French period cinema and an extending bone-sword/ whip makes it a highly recommendable and enjoyable film.Rating 7/10  "},{"Title":"entertaining but convoluted","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I'll make this short and sweet(what a cliche)what's good1.the scenes with the wolf are excellent(amazing cgi and puppetry courtesy of henson studios) 2.emilie duquenne(she was more effective in rosetta but its nice to see her again in anything) 3.mark dacascos(hope i spelled it right.he's an extremely talented and charismatic cinematic presence who commands attention) 4.cinematography(some of the most beautiful images captured on screen in recent memeory) 5.fight scenes(they are energetic and realistic(if not historically inaccurate)and most importantly they are coherent. 6.music(effectively complements the onscreen action without overwhelming it 7.sound(effective use of sound,especially in the action sequences and the scenes with the wolf(it will make your hair stand on end)).bad points 1.too long(could have easily been cut to at least 2 hours and all the important elements could have remained in place) 2.does not know what it wnats to be(the narrative goes in too many directions,a little directorial focus would have been appreciated) 3.not enough scenes with the wolf(it's disappointing when the title creature has limited screen time,especially when i feel these are the most excited and effective scenes).in closing,the good definitely outweighs the bad in this french import,and i mildly recommend it to action/horror fans.it's nice to see french cinema going in this direction,it can only get better,but my favorites from that country are still human resources,the dreamlife of angels,rosette and lovers on the bridge.check it out,i was entertained for 2 and a half hours(i own the region 2 dvd)and the fight scenes are more exciting than matrix and crouching tiger.I would'nt even compare them  to this,they did'nt use computer fx or wires,its much more realistic,no flying ninjas and 10 punches in one second trifle.i'll take dacascos over keannu reeves any day.ok maybe that wasnt so short or sweet.  "},{"Title":"Not just a French Crouching Tiger","Date":"20 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Try as I might, like so many others, I can't help but compare Brotherhood Of The Wolf to Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon.  Both movies feature fantastical martial arts sequences that defy the laws of physics.  Both movies feature magnetic actors and epic visuals.  Both movies are subtitled.  But where CT, HD was a lush landscape of emerald leaves, flying maidens, and dazzling vistas, BotW is a visceral, dark land of blood and stone.On paper, Brotherhood shouldn't work at all.  Usually, when a movie combines so many seemingly opposite genres (costume drama with martial arts, mystical horror with romance), it fails on an grand scale.  Brotherhood, however, weaves these disparate categories into one epic, sweeping film. Part of this movie's success is its wonderful cast.  Samuel Le Bihan is a winning lead, both romantic and daring.  Monica Bellucci is mesmerizing in one of the most intriguing, complex, and well-written women's roles of the year.  And Mark DaCascos is beyond words as Mani, the Iriquois who is both noble and brutal, complentative and passionate.The fight sequences are some of the best I've ever seen.  Amplified by an exciting, occasionally chaotic style and some of the best uses of stereo sound in action films, the scenes are beautiful in their brutality and graceful in their execution.  Joseph LoDuca's fantastic score (surpassing even the fabulous work he did on Xena Warrior Princess), makes the scenes even more dramatic.While I think that there were scenes cut from the film, I still believe that the film was a bit too long, with one too many false climaxes.  And while sometimes the CGI was a bit distracting, it was refreshing to see a special effect not done by the too-slick-for-their-own-good team of Industrial Light & Magic.  All in all, Brotherhood Of The Wolf is a vibrant, welcome addition to the flood of Oscar-bait and prestige projects that too often dominate this time of year.  If only everything from France could be this good!  9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"See this delightful fantasy with someone young at heart and relive the adventures only the imagination can provide.","Date":"19 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  See this delightful fantasy, `Brotherhood of the Wolf,' with someone young at heart and relive the adventures only the imagination can provide  `Crouching Tiger'-like martial arts, `Forbidden Planet'-like monster, and `Lord of the Rings'-like photography.  Add an inaccessible heroine/love, throw in the French Revolution for good measure, and you will have the most romantic movie this year.A naturalist is searching out a predatory wolf harassing a French town at the time of the Revolution.  We get to see the monstrous menace and lurk in the dark with our detectives, including a dexterous Iroquois twice as cool as Yun-fat Chow in `Tiger.'The cinematography is eye-catching; the soundtrack mirrors the action without calling attention to itself.  The imaginative recalling of Beowulf's descent into Grendel's lair or the monster fed by the mind of the scientist in `Forbidden Planet' makes this romance memorable for me.Jim Henson's Creature Shop has created the most awkward and menacing beast in years. The incestuous rape is as outrageous as some of the special effects-the stop-motion monster, whooshing, fast-paced jump cuts, and slasher scenes to quicken the pulse.  It's all too much, but as satisfying a period piece as I've seen in a long time. It has what `Kate and Leopold' and `Affair of the Necklace' don't have the soul of imagination and the heart of romance. "},{"Title":"warning genre-mixing can be dangerous","Date":"19 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  It sounded too good to be true a quasi-historical supernatural thriller combining elements of monster-movie, romance and martial arts genres. Subtitled in French, nonetheless! An ambitious disaster, the overlong and often silly Brotherhood of the Wolf is an example of how a movie can lose all substance by trying way too hard to be stylish.Loosely based on the true story of the Beast of Gevaudan, a late 18th century monster that terrorized a small French town, Brotherhood of the Wolf follows naturalist Gregoire de Fronsac (Samuel Le Bihan) and his Iroquois guide Mani (Mark Dacascos) as they hunt for the creature in the woods near a small provincial town. That the inhabitants of this village are more outrageous than the monster should not surprise you (this is, after all, a French film). There's Jean-Francois (Vincent Cassel), the brooding one-armed aristocrat with a thing for his sister, Marianne (Emilie Dequenne). She likes Fronsac. He fancies her as well, but spends much of the movie sleeping with Sylvia (Monica Bellucci), a soothsaying prostitute who may or may not be an agent of the Vatican.Confused yet? With so many plot twists that you begin to lose interest, the inexplicable ability of almost every character in the film to have martial arts prowess, and perhaps the most pretentious, none-too subtle dissolve in the history of cinema (Monica Bellucci's breasts fade into the shape of snow-peaked mountains), Brotherhood of the Wolf is certainly not a boring film. In fact, some critics are raving about it. Why? This is a movie that many people wanted to love. Trust me, fans of old Hammer horror and modern sci-fi groundbreakers like The Matrix were foaming at the mouth for something like Brotherhood. But all that director Christophe Gans proves with his bold but uneven blending of styles is that sometimes, genre-mixing can be dangerous. "},{"Title":"OVERLONG, PRETENTIOUS, BUT PRETTY ENJOYABLE...","Date":"17 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film is quite enjoyable despite the fact that it is VERY VERY FRENCH. It is overlong and pretentious, but it keeps your attention and is directed with some impressive visual fair. And hey, it has a naked Monica Bellucci...so I can't possibly talk bad about it. "},{"Title":"Weird, Wild and Lots Of Fun","Date":"17 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Man, you read some of these comments and you'd think Truffaut made this film! Sheesh, lighten up, fellow cinephiles. IT'S A MONSTER MOVIE! Plain and simple. The director took the old French folk tale of the Beast and had fun with it. I must have been in just the right mood for it because I loved it! I mean, c'mon a foreign monster movie set in the French rainy countryside with men in powdered wigs, whores in amazing corsets, Indians kicking the crap out of bad guys, well shot monster attacks and a littlebit of a mystery plot. Is this a brilliant film? No. Is it a fun popcorn movie? Heck yes. Go in thinking this way and I really feel you will have a good time. The director goes a bit overboard with the slo-mo and Matrix effects, but overall - the fights and the monster attacks are incredibly well done and the whole film is gorgeous to look at. A true hodge-podge, but sometimes stew is better than steak!!!  "},{"Title":"Last of the Mohicans get mugged by Burton's Sleepy Hollow","Date":"17 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I'll skip the plot summary here as there are plenty of them already. A lot of people have compared it to Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon apparently on the basis that they are both foreign films with some combat sequences in them. Themeatically though they are very different films. To me this movie was basically a cross of Last of the Mohicans and Burton's Sleepy Hollow. What I liked- Acting, fairly solid all around - Cinematography, beautifully shot with some fabulous scenes - Monica Belluci, what's not to like? - Sound, wonderful sound design and editing, reminiscent of Ghost and the Darkness - Fight sequences, good and blood without being goryWhat I didn't like- Romance angle, not developed enough, didn't believe that they were actually in love - Some plot sillines, not enough to be really bothersome but could have been tighter - Run time, not overly long and goes fast, but there are about 15 minutes that I would have cut to tighten it up, or could have been used better elsewhere (expand on the romance) - Not enough Monica Belluci, could have made her character much more interestingOverall this movie falls into that category of movies that don't ask much of you, but give you a hell of a fun time. A lot of people have said that there are too many genres mixed into this movie - that it tries to be a period/horror/sci-fi/kung-fu/mystery movie, but I think that is unfair criticism. It doesn't have any asperations beyond being a classic Hollywood action film, complete with the hero, the sidekick, the villan and the girl. In this is suceeeds admirably.  "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"16 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was great fun, very exciting, and surprisingly complex. The locations and costumes were great, and the women were beautiful! I loved it. I really enjoyed the genre-mixing. The action sequences were awesome..the swordplay and hand to hand sequences were killer. "},{"Title":"great cuts/scenes/sequences","Date":"16 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  What can I say but wow!  This film maker and many film makers in france are making American film makers look like ignorant out for the money hollywood dumbasses who produce movies that already came out.  Hence Crouching tiger and hidden dragon and Iron Monkey and hence Spy Game and Sneakers. Redford your finished man!!  And movies we make producers work on a short time schedule hence the Blair Witch Project which had to be released on Halloween. Ughhhhhhhh I'm getting sick of America and their greediness with success and money. Do it for the film man!! pleaseeeeeeeeeeeee. But anyways seeing this movie speed up and slow down was almost like a rollercoaster ride, and when they moved the camera across the girls breasts and disolved into another scene I almost puked it was so well done.  Probably the best cinetagraphy I've seen in years, very beautifully done and beats every action adventure film we (as americans) have ever come out with.  If Hollywood really wants good movies don't go for the average American, come up with things you want to create as an artist.  Trust me they are far better and usually the audience will attend. "}{"Title":"Good entertainement","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Hello,That film could have been better !The picture is quite nice, the fights are really great, but the dialogues are so poor and Samuel LEBIHAN is such a bad actor that it ruins everything, you just can't go into the story, it doesn't work.Anyway, you won't get bored but i wish Gans had worked more the text and used another lead actor.Bye "},{"Title":"aweful","Date":"13 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is so long that it makes me almost fall asleep.Maybe i have been seen too many Chinese fighting films,so i don't like the fights in this film.They looks a little bit like the Matrix,but not as cool as it. After all,the storyline is good.If it is cut into 100 minutes,it is really worth watching. "},{"Title":"Don't take BROTHERHOOD OF THE WOLF too seriously. Have fun.","Date":"13 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Brotherhood of the Wolf is a film that is misunderstood by many critics. They take it too seriously. But I am pretty sure that the makers had a good laugh when they made the film. They wanted to make an entertaining film... and they sure accomplished that. 140 minutes of entertainment... and the weirdest thing is that it has several sub plots that would be really dull if they were in another movie... but here they work well.I used to giggle every time I heard the name Christophe Gans... but now I actually believe that the man can make a helluva flick. I even respect Mark Dacascos a bit more. I've always made fun of him... I used to laugh when people said that Crying Freeman was a good film (It sucks ass by the way).   "},{"Title":"hourrah!","Date":"12 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Yes, it is soooooo difficult to follow subtitles. It makes you think too much! The americans and british just realized that there were films being made other than Hollywood cheesy stuff, which explains their amazement. It makes me laugh. Anyway this film, although too long and faulty at times, is truly entertaining and well-made. I especially loved the acting,... LeBihan and Cassel are great. Go see it! "},{"Title":"Interesting foreign film","Date":"12 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  One thing off the bat that you must know; THIS MOVIE WAS ADVERTIZED POORLY. I seriously expected to watch a movie about a 16th century French Werewolve and the 2 hero's that bring it down.That being said unfortunately I spent a good part of the movie in that mindset before I realise that it wasn't about that at all; so I missed significant parts of the story looking for something that was never there.The camera Work was excellent; the fight sequence were really good(unfortunately it killed the whole Historical peice for me since they were performing martial arts moves; I almost hoped they had used Sabate; a European martial arts form; but this movie was co-made by Universal; go figure)The acting was good; even if it was foreign language it looked and sounded really good.  Great set Design.!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!SPOILER!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!Now on to the plot.  I don't know but for some reason on reflection of this movie one thought just screams out of my head; THE HOUND OF THE BASKERVILLES.  If you have ever read this Sherlock Holmes masterpeice; then be prepared for a similar plot line.  Not to say the movie was a complete ripoff; they added some great elements of horror and action; and the characters were really good.  But the plotline itself made me go, This sounds familiar.  I dunno I was expecting a bit more original plot from, The movie that has swepted across Europe.  I guess no ones reads Sherlock Holmes in Europe.Let me just add one thing about this movie that was bizzare; and that is the Love story between Fronsac and Madelline.  You know for a man who falls hopelessly in love with another person; he certainly had a strange way of showing it.  Man I think Fronsac's had a more involved relationship with the Courtesean than with Madelline.  But that's just my opinion.  I can't resolve Fronsac pining away for Madelline and running off to a whorehouse to get it on with another women he is also attracted to; at least that's the way it was portrayed in the movie; unless someone can tell me this is like a European or French attitude about love/sex I'm going to count this as a flaw in the movie.No too deep a movie; almost American in essence with a heavy European flovoring.  And of course it's in French.  Give this movie a shot; but don't expect to walk away with a deper insight about history or whatnot cause it's not truly there.  If I could compare it to another movie I would say that Brotherhood of the Wolf is like Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon of Europe. But for some reason I respect the plot more in CTHD. "},{"Title":"Watch it !","Date":"11 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Mike Richard wrote This isn't great art, it doesn't redefine the genre and it doesn't preach. It's true 'cause it's just a french movie filmed at the US way. Simple story and lot of action. Hey, it doesn't mean I don't like US movies... I watch movies for spending a good time. American movies give me this, french ones are made with small budget, that's why french directors make boring intellectual movies with no visual effects and ugly actors )Back to Le Pacte Des Loups, this is a good movie for me. Visually nice, great fights' choreography (I like Mark Dacascos) and in background some beautiful landscapes of a nice country )Want to watch a good movie from France without getting a headache like some people with Memento... then take a look at Le Pacte Des Loups (Brotherhood Of The Wolf the title is well translated you are lucky, some english titles translated for french audience sound totally idiot). "},{"Title":"Good, but too American..","Date":"11 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  First of all I have to say that I liked this movie a lot. But if you are expecting to see a French movie, this film is not good for you. It is more like an American movie in France. It has great fight scenes. But you can easly guess the end.There is not so much to say about this film, as I said, good but too American. "},{"Title":"THE MOST BEAUTIFUL & FANTASTIC FRENCH MOVIE EVER MADE !","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The best movie I ever seen since... Titanic and Gladiator !! It takes you from the opening sequence until the end and I really enjoyed it ! The Costumes (18th Century) are so beautiful, the picture is visually INCREDIBLE, the cast is Wonderful especially Samuel Le Bihan, Vincent Cassel and Marc Dacascos ! This movie is the perfect balance between drama, action, romance, mystery and historic-thriller ! Christophe Gans keeps you completely stunning all along.... There is no doubt in my mind  this movie is fantastic ! Don't hesitate to see it you won't be disappointed. 9-10 "},{"Title":"Far beyond french cinema","Date":"30 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  During the year 2001, two movies (now three with The Lord Of The Rings)have completely made me back to my young years, and strangely, even if I live in Europe, it was two french movies, the first one was Le Fabuleux Destin d'Amelie Poulain and the second, reason of my comment, Le Pacte des Loups. The Pact is a beautiful mix of past things now dead and gone forever, the gorgeous and ambitious Italian cinema (Fellini, Leone and a few good men), the very scary touch, sometimes poetic, of English and French cinema (The Hammer era,Cocteau), and, of course, the German's expressionist(Fritz Lang & Co). You have a lot of all that precious gift of the past in The Pact, and that's the major reason the first contact with Christophe Gans movie is so fascinating, because The Pact is a door into a collective memory, the memory of cinema. fran  "},{"Title":"Visually stunning and Mark Dacascos","Date":"30 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The reason I wanted to see this movie was Mark Dacascos. If you don't know Mark Dacascos, well, in my eyes he is in the same class as Jackie Chan and Jet Li with the difference that he never gets a break. He made the movie Drive which is the best martial arts movie around, but the movie never got released in the cinemas which is a total crime. Drive was a few years earlier than the Matrix and Rush Hour and blows both of those movies away. I hope Brotherhood Of The Wolf gives Dacascos the break he needs. Brotherhood Of The  Wolf is a visually stunning movie with great scenery, great action scenes, suspense and atmosphere. Monica Bellucci is also very easy on the eyes. The movie is about the Beast of Gevaudan which is a French myth. The Beast Of Gévaudan prowled the Auvergne and South Dordogne areas of France during the years 1764 to 1767, killing about 100 people, often in bizarre circumstances. Samuel Le Bihan and Mark Dacascos are sent to investigate the case. Marc Dacascos plays an Indian and totally steals the show. He is by far the coolest Indian in the history of cinema. Although the action scenes are good it's too bad that Steve Wang and The Alpha Stunt Team (from Drive fame) didn't direct the scenes. It's a crime that Steve Wang and the Alpha Stunt Team never got the chance to direct another movie after they directed Drive. A total crime, that's what it is. I really hope Brotherhood Of The Wolf will be a success all over the world so that Marc Dacascos finally deserves the fame that he should have gotten years ago. And the director of Brotherhood Of The Wolf should get a pat on the back for choosing Dacascos. Brotherhood Of The Wolf deserves all the accolades it gets. It's a different kind of movie but entertaining nonetheless. And it sure deserves an Oscar for the camera work. There was some breathtaking scenery filmed. "}{"Title":"Stylish horror movie without teenagers!","Date":"27 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  My wife won't watch foreign language films. She hates horror movies. I managed to fool her in to seeing this at Leicester Square and she loved it! After such a spate of formulaic teen horrors to come from the US, it was a relief to see something refreshing from Europe. The only criticism I had was that the 'twist' in the story is obvious from the end of Act I - that is not to say that it wasn't a good journey to get to the finale.  Well worth the ticket price and a great film to get people over their predjudices of foreign language films. "},{"Title":"The most multi-genre movie ever made!","Date":"8 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  And a very spectacular one it is! &#145;Le Pacte des Loups' (which somehow was inaccurately translated into &#145;Brotherhood of the Wolf' in English-speaking countries) is, without a doubt, the most multi-genre movie ever made. A mix of the period costume, horror, thriller, Film Noir, martial arts, action, historic, erotic and romance genres. You would think that such a movie would be too awkward and too heavy a blend, a &#145;clumsy collage'. It certainly is ambitious; it combines elements from &#145;The Matrix', &#145;Sleepy Hollow', &#145;Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon', and several other films.  But it turns out to be a successful masterpiece of the French cinema, the second pleasant French surprise this year, after the much-acclaimed `Le Fabuleux Destin d'Amélie Poulain ». The plot is loosely based on a real mystery that took place in 18th century France; the Beast of the Gévaudan used to terrorize the population by killing the women and children (but not the men!). This myth had never been solved, and director Christophe Gans decided to give this mystery a completely new dimension.The plot takes place in 1766, in Gévaudan, where the King dispatches two men, the Knight Grégoire de Fronsac and his &#145;blood' brother Mani, a Mohawk from New France (Canada), to track down the Beast and ultimately kill it. Little did the two companions know that their mission would also involve a Papal conspiracy, religious fanaticism, bigotry, and even love.Many mercenaries are sent to Gévaudan to catch the Beast, but it is not until the last few minutes of the movie that you find out the astonishing truth (not to worry, the latter will not be revealed in this review!).The cast is real eye candy and the characters stand out there is the naturalist and libertine Knight of Fronsac (played by Samuel Le Bihan), Mani, a mysterious Mohawk who doesn't say much but turns out to be a Shaman and a Martial Artist (played by renowned actor and Martial Artist Mark Dacascos), Jean-François de Morangias (Vincent Cassel), a bitter and cynical one-armed gunman, his virginal but witty sister Marianne (Emilie Dequenne, Cannes prizewinner for &#145;Rosetta'), Sylvia (Monica Bellucci, &#145;Under Suspicion'), a dangerous and captivating tarot-reading Italian courtesan, and the list goes on. Yes indeed, there are two strong female roles featured in this movie; though they're completely opposite, they are in love with the same man.The movie is visually stunning. The outside scenery is an ideal Gothic setting damp landscapes with much fog and a hostile atmosphere, as opposed to the rich indoors, with its vivid colors, expensive fabrics, and luscious entertainment. The costumes were spectacular, too. Watch out for a highly imaginative scene, where a nude woman &#145;dissolves into' two mountains.The music was composed by Joseph Lo Duca (yes, that same guy who did the scores of the series &#145;Xena' and &#145;Hercules'); it certainly has an effective presence in the film, and succeeds in bringing out the suspense and drama. The sound effects are sometimes exaggerated but they add character to the overall atmosphere.Christophe Gans does, however, get carried away sometimes with Matrix-like shots which interrupt action scenes with slow motion and freeze frames. He does it too many times in the movie. But the fight scenes themselves were not bad, as Mark Dacascos has already proven his martial arts qualifications in Crying Freeman. Naturally, many might criticize the movie because the fight scenes involve kung fu and kickboxing instead of the expected muskets and French savate. Even the tribe of savage French peasants who were hostile to the two newcomers from the start seem to be well trained in these disciplines. Odd, but somehow that doesn't seem out of context, in a movie that blends so many genres with such dexterity.Another objection the audience might have would be why are there little sub-plots which start out fine but never end? One example of that is a mutual, platonic relationship between Mani and a savage tribe girl. She is his only female interest in the movie yet their story is never explored. But I shouldn't spoil the movie for you, so enough of that!Finally, a few words about The Beast itself. It is not like any other monster you've seen it looks like a werewolf disguised as a porcupine, it has claws of iron and it has the power to disappear at will, which makes the chase scenes very suspenseful. Fortunately, we do not see much of it, and it always appears out of nowhere, which makes it hard for audience to predict where it would attack from.&#145;Le Pacte des Loups or &#145;Brotherhood of the Wolf' (if you insist) is certainly one of the most expensive French productions ever made. Go see it; fortunately, it is not dubbed but has subtitles, but make sure you watch the long version (144 minutes); you wouldn't want to miss one second of this atmospheric masterpiece, and take my word for it, you will not find one second boring. "},{"Title":"A bad movie made of good scenes.","Date":"2 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  It is longer than you´d wish. The fights are absolutely unjustified. Its hard to follow...Do not waste your time unless you really need to watch cool FX while people speak French. "},{"Title":"Good but...","Date":"26 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The movie is good and the story really interesting. I have to say that the best thing it is the picture and color of the movie and the acting. However the story misses many interesting points and spends a lot of time on unuseful events  for the story. The fights are good, but sometimes you wonder why they are there.It is just touched the historical background, however it would have made the more catchy and interested. The love of the Cavaliere and the girl is important...but... There are many stories that start and don't end, don't have any link with the main story, which is finding who is behind all the killings.The title is important, but only at the end it's meaning is revealed. I thought it was better.  "},{"Title":"Werewolf-hunting kung fu Indians in 18th century France kick ass! (spoilers)","Date":"13 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  After seeing Le Pacte des loups I had just just one question in mind how the heck could anyone grant such a budget for such an ludicrous script? At first the story appears quite ordinary; a supernatural monster film in a historical setting. But then enter the heroes a scientist knight and his Indian sidekick, who also happens to a kung fu master! Apparently oriental fighting skills had already spreaded wide in the eighteenth century, since they were known not just by Indians, but by French peasants as well.After a while the viewer realizes that this isn't a monster film after all the killer wolf is just a pawn in the silliest conspiracy known to history. But since the audience has waited one and a half hours of this 150 minute epic to see the friggin' wolf, it needs to be shown. And what a beast it is! Not only did 18th century Frenchmen know how to kung fu, they were also highly skilled in cybernetics. I guess both of these arts were lost in the Revolution, never to reappear...Add in some Indian mystique and talking to animals, a Papal counter-intelligence operation, the conflict between religion and secularity, an obligatory love story, a touch of incest, plus the French Revolution, and what do you have? A surprisingly boring film, not to mention overlong. There is quite a lot of unnecessary footage added for panoramic or symbolic effect, with bad results. Even the fight scenes are unimpressive, considering how action flicks have been saturated with such stuff ever since Matrix.To sum it up Le Pacte des loups is a messy effort to mix genres that shouldn't be mixed horror film vs. conspiracy story vs. kung fu flick vs. historical melodrama... If all this had been done tongue-in-cheek, there could've at least been some campy fun. But for a film which features a kung fu Indian, an 18th century cyborg wolf and a killer hooker sent by the Pope, Le Pacte des loups takes itself way too seriously. Cristophe Gans, the director, tries to give us the impression of depth and importance, while the script could've actually been good source material for Monty Python.In the end I guess even Gans noticed how incomprehensible the film is, since it's mystery plot is never fully explained. Had the narrator or some other character offered a standard explanatory monologue, the silliness of the whole story would've probably caused a lot of unintended laughter among the audience. Now all we get are occasional chuckles.  "},{"Title":"go see this","Date":"9 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I thoroughly enjoyed this film. Any one who is wary of foreign language films should see this. Very difficult to classify but if you take the atmosphere of Sleepy Hollow, the action and cinematography of the Matrix, the sumptuousness of 1492 Conquest of Paradise, the pleasure of the French language, a ripping good story, a cast that is very easy on the eye, whether you are male or female, and sort of mix them all together you get a result that is this film. I dont know what else to say, certainly one of the most enjoyable films I have ever seen , and I've seen a lot. Sadly it seemed to be on only a limited release. so go see it before it is removed from the few cinemas showing it. "},{"Title":"Oh, Coooool.....","Date":"8 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I have to say that this movie is extremely COOL!!! What I mean by cool is that it has a good quantity of great kung fu action, a REALLY neat and quite scary beast and not a bad little plot! Ok, so the movie sometimes happened to jump from one genre to the next, and might drag in a few places, but I can't help but say that the movie works! It was really good! Great use of sound effects really enhanced the movie and the use of traditional(No Matrix ripoffs) Kung Fu was a good call. The movie was also visually stunning with one of my favorite scenes being a a woman blending into the hills as the scene changes, EXCELENT! Really good movie and I really enjoyed it!9/10 "},{"Title":"pre revelutionary french, martial arts, wolf hunt","Date":"7 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is a very hard film to descibe, is it a pre-revolutionary Jaws? No. Is it a martial arts film? No, the fight scenes are excellent and carried out extremely well but they do not dominate the Film. Is it a love Story? Again no.  But all these and other aspects of the film come together to keep you interested and totally absorbed within the film and trying and failing to guess what will happen next.  It is a french film and as such has subtitles but to be honest during one quiet point during the film I totally forgot that it was subtitled as I was so engrossed within it. I went to see this film without knowing a thing about it, all I knew is what a Canadian friend told me on the way there French pesant women and children are being killed by something next thing you know these two kick ass men turn up and that is all any of you should no before you go and see it, and please do go and see it. "},{"Title":"A French, Period, Romantic, Martial Arts, Werewolf(sort of) Horror...with Subtitles","Date":"31 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  My word. It really shouldn't work should it? Just look at the Summary again, cramming all those genre in to one film (even one that 2&1/2 hours long) actually come off. But it does. In fact it does it so wonderfully and with such pinche that you don't notice at all. This film is truly Wonderful, though my French is fairly poor, and for the most part i had to rely on the subtitles for details it really didn't matter, the sheer quality of the acting rises far above any spoken language. The films second opening sequence is startlingly violent, and at just at first I wondered if this was just a monster flick. But quickly we are drawn into the human world away from the beast as you might expect from a French film. But it does not get bogged down in over played emotion as some French pieces have been known to do, but keeps quickly moving and shimmying through the story. The film has been criticized in some quarters for the inclusion of martial arts in a 18th Century French setting. I might give some argument as to why this could be justified (martial arts do not solely originate from the orient) but really it doesn't matter, it adds to the physical poetry of the film. At a stretch it could even be tied in to answer another criticism of the film, that it had too many twists and turns. Playing on the audiences familiarity with the American format of laying out almost all characters (as stero-types) within the first few scenes of the film, here characters are more slowly revealed producing the twist and turns. As for the martial arts, we are so used to seeing mysterious warrior who can not be beaten and teaches but never learns, perhaps it is worth asking here, who was the student? never mind. Please do not but put off by the language or the length of this film it is really worth seeing, and at the cinema. "},{"Title":"Surprising... but why they have to use Martial Arts?","Date":"17 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  When I went to see this movie, previously bought a barf bag. But for my surprise I discovered that the movie its´nt as ugly as I wait.First of all... the photography is incredible!!!The story is... original... but for me the worst point is the use of the Martial Arts, all of we know that a french nobleman and a Mohawk shaman-warrior of the XVIII century will not fight using kung-fu or kickboxing techniques... so... why they do it in the film? It is more incredible that all the rest of the story.About forty minutes to the end... the Mohawk warrior give a strange allucinogen toad to a character (I think that really he give him an acid), and in this point of the story it seems like the toad was eaten by de writters!!!Good things of the movie-The photography.-Some action scenes (I wouldn´t use it in this movie, but I like it).-The wonderful female characters, particulary Monica Belucci´s one.Bad things of the movie-The story if you see it like a whole thing.-The one-arm-not-one-arm-armed-with-ancient-and-strange-oriental-weapon villain.-The absurd of XVIII century occidentals performing circular kickes and acrobatic leaps.Good for a boring (and long) afternoon. "}{"Title":"A smorgasbord of butt kickin'","Date":"15 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Christophe Gans's The Brotherhood of the Wolf is a remarkably entertaining film that explores the conventions of a number of different genres.  It is in one sitting suspenseful, dramatic, action-packed, and horrifying.Unfortunately, the film's nature is such that it invites far too many comparisons to other sucessful movies.  To clarify, Brotherhood of the Wolf is not France's answer to Crouching Tiger; Hidden Dragon.  It is not Sleepy Hollow meets An American Werewolf in London.  It is not any of these things because  it does not at any point try to capitalize off the success of previous blockbusters.  It is an incredibly original and surprisingly entertaining motion picture.What's wrong with it, then?  Not a whole heck of a lot.  It's a French film, so haters of subtitles need not apply.  Also, there are a few scenes in which the computer effects do fall a little short of breathtaking, but in today's world of 200 million dollar movies with 30 dollor scripts, it's a forgivable sin indeed.I highly recommend this movie.  It's fresh, original, and exciting.  Plus, when you tell your friends you liked a French film, you'll sound intelligent...right?  "},{"Title":"Occult, Martial Arts, and Mysticism. All set in the 1700s","Date":"30 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I know a lot of people has a problem with the fact that this movie has mixed in so many different aspects into one movie. For me, I must say - it worked like a charm. I am a fan of all the aspects they put into this one, so the only thing I could have a problem with is HOW they mixed it. But I have to say .. it was done superbly! The only thing I directly disliked, was the creature - but I loved the rest so much that I easily look past that. Some female friends of mine said that it was also a huge plus to see Mark Dacascos practically naked. - I can't for the life of me understand what they meant. On the other hand - this movie has it all. Beautifully directed thrilling story, with captivating fight scenes, and beautiful women. For fight enthusiasts (like myself,) I can only say I was a LITTLE bit disappointed that there were so many close-up shots. Any martial arts fan wants his viewing from a little distance - to be able to see it all. - Still - this is a great movie, and I enjoyed it immensely. Another viewing tomorrow at the Norwegian Film Festival in Haugesund. I am there .. front row. "},{"Title":"Good, but sometimes boring!","Date":"2 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This French movie is not as good as it seemed to be! The first 45 minutes are very entertaining because its a fast beginning with good action and pictures. After the beginning the pace of this movie slows down and it starts to being boring. The story seems still interesting, but it turns and turns and seems not to reach its end. Finally the conclusion seems to be forced.The special effects considering the monster are poor and that is what also makes this movie not as attractive as it seems to be in the trailer.I would rate this movie 6/10! "},{"Title":"a right old mish-mash","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Director Gans, we were told, was still re-editing Le Pacte des loups for its UK release at the time of its premiere, and perhaps some of the loose ends and rough edges will be ironed out, but I think there are some pretty fundamental weaknesses along with a number of basically superficial attractions.  Essentially it's trying to be far too many films rolled out into one, and only one of them is any good.Buried somewhere in this is a good idea for a screenplay (maybe even a good first draft?) a fantasy replay of the end of the ancien régime and the birth of a highly ambiguous liberty, in which monarchy and demagoguery, New World and Old, men and women, play out conflicts that are somehow running along together (though it's none too clear how), all wound together in the form of the inexplicably ravaging Beast.  In the early stages there are some terrific, virtuoso shots evoking the menace of the unseen beast and a really adroit fusion of visceral nastiness and eighteenth-century politesse.For about the first third, then, it persuades you that it's an effective crowd-pleaser with a coherent idea as its backbone. But it gradually falls apart, not helped at all by the importation of slow-mo, derivative martial arts sequences - complete with imported guest star - that are already looking desperately weary.  There's nothing we haven't seen done better at least twice before, and the fight sequences were, I thought, truly dreadful monotonous, implausible in the setting the film establishes, badly paced, and profoundly uninteresting because we're not interested in the participants.  The film is overpopulated and overplotted, compensating for its narrative inconsequences with increasingly random bursts of visual style, and the performances are blandly efficient at best (excepting Emilie Dequenne's confident, sexy turn before her part in the plot fizzles out). A major disappointment, unless you just want a dumb, commercial night out and don't object to its coming with subtitles. "},{"Title":"A real treat","Date":"13 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  WOW! this one is a real treat. I'm not a fan of french movies, but this one is a gem! the visuals are stunning, the look and feel of this wonderful picture is mesmerizing. A mixture of horror, action, and dungeons and dragons! treat yourself to a 2 hour get away from the usual stuff from hollywood. "},{"Title":"a bit of everything","Date":"2 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Either you like it or you don't.This film mixes a lot of styles,and it can be a bit unsettling.The photography is superb and the style is fluid,with a lot of rebonds.This is really a film for the fun of it,entertaining,fast paced and mysterious. "},{"Title":"action, mystery and martial arts in France","Date":"1 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Amusing film, beautifully made, mystery. If you liked Sleepy hollow you will like this one too. It has some of the same ingredients, not much humor though. Perhaps you will wonder about the martial arts in the film  (i did) but .. well as the film could well made by Hollywood... And does Hollywood consider much about History?? and do we care?? nope. So .. its just one big show to enjoy! "},{"Title":"Spectacular Adventure with a Gothic Bite","Date":"23 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  It's good to see the French coming out with a fine adventure movie like Le Pacte des Loups. This kind of movie is what European cinema needs to convince the European public and investors not all quality non-arthouse movies come out of Hollywood. Don't get me wrong, my top-10 movies still are mostly American and I'm not on a Hollywood-bashing rage here, but Pacte des Loups (which should've been called Wolfpact in English if you ask me, just see the movie) is the kind of movie that restores some lost confidence.It's exciting, good-looking, engaging and professional. OK, so maybe some of the effects look a little 'vintage', it's not like it's the end of the world and by the time that kind of effect is needed, most of the suspense has already done its unnerving work.The movie makes great use of close-ups, slow-motion (or variable-motion really) coloring, it has some beautifully directed shots, believable scenery and I'd put it up there with other recent martial arts/(fantasy/sf) combinations like (I know...) 'The Matrix' and 'Crouching Tiger Hidden Dragon'. Since those two came out before PdL it loses some points in originality, but I definitely like the story better than Crouching Tiger and I think it takes a lot more work to create a believable medieval actionflic than a sf computer-generated universe, so I don't think Le Pacte des Loups is redundant in that respect.Finally, the good sense of Gothic atmosphere holds well. It only loses some of it's force at some points in the movie where the director couldn't resist showing the viewer how things really are/look and at a few points where some characters feel the need to 'explain themselves' to each other. (you know, the typical 'I did it because...' conversations, like you didn't figure that one out yourself) Sorry to be so vague, but I wouldn't want to give away anything you'd be able to see for yourself... So what are you waiting for? "},{"Title":" fantastic","Date":"8 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I have not seen such good French movie for a long time. It is impressive how they compose story and how they create interesting movie from weird event.I also like the extraordinary performance of actors,like Jeremie Renier as young Marquis D'Apcher and Marc Dacascos as Mani.Very good costumes and spirit of epoch of Louisas.Wonderful in one word. "},{"Title":"or Sleepy Hollow meets Crouching Tiger","Date":"7 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  anyway it's a great movie. I've read critics of this film stating that European cinema is becoming too Hollywoodesque and too some degree they may be right, but in essence Le pacte des loups is not by far an American film it's political-religious themes are French if anything, as far as I can tell, and the facts that it's got adequate effects, great music and photography and at times is rather terrifying only make it better. 8.5 out of 10. "}{"Title":"A real director's baby...","Date":"5 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  You can say what you like about the flaws of this film - the length, the uneven pace, Jérémie Renier's haircut, the distinct taste of cheese towards the end - but it's hard not to like it. Not liking it would be like kicking a puppy. Everyone involved gives 100%, and it's sheer pleasure to watch an impassioned director like Gans having such obvious fun with his taste for comic-books, kung-fu, the fantastic, the decadent, the twisted villainy of Vincent Cassel and the good old revenge theme. Gans seems to have taken this well-known French legend and used it as a canvas upon which to throw EVERYTHING he likes and has ever liked about the cinema. It could have been a mess, but the end result is a good-looking and satisfying oddity which easily stands up to two or three viewings. Samuel Le Bihan is great, Cassel has NO shame and the martial arts sequences (completely gratuitous) are a weird and wonderful joy to behold. It walks a tightrope between the silly and the bewitching, this movie, and though it wobbles perilously in the last half-hour, it never falls. You can't hate it, and there's a very good case to be made for loving it. Great raincoats, too. "},{"Title":"Hound of The Baskervilles meets Name of The Rose and Last of The Mohicans via Hong Kong!","Date":"19 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this at the Berlinale. The first scenes made me sit up and I thought that everything was set for a great film. Excellent kinetic camera work, brilliant production design, stunning fight choreography and an interesting story to boot. But why did they allow the film to go on and on and on and on and on. It became really obvious to me that the director had lost control of the story by the mid-way point and as a result I lost all interest in the characters. Christophe Gans undoubtedly has promise and will probably make his way to Hollywood (which shouldn't be a bad thing, at least they'll teach him how to be economic)but he really needs to know where to draw the line. I'm sure they'll be some French nationals who'll disagree with me here but see it for yourself and ask yourself is really as good as everyone is making out? "},{"Title":"what a very great film","Date":"14 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  i saw this movie where it was meant to be shown on the largest screen in paris. for that i had to wait a couple of hours, but it was definitely worth it! movie buffs und videogame freaks will have fun counting the references, everything is there rambo 3, tekken 3, mortal kombat, predator, eyes wide shut, sleepy hollow, even james bond (with a putain as 007 for the pope, or was she a freelancer? sorry, i got kinda confused by who goes where in the end with all these different parties, my french is not the best...) even bookworms, who like to read 18th century novels, about robbers in the woods and the like. ok, the story is not exactly realistic, and i would have liked to see what happened in africa, though. anyway this is one film that makes you feel great being a european even when going to the movies...  "},{"Title":"Great, then lame.","Date":"13 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The best you can do is sneak out halfway through the movie. Not only will you be left with great images, great photography, good acting, close-to-stereotypical characters but also a few glimpses of Monica Belluci's full figure. The movie could indeed end right there instead of attempting to give an explanation to an actual mystery (the legend of the Beast of the Gevaudan that terrorised Central France in the middle of the XVIII century) and failing miserably. Nothing is credible, the special effects around the Beast, the plot, the politics, the magic. The only good parts in the second half are more of the good directing and acting and some fighting. I'd give 5 out of 5 for the first half, and 0 for the second. Averages out to 5. Alas! "},{"Title":"If this doesn't do well in English speaking countries...","Date":"10 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This has to be the French film that should draw the masses in the US if it has chance to open there. If dubbing is a problem for some, I expect Hollywood to buy the rights and make an inferior US production. This is about as commercial a French film I have seen, including those by Luc Besson. I can't wait for the DVD version. There are a couple of holes but I will not spoil what would be a most enjoyable trip to the movies. "},{"Title":"A long time waited movie.","Date":"10 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Le pacte des loups, the most amazing french film since LucBesson's Nikita. C Gans is the best in making a non stopsurprising movie. Every frame seems to be the main focus of thedirector, every second seems to be a long time planed. ChristopheGans has the only quality useful in cinema and art  he dares. Andthat why some people can't understand his aiming, they just wanttheir weekly formated movie. All that, Le pacte des loups is not. Gans refuse to let his film to lose audience's time.  He knows hiswork, he knows cinema, and he knows how to make a terrificmovie. If Le pacte des loups is not a masterpiece, it's really apiece of Master. Chapeau bas. "},{"Title":"a hell of a movie","Date":"8 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I am French and am extremely pleased with the latest picture from Christophe Gans, who directed a few years ago Crying freedom. It is very original as it mixes several genres historical, fantastic, suspense, epic, kung-fu... I'll add that Samuel Le Bihan is on the way of becoming a sex-symbol. And Monica Bellucci is simply stunning. One has to see her naked to understand how much Vincent Cassel (also part of the casting), her husband in real life, is a happy man. "},{"Title":"Won bet !","Date":"3 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Christophe Gans wanted to make a movie for the 12 year old boy he was. And he managed. The movie is perfectly directed and the images are beautiful. The story of la bête du Gévaudan is well known (in France)  the beast has killed more than a hundred percent in the 18th century, and nobody knows what kind of beast it was. In the movie, Gregoire de Fronsac is sent from Paris to study the beast, but first, he has to find it! He is helped by Mani, a Mohawk. From the very beginning, the movie is spectacular  Mark Dacascos is very talented and the choregraphy are beautiful, Samuel Le Bihan is very funny and touching in his part. A lot of suspense, and a lot of shouts, cause it's sometimes really scary, but it's worth it!  "},{"Title":"A sad attempt of American like advertising","Date":"2 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Christophe Gans is like the child who uses for the first time a camera  he tries everything, does not look for any sense. This movie is a succession of nice scenes that have nothing to do with the plot. You can see the movie as a dilmena between new and old world. Fronsac went to America and brought back with him the freedom of big spaces while in France, old traditions are embodied by the Gavaudan's beast. No matter the way Gans depicts the XVIIIth century, the movie lacks of homogeneity. There are spaghetti western like pictures, Hong Kongese clichees and so on. One good point is the cast with a lot of worth knowing actors. The other is the reflection between the Lumières era and the Revolution to come. But inbetween, a lot of nothing in a beautiful box. "},{"Title":"a great story mixed with good special effects","Date":"29 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I've waited a long time for this film, hoping I would not be disappointed. I wasn't !!! The story is really good, interesting. The special effect are beautiful and well used. I mean that all the interest of the film is not just the special effects ! The fights made me think about Matrix or John Woo movies, and the ambiance is not far than the ambiance of Sleepy Hollow. Since the first scene, when the indian fights with his so beautiful coat, I knew I would not be disappointed. I would add that when Christophe Gans wants to distress you, he manages with colors, music... There is just one little thing, I think that esthetic is sometimes too much used. It's too beautiful! France got legends, it was time a movie was made about one of them. "}{"Title":"Beautifully shot but ...","Date":"28 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Being a die-hard fan of Christophe Gans's earlier effort, Crying Freeman, I guess I had too much expectations for this one. On an artistic point of view, there are many visually stunning scenes, making for a beautiful and inventive movie. But IMHO, the story is not powerful enough, lacks human feelings. Compared to Crying Freeman, there are no multi-layered characters faced with moral dilemmas, that really involve you in the movie (in fact there are a too many characters). And the secret behind the beast is somewhat far-fetched and not convincing. Whereas there was a balanced mix of action and romance in Crying Freeman, here you have a bit of everything for everybody (horror/gore, action, romance, homages to other directors for movie buffs, ...), but not enough to make for a cohesive movie. "},{"Title":"Dangerous liaisons meets Enter the dragon!","Date":"18 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" If you thought that French movies were slow, boring and serious, this film is going to make you change your mind. Christophe Gans, the director, loves mangas, video games and Hong Kong movies and, wow, you can see it on the screen. From the story of the beast of Gevaudan (a mysterious animal which killed more than 100 persons in the 18th century), Gans creates a strange and yet successful mixture of genres, from the historical drama to the video-game, from the epic romance to the martial arts flick. The film is not perfect (maybe a little too long, some special effects are not so good) but you will not see such a cocktail elsewhere. 8/10. "},{"Title":"Impressive achievement with some letdowns (possible minor spoilers)","Date":"5 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" In an era where Hollywood dominates the action film industry, it frequently comes across as a breath of fresh air to see a European challenger. Brotherhood of the Wolf is no different, combining good special effects with a story convincing enough to remain an intrigue for the entire 142min runtime.Despite being shot on a relatively low budget for an action film ($29mn, compared to $63mn for The Matrix and $115mn for Star Wars Episode I), Brotherhood of the Wolf manages to deliver an excellent experience. A wise decision made by the director was to delay the reveal of the feral antagonist for as long as possible (even though the audience is cleverly allowed to witness its rampage off-screen), which adds to the build-up of suspense for the climactic confrontation with the Beast later on. Minor directing faults, such as excessive use of slow-motion, doesn't serve to detract overly-much from the thrilling ride.Brotherhood of the Wolf is not without its flaws. Personal criticisms of mine also include a relatively underwhelming ending and some confusion concerning other parts of the story. However, in terms of an overall experience, it's a thrilling and colorful ride. Well worth your money, by all accounts. "},{"Title":"My, what big teeth you have...","Date":"17 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Christophe Gans' Brotherhood of the Wolf, a fictional account of the beast that terrorised Gévaudan, France in the 1700s, is a feast for the eyes from start to finish whether it be a dark forest caught in a blizzard, a rain drenched, mud-caked smack-down, the lavish banquet hall of a stately home, a mutilated corpse in a pond, or the delights of a French brothel, every frame is a carefully composed, beautifully lit work of art.Unfortunately, the film's narrative and pacing aren't quite as flawless as its visuals the plot meanders aimlessly at times; at two and a half hours, the film is way too long for what is essentially a highly stylised slice of comic-book entertainment; and the flow of the film is not helped by frequent unnecessary use of slo-mo and freeze frame (Gans been watching too much John Woo?). The director also has a propensity to labour a point (seriously, how many pumpkins do I need to see explode before understanding that the characters are excellent marksmen).Worse still, Gans seriously under-uses his greatest asset, martial artist Mark Dacascos, who plays an American Indian with Asian fighting skills (don't ask!); Dacascos's action scenes are so poorly pieced together that they lack any real impact (Samuel Le Biha's fight scenes are much better; his revenge driven rampage is particularly bad-ass, and he isn't trained in kung fu and karate).Despite it's problems, however, I still rate The Brotherhood of the Wolf a reasonable 6/10&#x97;it's worth that for the marvellous cinematography alone, never mind the fact that it also stars the very lovely (and very naked) Monica Bellucci. "},{"Title":"A film inventive enough that you can bypass its flaws.","Date":"23 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Now this is a bizarre film. A startling mix of action, historical drama, thriller, horror, fantasy and (most importantly) erotica. It is a film that is hard to categorise and indeed lurches quickly from one to the other, often within the same scene.Watching this, I suspect my reason for enjoying it so much is that it is charming and inventive. It is a flawed film (something I will elaborate on later) but it is so shameless in its style and story that I can't help but be swept up in it.The story itself starts out very simply, a Beast (la bete!) is terrorising a region of France so the King sends a taxidermist and knight to the region to capture the beast and bring it back to Paris for examination. The knight, Gregoire de Fronsac brings with him an Indian, Mani. The film soon plunges forward with other tales of incest, political intrigue, assassination and religion at an alarming rate, so fast in fact that some of the more subtle parts of the film don't get the time and the resolution that they deserve.Some of the actors are extremely familiar, including Vincent Cassell (one of my favourites) as the slimy and creepy Jean-Francois de Morangias, who lost an arm in Africa to a lion. Samuel Le Bihan (Fronsac) and Monica Belluci (Sylvia) are reasonably good but despite the genre blending nature of the film, the characters (among others) are irritatingly under-developed. Whilst each has a reasonable back story, motive and so on, there is little characterisation beyond that.The director, Christophe Gans appears to be a huge fan of slow motion, the effect coming in often at bizarre and borderline intrusive times. Whilst the action is very entertaining, the fighting scenes in some cases are obviously shoe-horned into the scene with little or no relevance to what is currently going on. The film also goes on for a long time and could easily shave off several scenes overall and not lose pacing or characterisation. All in all, an odd film. I find it really quite entertaining and inventive, enough that I can overlook the flaws that can be levelled at it. "},{"Title":"The Greatest Disappointment Ever!","Date":"2 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" In the French countryside a wolf stalks the people of the town and kills them, therefore Fronsac is called to investigate with his 'Native American' friend, Mani. However, it seems this so-called beast is extremely elusive and Fronsac finds the French elitists to be some what even more dangerous than the thing he hunts.I honestly was expecting a Fench masterpiece, I mean French films tend to be much more artistic and the lack of a better word, 'gentle'. But what I received was a two hour and half load of awful film-making, I should say the opening fight scene was quite intriguing, the 'myth' of the beast create great fascination, but this tension building goes on for far too long and when the audience finally sees the beast...well, its very disappointing. I understand that the filmmaker's intention to keep the beast in the background and create a drama...but it did not work in the slightest...Monica Belluci was beautiful as always, but even she failed to keep the audiences attention, however Vincent Cassell gave a fine performance as the creepy aristocrat..but even he couldn't keep the film alive. "},{"Title":"Where are the aliens?","Date":"22 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Really, where are the aliens? Aliens are the only ones missing from the movie. Almost everything else is present.This is a failure to copy the Hollywood action movie style. But from a french director. Why not stick to the original story and let out all the commercial crap while focusing on making something original? Because it had everything needed for this including a more than decent budget. More than this, I think the director wanted to make like 3 movies and in the end decided to put them together and voila Le Pacte des Loups, a 2 hours and a half movie full of ... everything, martial arts, sex, ninja, wolves, history, fiction, mystery, drama tragedy and aliens. Ah, sorry, no aliens. As a conclusion, the movie is not that bad, I am just intrigued about how they destroyed the movie adding so much stupid and unnecessary things in it when they had the means to create something good or at least worth to watch for an adult. "},{"Title":"A stylish visual exercise, full of gristle and vigor, by anyone's standards.","Date":"2 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The film has its goofy side - it's a sleek, creepily atmospheric popcorn entertainment. In 18th century France, King Louis XIV sends a naturalist (Samuel Le Bihan) to a rural area to catch a savage, wolf-like beast that has been killing women and children.Brotherhood Of The Wolf is an extravagant, superficial fantasy that does not take itself too seriously. A knowing mish-mash of styles, it incorporates martial arts, comic book imagery, and sequences that would not look misplaced in classic horror films. Still, it's fun on its own limited terms. The film is the second-highest-grossing French-language film in the United States in the last two decades (this film also did brisk video and DVD sales in the United States). "},{"Title":"Eccentric and very ambitious creature feature from across the pond.","Date":"24 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" One could easily address Brotherhood of the Wolf a genuine example of a weird and wonderful mess. It is a hybrid mix of a sort of mythological fantasy, a monster movie, a historical drama en Français, and even and a martial arts flick, all surrounding a plot which is somewhat convoluted but very ambitious, and it works.Brotherhood of the Wolf has a fair bit of money. Like all the biggest productions of the horror genre, the monster comes in two forms. There is the full sized animatronic beast, and there is the CG version. The movie requires a close inter cutting of both. It also requires a pretty good choreographer to design the plethora of fight sequences that make up the climax. Even though I feel that a few trims could have been made here or there, there isn't a boring scene in Brotherhood of the Wolf. It is progressive rather than repetitive and it gets bigger and bolder with each chapter. One could argue that the story kind of crumbles at the climax for the purpose of adrenaline, but one could also argue that it is a good pay off for anyone who finds enough to find the first hour and a half boring. (but it's not of course)For the most part, Brotherhood of the Wolf is a rare gem of a horror film and it is certainly not worth missing, "},{"Title":"Awful","Date":"9 March 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" True, it's good points do include Monica Belucci and that it relates to a true story. Also must be said I unfortunately watched an over-dubbed version (there's something about hearing the dialogue in french that makes you forgive almost anything...). And finally, it was in the least quite inventive and novel. However, the film seems to have been thrown together from random cuttings. It fails to lead the viewer anywhere in particular, darting from inviting sympathy for the villains to rejoicing at their come-uppance, so many pointless/directionless subplots, including love and deception, that have no bearing, and ridiculous moments of pretend pathos. That we have American indians/french doing jet li moves, as another viewer mentioned should have said it all (even disregarding that its captured in an amateurish way when compared with the Hong Kong greats). "}{"Title":"A Highwatermark For Werewolves","Date":"11 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" An historical-conspiracy-costume-kungfu-detective-werewolf horror movie in French.An unlikely mix, but one of the most entertaining times I ever had in a theater. A bit long, but the length provides all of the different genre elements enough space...(read more) to co-exist without stepping on each others toes.Inspired by a true story, the film goes for mythic as it tries debunks(explains) the myth itself. Not much of a think piece, but a fun film, that doesn't take itself too seriously, and is incredibly entertaining.The french subtitles scared of a lot of people who would other wise like this movie, while the usual French film crowd got more of a Luc Besson action packed visual jamboree, more than Godard.Christopher Gans is a talented director, it even shows through the video-game based Silent Hill, but this film seems the kind of genre bending material which suits him best, and which we all need once in a while "},{"Title":"Almost the Very Best","Date":"26 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Stylistically, Le Pacte comes from Sleepy Hollow (1999) and is aware of both the Matrix and the stylish Jet Li movies; and maybe also deliberately benefits from these forerunners . But it is, fortunately, much better than Burton's movie. It is an action film and a mystery one.It might also remind of the The Wild Wild West '60s TV series and it prepares the way for the relaunched Doctor Who with Christopher Eccleston (e.g., The Unquiet Dead) or David Tennant. So, stylistically, this is its class. It is,as I said, better than Burton's spoof; and the two TV shows that I just mentioned are better than Gans' film. Le Pacte &#133; is very, very enjoyable and interesting and functions well both as action and as mystery. It belongs to the new French school of action movies. In this direction, it is a textbook.It sets the standard for such films.I wish its director would direct an adaptation of Notre-Dame De Paris (1831) and rescue the subject from the crap cheap cinematography .« Le Pacte ... » is very baroque, opulent, decorated and ornate. I enjoyed less this ornate, striking, orgasmic and ostentatious look,but I liked enough the rich colors. Gans seems to have an idea about how to make a great looking stylized adventure. Le Pacte's great look is maybe the first thing noticed by the viewer. Too ornate, too opulent, Le Pacte &#133; is nonetheless a welcome and surprising action film. The pace is very good, and well maintained. The lead, Fronsac, could of been better chosen; but the movie does not depend upon him.Like the Matrix franchise ,like the best Jet Li films, like many others, Le Pacte &#133; is more of a cartoon. It chooses visual style over atmosphere. The only displeasing thing is the shameless anti-catholic propaganda.It is notable that Grost included it in his list of the many of the best mystery movies ever made. "},{"Title":"Nothing great about, but nothing too terribly wrong with it","Date":"29 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Everyone was talking about good the action, was but I only felt as if it was alright. Some of the stuff was pretty bad ass, like the end with the spinning knives, but then the cool stuff was followed up by something really corny looking. The story line was interesting, but not surprising. I did not see everything coming, and some it was a surprise, but not an unexpected surprise. The characters were all very cliché, but one was to give props to Monica Bellucci for being so damn beautiful. The beast, was the coolest looking thing in the movie, and I really like how they used him and turned him into something real and not just a being of pure evil. One actually feels bad for it by the end of the movie. Any themes that the writer and director were going for were way to obvious and very often over played. I liked the dynamic of some of the editing, but at some points, the same type of editing hurt the movie. It probably would have been better if it was a bit shorter. I would say overall not a great movie, but there is nothing about it that would make me say it was bad. "},{"Title":"Not one for the weak of heart!!!","Date":"27 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is one of the best movies I have ever seen. The setting was perfect. The costumes, the way people behaved, the lighting, it fit the period so fantastically, that one felt brought back in time.What more, the plot was absolutely fantastic. the viewer were kept on the edge of his seat right from the beginning and to the end. There always seemed to be another level to the story. The viewer were taken on an emotional roller-coaster ride deep into the darkest part of the human psyche. Everyone in this movie were acting on a level far higher than most Oscar winning movies.And The script has to be one of the best written ones in the last 20 years. It was so tightly written, with such a nerve wrecking sense of foreboding doom, that just as you started to think you had figured it all out, you were taken for a wild ride in another direction, right up until the shocking end.As I left the Cinema, i was downright exhausted, but i will be forever thankful that I didn't go with my first decision, and stayed home.If you haven't seen this movie yet, then you better do it fast. I promise you, you will never regret it.That's all for now.Paladin Steelbreaker "},{"Title":"A stylish period thriller, with martial arts!","Date":"22 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I was not really expecting much of this film, bought as Saturday night entertainment for £6, but how wrong I was! Although not a lover of period pieces on the whole and certainly not a fan of dubbed films, I was thoroughly entertained for the entire 2.5 hours running time of this film.I won't spoil the twists for you (you'll probably get them halfway through anyway), but silly (read commercial must-have for 2001!) martial arts sequences aside, this is a great film, which is probably very under-rated here in the UK.Highly recommended viewing. "},{"Title":"breathtaking","Date":"11 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Situated, in terms of narrative and tone, halfway between Tim Burton's Sleepy Hollow' and Terrence Fisher's Hammer version of The Hound of the Baskervilles, this French gem is a real one off.It tells the story of a small village in C18th Provincial France that is being terrorised by a huge flesh-eating beast and a knight sent by the king to investigate, along with Mani, a native American who is at one with the forest. To say that the film plays with genre is an understatement as the narrative breathlessly swings from historical melodrama to horror to whodunnit with effortless ease.The film's director Christophe Gans (who also directed recent horror Silent Hill1) is it's greatest assett, his cinematography (orchestrated brilliantly by John Woo collaberator Philip Kwok) quite astonishing with a distinctive use of colours that recalls the kind of look a Hammer horror film would have had if it had the budget. The editing is also extremely impressive, particularly in the scenes when the beast attacks, with Gans using whip pans, helicopter shots, and slow motion in a dizzying manner that is almost unique among directors, Wong Kar Wai, John Woo and Michael Bay being the only ones I can think of who create such a disorientating speed, the influence of Kwok clearly showing throughout the film.The sound is also, as on Silent Hill excellent, with the crisp soundtrack creating a real sense of foreboding. The only complaint is that if you choose not to watch the film subtitled, the dubbing is almost Bruce Lee poor and often cuts lines, resulting in the audience missing vital information.Acting wise, the film is also excellent with a real ensemble cast from well known art-house actors such as Monicca Belluci and Vincent Cassal working alongside seasoned stage actors (such as those playing the town's corrupt aldermen) and relative unknowns. Samuel Le Bihan is excellent as the world-weary knight Fronsac while Mark Dacascos is a revelation as martial artist/Sioux warrior Mani. Monica Belluci adds the film a mysterious and erotic performance as a prostitute who may be a witch, while Vincent Cassal as the sickly, petulent and incestuous local lord is as always supremely entertaining to watch, hamming it up as the villain. Only Emilie Dequenne as love interest Marianne seems weak but is tolerable.The films narrative is also very strong maintaining an ambiguity over the nature of the beast until the very end while at the same time providing enough elements (action, horror, fantasy, romance) to please almost any audience and making the film ludicrously enjoyable. The deranged mix of Hong Kong action and Gothic imagery make this one of the most original and fascinating films you are likely to see.In conclusion this well written, well acted and fabulously directed film deserves to win audiences appreciation, as does Gans who proves from this and Silent Hill, to be one to watch.4.5/5 "},{"Title":"Totally great","Date":"1 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Le Pacte Des loups is a mix of genresfor moments it's an action film,for other moments it's a horror film and for other moments it is an adventure film.The mix sounds strange,but the mix is great,like the entire movie.The action scenes are excellent and there are a few scenes of big tension.Something I loved from this movie is that every time it's unpredictable.You never know what can happen.There aren't great performances on this film,but on a movie like this the performances doesn't care.I liked this movie a lot and I totally recommend this great movie.If you are bored and you don't know what to do,watch this movie. "},{"Title":"Genre-swapping in more than one way...like a few different films cut and pasted together.","Date":"31 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" It undeniable that this movie suffers from lack of editing. It does have some pretty good scenes and great direction, but the film is just way too long as a whole. There's no doubt that they should have shaved off about 40-45 minutes. With that, the film might have flowed better. But for the casual movie watcher seeing it for the first time, there's no doubt that your attention span will be tested. There's just too much dead weight, too many introductions, too many revelations, and too much emphasis on the plot, which is idiot-proof. My complaint is not really about the monster, (though it would have been better to not show so much of the creature's body and keep some of the mystery), but there were also plenty of opportunities to go with the mood and atmosphere to achieve some genuine thrills and chills. But once again, the filmmakers are much too worried with the plot. I would have enjoyed it more, had it gone the way of Sleepy Hollow, with it's dry humor and sound-stage forest of spidery trees and autumn leaves. But since there is no DVD editor-at-home kit, the only thing to do is watch it and enjoy Brotherhood of the Wolf for it's scattered, shining moments and try to keep your eyes open during the dull sections. Just imagine this as a very, VERY LONG and extended director's cut, with every single deleted scene added, (though in reality there is actually more deleted scenes.) "},{"Title":"One of My Favorites","Date":"21 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" DON'T READ IF YOU'RE GOING TO WATCH THE MOVIE. JUST WATCH IT, ALL THIS REVIEW SAYS IS THAT THIS MOVIE ROCKS!The Brotherhood of the Wolf is one of my favorite movies of all time. I'm not completely sure why, but I think it has something to do with it being a combination of so many different proved conventions. Mark Dacascos (sp?) puts in a great performance worthy of a Tsui Hark kung fu flick. The french dude that plays fronsac puts in an awesome dramatic performance. Monica Bellucci, well, what can I really say about Monica Bellucci except WOW. She's a decent actress as well. There is of course the sci-fi element with the crazy creature in the woods, and even a conspiracy put together by a clandestine religious brotherhood that takes you by surprise. The cinematography is second to none, and some of the best camera work I have EVER seen. I don't usually notice stuff like that, but the shots in this movie are genius.But hey, don't take it from me, go out and watch it if you haven't already. "},{"Title":"Mindless fun, but seriously, mindless","Date":"13 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" O.K. Apparently the premise for Brotherhood has some basis in fact. The characters named actually existed during the period the movie is set when a mysterious beast terrorized the French countryside. I must say, half of me loved this movie. The style and feel is cool. O.k, I admit, way cool. From the fight scenes in the pouring rain, to the whipsaw martial arts, to Monica Belucci naked. Not totally naked but M.B. half naked is worth more than three women buck nekked and touching their toes. I won't go into the plot because I don't like to deal with spoilers and because other reviewers already have, and because I'm lazy. What I will comment on are the details. This is where the other half of me went berserk over the ludicrisosity (I figured this movie needed its own word). I mean come on! An Iroquois Indian of Hawaii-Fillipino descent? Who is a master of Chinese Kung-Fu? Marauding gangs of psychotic gypsies? Dressed in their best Grizzly Adams come Mad Max furs? I mean, it is stupid, but yet, it looks cool so it works. Then the plot. See, they could have done the cool this is stupid but cool thing or the somewhat historically based mystery with gratuitous naked Monica Belucci but not both at the same time. It is hard to buy into the historical markers of the plot, if not the story itself, when a Lou Diamond Phillips look-a-like is going tiger-claw ass kicking on an 18th century French Wild Bunch. And, contrary to a previous review, at the time of the film (c.1765) the French had been in the New World for over a hundred years and wouldn't have been so incredulous at the sight of an American Indian (Pocohantas had toured England, gone home, and been stone cold dead for years before this movie takes place). On the other hand, oh who am I kidding? It's silly. Come on Frenchies, lack of historical understanding coupled with cartoon violence and a total disregard for comprehension is the purview of American cinema. But hey, what are you gonna do? So when the action sags (it does), and the plot becomes unbearable (it will), and the $6.50 40.oz Coke is on the fast track to saturating the fly of your Dockers (it is inevitable) you will at least have had the satisfaction of ogling Monica Belucci amidst one of the best choreographed ass kicking flicks committed to celluloid. "}{"Title":"Great Film!","Date":"22 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I saw this movie of the strength of its trailer and the website set up for it, and I'm glad I went. This one defies easy pigeonholing. Action, martial arts, and monsters? In a period piece? From France, of all places? Most people I know would call that a contradiction, yet this film works and very well at that. It could have benefited from some judicious editing, being it's a bit slow in places, yet, for the most part, it's rousing good fun, and showed a lot of imagination as well as a lot of research. I particularly liked the use of different fighting styles and weapons.As for the real-life beast, some suspect that if it wasn't a rabid animal of some kind, it could have been a demi-wolf, a dog-wolf hybrid. Such an animal would have a pure-bred wolf's natural strength, intelligence, and aggressiveness, but with a dog's lack of fear of humans. "},{"Title":"Astonishing collision of genres, way ahead of its time","Date":"29 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" BROTHERHOOD OF THE WOLF (Le Pacte des Loups) Aspect ratio 2.391Sound formats Dolby Digital / DTS-ESIn 18th century France, a young naturalist (Samuel Le Bihan) and his Native American companion (Mark Dacascos) are employed to hunt down a bloodthirsty 'beast' which has killed dozens of women and children. But their investigation uncovers an appalling conspiracy which cuts to the very heart of French high society...Loosely based on true events, this high-powered Gallic blockbuster - directed by Christophe Gans, hired on the strength of his incredible genre-bending adaptation of CRYING FREEEMAN - wowed French audiences when released in 2001. And no wonder! A high-kicking combination of horror movie, period drama, political thriller and Matrix-inspired kung fu pageant, the film combines the best elements of these disparate sub-genres in a dazzling display of technical wizardry. Beautifully photographed by Dan Laustsen (MIMIC, THE LEAGUE OF EXTRAORDINARY GENTLEMEN), and played with solemn conviction by an all-star cast - including relative newcomers Vincent Cassel (LA HAINE), Monica Bellucci (the Matrix sequels) and Jérémie Renier (CRIMINAL LOVERS), and veterans Jean Yanne (most recently seen in BELLE MAMAN) and Edith Scob (the elegant heroine of Franju's EYES WITHOUT A FACE) - the movie is a riot of action and intrigue, sustained by a multilayered screenplay (co-authored by Gans and Stéphane Cabel) which recounts an elaborate fable of class warfare and religious bigotry during a grim period of French history.The fight scenes - choreographed with ruthless efficiency by Hong Kong movie veteran Phillip Kwok (MASTER OF THE FLYING GUILLOTINE, HARD-BOILED, TOMORROW NEVER DIES, etc.) - are fashioned with elegant grace, and edited to perfection by Sébastien Prangère and David Wu (another prominent HK movie figure, Ronny Yu's current editor of choice). Much of the film's otherworldly visual texture is due to the sumptuous art direction (by Guy-Claude François) and costume design (by Dominique Borg), which roots proceedings in a recognizable period 'style', despite Gans' resolutely modern approach to the material. It shouldn't work, but it does, somehow. The 'explanation' for the beast and its murderous activities - which takes into account a wide range of modern research into the story of an animal which really DID terrorize the French countryside during the 18th century - forms the backbone of the entire production, and while much of the film is a rip-roaring joy, the climactic sequences are offset by an element of tragedy and sadness, which thoroughly distinguishes the movie from most of its Hollywood counterparts. All in all, BROTHERHOOD OF THE WOLF is a magnificent folly, way ahead of its time, and quite unlike anything ever made before. A triumph.(French dialogue) "},{"Title":"Le Pacte!","Date":"9 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I watched Le Pacte des Loups, aka The Brotherhood of the Wolf. I think the French title sounds better. They mean the same thing, essentially, but Brotherhood of the Wolf sounds corny as hell, and is probably why I never rented it before. I also hate overdubs in movies, so I watched it in it's original French with English subtitles. My mind does this odd trick where after fifteen or twenty minutes, I stop consciously reading the subtitles, and my brain just translates it to English. When I try to remember parts of foreign movies I've seen, I remember their lines in spoken English. Of course, if I take my eyes off the screen, it breaks that level of concentration and I have to start all over again. It's things like this that give me hope I can subconsciously teach myself French. I'll get to France and after 15 minutes, I'll understand everything! Maybe not. Anyway... The Movie It was good. The acting was superb. The special effects could have used some work, but the fighting scenes were great. The camera effects and transitions were somewhere between hypnotic and hallucinogenic. I think M. Night Shamylan stole some visual and story ideas for the Village from it, like the handicapped person is really bad and the look of the creature. Also Le Pacte used the old Flash Gordon pretend-the-hero-is-dead trick. They did catch me though; I really thought he was! Otherwise, it was set in one of my favorite time periods and the mood range was dynamic. I give it 23 Golden Donkeys. "},{"Title":"Brotherhood of Awesome","Date":"30 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Version Universal release. French / English subtitlesIn the tradition of 'Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon' comes a dangerous, thrilling mystery of chilling proportions.My arse.In the tradition of awesome, comes 'Brotherhood of the Wolf', an awesome tale of awesomeness, and other awesome things, like vengeance. Awesome.In 18th century France, an animal was stalking the countryside, picking off animals, women and children, but generally leaving adult men alone. Witnesses described 'the beast' as a giant wolf. Some said it could not be hurt by conventional means, some said it had a row of spines on its back. It probably also had an affinity for Rammstein's music, but due a lack of time-travel in this film, such a possibility was not explored. Enter Grégoire de Fronsac (Samuel Le Bihan), and his Iroquois blood-brother Mani (Mark Dacascos). Fronsac, an accomplished naturalist, is charged by the King of France to find the beast. Naturally, this involves Fronsac wooing the local ladies, and Mani beating various people up. Awesome.Apparently 'Brotherhood of the Wolf' is based on actual event. Apart from the French Revolution, I'm not big on French history, but I'm gonna take a shot that this is a 'Savate' or 'Wild Zero' kind of true story. Of course, I can see where 'Brotherhood of the Wolf' might be grounded in fact, but a whole lot of this has gotta be fiction. From the strange to the rather improbable aside, the story is interesting, although long. There are multiple plot twists (nearly to the extent of 'Killer Meteors', only in more time, and making more sense), but sometimes I felt the story was dragging on and Mark Dacascos was not beating up enough people.Speaking of Mark Dacascos, I'm sure I won't be the first to say that he doesn't beat up enough people in 'Brotherhood of the Wolf'. His fight scenes are good, but quickly edited and a lot is put in slow-motion. In fact, I'm sure that BotW would have been an hour shorter if there was not so much slow motion. I guess the editing was done to highlight his talent, but to a hard-core action fan like me, its actually rather distracting. On the other hand, Samuel Le Bihan's action scenes were really solid and convinced me that is a movie I'm going to have to buy and watch repeatedly.I still don't see any 'Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon' in this. As per usual, someone stuck a In the tradition of 'Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon' tag on the packaged to improve sales. Don't be fooled. However, 'Brotherhood of the Wolf' is so much more awesome than Crouching Tiger.'Brotherhood of the Wolf' is a solid action movie, and maybe some more. It drags on a bit, and some of the fight-editing is distracting, but otherwise it gets an awesome 9/10 "},{"Title":"What is so special about the nudity of Monica Belluci?","Date":"9 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" WOW! I do have to say this is one of the more entrancing films I have ever seen. The movie is so cinematic you are attached to it from the get go, the fight scenes are absolutely spectacular (other than the constant use of slow motion, but you don't really even care because it looks cool), and the story is magnificent. The characters are colorful and you really get into it. I thought this movie was brilliant, not quite art, but very entertaining, though which would you prefer, a beautiful movie with no story or plot, or a great story and plot that isn't that beautiful? I go with story and plot. Still you have awesome visuals and the movie is pretty enough to catch my interest. It's not anything like the beauty of the movie Hero but it is still good on the eyes.About the English dubbing. It's surprising that you barely notice that the English is dubbed into the movie. The voice acting is superb, so superb you don't even notice that the lips are moving at different times than that of the voices.OK now to my question. What is so great about seeing Monica Belluci naked for about 2 minutes? She barely contributes to the film either than when her bosom fades into a mountain, which was kind of fun to watch. I read most of these reviews and wonder to myself What kind of horny men are writing these useless comments? I'm sorry but if you go to a movie just to see the nudity, you're wasting your money, just get on your computer and watch porn, go review that. We don't need to hear all about the only part of the movie your minuscular brain can remember.Altogether it's a fantastic movie, definitely one I can watch more than 10 times. "},{"Title":"A cracking fantasy action flick!!","Date":"10 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Don't let the fact that this is a french film put you off for this is a cracking fantasy action flick! The director is tried and tested in the action genre having done Crying Freeman(the first live action manga film). It is with this assured hand that he makes the action scenes in this film, although there is no wire-work, look as cool as anything before them! The acting is adequate for this type of film with the stand out being Mark Dacascos as the Indian warrior Mani, in fact many people thought this would be a breakout role for him but it hasn't really happened unfortunately.This is based on a true story about a beast who is killing off women and children in a small town, the king of France sends Gregoire Le fronsac an explorer of types who fought in the seven years war where he met Mani an Indian who also joins him on his mission. What ensues is a gripping story with elements of religion,love,werewolves,fantasy and action all wrapped up in some jaw dropping cinematography! Even my girlfriend enjoyed this, i can't compare it to anything i have ever seen before i can only recommend to give it a go and see what you think.9/10 "},{"Title":"Great film I can watch over and over again","Date":"24 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I'd heard, from a friend who'd hired it one night, that this was a great film - if a little unusual. So I bought it without even having seen it and was not disappointed.When you see film reviews about foreign films and hear the words sumptuous and beautiful cinematography you tend to think Well it's probably rubbish and that's the only good thing the critics can say about it, but this is not the case here. The story may be a little far-fetched but it seems to work, the action (though there is not really enough to satisfy a die-hard martial arts fan) is well done and complements the plot, and the acting is good.But what really makes this film for me is the richness and quality of the visuals and the overall look of the production. It all comes together to make a beautiful film that has action and romance. If you want to see plenty of ridiculous over-the-top martial arts then you might do well to avoid this, but if you like a story that includes some action (and don't mind dubbed/subtitled films - unless your French is fluent) the buy this now. "},{"Title":"A Fantastic HodgePodge","Date":"15 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is the type of movie that gets the common man into the art houses. I was surprised by the previews and even more to find out I had to go to the artsy theatres to see it. Imagine this mutt of a movie. On one side at least 3 hours long, period piece and in French with subtitles. On the other side a vicious CGI beast, gratuitous violence and martial arts. Co-existing within each other like a Reese's Cups. Somehow, it manages to work, though it's still pretty sublime like one of Aesop's Fables for adults.Loosely based on a true story about a killer wolf in 19 century France, BOTW is a mess of a movie that works best as schlock. Don't get too bogged down by the accuracy of the period, costumes or the acting. This is pure B-movie territory in drag. Liberties are obviously taken but those 3 hours seem to glide by. Like Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon, the subtitles go down easy and don't seem to get in the way of the story or the action. Unless your still at a 5th grade reading level. Fronsac (Samuel Le Bihan) and his Native American assistant, Mani (Mark Dacascos) are naturalists called upon to help capture and slay the beast only to find out that this is no mere wolf and there's more to the attacks than just predatory actions. There's also a brotherhood of crooked politicians with a hidden agenda.Le Bihan (looking like a tamer David Lee Roth) is a charmer. Instead of a geeky, Jim Fowler-type, he plays his role of naturalist like a lady killer, later becoming a badass when the need to avenge a friend comes out.Dacascos is the real showstopper. Playing a mostly quiet Indian, his scene-stealing martial arts make this movie worth seeing. The son of a world-renowned martial arts instructor, Dacascos has been starring in his own straight-to-video releases for over 10 years now including one of the Kickboxer sequels and the slick Jackie Chan-like Drive, his best. (he was recently in the JetLi/DMX vehicle, Cradle 2 the Grave as the main villain). Why he isn't as big a star as Jet Li, is beyond me. His acting skills are far superior than most martial arts movie stars and he's got movie star looks.The husband and wife team of Vincent Cassel (le Haine) and Monica Belluci (The Matrix Reloaded) also star as the son of the emperor and a mysterious woman living in a brothel, respectively.Check out the DVD. One deleted scene is especially cool In the beginning of the theatrical version when we first encounter Fronsac and Mani, they come upon a girl being attacked by a group of bandits. Mani gets off his horse and introduces his fighting skills. The deleted scene shows that originally, both Fronsac and Mani were supposed to be involved and the scene is much longer but Fronsac's part was cut but it's included in its entirety. "},{"Title":"Beasts, witchery, martial arts and cleavage....oh my!","Date":"24 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Hard to label this versatile piece of French art as it blends elements of a scary monster movie with ethical and religious drama aspects as well as simplistic swashbuckling and martial arts action. This film is stuffed with a tremendous amount of ingeniousness and imaginative camera techniques. Brotherhood of the Wolf is very, VERY loosely based on a true drama of a wolf that terrorized France in the mid 18th century and killed over 60 people. The very ambitious and fanatic director Christophe Gans turns this simple premise into a spectacular epos in which a heroic duo go to the Gévaudan region to hunt down the ferocious wolf-like creature. Some parties (like a young marquis) help them but most prominent men of the province hinder them. Especially the first half of this adventurous movie is impressive and satisfying. You don't really know what to expect and all of a sudden you're sucked into a spiral of action, suspense and occult situations. Gans is kind of like a French version of Quentin Tarantino and stuffs his film with influences from the Hammer horror films (the eerie landscapes and voluptuous women) and even Asian 'Category-3' action flicks. The second half feels a little rushed and the whole explanation of the Brotherhood is a bit of letdown. Brotherhood of the Wolf is a bit long for its own good and all the intrigues begin to look tedious after a while. Still, it's a highly recommend film. Costumes, music and cinematography are near perfect and the acting skills of the entire cast are superb. Vive la France! insert a wolf's howling here "},{"Title":"A Great Blend of Genres","Date":"24 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Jedi's Rating System- * (Don't waste your time), ** (Fair movie, catch it on TV), *** (Good movie, a one time rental) **** (Great movie, close to being the best) ***** (One of the best ever made)*Some Spoilers*When I picked this up I was expecting a werewolf movie, which this is far from. It is a blend of horror,action,romance,mystery,historical drama and a little bit kung-fu and it works well.The best part of the movie is its action sequences. Reminiscent of Crouching Tiger, they are what drives this film. I just wished that the final fight between Jean Francois and Fronsac would be a bit longer but it was satisfying.Another good aspect is how the movie kept you guessing what the beast was and why was it there. I went from alien monster to demon and so on a lot in this film. I doubt any one would guess what the best is and the secret before the last 45 minutes or so.What hurts this film is the overdubbing (get a French version with English subtitles), and the dialouge. Some of the dialouge was a bit stale and droll. Also the film did lag out in some parts which kept the excitement down.Overall with good acting,story and action this is a must-see. It was'nt a generic monster movie, it was a monster movie laced with so many genres and it worked.*** 1/2 "}{"Title":"One of the best french film I've ever seen","Date":"12 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I really like films from France many of them are my favourite like this one. This film has everything I like in a movie good actors, script, fight scenes, mystery scenes and some romance. The film of course had some moments that could have been better, but they are all very minor scenes so I am not going to get all boring here. For me the fighting scenes were the best ones like in the beginning now that was a good scene, and the final fighting scene between Vincent and Samuel was fantastic. Overall I loved the film and I can always watch this film over and over again and I never get tired of watching it. "},{"Title":"Sleepy Tiger Hollow Dragon","Date":"20 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I can't understand how Christophe Gans could make this mess after his masterpiece Crying Freeman. He must have taken drugs or something. This movie has the feel of something not done. Was there no time for editing before release? The scenes seem to have little to do with each other. The characters lack motivation for their actions. Strange thugs appear picking fights all the time. Who were those men in drag at the beginning of the movie??Well I got to see the flawed dubbed version. Watching Hong Kong movies dubbed are one thing as they are not to be taken too seriously, but I got the impression this movie was not supposed to be this light. How I wish I saw the subtitled version I read about.As I'm a fan of Mark Dacascos since Crying Freeman, I had greater hopes, but he never gets above the sidekick role. Bellucci actually makes her best performance yet, for her standards. She is ordinarily just a pleasing body put into movies like Matrix and Tears of the sun. Though the script sucked she had many lines this time. The bad guys were so obvious looking that the plot twists just got confusing.The FX of this movie is OK. Corpses are good (even though their wounds does not match their death scenes). The beast is cheaped out by using flash cutting, and when we get to see it fully it moves jerky and massless. The fighting scenes are boring and uncalled for.My greatest memory of this movie was of Emilie Dequenne, who was stunningly beautiful, especially in those dresses, and made good acting performance. I wish I knew the sound of her voice. "},{"Title":"Epic of grand scale","Date":"6 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Brotherhood of the Wolf is a grand film by Christophe Gans who also directed the underground hit Crying Freeman. The film is set in Eigteenth century France and is based around the legend of the Beast of Gevaudin, that killed women and children only in that province. Mixing a style of action reminiscent of Crouching Tiger, the film sets it's appeal in the France meets Hong Kong style fight scenes featuring the great Mark Dacascos. A little overlong in parts but the beautuiful digital photography keeps the viewers interest. Vincent Cassel steals the show as the Jean Fracois de Morangias. If you like the Last of the Mohicans, SLeepy Hollow and Crouching Tiger Hidden Dragon then this great feature will appeal to you.3 1/2 *  "},{"Title":"Finally a great movie!!!!!!!!","Date":"2 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I was quite surprised with this movie. I follow french movies quite a lot and I was looking forward to enjoy this one in particular. I recommend this movie .. the special effects are breath-taking, the story is poignant and keeps your eyes and your mind fixed to the screen .. every minute that passes makes the story even more interesting. Samuel le Bihan, Vincent Cassel, Monica Bellucci and the actor who plays the Indian magician are simply outstanding!! I've gone over the legend and the facts that occurred in those years in Gévaudan, the first part of the movie is realistic whilst the second part is science-fiction but it's poignant anyways and an excellent solution to end the movie!I also recommend Vidocq and Vercingetorix.  "},{"Title":"Awesome movie...if you watch it subtitled.","Date":"21 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  *POSSIBLE SPOILERS*        Given that this movie opens with a woman getting killed and THEN a stranger kicking around a group of men linching an old man and his daughter, you'd get the funny little impression this movie is all action/violence and no substance.  Instead of that, consider this introduction as a way for the director to jumpstart the movie for the 2.5 hours ahead.     I won't go into the plot of the story since it would take way too long to explain.  Some would say the story didn't know where to go from one minute to the next.  What I saw instead were quite a few subplots created and intertwined with the main plot of the Beast of Gevaudan, with the director using a fine balance for each in terms of their importance to the film.  In this you see the legendary Beast and it's tale, surrounded by 2 love stories (one sweet and one disturbing), a friendship and brotherhood spanning 2 races (during a time of extreme prejudice), a conspiracy of biblical proportions, and kick butt martial arts.  Each was given a good amount of time so that you're not left wondering the why's and how's, nor would you be able to argue that is was anything other than well thought out.  Overall, I was impressed, not only with the story but with the acting, choreography, and the fact that the director was not afraid to make a longer movie to get the whole story across.      One recommendation   please watch it subtitled, not dubbed.  Doing this could be the difference of you liking it or hating it. "},{"Title":"A superb action thriller that doesn't disappoint","Date":"14 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Le Pacte des loupes (Brotherhood of the wolf) is a masterpiece in modern film making, through its colourful photography at the hands of Dan Lausten and excellent writing Gans and Cabel. This period action thriller is set around a small province in France called Gevandarme, where an unknown beast is attacking the local population. The locals believe it to be a large wolf, but when Gregoire (Samuel Le Bihan) and his partner Mani (Marc Dacascos) investigate they find that its not as simple as just random killings. The action is expertly done and edited with originality and style as for Gans, certainly one to look out for in the future.  "},{"Title":"Brotherhood of the Wolf (style over substance)","Date":"11 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Brotherhood of the Wolf is probably the most convoluted movie I have everseen. Although I do find some merit in the photography and maybe some of thefight choreography, the rest of the movies' many liberties regarding story and substance (lack thereof) cannot be forgiven. There at least five occasion when the story makes leaps to a conclusion or idea that just do not make any sense, such as the brotherhood itself, or the armored beast itself. A far better movie in what this movie started as , is an American werewolf in London and an evenbetter example is Sleepy Hollow. These movies are on movie and the do thisone motive justice. Brotherhood is full of itself and loses it's vision after about the first 25 minutes and never looks back. The length is unforgivable and this makes sitting through it's many liberties all the more unbearable. Overall I'd sayBrotherhood of the wolf is like one huge backdrop to a music video...a coollooking music video, but it's a song I don't want to hear. "},{"Title":"Pretty pictures, decent story and no morals at all","Date":"25 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  It has quite a developed story, yet, eventually all stacks up eventually to yet another beat-em-up. On the bright side, there is the oldie feeling of the 18th century (god help me if I messed the years again) and features quite a beautiful filming.The music, acting are fine too, nothing too exciting. But I surely suspected more from a foreign (aka non-American) film.The main problem with this film is that it doesn't move me a slightly bit.     !!!MILD SPOILERS!!!     The love story(?) was boring, the fighting was nothing too stirring. Heck, the only thing I really cared about in the end is the beast and maybe a TINY bid about the indian.Above all the story was awfully predictable at parts, weird at others and yet quite interesting to watch.Another complain is that the movie is too long (120 minutes).This film kept reminding me of the Equilibrium movie (though it surpasses it in every way). It is possible that I am just getting tired of pretty beat-em-ups films (have I ever liked them at all).I gave it 7/10 though it is very possible that I will lower it to 6/10 in a week or so. Depends on my feeling about this movie then. "},{"Title":"Style wins over substance in this enjoyable mix of various cinematic genres.","Date":"21 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  *** out of ****Brotherhood of the Wolf is the kind of enjoyably messy mix of action and horror that a high-brow critic probably wouldn't be too ashamed to admitting they enjoyed.  There's a simple reason for that; the story is set against the backdrop of a French period piece drama.  However, I sincerely doubt anybody actually liked this film for the period piece stuff (or maybe most people do, hell if I know).The plot is reportedly based on some historical fact.  Set in the Gevaudian province (looks mostly like forest territory) of 18th century France, there's a beast on the loose that's killing the locals, apparently targeting only women.  So the King sends Gregoire de Fronsac (Samuel Le Bihan) to investigate the deaths and presumably hunt the beast down.  He is accompanied by his Native American friend, Mani (Mark Dacascos).   Fronsac's input isn't all that well-received by the upper class locals, but there's a chick (Emilie Dequenne) who has the hots for him.  Mani's also got a crush on a rather feral-looking woman, for some reasons totally unknown.  But their investigation leads them to beyond the mere savagery of an animal; there's actually a cult that figures its way into the story. But I can't say I enjoyed Brotherhood of the Wolf for its story.  As a matter of fact, the film's pacing is occasionally painfully slow, long and drawn-out as the plot is.  Co-writer/director Christophe Gans apparently believes that we somehow actually care about the characters beyond little more than just being ass-kicking men of action.  Sad to say, there's little truth to that; though the performances are all passable, the only reason I'd want any of the leads to survive the next battle is just to see their cool moves in another fight.As an action extravaganza, Brotherhood is an unqualified success; the various martial arts battles are nothing original, but are fantastically choreographed and filmed.  The lighting is perfect, too, accentuating the movie's deliberately offbeat and sinister atmosphere.  Cinematography and the sets are all first-rate; I've heard this movie had a low budget to work with, but you wouldn't know it based on the production values.  Add to that the lush forest setting and what we have here is, in fact, one of the most gorgeous movies I've ever seen.The main details of the plot are mostly inconsequential to the enjoyment of the film.  Gans does little more than steal from several respected pictures.  In fact, one of the movie's best scenes, the hunt for the beast, is clearly a rip-off of Predator, but it's handled with so much excitement and filled with so many money shots (just watch Dacascos dodge the spiky booby trap, wow!), it's hard to care.  Jaws is also pilfered in a few instances, particularly the opening scene.As for the beast itself, I'd feared the worst, but the CGI work is decent.  The creature's movements are all fluid enough that the sight of the thing in attack mode is believable.  That said, I wish Gans spent more time building on the mystery and fear of the beast, and less on Fronsac's passionless, boring romance with Dequenne.Brotherhood of the Wolf is not a particularly frightening or even all that suspenseful film, but it definitely has its heart in the B-movie genre.  There's plenty of blood and gore as well as some disgusting-sounding kill scenes, and true to form, we even get nudity courtesy of the bodacious Monica Bellucci, and here the filmmakers can pass it off for artistic purposes, which they do during a scene transition from Bellucci's large breasts to the sight of snow-capped mountains.  Positively hilarious.The film runs too damn long at 144 minutes, with one post-climactic ending after another.  Come to think of it, the already thin storytelling totally falls apart after a major character's death, but is made up for by the continued quality and quantity of the action sequences, which are the real reasons to watch this film in the first place.  Highly recommended, so long as you don't mind style over substance. "},{"Title":"An Extremely Deep Movie","Date":"27 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Well to me brotherhood of the wolf was not only an action movie it was more than that, whenever i watch it - and i have watched it a tons of time- i feel transported into 18th century France, and i can sense everything at the time, as for the music it was absolutely wonderful and the song once is in itself great, the actors were so good as well. It's a great movie.The movie also is very profound as it talks about rebellion versus bloodshed. "}{"Title":"All empty style and no substance.","Date":"16 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" It's puzzling why this film is loved by so many of you. It's a mish mash of different genres and it fails in every one of them. The parts that are meant to be scary are not scary in the least. The scenes that are meant to be moving are not. The romantic subplot is rubbish. The acting is average. The fight scenes are full of close up shots and cheap editing; a sign of incompetent choreograpy. Only two of the fight scenes comes close to what is considered average in hong kong movies. There's so many pointless directorial flourishes like freeze frames, slow mo etc., that serves absolutely no purpose whatsoever and actually ruin some scenes which could have been good. A European film which tries hard to match Hollywood and hong kong action/adventure films but ends up demonstrating why they should leave(and usually do) that sort of stuff to the pros. "},{"Title":"Watch this film in the original language","Date":"19 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  May contain spoilersWow! Christophe Gans is fantastic. This movie surprised me completely when I first saw it. The acting is superb and better in French. Watch with the subtitles ... if you understand French, then watch it in the original language without them. It is a long movie, though. Dedicate some time to it.The period in which it is set is pretty original especially since it poses as a true story although it is complete fiction. It is cleverly done, glorifies intellect over strength, and still somehow incorporates stylistic, ballet-like martial arts fighting ... and gets away with all this!! Amazing. I was able to suspend disbelief and really enjoy this movie despite glaring discrepancies from reality.I recommend this movie highly if you have the time to watch it and with a crowd of friends that will appreciate it in the original language. Enjoy! "},{"Title":"Lovely art - fills the senses - some mystery that may carry","Date":"15 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I enjoyed watching this movie. It has a lot to offer.Mark Dacascos was fun to watch. His look was cool, dangerous, fluid; his character, while a bit flat, was different enough in this type of movie to provide some satisfaction to the viewer.The sumptuous colors, the fecund, luxuriant locations and cinematography were a true pleasure to experience, at least in dvd format or on a big theatrical screen.The lead actor in this movie, Samuel Le Bihan, has a smooth panache and intelligence that recalls some of the flavor of the old Hollywood movie stars like Gary Cooper, Cary Grant, etc. For some of us rough-edged Americans, he was lovely as the focal point of the film. He was easy to embrace as the hero, without the filmmaker having to force this feeling on us with a trite setup story.The plot of this movie was not spoon-fed but sometimes smoothly delivered, and at other times, sloppily or fuzzily presented.A lot goes on as the story moves forward and watching it only once will ensure that much is missed.  This movie can be watched many times and reveal a little more each time. Some pieces that are dangled in front of the audience are never fully delivered and this leaves it in a bit of a gray area it foments some Jung-like ideas that can be pursued for those interested (or may pop up in our dreams later), yet it could have been a better film if more of these pieces were actually used to complete a final picture with some sense of accomplishment associated with it.The conclusion of the movie leaves us wanting a little something more, but it is still very enjoyable to watch - like a well-sung opera we don't really understand. "},{"Title":"Don't let the pace fool you","Date":"29 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  When I first sat down to watch this exciting movie, I was not impressed. For a long hour or so (only a fraction of this lengthy epic), it looked like just another boring period piece that had been mixed with a modern action/martial arts film. When I was about to actually give up on it, it picked up the pace and became something different altogether. It takes awhile to get started, but once it does, it just gets better and better. This film takes nearly every genre imaginable and throws them together into an iconoclastic melting pot. The action and suspense are full-throttle once the film looks up, carrying a spellbinding intensity to them like I had never experienced before. The plot itself is unpredictable and complicated. I'm not going to go a lot into the premise here because I'm sure that's been pretty well explained already. I just wanted to say that this is really a great movie and I'm glad I decided to stick with it.  "},{"Title":"Oh boy! Is this a good one!","Date":"29 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Trust me, this is one fine film. Complex on so many levels. If you can keep it strait in your mind...look out!  What a revelationabout politics.  This lavish and stylish film screams foreign but itis universal in it's appeal. It is a horror movie wrapped in a drama folded into a suspense, blended with humor so cleverly one must cherish it.  Thecinematography is unmatched and unsurpassed.  Graphic andreal and frightening.  You will see the full range of society frombottom to top and all the ugly little secrets in between.It is so daringly french!  It has Italian undertones, and morediabolical cleverness than any Hitchcock film. One of the very best ever!  See it with your conspiratorial friends. "},{"Title":"Frenchmen...can't love them, can't hate them","Date":"20 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  LE PACTE DES LOUPS /BROTHERHOOD OF THE WOLF/ (2001) spoiler alert((( French movies, they're all a bit weird, a bit peculiar, and this aren't no different, but its a very good French movie. The movie's story is both creepy and interesting, the actors does a nice job, the filming is original, the action scenes are good...so, what's missing in this movie? I'll tell you. It gets a bit too long within its running time, watching French accents fly threw the air like totally not interesting language, far more irriteting, for over 2 hours may be too much...and, the end gets too much of the goods, when you like really get to see the beast, and yes, the animations aren't that good either. So, the movie did loose a lot of points there, pity enough!STORY France in the 17th Century, in a small village there goes a story about a beast running and killing in the foggy landscape. Two mysterious but frienly men arrives to kill the unknown thing. Threw odd citizens of the village, creepy hills and frightening murderers, the two hunters understand that they are on a very special case. One of the two is a mysterious, less-talking Indian that knows more about fighting then any other person - the other is a well known and charming man that falls in love. So, is the beast just another trained wolf? Or is it just fake? Or is it..really a beast?There are three women in the movie; there is the good, the bad and the ugly. The good is the one the main character falls in love with, the bad is the one the main character sleeps with and has a edgy relationship with, the last - she's just crazy. I like to see them like this; psycho, psychoette and psycho wannabe! Its a surprisingly good movie, thrilling and the plot you simply can't take your eyes from. I urge you too see it, and you don't need to be pationt either cause the movie starts off very fast. STARS *** 3/5  "},{"Title":"A very refreshing blend of different genres","Date":"1 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  After a summer of explosion-ridden action films that slap the story and suspense to the back row in favor of helicopter chases and tan, barely legal supermodels turned actresses in see-through thongs, this is one film that really felt like a breath of fresh air. I rented this at the local video store, and trust me, it did not disappoint. The story has to do with a pair of investigators who travel to a remote province that is being attacked by a mysterious beast. Many think that this deadly creature is a mere wolf, but certain clues, like overly wide jaw marks and steel teeth found on the victims, suggests otherwise. What is so interesting about The Brotherhood of the Wolf is how it so expertly combines a large group of drastically different film genres. There are supernatural elements, definite moments of pure horror, fight scenes right out of The Matrix or Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon, and a nice mystery to top viewers off. In some ways, this can be compared to a traditional James Bond movie when you think about it. There's the suave hero, an eerily quiet and deformed villain, an icy romantic interest that slowly melts before the hero's charms, and some very cool gadgets (gotta love the villain's intimidating bone sword/chain whip). In the end, it's the movie's beautifully realized, artistic style that got me hooked. There are just so many wistfully creative touches, from slow motion to shockingly distinct landscapes, that it's a feast for the eyes. Not many movies successfully meld so many categories of film and maintain a compelling story, but TBotW certainly matches the task. You would be hard pressed to find such a truly unique vision in America. 4/4 Stars "},{"Title":"Well, Mark dies, but at least he kicks some butt...","Date":"25 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Brotherhood of the Wolf (BOTW) is a movie composed of a mishmash of genres - horror, action, mystery, historical drama. It's a solid, watchable movie that uses most of its two hour-plus running time effectively. Loosely based on a French folktale, BOTW has sumptuous period design, capable performances, and a decent story.It's certainly not perfect. There are quite a few plot holes and strains of the suspension disbelief, and the CGI beast is laughable. But it works well for what it is - entertainment that neither insults nor looks down upon the viewer. Look for some eye candy in the forms of Monica Bellucci and Emilie Dequenne, not to mention Mark Dacascos.A good way to spend an evening.8/10 "},{"Title":"So phat it's sick","Date":"20 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film is incredible. I'd suggest watching it in two bites. It's quite long, but worth every minute. Terrific script, but don't expect it to spoon feed you everything.A richness of atmosphere comparable to Vidocq, though not the same style; just simply as good that's all.This movie moved me and wowed me at the same time. Dacascos was amazing. "},{"Title":"An enchanting French saga","Date":"31 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  First of all I must admit I'm a big fan of dramatic saga's and 'tales' that involve a European background. Having said that, I think that Brotherhood of the Wolf is indeed a long story, but one worth every minute.Can you imagine the visuals of (that other) French movie 'Amelie', a story about myth, combined with the settings of the Renaissance?The beauty of this movie is not only in the exceptional visuals and splendid soundtrack (the titlesong is engraved in my memory), but the honesty of the story and the very unique way of story telling. Don't expect to see some stereotype scenes. This movie is true to its era in which it is playing.Thanks to its layout, the movie gives you just enough info to keep wondering what is actually going on. It keeps you thinking, without giving you rediculous answers. This sort of questing, combined with character development, fighting scenes, and serene quiet moments, gives a very well balanced movie.If you just want a fighting movie, I guess there is a lot better on the shelves today. This movie will give you every feeling of excitement, fear, love, curiousness, hate and compassion. For me that is enough to rate it amongst the best in its genre. "}{"Title":"Interesting story..","Date":"27 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  What a story.. this movie kept me fascinated all the way. As the movie was playing, I kept on remembering scenes that made more and more sense from the earlier parts. I enjoyed the fight scenes as well as the too few romantic scenes.  Overall, I would recommend seeing this movie. "},{"Title":"highly enjoyable for action lovers","Date":"16 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is a movie that is very well woven, the action sequences are really state of the martial art, the effects are welldone and believable, the action is ok. Special mention goes to sound and photography. Lovely picturesque scenes all over the movie, great cinematography, nice shots of rain...slow motion used to perfection in the action scenes.I'm not a fantasy fan, nor do i understand french. One of the reviews said the action scenes better those of the matrix, got me interested, saw the movie. I find it unwise to compare the action scenes of matrix and this movie. The film is quite long, but i didnt feel the length, it was very absorbing, quite well paced.I would rate this one of the best non-hollywood movies that can give the american counterparts a run for their money.Rate 4.5 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Remarkably complex; engaging the mind as well as the eye.","Date":"22 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Unwisely, I've avoided seeing Le Pacte des loups, though I admit to having been intrigued by the trailers two years ago at its release.Finally, on a long holiday weekend (Patriot's Day) in New England with not much to do, I rented the DVD and, late last night, popped it in and was shocked to find a movie that went about 100% beyond my expectations.  What I thought would be a mildly diverting werewolf movie was actually a powerfully moving, beautiful, complex, genre-busting cinematic experience that engaged my mind as well as it entertained me.Visually, Gans's film is spectacular every cell providing arresting images. While some here have complained about it's mixture of horror, fantasy, religious-political-societal commentaries, etc., Gans seems to understands that even a seemingly simple tale is never really simple and his ability to weave such complicated elements into a cohesive whole - while not seamless - is a huge pay off for the patient viewer of this remarkable movieLike a good theatre ensemble, Gans's cast seems entirely caught up in this epic retelling of the legend of the Beast of Gevaudan and the interactions and development of the tale's many characters.  Gans uses stock characters right out of a medieval morality tale which could almost be laughable (evil brother physically maimed disguising his true, inner ugliness; beautiful sister, seemingly strong needing rescue; the whore with a heart of gold; the resentful, corrupt priest wielding power and in control of the communities goings-on, etc.) - but which here draw us into another world. Add the East/West connection of the two unlikely heroes - Fronsac, a French Gardener/Naturalist/Taxidermist and, Mani his American Indian bloodbrother - both highly skilled in martial arts (and Fronsac a remarkable marksman).Like a good opera, Gans layers on a myriad of styles; martial arts, horror, psychological drama, period piece, class and religious commentary, and comes up with one thoroughly entertaining spectacle.  There's also some kick-ass fight scenes!At first the revealing of the beast threatened disappointment (actually, I initially thought it looked cheesey), but I almost immediately realized where the film was taking me and had no problem believing what the beast was.I'm not a bit surprised there's no mainstream audience for this type of film - it didn't do well here in the American box office - (big surprise there, right!) but this film has cult written all over it and I won't be surprised to be finding people coming to it years from now and saying where the hell was I when this thing came out?Watch it in the original French (with English subtitles) to get the full effect, as and the naturalness of its flow cannot be duplicated by dubbing actors and the very use of language itself is part of what makes this movie work.  Remarkable achievement.   "},{"Title":"More entertaining as a genre bastard than a film","Date":"20 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  To best understand this film, pretend you are standing in a room full of hats containing randomly selected aspects of other films. You reach into the first hat for a setting and you pull out 1700's France. By setting this film at that time in France you already have wonderful route of character development. Because like the musketers your character learns that all the pillars of society (the church, the Monarchy, the nobility) have their flaws. And that the triumph you character must at least in part leave all those institutions behind and lean on his inner-strength. This exactly what happens in the Le Pacte des loups. The next hat you reach into gives you a central conflict conflict. And from the head ware oracle you'd extract Jaws. The wolf is the shark. And the main characters carry with them  a rational approach and a love for nature. They even measure the wounds to assess the monsters Jaw size. And when our hero's finally meet the monster head to head it appears suddenly with out build up like the shark. The next hat has to give you a plot. Just as Jaws was truely driven by the Robert Shaw's  Ahab like hubris and Roy Schinder's Jack Londonish man against nature, this movie also borrows it's plot twists from another genre. And that third yeilds, Scooby-Doo. The villian is literally unmasked, and would have couldn't away from if it wasn't for hero's meddling.Finally you need your story telling, style. Will this be a spaghetti western with long stares, and disjointed lines. The fourth father of Le Pacte de Loups is Fists of Fury or China Mountain Brother if your a purest. This is a french martial arts movie with slow motion kicks, wire stunts, and a quest for revenge. If you don't love movies and then don't watch this because it does not improve on any of it's parts. But it succeeds in repackaging all it's barrowed ideas in an original way.   "},{"Title":"worth it in the end","Date":"8 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  It'd be wrong to see this film as a straightforward horror slasher, which is certainly what Hollywood would have done with it. It's a sumptuous realisation of 18th century France and its true legend of the Beast of Gevaudan. One could be forgiven for losing one's place as we are drawn further and further into the forest after the beast, which begin to feel more like the the jungle than the cold woods of France. The story is a rollicking one, though, especially as you can, if you wish, fast-forward through the sex/fighting/general atmosphere sequences that have been thrown in to give the piece a more contemporary feel. Stripped of such pretensions, which are beneath it anyhow, the real story is a chiller. I'd compare it to the Hound of the Baskervilles, a story with much of the energy and dynamic of this movie, if it weren't for the disconcerting fact that Something really did kill over a hundred people in the Auvergne and South Dordogne areas of France between 1764 and 1767. The movie shamelessly embellishes, of course, and why shouldn't it - but it'll whet your appetite for information on the uncertain (and more interesting) truth. The explanation given in the film makes for a great movie, though!I'd recommend the picture to anyone who enjoyed the Hound of the Baskervilles, or who happens to like lots of misplaced martial arts, or who doesn't mind being patronised a bit when it comes to Native American slaves. One small point, though - for your own sake, don't watch the dubbed version. Like many films made in other languages, Brotherhood of the Wolf deserves the courtesy of being watched in its original form. You'll get used to the subtitles, and they make a better job of a worthwhile script than the well-meaning but ultimately inefficient and distracting dub. Still, better dubbed than not at all. "},{"Title":"taming on the beast.","Date":"5 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is probably one of the best French movies I've seen for long.The disturbing encounter between the adventurous scientist Chévalier Grégoire de Fronsac (Samuel Le Bihan) and the mysterious Beast of the Gévaudan is that adventure story which a good film director like Christophe Gans should have made fans enjoy long before.Although I consider the plot uneccessarily lenghtened by attempts to show us how dangerous the Beast is, I still prefer this mystery many others. Still how unfortunate one easily sees that this Beast is the fruit of some computer manipulation.Although I know little of th social life in the Gévaudan in those days, director Christophe Gans perfectly builds a properly-adapted setting, full of superstition, be it within the upper or lower classes. Worst of all is that complicity within the upper class.Climax reaches when de Fronsac's Red Indian mate Mani (Mark Dacascos) becomes a victim of the conspiracy, bringing his late discouragement to an end, as he sets out for the 'bad guys'.Overall this movie is a good one, full of common but deep daily themes; friendship, love, fear, treason, heroism,... all well accompanied by music prepared by Joseph LoDuca, guiding an adventurer set out to give a scientific explanation to his questions and bent on adding a contribution to rationalism. "},{"Title":"Weird, long, bad","Date":"27 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Although my comment is based on seeing the whole movie, it won't differ much from what was said by people who couldn't stand it entirely. What's worth of this movie are (maybe) the fight scenes, but they are islands in an ocean of boredom. The characters are impossibilities, the plot, although overly twisted, doesn't manage to keep the interest, and the beast's FX are worse than those in 1984's Terminator I. Rating 3/10, thanks to the fight scenes (pity they don't comprise 30% of the movie's length). "},{"Title":"better than Hollywood","Date":"16 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Someone said too bad it's French, to which I'll answer, Hollywood could never have made this film. First because it's well written and these days Hollywood can't seem to write anything longer or more intelligent than a sound bite. Secondly, because it takes a lot more chances with topics that Hollywood normally shies away from; European films have no problems showing nudity as a normal part of life and don't turn it into some cheap, soft-core porn. This film has done a great job at recreating the period, along with the dialect and costumes of the days. Having studied this story for a long time, I can tell you that it contains a LOT of historically correct references, not the least of which are the names of some of the main players. However, the martial arts are a bit out of place, even if they are spectacular. The slow motion and freeze-frames also take their toll after a while. While the explanation for the identity of the beast is a little on the wild side, it is an adequate metaphor to what probably happened in real life. The werewolf angle could have been a bit more present, as this was one of the main theories at the time. But overall, a good action film. Even better if you understand French. "},{"Title":"Great film, but quit calling it The next Hidden Dragon","Date":"15 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Been hearing a lot of The Next CT Hidden Dragon about this film, but C'mon folks...COMPLETELY different flick. Some people think that just because a movie has subtitles in it, it should fall in the lone foreign flick category, but if you REALLY watched this movie, it stands by itself quite well.I was a bit apprehensive when I first sat down to watch this because it takes a bit of motivation to sit through 2 plus hours of subtitles, but within the first two minutes of the movie...I couldn't have cared less if nobody spoke at all!!The movie opens with a suspenseful chase along beautiful French countryside between a young peasant girl and some unseen evil creature. The creature's point of view was a great Sam Raimi type of fast moving first person perspective straight out of the Evil Dead films. You get a great feel of how fast the creature is gaining without spoiling the surprise by showing the beast right off the bat.I was completely expecting the same old horror death for this young woman. She would think that she escaped, have a momentary sigh of relief, then get pulled down screaming with accompaning wet slurping noises as the opening credits roll......almost got it in fact. But what followed set the pace for the whole film's action sequences. Ever seen someone of old dry their laundry by slapping it against rocks? You'll get my meaning when you watch this.Though this movie does have it's Aw Hell unbelieveable moments, (Like how an aristocratic French Naturalist could be such a remarkably bad-assed knife wielder, let's also mention the ultra cool but physically impossible Bone sword), it's loaded with suspense, action, and great (but not gratuitous) T&A scenes.Sometimes you get the sense that the movie is slowing down, but not to fear, if it's slowing down, you can rest assured that someone is about to die.......gruesomely.Perfect movie for the guys to sit around and watch on a non too happening Friday night, and if you girls love a good fight too (like my fiance), a good view altogether.  "},{"Title":"Turn the volume up!","Date":"14 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie represents, to me, what film is all about.It is marvelously filmed and very well acted, but one of it's best features is it's sound.  The opening scene is fantastic to see, and even better to hear.  The martial arts / monster mix is novel, which is why it is so good, and the characters make you want to be a part of the adventure.The film has many different aspects, such that it includes violence, drama, sex, romance, calm, deceit, sibling rivalry (heh), and science just enough so that if any one of them bugs you, you won't be bothered by the movie as a whole.Don't expect the film to be realistic and don't expect the graphics to be as good as Lord of the Rings.  One of the things that makes this film endearing is that it doesn't over-do the graphics...it uses just enough to maintain a classic feel.One of the best parts of the movie is the character development of (believe it or not) the monster itself.  From when we first hear it to when we first see it to when we first understand it, our feelings are wonderfully manipulated and we fall into a dream world of excitement.The film's only shortcoming is it's length...which only becomes a problem if you see it too late at night or if you are a restless person.  Personally it didn't bother me because I enjoyed it so much.  Also, if you see it make sure you don't mind subtitles...I give BOTW a 9 out of 10 and consider it among my top 5 favorite films of all time, and it is my favorite foreign or dubbed film. "}{"Title":"Words cannot describe...","Date":"11 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is a movie that came from the mind of either a genius or a lunatic. I still have not decided which myself, but I am leaning toward the latter. That said, who is to say that a lunatic cannot be a genius as well as being off his rocker?Brotherhood of the Wolf is perhaps the strangest film I have ever witnessed. It combines gory action scenes reminiscent of the Matrix or Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon with a complex, though mind you - unimpressive and overly fantastical, political and religious agenda. It has, in fact, attempted in it's two and a half hours to try to combine the best of all the most popular genres of film (action, horror, romance, political thriller, and science fiction) into a single epic film.It's weird, and it left a feeling in gut that simply cannot be described. But see it anyway, it's got some bizarre charms that have to be experienced in order to be understood "},{"Title":"Just too many cons not enough pros.**SPOILERS INCLUDED**","Date":"8 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Where to start... lol  I saw the previews to the movie and thought 'Hey this might be a cool action/fighting movie'.  W/o seeing it in the theater I bought the dvd....  Definately not worth the money!!!I'll start with the pros since there are less.  ***SPOILERS FROM HERE ON*** Some shots in the movie were great, well basically the opening scenes, fighting in the rain,  mainly the puddles.  Thats about it.My biggest gripe about this movie, the fact that everybody who had caught a glimpse of 'the beast' thought it to be a wolf.. I've never seen a wolf look anything even remotely close to 'the beast'.  How many wolves you know have a row of metal spikes down it's back???  Second... I've never seen a wolf that large before in my life, brute enough to toss around grown women in it's jaws, leap through the floor from the basement, and cunning enough to stay underwater until it's 'prey' gets close (Why? Obviously it could have taken the peasant girl with both it's hind legs tied.).  Looked nothing like a wolf!!The fight scenes totally NOT comparable to Jet Li or The Matrix... Don't get me wrong they were great in their own aspects but nothing comparable to Jet Li or the Matrix sorry.  Although I really didn't think The Matrix had that spectacular fight scenes, however I grew up watching kung fu movies, no not the late night HBO stuff the actual imports from japan, china etc.Now on to the characters, no real development there.  I personally didn't really care whether they lived or died.  You have a gardener/taxidermist(Fransac), with an indian side kick(Mani), both who are well trained in martial arts, later to also find out Fransac is a great marksman.  Does that sound like a gardener/taxidermist?  Ok I can let it slip.  But why send out your gardener and his indian side kick to investigate 'the beast'?  Lets try maybe a well known hunter or somebody along that profession.  Was he sent there to set up shop for the real guys who show later to actually hunt the beast and also disregard all of Fransac's 'investigations' anyway??  What investigation was there on top of it all?  All Fransac did was look at a dead womans body and then wonder off to the brothel, all the while supposedly falling in love with some girl.  The villian... hhmm... was it supposed to be the beast?? (as it suggest throughout the movie) or the cult leader who we really don't know anything about in the first place other then he's been hurt from some wild animal on a hunting trip, he loves to hunt.  Oh yeah and he's madly in love with his sister (you know the girl Fransac is in love with). Overall the characters in the movie had no place in the movie.  I suppose it's a new idea.. a taxidermist hero.  There's no 'in touch' feeling, you really don't care what happens to them.  Very few times do they have a decent 'flash back' or some kind of sequence for you to get a grip on the characters.The plot... if you didn't understand anything I've said about the characters, you'll be perfectly set for the plot.  A lot of twists and turns which would have been a plus, however too many twists and turns, just make it plain sloppy.  Every ten - twenty minutes or so I found myself saying.. 'Huh? What's that gotta do with nething' or 'oooook.. whatever I guese'. Worse the ending did such a poor job of putting conclusion to anything, and it's not like it left you thinking about it, it left you with 'ok, they coulda totally done w/o that part and this part, oh yeah and that part, etc'Overall the movie had great potential.  They tried to put too many good things in the bowl and it became sour, i.e. fighting, a 'super natural beast', a love story, horror genre etc.  I'd give it a 3/10 because I've seen much worse. "},{"Title":"Surprise Surprise!","Date":"7 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I rented this one rainy afternoon, and found that it exceeded my expectations.  The dubbing was hardly noticeable after the first few moments, although the lead character's voice was nasally - could they not have found someone better?The plot was filled with many twists and turns, although none that the average movie-goer couldn't handle.  The F/X are good - wait till you see the beast! - and the setting was gorgeously portrayed.  Kind of makes you want to go to France.  I've been recommending this flick to everybody since I saw it.  There are some flaws, but I can hardly remember seeing what I thought was a flawless film (Saving Private Ryan comes to mind). "},{"Title":"Great.  but what's with the love story?","Date":"3 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I must say that BOTW was good, but not hyped up as it was supposed to be. Actions scenes were great and story was very well developed (if not too developed).  My only complaint is the love story part.  I mean, does it really have a place in the movie AT ALL?  If it does, Christophe Gans did a poor job in showing it.  It totally bogs down the movie.  Although most of the directing and story was top-notch, the love story between Fronsac and Marianne seemed quickly thrown together.  They just all of a sudden like each other..what a premise.  Anyways, very good for a French flick.  -but make sure you watch it in French (with English subtitles)...you're gonna lose the effect if you don't.  6/10  "},{"Title":"Great film!","Date":"3 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Brotherhood was such a cool movie. It at first is boring just a little bit. but later on in the movie it was excellent. The music, scenery and the action was excellent period. I loved every moment of this film. it had plenty of action, love scenes, violence. and much much more. I recommend this movie to anyone who loves a good action and horror movie all in one.  "},{"Title":"decent first half, silly second","Date":"1 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  `Brotherhood of the Wolf,' a French horror film that enjoyed a measure of commercial success in its release here in the United States, tells the tale of a strange beast that terrorized the 18th Century French countryside and the men who sallied forth to find and kill it.  The principal figures in the pursuit are Gregoire de Fronsac, a well-known naturalist and taxidermist just returned from a stint in the Americas, and his sidekick, Mani, the sole survivor of his Mohawk tribe and a man in tune with the spiritual side of the animal kingdom.Stylish as this film is at times, I'm afraid that `Brotherhood of the Wolf' turns out to be more interesting in concept than it is in execution.  It tries hard to weave together the elements from a number of disparate genres, but the mixture never really jells.  The first hour is an engaging, if talky, costume drama, with a whole host of characters involved in all sorts of political and romantic intrigue.  The film succeeds in rousing our interest not only in the strange happenings that have befallen the inhabitants of this hapless region but also in the fascinating ways in which characters from all points of the social spectrum choose to deal with the crisis.  So far, so good.  But then, about halfway through the story, the creature finally reveals itself in full view of the camera, and, from that point on, the film quickly degenerates into a standard-issue monster movie with the heroes forced to do endless battle not only with the beast itself but also with all the people who are protecting and guarding it.  The problem with so many horror films is that the object of the terror is always so much more effective when it is kept hidden in the shadows, when we are allowed to use our imaginations and conceptualize the threat in terms that most frighten us.  Yet, bring the creature out into the open and let us see it in its every gruesome detail, and the terror disappears.  The beast becomes little more than another silly CGI special effect.  I don't know what the answer is in overcoming this problem, but I do know that the makers of `Brotherhood of the Wolf' have not discovered it.  In fact, the only thing that ultimately separates `Brotherhood' from its stateside brethren is that this film has the added cachet of subtitles in its favor.Moreover, the film dissolves into complete and utter confusion in its closing stretches, settling for one of those silly `secret cultic society' resolutions guaranteed to elicit snickers from a skeptical audience.`Brotherhood of the Wolf' displays a few bold stylistic flourishes, most notably in its use of anachronistic martial arts and kickboxing moves in many of its fight scenes (though they contribute to the unintentional humor of some of the later scenes in the film).  It also does a nice job conveying the primitivism and superstition that defined this era, which, ironically, prided itself on being known as `The Age of Reason.'  The film has a very handsome look to it thanks to beautiful costume design, set decoration and cinematography.  Unfortunately, the scary moments in the movie are few and far between, with the makers seemingly more interested in chatter and special effects than in generating any real thrills or tension.At an overlong two hours and twenty-four minutes, `Brotherhood of the Wolf' could definitely use some judicious trimming both in its early scenes involving some pointless romantic palaver between Fronsac and the beautiful Marianne de Morangias, and in its later scenes depicting the endless battles between predator, prey and the loony tune minions ultimately responsible for the beast's reign of terror.  `Brotherhood of the Wolf' earns points for trying, but not for getting it right.  "},{"Title":"Very well Filmed...","Date":"26 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  First, I must say that I was a little afraid of the French films, after watching awful films made by them. But this year the French movie industry surprised me (Amèlie Poulain and now Le Pacte des Loups). Second the movies are known by non-action type. Well, all this was broken by this movie. It has action, love, sex... yes, indeed, it was a surprise. But don't expect amazing special effects, like the Lord of the Rings! "},{"Title":"highly enjoyable for action lovers","Date":"17 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is a movie that is very well woven, the action sequences are really state of the martial art, the effects are welldone and believable, the action is ok. Special mention goes to sound and photography. Lovely picturesque scenes all over the movie, great cinematography, nice shots of rain...slow motion used to perfection in the action scenes.I'm not a fantasy fan, nor do i understand french. One of the reviews said the action scenes better those of the matrix, got me interested, saw the movie. I find it unwise to compare the action scenes of matrix and this movie. The film is quite long, but i didnt feel the length, it was very absorbing, quite well paced.I would rate this one of the best non-hollywood movies that can give the american counterparts a run for their money.Rate 4.5 out of 5  "},{"Title":"Amazing","Date":"16 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  As a French Speaker, I had no problems with subtitles, as other users have expressed, but I loved this movie too!  I conned my friends into going to see it by using the English title, and, surprisingly enough, my entourage of guys all loved it.  They didn't even mind that it was in french.  -)  Go, see, enjoy.  -) "},{"Title":"This just popped up from no where.","Date":"15 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Considering it's budget (200,000,000 francs) that's about £19,000,000 or $31,000,000 I think...this movie was breath-taking.It was nice to finally see Mark Dacascos in a decent movie for a change, instead of starring in a load of really cheap and pretty lame action movies (although Drive was pretty good). His martial art skills made this movie even more fascinating...a historical fantasy kung fu type movie set in revolutionary France, about a wolf-like beast that kills mainly women and children...a very strange concept but very well executed.I won't spoil it for the people who haven't already seen it, but believe me, the special effects (even if the slow-motion effect is used a bit too excessive) are out of this world. My only rant are some of the `beast' CGI effects. The beast in some scene's looks a little out of place...although it doesn't really matter; this movie still boasts some eye-popping action sequences. It's not surprising really when you have a certain Philip Kwok (Mad Dog from John Woo's Hard-Boiled) as the fight choreographer.Overall, a great `Sleepy Hollow' esque movie which popped up from no where, sweeping me off my feet...great stuff.8/10 "}{"Title":"The editor of this film should be fed to the 'Beast'","Date":"15 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Brotherhood of the Wolf (Short Review)  Brotherhood of the Wolf is based on the true story of a 'Beast' that terrorised a small remote rural area of France during 1764.  Slaughtering helpless women and children. This film can be summarised as a French-Werewolf-Martial Arts film.  In my opinion Brotherhood of the Wolf makes use of some of the best sound effects and unique photography I have seen in a long time.  The martial arts is convincing and exciting (appeals to my bloodlust). The film runs for 149 minutes and I feel that this film could really have used some editing to bring it down to around the 110 mark.  Some scenes a felt were not need and others could have been shortened a little.   Either way, this is one of the best films I have scene this year and I am looking forward to getting it on DVD.  This cross-genre film hit the mark for me on almost every level.   "},{"Title":"Post-Matrix period Horror that totally loses the plot","Date":"10 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Le Pacte Des Loups or Brotherhood of the Wolf was a major hit across Europe and stars the cream of the French crop. Unfortunately it is a poor example of post-Matrix horror that sets substance, common sense and editing so far behind style it might as well be an ad. There is no explaining why this was a big hit as you flounder in wonder at how a script so outrageous dares to take itself seriously and how little it can make a viewer care for a character over such a mammoth period of screen time.Brotherhood of the Wolf is based upon the ancient French legend of the Beast of Gevaudan, a creature who prayed on the women and children of southern France in the period 1765 and 1768, the time of Louis XV. Unable to cope with such a travesty in his lower territories, Louis send a biologist and his Indian native and (get this) kung-fu expert sidekick to investigate and capture the beast. Of course, soon politics and large wigs get in the way and a beast is caught to please the Paris masses, but not the beast. Thus history as it is believed is left well behind and the film continues with what 'really' happened, a bloody confrontation between witches, cults and our two bold heroes.The plot is, unfortunately, to contrived and would've been a lot better had director Christophe Gans and writer Stephane Cabel just inserted us into the myth, rather than dragging us through the preposterous idea that they are uncovering a massive 18th century political cover-up. Perhaps this film should taken with a grain of salt and the same tongue in cheek attitude that a viewer would take to say, The Scorpion King, should be sitting next to the popcorn here, but if that is the Producers intentions, they have sorely missed their mark. All this is not helped by massive leaps in logic (see the dreaded resurrection scene) and a beast that fails to live up to its Jaws-like hype.The actors themselves do a fine job amidst the whirlwind of misdemeanours that the technical staff have combed through the final product. Of particular note are Monica Belucci, Samuel Le Bihan and Emilie Dequenne. Unfortunately, there are so many undeveloped characters that you will begin to lose patience for the sub-plots unless you are particularly good at picking up on French nuances. The acting, however, takes a back seat to Gans effects, which are gorgeous to watch and beautifully crafted, but age quickly and by the film's second half you'll be wondering how many more Matrix action clichés you'll have to sit through before the inevitable ending. To give BOTW a go, some of the filming is excellent and the action scenes are not at all bad. It is just hard to keep recovering from so many gore soaked stylised sequences, while trying to piece together the seemingly randomly generated plot.Brotherhood of the Wolf is drastically overlong, boring, filled with more holes than a dartboard and is simply, not scary. It is fun to watch, however, in the same sense that old Van Damme and Segal movies like Hard to Kill and Bloodsport or even Commando are fun to watch. Unfortunately, even those films don't try and make you believe that a ninja Indian would take on a giant mutant wolf in pre revolution France. Lost somewhere between horror, mystery and revenge thriller, it's a beast movie that is less Dog Soldiers and more The 13th warrior, wait for a DVD, then rent it.  "},{"Title":"Very stylish. This is a warning.","Date":"8 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  If this movie were a suit of clothes I'd definitely buy it. With the many interesting shots of water splashing and falling, rocky precipices and leaf strewn gullies this was one of the most beautifully shot movies I've seen in a while. I've heard a lot of complaining about Indians who know kung-fu, Vatican whores and a good many other things. Those who wail that the plot wasn't to their liking or those who bitch about having to read subtitles (you mean it's in another language?) shouldn't be blaming the film makers, and in some cases the entire country of France, simply because they're unable to appreciate this movie. One needs to pay attention to this movie, as opposed to an Adam Sandler movie which needs the viewer only to be conscious to understand it. While les pacte des loups isn't exactly mentally strenuous, it does require an appreciation for beautiful shots, costumes, and people. 8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"An interesting study in what is true evil, true danger","Date":"5 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film had an unexpected look and feel. In the search for the beast, the fact that it was not a high tech, big budget film made the quest that much more frightening. The viewer begins to feel that it will truly come down to man against beast, bare handed drenched in blood. This is not a clean antiseptic battle, but surprisingly not gore for gore's sake. I was glad this was full of actors I was not familiar with or ILM special effects. The story and mood came center stage for me The fact that it is a historical piece makes even those doing well, seem primitive and ill equipped to handle the problem of the beast. The threat of shadows seems reasonable in this candlelit world.  The fact that this mystery, what is the true nature of the beast, who rules the beast ... seems to take exceptional focus in a world ready to stone any strange looking vagrant.The intrigues and political alliances fog the landscape as much as the heavy mists do. I was pleasantly surprised by the content and rythm of this film. Just when you think it's winding down, it takes off in an entirely new direction. I enjoyed that twist, instead of seeming drawn out, it made it more realistic and frightening in my mind. It's worth reading the subtitles. "},{"Title":"The French Did It","Date":"2 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  First of all one must remember that this film was made by people who think Jerry Lewis and Mickey Rourke are geniuses.  That having been dealt with, one can begin to appraise this movie for what it is episodic, silly, decidedly anti-clerical, and apparently endless, or, rather, with several endings all tacked on one after the other.  Nonetheless, it being a French film, one must forgive these things and settle back and enjoy the good photography, the thoroughly out-of-place martial arts exhibitions, and the ironic presentation of loathsome aristocrats and their equally repellent peasant counterparts. Disregard the fact that there are several sub-plots of doubtful interest which are really not successfully resolved by the conclusion.  It is a dumb film but, I must confess, I liked it. "},{"Title":"Brain-dead plot, lousy FX, and 19th Century 'Fu","Date":"1 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Make for one ridiculous movie. Basically, this one french doctor guy and his indian pal go ass-kicking around the french countryside until the indian dude is killed, the doctor discovers the secret of the brotherhood of the wolf and the movie ends. Ok, here's the deal the brotherhood makes no sense and plays almost no part in the movie other than to provide weirdly dressed guys for the doctor and the indian to kick-ass on. The 'fu is terrible, the beast is laughably inept CGI, and if it weren't for the Italian Chick's hot body, this film would be totally forgettable.Useless. We live in an age where stylish slo-mo and lavish cinematography has replaced plot development and any vestige of emotional engagement.RstJ "},{"Title":"just plain bad","Date":"25 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Badly overdubbed (very), overlong fight sequences, too many fight sequences, a horribly Disneyesque monster, a very irritating heroine (only the villains are remotely interesting), a frighteningly cliched red Indian and plot holes you could drive a truck through. Its success makes me sad. "},{"Title":"Film has a little of everything!","Date":"20 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film is hard to explain to someone who hasn't heard of it. It's kind of like Kung Fu meets the Last of the Mohicans and they look for the Hound of the Baskervilles! And oh yeah, its in french. You can't take a film like this seriously so just sit back and enjoy it. And it is enjoyable. Blood, gore, nudity and some monstrous beast. Its all here and more. I do have some questions though, like where did they learn kung fu? And why is beautiful Monica Bellucci in a whore house if she's so smart and powerful? I thought the film worked better when we didn't see the beast or saw just glimpses. Once we see it and the special effects kick in the film loses some muster. And the whole last 20 minutes were pretty convoluted. But it is a fun film to watch! "},{"Title":"This is an awesome movie, I highly recommend it!","Date":"17 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  For those who love great action and suspense, Brotherhood of the Wolf certainly delivers!  The story might not be an all-time masterpiece, but it is portrayed very well.  The camera sweeps and special effects are very cool.  If nothing else, watch it just for the visuals!  I rate it an 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A mongrel of a movie","Date":"9 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Brotherhood of the Wolf is a mongrel of a movie, an audacious hybridization of numerous genres and styles. Not only is it a period romance film, but it's also a Jaws-type monster movie, blended with Hong Kong martial arts and the heavy melodrama of spaghetti Westerns. There are touches of cool-minded espionage, Euro-softcore porn bordello scenes, and a true story basis. The French collage works better than it has any right to, and in its odd way a welcome, refreshing take on the increasingly staid conventions of the action film. "}{"Title":"racist piece of stink","Date":"8 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  spoiler- at least for people who think it's the sh!!... i am mohawk, and i watched it with an asian friend. we started to giggle when mani came out - haha, a kungfu fighting asian in france, given the constant racist treatment she got in france on our vacation there last year. then we learned he was supposed to be mohawk. it's really sad people still think romanticizing the indian is cool. and let's not forget romanticizing the white token indian. mani dies, and his white brother (which my friend and i laughed about before it was even said in the movie - i bet they did the whole stereotypical bloodbrother thing, hahaha - and sure enough!) who survives becomes even more injun than mani, even scalping one of the enemies, something the authentic redskin did not do. aside from this, the rest of the movie was fromage like sweaty headcheese left out on a chokingly hot, humid day.  chanted the words of the dead kennedys song mtv get off the air at it many a-times.  and it's ironic how much this french movie copies american movies/music videos/tv because esp. in paris people HATED americans. "},{"Title":"excellent cinematography, intriguing tale","Date":"31 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Once you go beyond the violence and the ninja-type fight scenes -- that are beautifully choreographed -- there is an intriguing and complex story of zealous religious belief, political conflict, ethical duty, and simple jealous, carnal insanity.  The plot keeps you guessing, but what kept me most attentive was the cinematorgraphy.   It is set in pre-French revolution rural France.  A costume piece.  Beautiful horses.  A nice mixture of special effects, fascinating scene transitions & swipes, and balletic fight scenes.  Good conversations, although subtitled in English.  Three dimensional characters.  It could be sold as a horror picture, or an action picture, but it really is much much more.  Worth repeat viewing. "},{"Title":"I can't believe I passed on this at the theater","Date":"29 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  In the late 18th century, a remote French village is being laid siege to by a beast.  Nobody knows what it is, some think a wolf, others something demonic, but the beast has killed over and over for years and repeated attempts to find and destroy it have been futile.  The King of France has finally gotten word of this and dispatches two men, Gregoire de Fronsac (a naturalist/biologist) and his enigmatic friend, Mani (an American Indian) to find and destroy the creature.The two arrive in the village and begin their search but find impediments of all types being thrown by the villagers.  Most of the resistance is thrown in the face of Mani, the barbarian, who exhibits both amazing spiritual, medical, and physical prowess to stave off complaints.  After a slaughter of the wolf pack inhabiting the woods everyone feels safe, only to have more children attacked by the creature.  Fronsac and Mani track the beast to its lair only to discover a terrible secret and tragedy ensues.  Then the movie really heats up!Normally I am not a fan of foreign films but this one blew me away.  I don't think I have ever seen a movie that could only be described as an action/martial-arts/romance/horror/suspense movie before and I doubt I will ever seen one again but this was well worth the wait.  The storyline was well plotted and the cinematography beautiful.  The fight scenes were incredibly choreographed and this was not a surprise having seen Mark Dacascos (Mani) before.  Samuel Le Bihan plays Fronsac and he delivers the performance of a scientist with a secret to the hilt. I highly advise this one.  "},{"Title":"wow!","Date":"29 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  In the late 18th century, a remote French village is being laid siege to by a beast.  Nobody knows what it is, some think a wolf, others something demonic, but the beast has killed over and over for years and repeated attempts to find and destroy it have been futile.  The King of France has finally gotten word of this and dispatches two men, Gregoire de Fronsac (a naturalist/biologist) and his enigmatic friend, Mani (an American Indian) to find and destroy the creature.The two arrive in the village and begin their search but find impediments of all types being thrown by the villagers.  Most of the resistance is thrown in the face of Mani, the barbarian, who exhibits both amazing spiritual, medical, and physical prowess to stave off complaints.  After a slaughter of the wolf pack inhabiting the woods everyone feels safe, only to have more children attacked by the creature.  Fronsac and Mani track the beast to its lair only to discover a terrible secret and tragedy ensues.  Then the movie really heats up!Normally I am not a fan of foreign films but this one blew me away.  I don't think I have ever seen a movie that could only be described as an action/martial-arts/romance/horror/suspense movie before and I doubt I will ever seen one again but this was well worth the wait.  The storyline was well plotted and the cinematography beautiful.  The fight scenes were incredibly choreographed and this was not a surprise having seen Mark Dacascos (Mani) before.  Samuel Le Bihan plays Fronsac and he delivers the performance of a scientist with a secret to the hilt. I highly advise this one.  "},{"Title":"I like it a lot!","Date":"28 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film is amazing.  Cinematography is incredible. Sound is awesome. Direction couldn't be better.  What more could you want?  This is without a doubt the best French film I have ever seem and admittedly I haven't seen many but this comes out on top mainly because the vision of this film is incredible.  The story is loosely based on a real myth of a beast that terrorised France sometime before the revolution and it quickly becomes apparent that it isn't going to be an easy going film.  It is hard, unforgiving and frighteningly realistic.  You could be forgiven that it was filmed at the time it was set.  The costumes, sets and general feel of the film are all very authentic.The action is layered out very well with set pieces causing you to almost flinch with pain as you hear bones crunching and guts being ripped.  The beast is never shown too much and remains quite shadowy until the near end, and what is important is that the film doesn't only focus on the beast and also doesn't just throw in a love interest to fill in the gaps.  There is so much about the film that Hollywood would not be able to handle and I think that is makes it stand out.  This film could have so easily been very bad but it captures an essence that is missing from so many films. Watch it and then watch it again.  "},{"Title":"Only the French","Date":"22 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  What do you get if you combine; Period Drama/Kung Fu/Romance/Horror/Erotica?. In most instances a b-movie turkey! But there are always exceptions. Brotherhood of the Wolf is one of them. Atmospheric settings. Matter of fact (beliveable) characters. A storyline you can follow without guessing what is to come. All this is good. But would be unremarkable but for the camera/sound work. How do they do it?. I can't describe it well enough. I saw the film and loved it. I bought the DVD as soon as it was available. Only the French can put that much style in a film and make it seem effortless.  "},{"Title":"I wish i had seen it at the cinema!!","Date":"21 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"        'Brotherhood of the wolf' had very little promotion over here in england, when it was released i saw one advert for it and then nothing more. i missed the chance to see it on the big screen but took the chance to rent it. i was overwhelmed by just how good the film turned out to be.  The quality of the film was brilliant,with the director managing to introduce and use alot of inspiring camera work that made watching the film alone enjoyable (the scenery looked absolutely amazing, especially the winter scenes, it made u feel like u were in the middle of a storm.). i was doubting the costume and scenery would be good at all but everything was spot on, with very little seeming out of place.  The story writing was also excellent, introducing elements from a load of different genres and stringing them all together to finish off with a successful and thoroughly enjoyable film. (ie. a bit of drama, horror, action, romance.) i watched the dubbed version which had a really annoying lead voice for the main guy, but not to worry everything else made up for it. the acting was impressive and would probably be alot smoother flowing had the voices not been dubbed.        Unfortunately, from reading the other reviews this won't be everyones opinion, but i would certainly encourage people to see this film just in case they were as impressed as i, and many others were. (if france can keep films like this coming america and england are gonna have tough competition in the future.)     "},{"Title":"A Sexy Punch in the Head","Date":"19 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film is simply amazing.  It combines so many aspects from different films yet utilizes them so deftly in ways I'd never imagined.  It's one of the few films that is both very testosterone driven yet so sexy.  Monica Belluci plays the sexiest character I've ever viewed in a film before.  I loved the fight scenes, I loved the drama and story, but Monica's sultry performance is what sticks with me.  Oh, and the wolf trap, one of the most awe inducing and surprising action sequences I've seen.  What a film. "},{"Title":"Did someone turn over two pages at once?","Date":"17 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  (SPOILER WARNING- I AM STUPID, THUS MAY GIVE SOMETHING AWAY. DANGER WILL ROBINSON, DANGER!!!!)The other night I went into Blockbuster and was faced with a choice. Scorpion King (which I hadn't seen) or Blade II (which I had). In the end I rented 'The Brotherhood of the Wolf'.I cant quite describe TBOTW. It seems to want to be an 18th century Matrix. And for the most part succeeds. The film begins brightly (well dourly in a rainstorm, but hey) with an attack on a buxom wench by a mysterious and unseen beast. Then the arse kicking of several French army men by mysterious strangers. You sort of forget everything you have heard about this film and are surprised again at, what at first glance seemed like a period drama mixed with a hammer horror film, suddenly kicks off, with Mark Dacascos (in his best role since 'Overdrive' (Joke)) beating seven shades of Sh!te out of those naughty men. You think 'Hang on. French films are supposed to be boring and about relationships and/or sexual hang ups'. Then he kicks someone in the head and you start to settle down. In actual fact a decent part of the film IS about relationships and sexual hang ups, but they sure aren't boring.Visually, this film is fantastic. The cinematography lavishes us with the rolling French countryside, shrouded with fog, forest covered with snow and authentic period dwellings. It is, in fact, such a visual feast that sometimes you really think you are watching a straight up period drama. Then he kicks someone in the head and you start to settle down.The plot is your common or garden love story /martial arts /thriller /horror /action /period drama with a side order of the satanic cult thrown in for good measure. It concerns a beast (which we end up feeling sorry for, in a fantastic plot twist) which is terrorising a French province. Paris send 'taxidermist to the king', Grégoire de Fronsac and his sidekick Mani to investigate what is going down. Cue murders, savagings, brothels, hunting parties and gang fights. And then it really gets interesting.My only real beef with TBOTW is (***major spoiler alert***) that they killed off Mani towards the end of the film. I really liked his character and was gutted when he bought it. I realise that they had to either kill him off or seriously maim him (which would have been preferable) in order for de Fronsac to showcase his Arse kicking prowess. Which he seems to inexplicably have. After spending the whole film letting Mani fight his battles he reveals himself to have the stealth and fighting abilities of a super ninja. Although having said that there is no reason why Mani should be so tough either. Maybe they travelled to asia at some point...Oh, and the main bad guys sword is a total rip off of Ivy's from 'Soul Calibre'.Other than that, this film has everything you could want (if off beat genre defiers are your bag). And, although sometimes it is a little stupid at times (does mr bad guy have satanic powers or not?), it still is a great watch. And the lead has a really big nose. Makes you think.... "},{"Title":"A great French Monster, mYstery, Martial arts, action, and romance Movie!","Date":"15 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I was really surprised whe I borrowed this movie from a friend to watch it. I must say that it was one of the Best movies I've seen in a while.  The characters were intersting.  The fight scenes were amazing.  The plot, while a little predictable, was actually quite good.  The monster was alright, although I was expecting something a little different.  It was by no means a perfect movie.  But it's definately worth owning.  Also the camera work was out of this world, it was nothing short of awesome! "}{"Title":"Love it for what it is.","Date":"14 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  You can take a look at some of the other reviews here and pretty much gather that this is one of those movies that people either really, really love or really, really hate, so I'm not going to sit here and write a longass review that will take you ten minutes to read.  Nor am I going to go on and on about how improbable the whole thing is.  Personally I loved it.  Now, I've never been much for period films and the era presented here wasn't one of my favorites, but putting all that aside, I really enjoyed Brotherhood of the Wolf.  If you're one of those pretentious, art-house people that would rather sit and TRY to find something wrong with a film, then this isn't the one for you.  However, if you like a good, highly unbelievable werewolf/action/ horror/thriller/romance/sex movie, and you're willing to suspend belief, then switch the old thinker to neutral, sit back with you're rum and coke and enjoy. In short, it kicks ass. "},{"Title":"Love it for what it is.","Date":"14 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  You can take a look at some of the other reviews here and pretty much gather that this is one of those movies that people either really, really love or really, really hate, so I'm not going to sit here and write a longass review that will take you ten minutes to read.  Nor am I going to go on and on about how improbable the whole thing is.  Personally I loved it.  Now, I've never been much for period films and the era presented here wasn't one of my favorites, but putting all that aside, I really enjoyed Brotherhood of the Wolf.  If you're one of those pretentious, art-house people that would rather sit and TRY to find something wrong with a film, then this isn't the one for you.  However, if you like a good, highly unbelievable werewolf/action/ horror/thriller/romance/sex movie, and you're willing to suspend belief, then switch the old thinker to neutral, sit back with you're rum and coke and enjoy. In short, it kicks ass. "},{"Title":"Great attention to detail","Date":"14 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie didn't miss a trick.  From the costumes to the castles and manors.  To the blood and realistic sound effects that made every bone in my body ache from sympathy for the characters, thinking I was right there watching people being ravaged.  Mani was an awesome character, as well.What worked  All the above; it was nice to see the 'Mani' actor back in action since 'The Crow The series.'  The acting was good by all the cast though not so much with the main character, Chevalier.  Great special effects and nice scenery shots; strangely mixed in with a horror, gore story; though, done very well.  The first fight scene with Mani and the soldiers; with the rain and puddles with slow-mo accents and the way the collars were buttoned up over their faces.  I'm not sure how Mani and Chevalier made those dorky 3-point hats look cool; but they did.  I recommend this movie to any that like movies that have horror, action and a rare 'brotherhood' with a thought-provoking plot.  Good to the last drop... of blood.What didn't work  The actual creature itself was somewhat unscary when it's finally displayed.  I felt the suspense, leading up to the monster's debut was far more entertaining than it's actual presence.  Not to go back on what I just said, but it was scary - just not as much as I thought it was going to be.  As far as creatures go, though, it was very original and again a great attention to detail with each little spike, claw and strange armor-like skin.  It just lacked, what the French call, a certain... I don't know what.  Also, this film wasn't without a small amount of predictability, though, it didn't get in the way of the enjoyment.8/10 - All in all, it was great to watch.thank you "},{"Title":"The most surprising film of last year.","Date":"13 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Brotherhood of the Wolf is an incredibly well done film that doesn't ever take itself seriously. From the martial arts to the weaponry in some cases, it takes risks and liberties that all work extremely well together. This film takes what you love about action, period, and martial arts films and puts them in a blender creating a look and a story that's both identifiable and unique.Although it is somewhat fictional and it does take creative licenses, the history is for the most part real. In the late 1700's an unidentified creature was stalking and killing people in the south-west of France. The king did send people to investigate but the creature was never found. In the case of this film, the two men who the king sent were Fronsac, a scientist and naturist, and his Indian companion Mani. Fronsac met Mani in America, or probably Canada. They became blood brothers and their relationship in the film is one of respect and friendship. They both trust each other implicitly. The other characters they meet are somewhat stereotypical of the narrow-mindedness you come to expect in a film like this, however, they are a perfect cast that gave wonderful performances.The heroes, Fronsac and Mani, are played by Samuel Le Bihan and Mark Dacascos respectively. They both give performances that are subtle and well delivered. Samuel has to play the part of the only thinking white man in the whole film it seems. While everyone else seems to have their prejudices and superstitions, Fronsac thinks about what he sees and analyzes incidents and corpses to find out what the thing is and why it's doing what it's doing. Mark, playing Mani, has his own problems, the main being the racism of the other people. He's asked at one point if he can produce children with white women, to which he responds, `All women look the same in the dark. He always seems to know what to say and what to do, which is something Fronsac responds too.The other characters in the film also do a spectacular job, especially the women. Émilie Dequenne playing the beautiful and intelligent Marianne de Morangias has radiance but she's also tough. She's one of two women in the film that Fronsac has gotten emotionally involved. The other is the mysterious, alluring, and incredibly sexy Monica Belucci. She has power, and I do mean POWER on the screen. In every scene she's in, the film seems to slow down and brighten, just so it can focus in on her. She presents an element of mystery, because you think that you know all about her, yet there's something else lurking. Vincent Cassel playing the deliciously diabolical Jean-François de Morangias brings an element of menace every time he appears on the screen. His head only needs the red horns, and look would be complete. The only other character that you can seem to sympathize with is Thomas d'Apcher although he is called Marquis through most of the film, played by Jérémie Rénier. He, in some ways, represents the audience so Fronsac can use exposition to explain his theories and he becomes one of the few friends that Fronsac and Mani have.Now getting back to the story and the film making. There is only one part of the film that I can not watch. Early in the film, the people seem to think that the creature is a wolf or pack of them. So a large hunting party is gathered and they go out and slaughter twenty to thirty wolves on camera. Know I will say it's well done, but that's precisely why it's so horrible to watch. But I also think that's also a reflection of how I feel about our treatment of wolves in the first place. The scene is supposed to show, if you needed any more proof, of how this society gave in too much to its superstitions and the religious control. The other scenes with the wolves make up for this, as well as the fact that Mani and Fronsac are not involved in this and that it disgusts them both.The other aspects of this film are just as incredible. From the fight chorography by Phillip Kwok, who worked with John Woo on Hard Boiled, which is one the best I've seen. The cinematography is crisp and over the top. You feel the rain and snow, and you feel the punches and kicks. The editing was top notch.Excellent performances and work all around make this an incredible ride of a film.  "},{"Title":"superior plain and simple","Date":"11 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  since crying freeman, Gans showed his superior skills to tell an action story, but in this movie he shows a masters director skill, he deserves a lot recognition. Dacascos as well deserves better recognition, i hope they team up again in svereal more movies. This movie uses a lot of resources and Gans uses them well, this movie only flaw is the fate of Mani, I think it could have ended without doing that to Dacscos character.  "},{"Title":"Best French Film I've Ever Seen!","Date":"14 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Then again, it's the only French film I've ever seen...  But Brotherhood is truly an intriguing movie.The cast is fairly talented.  This movie is not your typical Hollywood movie with one big blockbuster star like Hanks or Cruise or Arnold or whomever in the lead role demanding millions of dollars.  There is no real lead role, a true ensemble cast.  All the characters are linked together quite well, and in doing such the movie does not need a big name star to lead, as all the actors carry equal weight.  Vincent Cassel as Jean-Francois was extremely good, as well as Dacascos.The action in the movie was extremely well done.  Some may criticize it for the Matrix-ish fight effects and the existence of martial arts in France. I thought that the effects in the fight scenes were not as outlandish as in Matrix.  Granted, there was some stretching of the laws of nature, but no more so than in the usual action picture.  How often have you seen Arnold fire 40 shots without reloading out of a gun that can only hold 10?  And concerning the martial arts, the French had a style called savate that developed in the mid-1600's, prior to this movie.  Granted, it is not as flashy as the style that Fronsac and Jean-Francois use, but each person has their own style.  Also consider that those two had travelled abroad.  As for Mani, hand-to-hand combat was the rule in early America, and as I said, each person can develop their own style.  Look at the dance-fighting that they have in the Caribbean nations (I forget what the style is actually called.)As for the Beast, I felt that the way they gradually introduced it to the viewer, giving longer glances here and there, revealing slightly more, helped to build up to the scene where Fronsac, Mani and d'Apcher try to take down the Beast.The plot was quite twisted, with some meandering points, but in the end they covered everything and wrapped the movie up, not leaving anything loose for a lame sequel, like some of the hit movies out there.  I thought some of the plot twists were unnecessary, but others were quite creative.  The ending, while seemingly a bit rushed, also reminds the viewer of what was actually occurring in the whole of France at this period of time.The style in which it was shot was a little jerky at times.  Often the style complimented the terror trying to be conveyed to the audience, but other times it interrupted the flow of things.  The lighting was fabulous, very realistic.  The colors covered a wide range.  Transitions were good- the blend from the body of Monica Belluci to the mountains and forest was perhaps the best transition, both visually as well as atmospherically, that I have ever seen.  The scenery, the locations, was very visually stimulating as well.This movie raises issues and makes you think, which always makes for a decent movie.  It raises issues about what is considered brotherhood (While The Brotherhood of the Wolf is the cult, did anyone else get the feeling that wolves were tied in with the brotherhood between Mani and Fronsac?  Possibly Mani's totem?), about the brainwashing done by religion, about racism, about the class system (The Beast only preying on peasants, not the upper class), about governement.  The idea that man is the true beast, the cruelest beast, is prevalent in this movie as well.  We see in the end that, when not provoked and ordered by Jean-Francois, that the Beast is not actually the true beast.Overall one of my top 3 movies of 2002 up to this point.  I would have liked it better if they had a dubbed version instead of subtitled, but, oh well, c'est la vie.  Go check out this film.  I give it a 9/10. "},{"Title":"Too bad it's in French.","Date":"13 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  It really sucks that the U.S. couldn't create a movie like this one. My eyes are tired from reading those damn subtitles. But it was worth it because the movie was so good. It excites from beginning to end. I only want to complain about the several parts that had nothing to do with the movie and the fact that practically everyone in the movie knows martial arts. The death scenes in this movie are good. It is slightly reminiscent of SLEEPY HOLLOW. The movie runs at two hours and forty-five minutes. Which is really long for a movie of this sort. And now that I think about it, it would be hard to catigorize. It is an Action/Horror/Thriller (just like how IMDb says). But something seems to be missing from that. I just can't figure out what. The movie is also an excellent period piece and shows how things were back in the 18th century. So, here's the story some beast is killing of people in a large area in France. The King (who's name I forgot) sends two men (who's names I also forgot) to hunt down and kill this beast that is relentlessly mauling people across the hills. Way back then, peasants had the same life expectancy of cat in a room with hungry crocodiles. This movie hits on many levels and covers just about all angels that I can see. I give BROTHERHOOD OF THE WOLF 5/5. "},{"Title":"One of the most romantic (in the classic definition of the word) films I've ever seen","Date":"18 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This was one of the best movies I've seen this year because it was one of the most consistent.  It took romanticism and applies to every aspect of the film plot, characters, cinematography, scenery, music.  Everything was made larger than life the lead hero braver than Hercules, his martial arts brother more indefatigable, the leading lady more delectable and flowery, the story more mysterious, the beast more horrifying, the antagonists more psychologically frightening, their weapons more dazzling, everything more enhance, romanticized.  The consistency of this movie was tireless and remarkable especially for the time it was made in.  Just look at some of the mongrel films out there and you'll know what I mean. "},{"Title":"Generally a good film.","Date":"5 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Peasants using Martial-Arts?  Sure... Has anyone heard of Savate?It's a French martial art that was developed from fighting techniques of sailors, thugs and soldiers.  It's mostly involves kicking, but also includes hand-strikes, grappling and weapons. Apparently the earliest reference to savate comes from a poem written in the 1600s.Savate was codified and taught in schools in 1803.  It influenced Capoiera, Thai Boxing, Tae Kwon Do... etc.Because of Savate, I figured that the use of Martial Arts in the film wasn't far-fetched.  Although the fighting-style used might not be totally accurate it seemed acceptable to me.As for the kung-fu Iroquois.  I thought the Iroquois and other native-americans would most likely have their own fighting style.  I would hazard a guess that the knowledge and techniques of these styles were most likely lost.As for the rest of the filmGenre mixing Generally good, although certain aspects of the film were a little thin.  The romance was under-developed.  I almost wonder if it should have been included at all.  (The hero didn't need a lover to return.)CGI effects  Sometimes the beast looked cheezy, other times it was very life-like.  However, the concept behind the beast was interesting and I was impressed with the amount of times the beast was shown (in the second half).Slow-motion effects  I was getting annoyed when slow-motion effects seemed to be consistently interrupting the action-sequences.  It should high-light important and crucial points in a sequence, not disrupt the flow.Plot twists  Some might be obvious, some seem pointless, others simply kept you on your toes.  I can say that I wasn't able to predict much of the movie.Watching this film, is akin to watching two films in one.The first part could have ended the movie with lots of open-ended questions. At that point I thought Hmm, this was an okay film, but I hope it's not ending here.And it didn't.The second part concludes the story.  There are no what-if's, no glaring hooks for a sequel.  Yet, there is a sense of disjointedness.  The film transforms itself.  The heroes, the pace, the style shifts into almost a completely separate film.  Despite this disjointedness, I thoroughly liked this effort to conclude the story.If it's playing, then go see it.  You might just like it.  I know I'll be picking up the DVD, at least if there is going to be a Region 1 encoded disk. "},{"Title":"BORING","Date":"20 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is a collosal waste of time.  I was expecting something really smart, mostly because it is a foriegn film.  Instead, this film just screams Spielberg with vapid action sequences that are unconvincing and a plot that makes children's books look like Shakespeare.  This film is too long and pointless to maintain anyone's interest.  The violence and sex are just there to get the drooling masses into the theatre.  I would encourage people to make better use of their time, like pounding their head against a wall for two hours.  It certainly would be less painful. "}{"Title":"Beauty & the Beast a howlingly successful blend of monsters and martial arts in a Louis XV setting!","Date":"19 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" 'Le Pacte des Loups' takes the Beast of the Gévaudan (to which over 100 deaths were attributed 1764-67) as the starting-point for a thrilling action-adventure fantasy. 'The Hound of the Baskervilles' meets a 'Crouching Tiger' for a 'Dangerous Liaison' with 'The Last of the Mohicans' in 'Sleepy Hollow'. Result an exciting, beautifully photographed and well-acted film.The film opens during the French Revolution a middle-aged gentleman writes his memoirs, while a hostile mob, singing Ça ira, gathers outside his home. Only towards the end will we know for certain which of our protagonists he is.25 years previously, a mysterious Beast terrorises the Gévaudan. Strangers avoid the region - except for the Chevalier Grégoire de Fronsac and his Iroquois friend Mani. After rescuing peasant animal-healer Jean Chastel and his beautiful, mute daughter (ironically nicknamed 'The Gossip') from some men in drag, Grégoire and Mani stay with the Marquis d'Apcher and his grandson Thomas.Grégoire, a naturalist from the King's Gardens, has been sent to return the Beast (preferably stuffed) to the royal collection. He is a religious sceptic and libertine, representing rationality and Enlightenment values. Mani, a medicine-man and warrior who became his blood-brother during the Seven Years' War, is attuned to the natural world his totem animal is the wolf. Together, these embodiments of Reason and Rousseauesque proto-Romanticism make a formidable team.Grégoire's Parisian scepticism ruffles the reactionary local clergy and nobles, including Father Henri Sardis, and the pious Geneviève, Comtesse de Morangias. Her husband the Comte warns that a Papal spy is also investigating the case. Their son, Jean-François, seems at first a potential ally. An ex-naval officer, maimed by a lion in Africa, he is courageous and witty - but has secret torments.... Why does he resent the developing attraction between his sister Marianne and Grégoire? Who is the Italian courtesan, Sylvia, who ensnares Grégoire at the brothel in Mende? Whom can Grégoire and Mani trust? While a book by the mysterious 'The Wolves of God' attacks the King and calls the Beast's predations a divine judgement on the nation, the killings continue.Cue thrilling hunts, battles with Gypsies, treachery, murder, poisoning, madness, incest, clerical conspiracies, heresy, and trick-weaponry any 18C James Bond would covet. There is a spectacularly acrobatic climactic sword-fight in a ruined church, a happy ending for two characters, while our narrator, at last identified, 25 years later goes bravely to his doom.The film is lavishly produced and filmed, and splendidly acted. Some have thought Samuel Le Bihan insufficiently glamorous as Grégoire but glamour is not a trait I expect in an 18C natural historian, and I found him likable and credible. The problem is, the other two leading men are so striking and charismatic that he is overshadowed. This is no criticism of him as an actor simply that his character is inherently less showy.Mark Dacascos' wolf-shaman warrior Mani is engaging serenely beautiful, thoughtful, yet dynamic in action. He is a man of few, but telling words, and powerful presence he expresses so much with his eyes that one believes his ability to communicate with trees, birds and wolves. Emilie Dequenne (Marianne) grows in courage and maturity as the film progresses. Jérémie Renier (Thomas) is an appealing ingénu.But real-life couple Vincent Cassel (Jean-François) and Monica Bellucci (Sylvia) steal the show. Both their characters rely, literally and metaphorically, on masks to conceal loyalties, emotions, and - in Jean-François' case - insanity both actors convey these complexities with panache. Cassel combines extraordinary emotional range with terrific swashbuckling, and ultimately attains 'tragic villain' stature. (Having been a lion's chew-toy would, I suspect, be enough to derange most people.) He also looks strikingly handsome in 18C costume. Bellucci is superb as Sylvia the courtesan/spy - like a beautiful but deadly snake. She's glamorous, intelligent, powerful, dangerous; sexy, but no mere sex-object one of the best heroines of any film I saw in 2001.The most familiar face in the supporting cast is Edith Scob ('Eyes Without a Face') as Comtesse Geneviève a mother you would *not* want making your cocoa. Jean Yanne plays her long-suffering, amiable husband. Virginie Darmon, as Chastel's mute, epileptic daughter, is a haunting, feral presence. Possibly more could have been made of her implied attraction to Mani, a fellow outsider.The mystery of the Beast's identity is preserved by its disguise - more effective than revealing it to be only a wolf/lion/hyena/white rabbit, & c. The Jim Henson Workshop brings it to life as a tormented creature for which, at the end, we have some pity. The live animal cast must also be mentioned with some credit Mani's spirit-wolf is beautiful!As with 'Sleepy Hollow', 'Pacte's genre-bending, fantastic approach immunises it against those criticisms regarding accuracy and anachronism which 'realistic' historical dramas court. But it was good to hear Occitan spoken by a child survivor in hospital, and I enjoyed the scene in the ruined church which placed the story in a longer continuum of heresy and religious violence. As Mani senses, and Marianne explains, the church had been the site of a massacre of Cathars in 13C by the Knights Templar (in turn judicially murdered on heresy charges a century later). The ruin then becomes the site of the meetings of the 'Wolves of God' and of the dramatic climax. Some viewer criticisms of Grégoire's visits to Sylvia while he is courting Marianne show ignorance of 18C social mores since unmarried girls of good family were meant to be chaste before marriage, their lovers would turn to professionals for sex.My main quibble is one of the final twists, when the script backs away from a romantic tragedy which would have strengthened the already poignant ending. I wonder whether a preview audience is to blame? Even so, 'Pacte' should have garnered the international plaudits and awards heaped instead on 'Le Fabuleux Destin d'Amélie Poulain' - who surely would have been Beast-food in the 1760s Gévaudan! "},{"Title":"good movie","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This was a good movie.  I didn't understand some things completely, but that was okay (as far as historical background).  The only thing I thought wasn't necessary was the rape scene.  It could have been left out more, and implied more.  Otherwise, the movie was worth every minute of the 2 hours and 22 minutes, and the subtitles didn't bother me, even though I missed a few seconds of the words because I was busy musing over the cinematography, which was so beautiful.  I didn't get bored during any scenes at all, and many movies have approx. 4 scenes total where I get bored.  This movie has a good love story in it, too.  Was fitting for Valentine's Day.   "},{"Title":"Everyone should see this film!","Date":"14 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I loved this film.  It had an original story line and beautiful scenery. The cast were brilliant, especially Vincent Cassel as Jean-Francis.  He was brilliant in 'La Haine' and he was brilliant in this. A must-see movie! "},{"Title":"On the surface seems almost silly, but holds interesting message","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Well right off I have to say that I thought this movie was fantastic. I think too many critics looked at it and thought it was just another shallow stupid horror flick, but if you looked deep down into it, you could almost see the beast as a metaphor for this groups obsession with religion. Sending a message on the surface that religion is ok, but when taken to an obsessive level it becomes a beast that can destroy people and communities. I know a lot of you will think I'm reading too much into this , but thats what the movie said to me. I really respected this movie. Even if the creators never meant the movie to be deep and profound you can't deny that the story is all together original and that visually the movie is absolutely stunning. As far as length goes , yes it was long but i would rather sit through this movie 10 times before i went and sat through The Fellowship of the Ring again which in my opinion was a beautiful movie, but horribly boring. The Brotherhood of the Wolf is truly a breath of fresh air in a genre that was being ruined by stupid teens getting themselves hacked up. I give it a 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Good fighting scenes but a tad too long","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie certainly was an adventure, from start to end.A couple observations...the period costumes were awesome.  I especially liked the two main characters, they were cool.  The photography was outstanding and the fighting scenes were good.  However, it was a little long.  I think they tried to make a little too much happen...kind of like other movies that try to be epics when they don't need to be.I did not know a thing about what to expect before I saw this film.  All I knew is that there was fighting and it was a late 18th century movie which was enough for me.  I would say if you like Crouching Tiger, then this one is right up that alley.  I have not seen many French movies, so I get the impression that they do not censor blood too much because this was as violent as any movie I have seen.  Even with the WWF-like sound effects.  You could hear every crashing blow!  I'm glad I picked it today. "},{"Title":"Pacte des loups, Le (2001)","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is kicka*ss excellent!!! I viewed it alone last night at the AMC 24 in Hamilton, New Jersey. Surprisingly, it was playing in one of the smaller venues at AMC 24, but the house was packed to overflow- ing.There were very few empty seats and most patrons stayed until the very end of the movie. I highly recommend this movie to all.  "},{"Title":"OMG! What did I just see!?","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  My title says it all. What did I just see? Let's see, for no reason at all, basically random, the director likes to stop the motion of the film and chop it down to a slow crawl or stop. Ya know, I think I'm going to stop right here and back off awhile. I'm so upset at this flick I can't get my thoughts straight.  Suffice to say, save your money and rent it on dollar night. Damn French screwed up again! "},{"Title":"Could have been so much better","Date":"18 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The story had a lot of potential, but the movie was never close to reaching it. It had a number of totally unnecessary slow-motions, which were more irritating than entertaining. Marc Dacascos' role of the almost silent indian, should have been an all silent one, not to mention his acting skills which left much to be desired.The scenery, however, was great!  "},{"Title":"Limping Wuff, Hidden Quality?","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I loved The Matrix. Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon is one of my top 10. After seeing the preview for Brotherhood of the Wolf, I was expecting a Crouching Tiger-Euro style and I couldn't wait!! However, I think I set my expectations slightly too high. I saw it on Saturday with 2 friends and we were all severely disappointed!Being foreign, Brotherhood played at the Ritz which is the local indie/foreign movie house in Philly - where I just fell in love with The Royal Tenenbaums last weekend - and I wonder if said theater had to do with my severe disappointment. Ya know, you enter the type of theater that serves cappuccinos and imported chocolates - you expect quality and taste, or at least a level of movie that goes over your head, not a bonehead action movie. However, had I seen Brotherhood at the regular mass-market theater where I might have seen Not Another Teen Movie, would I have appreciated Brotherhood more?? Maybe...I really wanted to like the movie but in the end, it was kinda bad!Parts of the movie were scary and some of the fight scenes were good but otherwise, it was sort of cheesy (not in the good ironic way either)! I thought some of the acting was really bad and other than the action scenes, the production quality was quite low.And when you finally see the monster, it's really lame and it looked like a rhinoceros. The moment reminded me of the disappointment I felt when Voldemort was unwrapped on the back of Prof. Quirrel's head in the Harry Potter movie.And as for the subplot about the French Revolution and politics --If you're gonna go balls out for a Hollywood-style blockbuster, why add depth??Too bad.. Go see Royal Tenenbaums or Lord of the Rings again instead... "},{"Title":"How can you resist?","Date":"30 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I mean, come on. Debauched eco-warrior and ninja Native American sidekick lock horns with aristocracy, cults and supernatural killing machines in 18th century France. What's not to love?I can't think of a single genre that this film doesn't have covered. At its heart, of course, it's a rollicking action film packed with slo-mo face-kicking and all the fantastic lettuce-tearing sound effects you'd expect, but there's also plenty of horror, mystery, romance, costume drama and (gulp) moral and sociopolitical comment stirred into the mix. And the entire thing looks fantastic. Okay, maybe it takes a while to get going after the teaser fight scene and Beast attacks near the beginning, but once it reaches the halfway point this little beauty's steaming along like a runaway train.At the end of the day this is Europe sticking two fingers up at Hollywood and demonstrating that in no way does it hold the monopoly on the traditional stunt-heavy, SFX-ridden escapist blockbuster. In fact, this one's quite a bit better than most of Hollywood's efforts, as much for the fresh new setting as anything else. For God's sake justify its worldwide release and go see it. "}{"Title":"Gorgeous","Date":"29 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I'm confining my comments to a few brief points rather than a full reviewI really enjoyed this. It's not the best film I'll ever see, but its the best costume-mystery-gothic-melodrama-monster-martial-arts-period-softcore-eyecan dy that I expect I'll ever see.In defense - there's nothing wrong with the pacing or the length. The film takes it's own time to tell a story, so be ready for that. It's never boring, and doesn't (thankfully) adhere to the modern formulaic blockbuster format. Also, though the point has been made before, France has for a long time had its own style of martial art called Savate, which happens to feature acrobatic kicks. What anachronism?Mind you, kung fu IS the new black, and yes, the choreographer is from the HK film industry. Since other countries have borrowed heavily from the French film industry, I think they've got the right to something in return. Well done, mes amis.  "},{"Title":"The most eyeball scorching film I've seen this year!","Date":"22 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" One word Wow!A two and half hour subtitled French costume drama?Well, yeah, but also one of the most tense and eyeball scorching cinematographic, special effect and martial arts extravaganzas ever. The monster itself is an example of how to do these things right when it appears, it's terrifyingly large and brilliantly realized, yet restrained (I can't say too much). The visual tricks and camera-work the director Christophe Gans uses are extraordinarily good, and he uses every trick in the book to keep you interested in the proceedings.The fight scenes, and there are a lot, are like the gore of Braveheart meeting the skill of Jackie Chan, with back flips, kicks and all the other kung fu hockum wince inducingly good.In short - adventure, scary monster, gore, nudity, violence, and John Woo style action set in 17th Century France with boots and tunic things.I see a lot of films (I work in a cinema so I see most releases in the UK) and I came out of this one with a huge smile on my face. In fact, since I saw it for free, I'm going to see it again and buy a ticket.If it's on, go and see it! It's one for the boys, and it's blood curdlingly brilliant.I'm raving about it! I'm extolling its virtues! It's absolutely fantastic! Seriously! Take a risk! "},{"Title":"a formulaic hodge podge","Date":"15 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Expecting to be roundly entertained by a period adventure story, in the spirit of The Last of Mohicans, I was disappointed with this moulinexing of martial arts, historical drama, murder mystery, special effects and gore. Another case where the affiche is better than the film. "},{"Title":"Overrated","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Brotherhood of the wolf is Gans´ first movie since the enjoyable Crying Freeman, a comic-adaptation, which managed to keep the balance between action and drama. This is where B.o.t.W. fails The balance. With over 140 minutes this movie is much too long. It starts off very promising as a monster-movie, but obviously Gans doesn´t have the guts to make a simple horror-movie. So B.o.t.W tries to be everything Horror, action, period piece, drama, adventure movie and so on. The problem All these subplots slow the movie down to a point where you stop to care at all. After one hour of boring dialogues and useless filler scenes, you hope this movie lifts off, but again Gans hits the brakes. There is no rythm there, no red line which keeps it all together, it´s overambitioned and overproduced. The only merits of this boring movie are some visual ideas, but they are only patchwork, the film as a whole lacks style. It shouldn´t be forgotten that the acting is mediocre and the story is full of clichés.  "},{"Title":"Bad dream, meet role-playing game","Date":"20 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The trailers made me think this was going to be a nice no-brains-involved action movie set in 18th century France, just for the sake of using nice costumes. I was OK with that idea, really. From the start, this movie rubbed me the wrong way. Too many pretentious scenes with religious imagery, as if the author wanted to 'say' something to the audience. Too many badly written dialogues where characters express feelings... it all reminded me of some bad console RPG video game, but the characters felt even more flat and unconvincing. The movie went on, and on, and on. There were at least three or four climactic endings, but the movie went on. By the time of the real, final climax, I was ready to leave the cinema, but fortunately, the narrator character was suddenly depicted as an old man... and I was pretty sure it would end soon.Well, it didn't. It lasted a while, the narrator took his sweet time talking about the fate of certain characters... which was absolutely mind-numbingly boring, because the characters never had anything in them to begin with. They were some weird 18th century Frenchie kung-fu fighters who didn't communicate with one another and made absolutely no impression on the viewers. Actually, the only impressions this movie leaves to the viewer are the sheer length and costumes. When it finally ended, I felt like I had a bad dream.Overall, it's not that awful, but don't plan on enjoying it without a remote. Don't feel guilty about skipping the dialogue - it's just decoration over a silly little movie. "},{"Title":"A damn good movie, with damned annoying distractions","Date":"4 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Someone in the comments called Brotherhood of the Wolf a great B-movie, and that is my take on this film - a superb diversion that doesn't insult your intelligence or waste your time in any way, but that, essentially, is a slight bit of Saturday-matinée semi-fluff. It's fun, it's historically accurate (right down to all the characters' names, save Mani), it's a period piece from one of history's most colorful periods (pre-revolutionary/revolutionary France)...hell, even the music is worth listening to (oh rarest of rare things!). Other wonders this movie deals in (that, again, are rare-to-nonexistent in 21st-century film-making) able acting, stars that aren't hyper-pretty (save, um, Monica Belluci, and her prettiness is quite contextual) and a very solid screenplay. However......you may've noticed I didn't mention those fight scenes that seem to send everyone over the hyperbolic edge - you know, the oh-so-super-cool Matrix-style fight scenes. Hey, okay, they're impressive, and as far as they're crucial to the story, they're necessary. But the direction of them using excessive slo-mo and crazed martial arts was (to my mind) utterly and totally fatuous, because when they happen they (ironically) distract from the ever- catapulting story that stops dead when the fights kick in. Also, generally, the direction was sound, but again, why the excessive use of slo-mo? It just got damned silly. The friend I borrowed this movie from reminded me that, when BOTW came out, Crouching Tiger and Matrix were all the rage, so of course this film went a bit over the deep end with the fights and slo-mo nonsense, and I can understand that...but...having seen it for the first time only a few days ago, I can tell you this that style only hinders, only dilutes. It's like in the '80s, when established rock bands were going synth-crazy (Rush's Power Windows, for example), and you listen now and realize, My God, cheese ages better than this. Ditto BOTW's heavy doses of absurd flying humans and slo-mo. Hasn't aged well, Mr. Gans.**To be honest, as much as I love the Matrix, that film's got the same problems when viewed in 2007. When the fights happen, it's hard to know whether to laugh or yawn or both at once. "},{"Title":"Great cinematography, good film, worth a watch","Date":"31 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I am English, and like millions of Englishmen, I am force fed American titles. I watch a lot of titles, about 7 - 10 different films a month, and so recently I got sick of this norm and decided to watch more international films. Anyway number, twelve on my list, was this film.From the out set, I liked it. It was French, which meant decent humour, and a strong chance of nudity….I was right as this film delivers both, one in a larger does than the other. But I this film had something else.The opening sequence when we first see the main characters, is quite gripping. The cinematography is excellent, the combat scenes are well put together, and this carries through the entire film. However the quality of the storytelling dosn’t.We start with breathe taking footage of one man taking on upwards of six men, I the rain, and we end with a Hollywood influenced final scene where the bad guy has a sword made from bone, which actually turns into some sort of chain weapon. It makes me want to cry. The film had all the right ingredients good strong characters, great location, a sprinkle of fantasy (the beast) a conspiracy plot, decent combat scenes, and a French brothel. And it turned into Rambo. I would really like them to re-film it with a better ending, but that’s just me.So not taking the poor ending into account, this film is sleepy hollow meets the Patriot, but the majority of the film is more than that. The few classic “prove-yourself” fight scenes are better than some of the action in the Patriot, though they could of used weapons more. But anyway, worth watching at least once even if it does succumb to Hollywood in the end. "},{"Title":"The Patriot meets Van Helsing meets Deathstalker","Date":"18 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I'm confused. Does anyone know how to write a concise comment about the essence of a film without rewriting the entire script, or merely stating that the plot was ambiguous? Brotherhood of the Wolf is an entertaining period action film. I say 'period' only because it feels like a believable portrayal of a fantastical moment in history (i.e.Van Helsing and The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen - but minus a small amount of the cheese.) As far as the fine art of film-making goes, Brotherhood of the Wolf will never be a hailed a masterpiece, but there are more than a handful of ideas and sequences within the film that make it a must.The costume design is interesting, most of the cinematography is lovely, but seeing modern production drawings within the film is lame.The films bulky runtime of two hours and twenty minutes is a bit hard to swallow. A thinner script and more film on the cutting room floor would have done this move wonders. AKA - smart people.Brotherhood of the Wolf is very entertaining, and quite good quality in almost every respect, except pacing/shot selection, and visual effects.If your first language is English, I highly recommend watching this film in French, with English subtitles. (If your first language is French, I highly recommend that you watch this film in English, with French subtitles.) It helps lessen the 'cheese factor' when you're watching a foreign film. "},{"Title":"a mixture of clichés and ambiguity but with a touch of...","Date":"14 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I have to say I wasn't at all swept away by this movie. Au contraire! Monica Belucci is worth all 2 excruciating hours or so that it takes to see this movie. If I was to be so bold, I'd say that this is exactly the reason why French cinema is lacking behind American cinema. It's full of clichés, stunts and fights. It is really hilarious. What do you get by mixing a Native American martial arts priest with a the fair-hair French version of Van Damme, all transposed into 18th century France, with a sullen mixture of old folks tales and grandma's hearsay? Well, Pact Des Loups with a touch of Belucci nudity, of course! Now, I shouldn't be that mean. The movie has its merits beautifully shot and Belucci's ... you know. Anyway, if your taste in movies goes past mass cinematic recipes, then better go stare at a wall for two hours. It would probably be more worthwhile than wasting your precious short life on this one. Except of course for sweet Monica's disturbing charms. Hey, what are two hours after all, go see it! "},{"Title":"A slice of pure escapism","Date":"31 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is a rather excellent French-Canadian movie by Christophe Gans (Necronomicon, Crying Freeman and Silent Hill). It's difficult to define Brotherhood of the Wolf - part horror monster movie, part action (it contains some very well shot martial arts scenes), part romance, part historical drama...short of comedy, there's something for everyone in this film! The film is ever so loosely based on French history - during the mid-eighteenth century, a ferocious wolf (?) killed around 60 - 100 people and became known as the Beast of the Gevaudan. This film builds on the mythology surrounding those historical events in a fantastical way.The film's beautiful to watch and has a great cast, including the always delightful Monica Belluci (who never fails to manage to remove her clothing in her art-house movies) as a mysterious prostitute.I was gripped by this film and its 142 minutes passed painlessly. (There is a longer, Canadian director's cut which stands at 152 minutes.) This may not appeal to all but if you think you'd like to see a movie that's Hammer Horror meets Crouching Tiger, this could be up your street. Just avoid any nasty dubbed versions, you know it makes sense! Don't sit down expecting too much; relax with a bag of your favourite nibbles and a cool drink, and enjoy this slice of pure escapism. "}{"Title":"Amazing!","Date":"13 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is an excellent film, with the right blend of action, suspense and mystery... (not to mention Emilie Dequenne looking as stunning as ever!). The fact that the film uses a 'real' legend as it's basis and is not afraid to admit the artistic license in bringing the legend to life shows that the director was confident. The story itself is brilliant in its intrigue - an unnamed beast taking the lives of peasants, seemingly at random, bringing a sense of fear and unease to the region of Gevaudin. The aristocrats, the Morangias, are apparently trying to catch the beast, but hunt after hunt fails to catch the quarry. A naturalist of the King is sent to the region in order that he might bring back the beast after it is caught, and soon he is captured by the Duke's daughter, Marianne... her brother is less than impressed... So what is the beast? a wolf? or a trained animal, playing out some terrible, deceitful plan?...Watch it now! "},{"Title":"Better than I initially expected.","Date":"16 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Even so, this movie proves that American studios aren't the only ones who take artistic license with history. *Just one spoiler.* I refer to making the character of Mani an Iroquois of the Mohawk Wolf Clan. The Six Iroquois Nations were all pro-British during the French and Indian Wars. However, the Iroquoian offshoot known as the Hurons were decidedly pro-French. Thus, Mani (as played by Mark Dacascos) should have been written as a captive Huron allowed to _marry_ into the Mohawk Wolf Clan!*Something all captives of the Six Nations were historically allowed to do.*The rest of the movie was...tres superb! "},{"Title":"Now THIS is what I call an action movie!","Date":"19 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Star Wars and LOTR hater that I am, I expected 'Brotherhood Of The Wolf' to be a real chore to watch. However I was pleasantly surprised at just how much I enjoyed watching this movie. To me it really beat the Hollywood blockbusters at their own game by not being dominated by CGI effects, and by having an interesting story and complex characters instead of the usual cardboard cut outs trotted out by Lucas et al. While this is a fantasy movie, and an action flick you didn't just get the feeling it was made for fifteen year old boys or to sell a tie-in video game. I can't say the movie had a great deal of intellectual content, but as an old fashioned popcorn movie it more than achieved what it set out to do. My only criticisms was I felt that the explanation for the beast was a bit hurried and that Mark Dacasos' intriguing character Mani never fulfilled his potential. There was a lot more that could have been done with him I thought.  Dacascos, best known for 'Crying Freeman', is much better than you might expect, and joins a first rate French cast led by the impressive Samuel Le Bihan (previously unknown to me), and supported by husband and wife team Vincent Cassel ('La Haine') and Monica Bellucci ('Dobermann'). Cassel is super cool as always and Bellucci is stunningly beautiful. Both deserve to become international stars, something which is bound to happen to Bellucci once the sequels to 'The Matrix' are released next year. Hopefully the same will happen for Cassel one day. Action movies, especially modern martial arts based ones, usually leave me cold, but 'Brotherhood Of The Wolf' is an exception. Visually stunning, well acted, well made, original, exciting and continually interesting, I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"What were they thinking ?","Date":"8 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" *POSSIBLE SPOILERS*A mutated period drama with armor-plated dire-wolves and kick-boxing/savate-exponent frenchmen procreating with gay abandon across the French countryside.------------------------------------------------------------------------Over the years , I've run Dungeons & Dragons campaigns that were less surreal than a travesty like this. Seemed a lot similar to Burton's Sleepy Hollow though this lacked both its finesse and the congruous plot-twists which seemed SO less out-of-place. I'd give it a 5 on 5 for the camera-work which is indeed breathtaking.Mark Dacascos is a very talented action-hero and he did make for some very impressive (though needless) fight scenes.It dragged towards the end and I really wonder what the critics are raving about. Making a hodge-podge of atleast 10 different film-genres is abject insanity !! It must have taken a very sick/inebriated mind to come up with this drivel. "},{"Title":"I want to train animals to kill the makers of this film","Date":"30 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  As an appreciator of many French films (and never put off by subtitles) I can honestly say that this Gallic effort is complete and utter bunkum. Whoever thought that it had merit and was worth wasting a fine cast upon deserves evisceration. Codswallop! "},{"Title":"Great visuals, but very poor storyline","Date":"20 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  You could say a lot of positive things about this one, for example the great costumes, or otherwise very well done effects, but the movie has one handicap the storyline isn't too good, kind of mix up of many genres, not very clear or logical or realistic, but what I especially disliked is the ending, where everything is revealed, nothing remains mysterious, which many may like but I disliked it. "},{"Title":"Go watch this movie...NOT!","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I can´t believe this movie is still so vastly overrated.What´s the matter? It basically fails in almost all categories First of all, it´s really nothing more than a bad, bad imitation of Sleepy Hollow plus some stylishly fast-cut martial arts. Minus humour,atmosphere, dialogue, and plot. What else is in there to make it up? CGIs on a sub- Jurassic Park level, flashy matrix-shots to no purpose,some ethno-babble, second-rate actors and, finally, hardly bearable plot-twists and -holes. Agreed, this is still not to say Le pacte des loups is a B-movie, has fatal flaws etc. It´s just that there´s nothing original or interesting for 140 minutes here.If you have some brains left, you really don´t wanna see this one.(Slightly above average for a french flick, though ;) "},{"Title":"One of the worst films I have ever seen","Date":"11 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  If it weren't for the awesome fight scenes and Vincent Cassel (check him out in La Haine, a far superior film), I would have given this movie a 1.  I saw this film twice last year in France when it first came out.  Why twice? There was so much hype that when I hated it the first time, I was certain that I must have missed something.  I wasted 70 ff and nearly 5 hours of my life on this film.What's wrong with the film?  It's obvious who is evil.  The mystery behind the creature is destroyed by blatant clues as to who is behind the killings.  (I'm doing my best to be vague here so as not to spoil the film for those who intend to enjoy it.)  Furthermore, as soon as we see the creature, we're not scared of it.  Up until that point, the director at least had us frightened of the beast.  The creature does not live up to its reputation.  Finally, I wasn't at all convinced that the chevalier was truly in love as the screenwriter would have us believe.  He's an 18th century player.In short, a real disappointment.  "},{"Title":"disappointing","Date":"13 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Actually, this is the first movie made about the bête du Gévaudan myth. And too bad, this is really boring. Actors of the new generation of french cinema (Samuel Le Bihan, Vincent Cassel, Monica Bellucci, and the others) seem as much convinced as if they were at Eurodisney. The filming is not so bad, with nice light, colors and the karate-type action which is pretty original, but is this enough to do a good movie? No. And not talking about the beast itself, which is as credible and terrifying as a remake of Bambi. After the fantastic Crying freeman, i was hoping a lot from director Christophe Gans, and i was really disappointed.   "},{"Title":"the movie start is acceptable, but the story line soon disintegrates","Date":"30 August 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I was quite interested to see a movie about what I thought was about a werewolf in 18th century France. The start of the movie seemed promising because of the nice cinematography. However, my first doubts came when Mani (the native Canadian (Indian) friend of the main character) performs some martial arts type of fighting to save two peasants from others. An Indian in 18th century Europe could be worth a movie at itself, but Mani seems to be tossed in this movie just for posing as a noble savage, apparently trained by a Tibetan Kung Fu master. His character is an unnecessary spice added to the meal and acts as a trouble shooter in the background. For instance, later on in the movie Mani's medicine will cure two people that were given up as dead, he will fight off scores of adversaries in a way that would make Rambo jealous, and on the few occasions that he talks, he will say wise things like white men don't know how to listen to trees.This mixing of elements (18th century Europe, Indian guy, martial arts) that do not really go together without decent explanation is typical for the movie, and in my opinion the reason why the storyline in the end disintegrates. Additional elements keep on being added while the story unfolds to spice up a meal that without all these spices might have been quite good. Funny story twists may be nice in the Roger Moore era of James Bond movies, but to me they are out of place in this movie because it never shows irony. Consider following spice ups 1) Our main characters visiting a whore house that looks more like a Sheik's harem. Nudity is fine with me, but is this supposed to be country side France in the 18th century? I am not convinced. 2) A one armed man who in the end does have two arms. He just had the missing and ugly one hidden all the time. Great for Star Wars, but here? 3) And then there is the prostitute who later on seems to be part of some vague organization like the pope's secret service? Please!And there is the little things that irritate because they lack logic 1) When the marquis (a friend of our main character) has been bitten in the arm and dragged around by the beast, our hero decides in a split second (hardly looking at the arm) that it will heal. I was not convinced. Call me picky but I think little things like this make or break a movie. 2) The purpose of the brotherhood is apparently to remind the king of France that he is not almighty but God is. I don't see how mysterious killings by a beast prove that point. 3) The king orders at some point to fake the capture of the beast by having made a fake stuffed beast. Since the killings of course would continue, I don't see the logic of this. Maybe this is supposed to make sense in 18th century France?I know, I am being quite critical even though I really have seen much worse movies. I guess the reason is that the main ingredients could be used to make a quite good movie, but while you are watching you see a potentially decent meal being spoiled by an overeager cook throwing in everything he can find in the kitchen and expects that the end result will be edible.Should you watch? If you are expecting something of an art-house movie, move on. If you like James Bond, Kung Fu / fighting action, 18th century settings, (and are forgiving on the storyline)... maybe. "}{"Title":"Like A B-Movie","Date":"17 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Well, just got done watching this one last night, and I must say that I was greatly disappointed. Foreign films, like any other, are hit and miss &#150; and this one was definitely a miss. The only truly redeeming quality was the cinematography and visuals, which were good, but nothing spectacular.Ironically, the most disappointed aspect of Brotherhood of the Wolf (BotW) were the action scenes, which seem to be garnering praise from just about everyone on these review sites. Without question, the most important part of an action scene is the choreography, whether it be hand-to-hand combat or a car chase. The fights in BotW can be categorized as follows (1) hand-to-hand conflicts between humans; and (2) weapon battles between humans and the beast.With regards to the former type of action, this film is abhorrent. The action choreography is so lazy and unoriginal that I am truly perplexed why anyone would enjoy it to any significant degree. Turn on any B-flick or made-for-TV action movie and you'll see a comparable quality of action. Quite frankly, I could have pulled off most of the moves in this one block a punch, kick the guy; block a punch, punch a guy; etc. Post-production need only add some slow-mo and sound effects, and I'd be the next French superstar. Anyone who considers the hand-to-hand choreography in BotW to be great should seriously consider upgrading their movie standards to include some of the films from East Asia (notably Fist of Legend, Tom Yum Goong, Sha Po Lang, So Close, and Azumi). Basically, BotW doesn't hold a candle to any of those films in terms of hand-to-hand combat choreography. In fact, BotW is barely average. The frequent references to the great action in this film is probably due to nothing more than the characters looking cool and stylish, and is not an accurate description of the action itself.With regards to the latter type of action (between humans and the beast), the choreography is just okay. At one point, the characters had the beast trapped, but acted too slowly to kill it. Also, the beast itself did nothing noteworthy. You'd figure that such a killing machine would have some awesome attacks &#150; but you would be very, very wrong.With regards to acting, the lead character comes off as a pompous pretty boy who is so full of himself that he's almost impossible to like. The Indian was better, but lacked any character development whatsoever. The townspeople are really stupid in this one. Like morons, they keep killing dozens of regular wolves when there is no way in hell a wolf could be behind the murders. The dialogue is uninteresting and pointless to the main storyline.Finally, the true villain of the film exposes the storyline as nothing more than an excessively long and mediocre propaganda piece for philosophical naturalism that lacks any notable entertainment value. "},{"Title":"The worst aspect of French cinema","Date":"24 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" When I bought this film I really didn't know what to expect, although pretty much anything I could think of would probably top this film, which can be described as mediocre at best.I knew this film was a blockbuster in France, which generally means French production teams going for a Hollywood take on films in order to maximise box office takings, and the film this reminded me most of was Robin Hood Prince of Thieves - if you enjoyed that piece of cinematic tripe then you'll most likely enjoy this piece of cinematic tripe or, if you have any sense, you'll want to avoid this film after that comparison.The main issue I have with this film is that the story of the Beast is actually true and, whats more, is a very intriguing tale at that - this feature has a very linear plot and decides to delve into various, and pointless, sub-stories instead, such as the token Hollywood romance between Fronsac and Marianne and the continual references to how Le Bihan's character spent time in North America. *Spoiler* Once the Beast decides not to attack Marianne, it becomes fairly obvious as to who's behind the killings, but even so, most of them are unveiled without a look into their background and precise involvement with the training of the Beast - instead all we get to know about what the beast actually was or where it came from where a few lines by the narrator at the end of the film.This film does have a few saving graces, but not enough to justify a good review score. The acting was good overall, with Vincent Cassel and Emilie Dequenne standing out from the rest, some of the scenes, such as those shot in the snow and rain where rather spectacular, and - for the many people who will see this movie based solely on this factor - Monica Bellucci does bare herself, albeit in a totally pointless role.This film is essentially crap and not up to the standards which many have come to expect French cinema and films such as La Haine or Amelie. If you want martial arts scenes and breathtaking cinematography with a half-decent plot, then watch Hero or Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon. If you actually liked this film, then best stick to Xena Warrior Princess. For decent French cinema which manages to offer something new, best stick to J-P Jeunet. "},{"Title":"Beautiful Epoque Film","Date":"12 December 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  'Pacte des Loups' is a beautiful film, in the tradition of the French historical movies, but well adapted to the needs of the contemporary commercial cinema. Based on a French legend, it builds a complex and convincing story line, and I was captivated to follow the action despite the length of the movie. Filming, staging and costumes are of exquisite quality, and so is the acting, with Monica Belucci shining at the top of her acting career and beauty. Certainly the director made concessions to the the commercial cinema, and the story in the second part does not really meet the expectations of the well built tension in the first half. However, it is overall a good cinema experience and a film worth watching in the cinema, or renting the DVD version. 8/10 on my personal scale. "},{"Title":"Painful","Date":"1 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is the worst movie I have ever seen. I hope it remains the worst movie that I have ever seen, as I would not want to undergo the agony and pain of watching such a movie ever again. It was extremely drawn out and tedious and simply painful to watch. Throughout the film the viewer wants to scream will it ever end???, and when it finally does, the viewer says I wish I could get those last three hours back. However, because there is no way to get that time back, I hope anyone else who sees this film can find a way to enjoy it.   "},{"Title":"Flick starts as picturesque werewolf movie, adds kickboxing, veers into Lone Ranger/Last of the Mohicans, climaxes in Rosemary's Baby, ends in French Revolution (ugh)","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Wow, next time I need to see the plot first. The movie starts with a refreshingly evocative view of the countryside.  Bravo, DP.  Unlike the sharp realist look of Hollywood horror flicks, this one recalled the soft focus Peter Cushing flicks I used to watch as a kid. This dismal rainy hole in France looked as vast as the moors of Wuthering Heights and as exotic as the jungle in Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon.UM, LEARNED IT FROM THE ESKIMO, WHO LEARNED IT FROM-- In this alternate universe, Indians know how to kickbox. The main character has an Iroquois sidekick (a la Tonto), and he spins and twirls throughout the flick. Of course to make the fights fair so do the peasant-hooligans who provoke him (just not as well).  This declarative weirdness (let there be kickboxing!) pervades the movie.FIRST HALF DELIVERS GOOD ACTION, VERY GOOD HORROR-- The beast is kept well-hidden, you get scared pretty often, and relatively sensible people still get caught in seriously creepy situations.  My only regret is that even a little glimpse of the creature reveals it to be hard-edged digitized CGI fare.SECOND HALF COMES AND THE SUBPLOTS SMELL RIPE-- At this point, it starts to get ludicrous. First, the main character is supposed to be not only Sherlock Holmes but implicitly a representative of French Rationalism.   Unfortunately, the movie's creators pay  enshrine him in gratuitous Romantic scenes (lover, fighter, outlaw, etc.). There's nothing clear-minded about this movie.  Indeed, both the main character and his sidekick are so deliriously good-looking, the movie's a romance novel. On top of that, the creators are dishing out ludicrous amounts of superstition.  Besides dipping seriously into the noble savage bucket, they bring in Africa and voodoo-esque weirdness to explain the beast.CATHOLICS, ROSEMARY'S BABY, AND THE KU KLUX KLAN-- French Rationalism needs bad guys, and that's gotta be the Catholic country aristocracy. I don't think I'm spoiling the movie to say that before long there's papal conspiracy, demonized Catholicism, and a whole bunch of crosses with blood on them. While this flavor of broadside strikes me as particularly French, the US has its own flavor (look at any 80s action movie and try to find a German who's not a bad guy).  But this is still not to my taste.  And then one of the papish villains rapes his sister. Yick.CONCLUSION GOOD TRIPE FOR WHEN YOU'RE IN THAT MOOD-- Some rainy Saturdays you want a putrid ghoulish flick.  That's part of what makes them fun. (The Cushing films usually had some obscene beheading early on.) But I need to know the ingredients first.  If I know ahead of time what's coming, I can stomach it better.  For this director's next feast, I'm going to need to see the menu first.  "},{"Title":"Waste of money","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The only redeeming quality of this movie was the scenery.  The plot was obvious.  The sex was either gratuitous or horrific.  The martial arts lacked style and basic choreography.  This was the first movie I have attended in a long time in which the ENTIRE audience loudly heckled the movie.  Oh, and while most of the actors/actresses were very attractive in the lovely costumes (and lack thereof) they wore, they weren't enough to keep me from thinking I could have had a cavity drilled in the 2 hours I spent in the theater. "},{"Title":"Being Foreign Is Not The Golden Ticket To The Realm Of 10s","Date":"13 February 2007","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Contrary to some of the more deluded reviewers bounding around IMDb, you do not have to be an intellectual to enjoy or detest this film, nor accordingly to you have to have the IQ of a spoon to enjoy or detest this film. The fact that it is foreign may have some reasoning for it having ending up in my film collection, undoubtedly coupled from all the rave reviews on the back, but after having watched the film, I was left in some confusion as to why.It certainly is an interesting outing, from that there is no escaping, and the fusion of action and horror with a period placing of eighteenth century France gives it a noted 'classy' edge, but throughout there was something missing. The story is that of two parts. The first hour comprising of tedious plot developing sequences which fail in developing pretty much bar that we know our protagonists are righteous and kick-arse, and he who wears a cape and speaks in a snakely sly manner is evil, but tis all. Moments throughout are explained, but never justified, and one can't help wonder if our native American friends role in the film is more politically orientated than cinematic. The second hour sets off at lightspeed. Blink and you've missed it. Action comes thick and fast, as emotions run high and we must brace for the compulsory twist. Not a twist as such, more a semi-explanation of that which we already know. All in all, in summary, not overly promising.The film does have its moments, but they derive more from the action sequences involving our Native American friend, and from the not so tense moments with a wolf that was baptised with nuclear waste. While they are enjoyable, the issue I have is that this film clocks in at two hours and eight minutes, of which only a maximum of forty is immersed in fore mentioned positives. Now, I'm not claiming we should sacrifice story for action in a ludicrous Bad Boys II manner, but the narrative never truly pulls you in, and you feel more a voyeur of an early Sunday evening television six part series.There are notable performances from the cast, and I have to say collectively they are almost without fault. While they are totally committed to their characters, the story never allows you to connect with them, so that losses, revelations and rescues are never truly felt when it matters most.This, as one of the comments on the back of the DVD claims, is a kick-ass action epic, and I must concur. There are definitely moments of kick-ass, and it befits my definition of a modern day 'epic' (see review of Seven Swords), yet its foreign origins do not warrant it special praise. World Cinema often provides a wider selection of films, which are not only unique and interesting but also can be entertaining, moving and deeply profound in a way that all the bucket load of tripe spewed from Hollywood cannot. But this cannot cloud my judgement. If I want period drama I'd rather watch Sharpe, if I want action I'd rather A Bittersweet Life, and as for this film being too intellectual I'd rather watch Broken Saints. And I'd rather you all did too. "},{"Title":"Kill the editor!","Date":"13 February 2007","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is a nice little film. It's a tightly written action thriller, with an unusual setting for this kind of movie, and a likable protagonist, half Sherlock Holmes, half Indiana Jones. I particularly enjoyed the pacing, in which no scene is wasted, nor drawn out too long, and...Oh who am I kidding.This *should* have been a nice little film. In a pleasant alternate universe, it is. But what we have instead is a likable protagonist, great setting, and an engaging plot which unfortunately has been bloated up to two-and-a-half-hours by Director Christophe Gans' unfortunate love-affair with his slow-motion camera lens. The turgid pacing, in which scene after scene just drags on and on and on, is enough to unfortunately rob this movie of some of its enjoyment factor.Example in one scene, our hero enters a high-class brothel. Lots of ladies are around wearing not much other than rouge and face powder. It should have taken about five to ten seconds to establish this fact, before our hero wanders deeper into the brothel to establish an important contact with another character. Instead, we get two and a half minutes of slow motion tracking shots of our hero, happily wandering through bolts of hanging silk, encountering new lovelies behind every tilted fan. About a minute in, I started feeling a little dirty for watching what was looking more and more like porn. After two minutes, I was simply bored.The problem can be summed up in Gans' comments on the DVD extras. He shows the un-cut version of the opening fight scene, which lasts almost four times longer. Then he goes on and on, gushingly, about how WONDERFUL the editor was, how BEAUTIFUL the fight choreography was, how MANY, MANY DAYS of footage were shot and how if (oh rapture!) he'd had the chance, he would have included all of it in the final film.Did you catch that? Days of uncut footage of a single fight scene, half of which is already in slo-mo. And Gans wants to force ALL of it on his viewers.Take a clue, Gans. You've got a nice eye for visuals. You've got a good head for characterization (though you work too much in gesture, rather than dialog). You've even got a heart for atmosphere.But fire your editor. He stinks. "},{"Title":"Oh, come ON!","Date":"1 November 2006","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Movie Summary Full frontals (female, of course) for no reason other than just because, and martial arts. EVERYONE knows martial arts. Even europeans from the 18th century! Kick it with my ninjas!And now, down to the nitty grittyPlot - There is one there somewhere, but the makers obviously had better things to do than follow it. More boobs, they said. More pointless fight scenes. More shots of that crazy peasant girl with tangled hair who shows up every now and then for a close-up to laugh like a maniac. And more lovelorn looks between whats-his-name and whats-her-face. Why? For no reason! I yawned a lot.Cinematography - Very nice. It's always like that, isn't it, that when you see a movie that has absolutely stunning visuals, the rest of it is just pure manure. Costuming and the rest of the setting were also quite nice.Score - Absolutely beautiful. A keeper.Actors - Let's not go there... The male lead annoyed me to no end. He was so enamored with himself that I'm surprised he even noticed anyone else. He came across like a smug middle aged playboy who hasn't yet grasped the fact that while he was hot way back in the 70's, it was a long time ago. Now he just embarrasses his wife at parties. Giggidy giggidy giggidy! Even if I couldn't recognize any of the supporting actors, I can tell there were real actors there somewhere. I can always tell someone is a trained, experienced actor when he/she doesn't make me wish someone would kill him/her.I can't say anything about how the director handled his job, because the rest of the film was so bad it distracted me.Most disgusting moment The rape scene. I just wanted to grab the person responsible by the neck and shake them. Why was this scene in the movie? It was irrelevant, to say the least. And made me want to take a shower.Most irritating moment The brothel scene. As a female viewer I found it unnecessary (see above), and demeaning. I'm so sick and tired of male fantasies I could scream.Most disappointing moment When the 'beast' (whatever it was) was shown completely. It was silly. And it was never explained just what exactly it was. Except that, apparently, it was made of wicker and flesh and doodled on a napkin in a café by H.R. Giger and H.P. Lovecraft. While it might have looked kind of cool as a creature, it felt very out of place in the movie. Haven't been this disappointed in a creature since I saw the Village.Most rewarding moment The end credits.Hated it. "},{"Title":"Cliched, exploitative, and dull - don't bother","Date":"3 May 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Some people complain that subtitled films are hard to watch and that they don't get a fair chance with English-speaking audiences. With this film, there's an opposite effect; because it's in French, people think it's a lot better than it actually is. In fact, there's no depth to this whatsoever; the dialogue is shallow and superficial and could have come out of any 1970s Hammer horror (only without the kitsch retro pleasure). So could the heaving bosoms, cheesy special effects, and hammy acting. Unlike Hammer films, which never took themselves very seriously, this has pretensions to being a good film, which makes it even worse. It means you can't even enjoy it as a 'good romp', as it has such a high opinion of itself. Every scene is dragged out for far too long and the fight scenes are like a very poor version of Buffy or Xena.I wasn't moved once while watching this film, nor was I excited, turned on, or even interested. The lingering shots of naked female bodies, before and after they get ripped to shreds, and some pointless and embarassing brothel scenes, only make the whole thing more unpleasant, as does the 'noble savage' Iriquois character, whose storyline is patronising and insulting. The plot is creaky, unconvincing, and hard to follow in places, with every 'twist' visible from a mile off.I could go on criticising this film for a long time, but frankly I'm bored of it, and annoyed that a 'friend' made me sit through it. All I can say is, if you have the opportunity to see it, DON'T BOTHER. I can't get back those couple of hours of my life, but you can save yourself the time.  "}{"Title":"What the heck was that?","Date":"15 September 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  -- A few spoilers -- If Vincent Van Gogh painted my toilet bowl it would be the most beautiful painting of a toilet bowl ever.  But then, it would still be a toilet bowl wouldn't it?  This movie is sort of like that.I think the scriptwriters wrote this using one of those magnetic poetry sets.  Sort of like they drew a bunch of random words and had to make what they drew out into some sort of plot....what do we do with Africa, Mohawk, Wolf, Revolution, Amputee? Hmmmmmm.Take a big hunk of Last of the Mohicans and throw it in the pot, then add a cup full of Dangerous Liaisons, toss in a handful of Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon, a spoonful of The Matrix, a pinch of Name of the Rose, a little Musketeer, suck all the charm out of those references, and then add a huge dollop of pure French incomprehensibility and you have a big disjointed mess. If you are interested in visuals, then turn the sound down and watch the alternating pretty and bizarre pictures.  You might even make up a story to go with them.  You couldn't do a worse job really. "},{"Title":"DUMB. french people (and their dogs)are not scary.","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  this movie is dumb, how did it get made? the french must have no standards, or else like really low budget scariness-- the wolf was just a big dog wearing a spiked outfit, it was hilarious. everyone in the movie started laughing at random points throughout. "},{"Title":"Funnier than BRICE DE NICE","Date":"8 December 2006","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" BROTHERHOOD OF THE WOLF, or LE PACTE DES LOUPS, is an unfortunate amalgamation of genres that could only be made outside of Hollywood. Usually, Hollywood is the last beacon of hope for creativity and originality but there's one thing you can give Hollywood credit for they wouldn't have been dumb enough to have green-lighted such a ridiculous script a French period piece where everyone knows kung-fu fighting? Including an Asian-looking Iroquois? MATRIX a la Francaise? Yep! The producers were trying to make old France look cool like Neo in THE MATRIX, which only makes it look even more silly and desperate in its futile attempt to be hip.This idea could have worked if it was played strictly for laughs but the film takes itself very seriously and it's extremely long, with multiple faux climaxes. The story, as to be expected with such a stupid combination of genres, is risible and the other stuff, like acting, effects, editing and pacing, all bad beyond belief. I don't know how many times I had to pause, rewind and play again just to see the number of continuity errors. The special effects are truly amateurish, even for this kind of film. And the tone of the film is surprisingly misogynistic and racist. I haven't seen a film this pathetically un-pc in a long time.But in the end, the film is so bad that if one looks at it as a comedy, it IS good for a few chuckles. "},{"Title":"The essence of modern prefabricated, formulaic cinema","Date":"5 August 2003","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  If you have half a brain (or better no brain at all), have been bread on video games, TV commercials and blockbusters,  and you're under 18, this movie is definitely for you. You'll find everything you need stereotyped and wooden acting; sophomoric direction; tasteless and ignorant action scenes filmed with this oh-so-cool time stretching effects; tasteless and ignorant blend of genres, entirely formulaic (horror, martial arts, costumes); digitally over-enhanced cinematography; and above all, glorification of the state-of-the-art technology of modern filmmaking, absorbing all of the filmmakers energy, with nothing left for the important things scenography, acting, storytelling, awareness of the camera, subtext. A computer could have written and directed this movie. You wouldn't have noticed the difference.This movie looks, sounds and feel exactly like an over-long TV commercial. All of the actors are treated like props, even more than in Lucas's last films. Matrix, X-men and Blade look like intellectual masterpieces in comparison.Everything is said, about the filmmakers intentions and abilities, in the first killing you have this stupid magnifying of every single sound details (climbing the rocks, steps, panting etc..), showing a mind who thinks only in terms of technical matters and envelope, and has no clue about what's a character and what's storytelling. Instead of focusing on the woman's struggle and fear, they focuse on the cool visuals and sounds. Just like in a video game. All humanity is lost. Frightening.I'm not quite surprised that this quintessence of mindless exercise in MTV-clips-like formulaic filmmaking for the modern masses comes from my own birth country, France, as it has a long story of desperately trying to compete with american technical skills, which sadly often ends in products even more senseless, trendy and utterly empty than many american blockbusters. First Vidocq, now Le Pacte des loups. Vive la France! Hasn't Jeunet, with Amélie, shown that there IS another way for french filmmakers than being shallow, trendy and fomulaic, to achieve commercial success?There ARE some good french actors involved. I'm really wondering how they reacted when seeing the petty results of their efforts.  "},{"Title":"offensive crap","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is many genres mixed into one, but in a bad way.  Don't see this movie, unless you want to make fun of it and talk for hours about the many ways in which it offended you.  Some decent fighting scenes, a lot of bad writing, and annoying camera moves all crammed together. "},{"Title":"Awful Awful Awful!!!","Date":"13 January 2002","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Nothing more than a stylized beautifully photographed splatter film. While I absolutely loved The Matrix and Crouching Tiger Hidden Dragon - the violence in those films was - well, just not as stupidly splatteringly relentlessly in-your-face.  While this film had some stunning shots and cinematic techniques they did not make the movie watchable.   I am concerned because it looked to me like the wolves in the wolf slaughter scene were real and could have been injured.  There was no Humane Society disclaimer at the end and if they indeed used trip wires (which is what it looks like) to get some of those shots, the movie should be banned in all civilized countries.  And even if that is not the case, the movie should be better promoted and labeled. I am very disappointed that not one reviewer mentioned how totally over the top the gore was.  While it is clear (and disturbing) that there is an audience for this, some of us would have liked to avoid it. This is NOT Bruce Lee!!  It is gore, gore, gore and just stupid.  The fight scenes were pale rip-offs of scenes in way better movies.  Slow, dull, unwatchable. "},{"Title":"So bad it's good!","Date":"19 February 2002","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The above title says it all. Brotherhood of the wolf is so ridiculous that it is actually fun to watch. I payed good money for a bad film and I am not disapointed. There is probably not one thing in this movie that makes sense. If you want a good laugh then see this movie! "},{"Title":"Silent Wolf","Date":"22 November 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" France 18th century,amazing panorama,cloth(a bit exaggerated)but right for movie s style and context.A bit slow in the first part,the scenario is erotic transgressive and rude but this part is not really clear.Is it a mix of intrigues,betrayal,friendship,corruption,action(there is also a American s Indian that knows martial art nobody understand why)however.. Secret society,magic and a mystery beast. Vincent Cassel does a strange and not easy part but great as usual. Monica Bellucci is a bitch(in the movie!)vote 5 Long movie but not heavy. Recommended for patient watchers (or for just want see Monica s tits) Language(France)easy and sweet to listen,Nice movie. "},{"Title":"Hollywood-type historical thriller in French","Date":"23 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" It is naturally more sensual and authentic than its US counterparts, but I still have mixed feelings about this film. Most of actors are fine (especially Kassel, Dacascos and Bertolucci), tensions are high at times, but the script is too uneven, the Animal badly inserted (technically) and the ending is long and awkward. To me, the fight scenes do not fit in the medieval French village life, but I am sure they added (younger) viewers within and out of France (after all, Dacascos comes from Hollywood and is good at martial arts). Besides, the film could have been shorter, not some 2h 20 min.But Le Pacte des Loups is definitely for you if you wish to experience sublime feelings, pretty costumes and history mixed with mystic. But evil is often related to man... "},{"Title":"Just another genre-crossing French period piece about half mechanised animals...","Date":"27 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" To explain fully what goes on and why in Brotherhood of the Wolf I'd need 2,000 words, even then I'd just end up confusing things, suffice to say it's pretty intricate.The basics of the story though, are that a French problem solver and his Native American (ish) assistant venture to a region of France beset by an unknown but very vicious and hungry beastie who is killing the locals in gruesome fashion.The Frenchman is Mr Fronsac who is cool in quite a poncy way, and his Indian companion is Manny. Once they arrive and speak to the locals they find that this is far more than a wild beast with a tendency for human flesh, but something that may in fact be directed by an unknown organization hellbent on terrorizing the town.Even though it is set in the 17 or 18 hundreds here is a film that tries to defy genres, therefore we get hyped up fight scenes, horror elements and even a part animal part beast, all set with a sumptuous backdrop of French nobility and heaving cleavages. One of the more notable cleavages belongs to Monica Belucci, who in a genius moment of casting works in a local brothel and early on shares her wares with Fronsac.As mentioned the plot is labyrinthine as the filmmakers obviously want to continually throw the viewer off the trail, so we have many red herrings and characters brought in to confuse the issue and muddy the waters.Many characters are introduced during the first hour and a half, special mention must go to Vincent Cassell as the one armed Jean-Francios, who is ugly, creepy and compelling all at once for some reason.After some unsuccessful hunts with little success, Fronsac and co are told to step aside and let someone else handle it, he hangs around in any case determined to see the situation through, (and to keep plowing Belucci I'd wager).When the beast finally arrives it is reasonably impressive, though the quality of the CGI fluctuates at times, shortly afterwards the truth is exposed, and we learn the origins of the beats, who is behind it and why.The Brotherhood of the Wolf is heavily stylized and at times pretentious filmmaking, I daresay if the movie was made in English (and not French) with a similarly important tone it wouldn't be as well known.It is an interesting film, and amid the confusion and long-winded scenes there are some memorable moments, more than anything I give credit for at least attempting to make a period epic with so many influences and a blending of genres, even if they did ultimately overreach.Paring down some of the elements and cutting perhaps up to 40 minutes of running time would do a lot of favours for the film.Final Rating &#x96; 6.5 / 10. If subtitled, 2 ½ hour, genre-crossing French period pieces about half mechanical animals terrorizing a small town is your thing look no further! If you liked this review (or even if you didn't) check out oneguyrambling.com "}{"Title":"Brotherhood of the Wolf - Classic in my eyes!","Date":"21 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I first watched Brotherhood of the Wolf several years ago (it came out in 2001, after all)... back then, dramas with good action scenes were a dime a dozen. However, nowadays, action movies seem to lack directors who know what they are doing... which makes these older movies seem all the more better.The story of Brotherhood of the Wolf is very compelling, being set in a French province in 1764 and the few years after-wards. I won't say any more of the story, since I don't want to spoil it at all (this should be my first non-spoilers review).This is mostly a drama, but the action scenes serve both to advance the plot, and to give depth to the characters... from the first one, within the first few minutes, which introduces some of the main characters.What makes this one of my faves, however, is all of the parts combine to produce both an entertaining experience, and a work of art. The pace, narration (which is sparse), characters, actors, directing, post-production editing, and soundtrack all combine so seamlessly that you hardly notice the time passing by.Well, anyhow, go watch it... 10/10, perfect score by me. In fact, I think I'll go watch it one more time. "},{"Title":"Poor Treatment Of An Interesting Topic","Date":"12 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I ordered this film based on my discovery of its history (Wikipedia linked the film). I figured it was an interesting story and the makers would have an easy time making an interesting film. Boy was I in for a letdown! TBOTW does do a good job with the French politics involved. The scenery photography and costumes are top notch. The French culture of manners; e.g., dinner behavior, is also done well. But the subplots are overheated and obnoxious. Our Lone Ranger hero's Tonto is an American Indian who somehow learned kung fu and is the proverbial, stereotypical noble savage. Cheesecake, T&A, etc., is serviced by ridiculous and lengthy bordello episodes. I couldn't learn to like our hero, painted as James Bond cool. For that part, few actors seem to know what direction to take. If moody Vincent Cassal had taken the lead part TBOTW may have been better. "},{"Title":"Brotherhood of the Baskervilles is breathtaking","Date":"28 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The cinematography of this movie is breathtaking. Every scene is set up to look like a watercolor. I had heard about the martial arts in this film and was a little skeptic but it all works. Samuel Le Bihan looks like a continental Daniel Craig and his portrayal of Gregoire de Fronsac has many layers (unlike Craig's one dimensional Bond). Mark Dacascos as Graegoire's Native American blood brother is minimal and his moves do all the talking. Christoper Gans film about a wolf like creature stalking the countryside of France is based on true accounts but this film plays like the Hammer screen version of 'Hounds of the Baskervilles'. Both films have a rich Gothic tapestry with Gregoire de Fronsac (Le Bihan) as a Holmes type character and Mani (Dacascos) as a more fighting fit Watson. Without spoiling things, the 'hound' in this film is a masterpiece and credit should also go to Monica Bellucci as Sylvia and Vincent Cassel as the disturbing Morangias. "},{"Title":"American Werewolf in London this is not","Date":"2 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Brotherhood of the Wolf is an oddity. It is at times a meandering French period piece dripping with the arrogance of the French aristocracy, lathed with extravagant set design and overt period-piece costumes, delving into the sexual appetites of the 'oh so very French' libertines while at the same time coming across as an ambitious but ultimately underwhelming horror/martial arts epic. What does this amount to? A somewhat boring and self-masturbatory two hour long period drama with some superstitious elements, a brief glimpse of Monica Bellucci's naked body, and some rather lackluster fight scenes that try to mask their banality with quick edits and an overabundance of slow motion shots.It is hard to recommend. There are better werewolf films out there, there are better French period films, there are also better French martial arts films. So why watch this one? The story is intriguing, Mark Dacascos' character, Mani, is fantastic, and when the ambitious over-stylized sequences do click the film can be pretty to look at. But this is hardly enough to keep the film interesting.Approach this wolf with care. "},{"Title":"And the loser is? The Brotherhood of Wolf","Date":"10 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Brotherhood of Wolf has one of the strongest French language casts possible with the worse result. I never saw such a bad movie. The actors'interpretation is terrible, the main character never change is facial expression. The only interesting performance is the Vincent Cassel's one, he is a great actor and it doesn't matter where he plays and with whom. All the other actors are awful. The story is flat and the final is predictable. English is not my mother tongue but I can guarantee you that the dubbing is ridiculous. Usually I agree with the average vote on IMDb but this time I have to say that I don't really know what someone can find in this movie. Don't see it, you'll waste your time "},{"Title":"unseen beast goes on killing spree in 1776 France(the story may have a kernel or two of truth to it)","Date":"21 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" this movie may or may not have been inspired by real events.if it was,i'm sure a lot was changed for dramatic effect.it take place in France during the reign of King Louis XV in 1776.it chronicles the hunt for a an unseen and unknown beast that has responsible for many deaths and has paralyzed the citizens with fear.two men with special talent are dispatched to find and destroy the monster.i won't give any more away plot wise.however,i will say,this is not a horror movie.that is,it's not really scary.there is a definite pallor of death throughout the movie.there is some suspense of sorts in the movie and fair amount of action,with some great fight scenes.the film also has it's lighter moments,with some amusing scenes.one knock i have against this movie,is that the beast is not what you might think.in fact it is kind of a disappointment when it is revealed.however,i do like the reason given for the killing rampage.i thought it was kind of unique.the movie is a France/Canada production,so you can watch it with English subtitles,or you can watch the dubbed version.i watched the dubbed version and was very impressed with the quality of that aspect.the dubbing is very good.as for the movie itself,it clocks in at 162 minutes,but i never found it boring.for me,Pacte des loups ,Le,AKA Brotherhood of the Wolf is a 7/10 "},{"Title":"France has a unique martial art","Date":"14 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" France has a unique martial art referred to as Savate or French Boxing. The French martial arts history goes back to the 1830's and possibly earlier. How the native Indian in this movie learned Savate ( which is similar to Karate) is somewhat sketchy.This may offer somewhat of an explanation for the martial art movements although it is questionable whether the director of this movie has actually did Research. There is another unusual French movie and about a French detective in the 1830's. In the opening scene there is a flight which involves walking sticks used like sabers along with high section kicks. This movie is called Vidocq . The walking sticks were carried by many people at the fashion accessory at this time and they were often used in self-defense much like a saber. "},{"Title":"good movie made bad by too much","Date":"26 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  this movie was made bad by too much in the story.this movie includedaction romance horror historythere was too many things going on to make me really enjoy the movie.Also the kung fu by a native american and french aristocrates was so unsuited to this movie. movie should have played more on romance and the history and less on the action and the beast.   "},{"Title":"Good movie, confusing ending.","Date":"15 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  (Spoilers)I'd had this movie in my collection for awhile.  With several failed attempts of trying to watch it.  I finally did.  I liked the movie alot, but sometimes the plot becomes confusing.  It's as if the movie was based on a book.  Especially the ending.  Which seemed rushed to me.  My main question...  so did Marianne live or do we imagine she did.  Why is our narrator being arrested.  Is he the young man in the main movie. The movie has a boatload of action.  But for the majority of the movie the script was outstanding.  But again towards Vincent Cassell's demise, the movie becomes blurred.  So I guess I'm left confused.  But it's a good movie.   7/10Quality 6/10   (confusing ending ) Entertainment 9/10 Replayable 8/10 "},{"Title":"Not what you might think","Date":"10 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  On the advice of a friend that shares a liking for all things mysterious and supernatural (i.e., werewolves, vampires, the dark side), I rented this DVD. W-e-l-l, it wasn't what I expected but still ended up enjoying the film (with reservations).***May contain spoilers beyond this point!!!***The opening scene where the young woman is ravaged by an unseen force on the cliff side whetted my appetite; we know that there's a very bad thing loose on the countryside and more is doubtless to come. But we cut to the introduction of two of the film's protagonists (Frasnac and Mani) rescuing an old man and young woman from the attack of some surly thieves, or so we think. What follows in this scene sets the tone for the entire movie. The fight scene resembles outtakes from The Matrix or most any Hong Kong kung-fu movie, in 18th century France?. All we need now is some 'bullet time', don't worry it shows up later in the movie.The movie is way too long (and meandering) to comment on scene by scene. Suffice to say, this is most certainly *not* a werewolf movie in the conventional sense. But what is it?, political intrigue, historical romance?. It is most certainly French! and for that it loses a star <g>.Cinematography is fantastic, felt very period. Soundtrack (at least on DVD) was mediocre at best. SFX?, the cgi scenes containing the 'beast' were questionable, but no worse than those in Alien3.For me, a confusing movie but worth a watch if only for it's Gallic 'charm'.At best, seven stars.  "}{"Title":"An Interesting Historical Melange","Date":"14 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is a genre defying melange of adventure, horror, mystery, and political/religious intrigue. It has enough plot to fill several movies. Two adventurers, an intellectual(Samuel Le Bihan) and an Iroquois Indian(Mark Dacascos), search for a mysterious beast in the French countryside in the 1760's. They encounter resistance, political and religious hypocrisy, and romance of an illicit sort, before the beast itself. The film is just about 2 and a half hours long, but never seems to drag. It is filled with sumptuous cinematography; you can feel the dank, fog shrouded landscape. It has many colorful characters that are interesting, well drawn, and not contrived Vincent Cassel as Jean-Francois, Emilie Dequenne as Marianne, and the beautiful Monica Bellucci as the lusty Sylvia are chief among these. The martial arts fighting seems anachronistic for 18th century France, but it doesn't detract from the enjoyment. I'll bet the French have a much different take on this film than we do. Much of the criticism seems to be focused on the preposterousness of the plot; however, the film is based incredibly on true events in the Gevaudan district in remote France, not myth or legend as some critics have said. Some liberties were probably taken with the material, but that's what usually happens when constructing a screenplay. Overall, it works well within several different genres to create a unique, entertaining film. *** of 4 stars. "},{"Title":"A Muddled Mess that is Fascinating to Watch","Date":"9 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Christophe Gans does here to the lavish historical costume epic what fellow Frenchman Jeunet did to the romantic comedy with Amelie. He turns the genre on its head by making it as whacked out and weird as possible. Like Amelie though, as strange and fantastic as it is sometimes (imagine a Merchant-Ivory production of a Hammer Horror film), it just doesn't work in the end. Sure we get the sweeping historical vistas of 18th century France, fantastic costumes, wonderful scenery and sets, and a beautiful cast (especially Monica Belluci), but we also get a muddled conspiracy tale involving underground politics, secret religious sects, and a half wolf/half mechanical monster used as an assassin. There's also a boatload of mythological Christian subtext, and this is all supposedly based on a true French legend regarding a string of brutal murders. While Gans gives us some stunning visuals (the dissolve of Bellucci's bare breast into a snow peaked mountain top is gorgeous) he also uses annoying slow-mo in some action scenes and for no apparent reason a French detective has a Native American side-kick who knows kung-fu. There's also an over-bloated run time. The whole things just makes no sense, yet is very watchable and entertaining. "},{"Title":"The Beast is within all of us...","Date":"10 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  WARNING there will be spoilers in the following commentary - if you have not seen this movie and you don't want to know what happens, don't read any further.That having been said...This movie is not for everyone. You need to have a taste for the unusual; you need to understand satire. If you are halfway intelligent, if you like action and can tolerate subtitles, if you enjoy something a bit different, then you will probably like this.Oddly enough, the two best roles in this movie belong to bit players... 'Sylvia' (the Italian whore), played by model/actress Monica Bellucci, and 'La Bavarde' (the crazy witch woman), played by Virginie Darmon. Both of them bring a bit of reality to their roles... Bellucci as the aloof whore who may not be who she seems, and Darmon, whose character has a taste for blood and violence - almost obsessive... violence appears to turn her on. Not bad for someone who has absolutely no spoken lines in this...One of the best lines in the movie (keeping in mind that it is mostly satire) comes at the end... The world that created the Beast is no more - yet in view of everything that happens, it couldn't be further from the truth. It's even quite true today; the world that created the Beast is far from dead.The cinematography in this is quite good... there's the one scene where the body of the nude whore (Bellucci) blends into a view of the snow covered mountains which is quite good, but the shots of the countryside are also well done, as are the various angles on the old buildings, and even the action sequences. Regardless of anything else, the movie is very well filmed.One odd point... if you understand French, then you'll notice parts where what the actors speak is not quite the same as what shows up in the subtitles; to be expected, since no language translates well into another. Even cuter, though, is the fact that some of the 'mistranslations' of the movie have been fixed on the DVD... only to have some other errors occur.There are various influences at work in this movie, but one of the most obvious is The Matrix... The Brotherhood of the Wolf (Les Pacte des Loups) came out about a year after The Matrix, and it shows in the slow motion sequences during the action, the freeze-frames at moments of suspense. But this movie owes itself also to almost any horror movie where the horror is more guessed at than shown... there are only a few times where you actually *see* the 'Beast', and the violence and bloodshed is all of human origin.This movie encompasses quite a few different genres... it's action, it's martial arts, it's historical, it's revolutionary, it's historical, it's a romance, it's a mystery, it's incest, it's political commentary, it's satire... they've blended all of these themes quite well. Unfortunately, a lot of people probably won't like it, if only for the fact that it's in French with subtitles (as released in the U.S.)1700's France... the revolution isn't upon them yet, and royalty still rules the land - but here and there are pockets of peasant resistance, and a priest with more than a touch of religious mania feeds on that, recruiting certain peasants (and local officials) to his cause, to 'reform' France and bring it back in line with the Word of God... as he sees it.Enter Chevalier (Knight) Gregoire de Fronsac (Simon le Bihan), the King's naturalist... and free-thinker. Through his travels - and that of, shall I say it? His faithful Indian companion - we learn exactly what has been happening in rural France, and the attitudes of the locals, who may be more than what they seem.From there we are introduced to the various locals, and get a taste of the ideals - and social divisions - in old France... while not stated in so many words, the rebellion against the King has begun, which we discover at the end. It's a tale of mystery and history, secrets which aren't handed down, horrors committed by locals that remain local.Okay, so even if there were American Indians in France, I doubt they knew martial arts. 'Mani' (played by Mark Dacascos, a martial arts expert who was actually born in Hawaii) is hunter and hunted, and though not stated in so many words in the movie, it's obvious that his 'totem' is the Wolf. Naming the ship at the end 'Frere Loup' (Brother Wolf) is a nice touch. Still, the martial arts action in this is but a side-show, a means to an end... the true story is the hunt for the truth.The various attitudes in the movie - some more seen than shown - tell us of the period in which it appears... there are those who consider themselves the rulers of the land, and those who would prefer not to be ruled. Rebellion towards the morés and interests of the times - as well as the nobility's hopes to surpress rebellion and keep their stranglehold - are shown quite well, more in actions than words. In fact, it's never really stated in the movie that 'this is the way things should be done', but it's obvious nevertheless. Watching Fronsac circumvent - and sometimes outright deny - those 'rules' in his search for the truth is interesting... and so cute to see how naïve a 'man of the world' can be. In the end, you really have to wonder who has really won... sure, the 'Beast' is dead, and so are most of those responsible for it - but what has it really achieved?Okay, so this movie isn't for everyone... you'd have to see it for yourself. But it is fun, which is all you can really ask of a movie.  "},{"Title":"The more you pay,the more it's worth?","Date":"8 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I have my doubts.Le pacte des loups, French biggest budget so far, tries so hard to sound American -or should I say,hollywoodian- that sometimes we forget that the action takes place during Louis the Fifteenth's reign in France.The first part is relatively watchable,because of the splendid landscapes,enhanced by a brilliant cinematography.But the characters are uninteresting and the leads lack charisma.Samuel Le Bihan cannot hold a candle to the late Jean Marais,who remains,even today,the model of the genre for this kind of swashbuckler.The same goes for Monica Belucci whose adventuress character is lacklustre .But the biggest flaw is the Indian whom the hero imported from Canada (probably inspired by the Saracen whom Costner took to his native England in Robin Hood,prince of thieves).The second half is a disaster although it begins well enough in Versailles where we are told that the beast is dead.But the hero is not prepared to accept it and a voice -over warns us that what we're going to see now is not written in history books ( in case some moron could take it seriously).The prize goes ,so to speak,to the beast, some kind of tarasque ,an imaginary monster which we find in the legends of the south of Francethe special-effect crew apparently worked with pieces of cardboard,some string and a box of scotch tape.As for the duels,they resemble karate fights ,which is the last straw !The movie itself looks like a video game in which the hero is never hung .The poor script involves the de rigueur brothel scene,the obligatory romantic love affair,the umpteenth wicked brother and the obvious guillotine scene(it's poor Jacques Perrin's turn this time) -even if we do not see Docteur's Guillotin's sinister invention. "},{"Title":"Oh boy! Is this a good one!","Date":"29 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Trust me, this is one fine film. Complex on so many levels. If you can keep it strait in your mind...look out!  What a revelationabout politics.  This lavish and stylish film screams foreign but itis universal in it's appeal. It is a horror movie wrapped in a drama folded into a suspense, blended with humor so cleverly one must cherish it.  Thecinematography is unmatched and unsurpassed.  Graphic andreal and frightening.  You will see the full range of society frombottom to top and all the ugly little secrets in between.It is so daringly french!  It has Italian undertones, and morediabolical cleverness than any Hitchcock film. One of the very best ever!  See it with your conspiratorial friends. "},{"Title":"Proof that moving pictures can be art!","Date":"13 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The fact that this is actually a French film makes it so much better, because if there's one thing that annoys me, it's films set in France where all the actors speak English with a French accent (or even worse, when some speak with a French accent and others don't!). Then there's the Studio Canal-thing, I have learnt this much about films since I first saw this one Whenever the words Studio Canal appear in the beginning of a film, you know for a fact that the lighting and the settings of the film will be amazing. The story is quite good as well, and the characters are all natural and plausible. No perfect people and pure evil here. The use of slow motion and speed are also impressive, adds to the artistic feeling. Le Pacte des Loups really shows that films are art and culture.  "},{"Title":"visually amazing with impact excitement","Date":"30 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  apart from the croissant this is probably the best thing to come out of gaul.  the action sequences surpassed even those of the matrix and the visuals/cinematography added focus and depth.  not just another erotic-colonial era-native american-french-ninja-werewolf movie... a little something for everyone. "},{"Title":"Smells like a 2½ hour straight-to-video creature flick...","Date":"25 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Le Pacte des Loups can't decide if it wants to be a dramatic epic or campy B-horror flick. The elements for both genres are present, and right when you make up your mind on which one it is, the movie flips to the opposite. Sure, variety is not a bad thing, and Gans/Cabel obviously crossbred the two on purpose, but to the degree that makes the movie utterly ridiculous (and still boring), that oh so sweet variety starts to leave a sour taste in your mouth. Foreign films are supposed to be good- that's why they've been sent to the States (or Canada, UK, wherever.) Sure the movie has its moments, but it's basically a survival-horror creature-feature that we've all seen as early as 1979. The `acclaimed' martial arts sequences aren't anything more special than an old Jackie Chan movie. Don't get me wrong though, the movie at least has style and brains, but that still can't save it. *½ "},{"Title":"18th century Jaws","Date":"21 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Really, I swear the opening scene reminded me of Jaws. I don't think the resemblance was coincidental. Then throughout the movie I saw similarities in the plot. There are martial arts overlays also, with a little Punk thrown in for good measure, all in the guise of a costume drama. It does have its moments, including at least one beautiful naked woman (I didn't count the number of exposed female breasts), and some glorious landscapes. The plot drifts into the realm of the ridiculous, and I felt sorry for the monster, it was so pathetic. The movie can't be taken seriously, so its too bad that there is almost no humor, which would've made it more fun to watch. There's some good ideas in this flick, so perhaps the director will put them together better in the future. "},{"Title":"Samuel Le Bihan is sex personified","Date":"6 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The cinematography alone is enough to make it worth watching.  Samuel Le Bihan alone is more than enough to make it worth watching again.  I recommend that English speakers watch the dubbed English version first so you don't miss the lush details reading the subtitles.  But then the French version (with or without subtitles) is a must. "}{"Title":"Great Movie!","Date":"4 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Despite to have to wait almost 10 months for the premiere here in mexico, I think that the movie fullfilled all the expectations that I had about it. The photography is great, Looks like a Tim Burton film, but with other elements, Mr Dacascos did it great! To me this is  a good movie, however, there are moments during the movie when you can feel holes empty spaces that are not so...important for to be on the final cut.  "},{"Title":"An atmospheric cornucopia of entertainment","Date":"2 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Recommended by a friend as 'something a bit different' this film certainly did not disappoint. Its historical perspective was without doubt the key to its success for me. Pre- revolutionary France beset with economic, political and religious uncertainty was an ideal and believable setting for this adventure which ,as its central theme explored man's innate fear of change and advancement and desperation to cling to the old order.It may have been a little better without the oriental fight scenes which were incongruous to say the least. However this is but a minor criticism of a film that you will either love or hate! "},{"Title":"Good mix of horror of martial arts","Date":"27 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Last year while I was away at college one of best friends sent me a copy of this and I have to say I was pretty impressed by the action sequences and martial arts fighting. Director Christophe Gans and fight chorgrapher Philip Kwok wisely focus on mark Dacascoss as Mani who's a smooth bad ass in the film. All in all a nice little action film with a decent story and great costumes. "},{"Title":"Almost a great film","Date":"15 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie plays out like a graphic novel with a great first half, a kung-fu kicking Indian side kick and a mysterious beast that roams around munching maidens.  It's dark, it's cool, but then the mood is disturbed by some COMPLETELY gratuitous special effects that spoils the this really could have happened image in your mind.  Some nice reveals in the end, but one was predictable if you paid attention.  Speaking of reveals, there's plenty of gratuitous nudity too, but who's complaining? "},{"Title":"Tainted by my high expectations","Date":"11 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Le Pacte des loups wasn't a bad movie i guess, but notice i say movie instead of the more dignified sounding film.  I work at a video store, and i regard the recommendations of some customers, highly, and most not at all. one of the more highbrow moviegoers who frequents, told me this was a great one and that she'd had to watch it five times when she rented it; it was that good.so after months of glancing at it indecisively i took it home, gave it a fair chance, and to say the least i was underwhelmed.  it tells a convoluted, probably fascinating tale that i probably would have focused on if i wasn't so involved in ridiculing the effects, which weren't bad, just jarringly misused.it opens with a shot that travels through a closed window.  why?  because look how cool!  we can make a camera appear to travel through a closed window.  this caused me to scoff after i'd been watching the movie for five seconds.  this was followed by some weighty dialogue that will obviously pay off at the end.  then almost immediately, another fancy effects shot of the sam raimi variety.  it would have fit right into one of raimi's films because they aren't so serious (except the clumsily-titled - and scripted - for love of the game).what follows is a monster slash scene so goofy myself and my friend were completely distanced from the rest of the movie.admittedly we sometimes used the x2 feature on my dvd player which speeds up the action and sort of keeps playing the sound, to make time pass faster.it's a sort of action-horror with costumes from amadeus, with martial arts fights thrown in because the director likes them, and hell. so do i.we enjoyed realizing how many french films we'd seen because against all odds we recognized actors.  phillipe nahom from gaspar noe's films. along with the lady from insert french words i forgot here(i stand alone) who gets punched in the stomach while she's pregnant and goes mon bebe!  mon bebe! (not in le pacte des lupes in i stand alone).the best part of the movie is the cool scene in the brothel that has good performances and dialogue, and it quieted us down because there was sex going on.at one point my friend said this movie would like to be 'from hell'. and i contrasted by saying, but it delivers 'the scorpion king'.  neither of those movies are great or anything, but both know what they're trying to accomplish.  this one just makes me wish i'd gotten the grey zone instead. "},{"Title":"Never a dull moment.","Date":"6 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"                 Sometimes this movie provoked awe at it's visual landscapes and other  times it caused unintentional laughter at it's kung fu action. But all in all I have to  say I was never bored by it and would watch it again. The plot is pure hokum (for  those interested the real story of the beast is very fascinating and can be found  in many online rescources) as Hawkeye and Tonto use kung fu to start theenlightenment and free France from evil. There is some stuff about overcoming  ignorance and superstition but a giant prehistoric animal is tracked with peyote,  so...           BUT, you can made the ridiculous believable when the cast plays along  this effectively, and the costumes are as good as I have seen anywhere.  Sets  like the ruined Templar cathedral,  and the palace at Versailles are beautiful  and detailed. It's COOL, guys, cool like James Dean if not Miles Davis andsometimes cool doesn't have to explain itself, you just know it when you see it.            8/10 "},{"Title":"Almost perfect","Date":"28 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is a great movie.  Beautiful with an engaging story, what else would you like.  I thought the Beast was a bit goofy and I didn't like some of the story elements but it was very good overall and well-worth seeing. "},{"Title":"The good reviews must have been paid for","Date":"27 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I gritted my teeth and watched it for 30 minutes, but this movie is a tidal wave of boredom. The claims that it has anything redeeming about it...I'm astounded.I was hoping for a campy enjoyable horror flick like The Fearless Vampire Slayers be sure to check that out. The stilted dialogue, the stilted action, the stilted plot, the totally stupid slow motion shots every couple of minutes...the fight scenes were not good, although the actor Mark Dacascos is a pleasure to watch.I haven't seen a film this bad in a long, long time. It is simply poorly put together. Money was spent on the sets and costumes, but they don't save this drivel.For real torture, get the English dubbed version. The French actors are dubbed with English accents that wobble all over the place, so that a French Duke is suddenly speaking with a cockney accent and other hilarities.Alas, it is too boring to be enjoyed as a bad, unintentionally funny film.*Shudders*  "},{"Title":"Bruce Willis goes kung fu on the werewolve's trail.","Date":"19 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  First half hour is a visual treat, the last half hour is boringly redundant. Padded with two cliched uninteresting romantic distractions. It's shame really because it has a lot going for it but the director and writer seem to have no sense of narrative drive and the only really sympathetic character is the monster. Truly though this is a film best described as being 'daft as a brush.' 6/10. "},{"Title":"Long, but easily enjoyed French fantasy thriller","Date":"1 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Wow, is it long ... 2 hours and 40 minutes.  But, there is so much to see and hear, that it is a worthwhile movie experience.  Especially for the home viewers who can stop any time they feel like it.  If you can see it subtitled, you should do so.  There are many close facial shots and the English dubbing makes this very irritating.  The fight scenes are a little contrived and drawn out, but otherwise the action works very well.The story is set in the French countryside where some huge creature is preying on people.  A recent traveler to North America and his native American friend are called on to investigate the problem on behalf ot the French king. "}{"Title":"Superb!","Date":"28 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Being an avid movie watcher and a horror movie fan this movie seemed like a good idea. I hate subtitles so I waited for the DVD. No subtitles, but alot of martial arts.I thought the opening scene rocked. It was so cool with the rain and those awesome coats. But seeing the opening scene kinda made me wonder what is up with a French movie with martial arts. Well the fighting was great but the special effects (especially the wolf) were very mediocre.The movie had alot more good than bad. It had a great soundtrack by Joseph LoDuca (of Army of Darkness fame) and a great plot.The movie is hard to put in a category, it is a horror/mystery/suspense/martial arts/thriller with alot of edge and great scenery.Mark Dacascos is awesome in the movie, before this movie I didn't even know who he was, but now I want to see all his movies. Samuel Li Bihan is also good at this whole karate/kung fu stuff.When you see the DVD (SPOILERS AHEAD) make sure to watch the extra scenes and the interviews. Like in the opening scene, not only Dacascos fights but Li Bihan. If you ask me this movie is a great all around movie with a surprise end and intensly cool fighting. "},{"Title":"wacky, but cool","Date":"28 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I must say, I am impressed.  Gans took many different elements and combined them very well to create this . . . i don't know how to define it.  Awesome action,, excellent storyline, interesting characters, good acting.  Dacascos and Gans are going to draw international acclaim for this, and they deserve it.  Hopefully, people will look to Gans when they think of great action movies, and not John I'm responsible for the decline of western cinema Woo. "},{"Title":"Agreed, something original and entertaining","Date":"22 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  As an East Indian living in the US, I found Le Pacte des Loups to be thoroughly entertaining and exciting, above all original and novel. Good break from the usual formula Hollywood flicks. Monica Bellucci was beautiful as ever, and a good surprise in the latter half of the movie. Mark Dacascos was good too, a many-a-time Karate champion in real.Overall, the new terror in medieval France was pretty creative, just left a few loose ends later on which can be easily ignored. 8/10 for me.  "},{"Title":"Good storytelling combined with nice visual effects = entertaining","Date":"18 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Brotherhood of the wolf takes place in France during the enlightment period. It's based on a true story, and a frightening one I must say. In the province of Gendauve people are mysteriously killed by a beast known as le bet. The king of France sends his best men to hunt the beast down and reassure the people of France. The setting of the movie is very nice. There's lots of beautiful French nature and idyllic  backgrounds and add some neat special effects you have a sweet visual impression.But a good visual impression is never enough to make a good movie (a few exceptions, The Matrix for example), and this is where Brotherhood of The Wolf differs from many others in its category. The story is screeching for a good movie but I feel this could very easily have become a flop. The way the story  is presented to us makes it really interesting and entertaining.Vincent Cassel plays delightfully latent evil and actually there's not many flaws to find on the acting part at all. All in all it's an interesting movie and it's fun to see that there are made good movies  outside the USA to a higher extent than before. So if you have the chance, go see it, it will hopefully entertain you as much as it did me.Rating 7/10Øyvind Holen "},{"Title":"A Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon For the French!","Date":"10 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  First off, I have to say that this movie had some of the best fight scenes that I have ever scene.  It was an experience comparable to Ang Lee's Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon (although Brotherhood was not as deep as CTHD).The movie is subtitled, yet it's really easy to follow.  Each character in the movie is unique and well-played by their respective actors/actresses.Aside from the great characters and the glorious fight scenes, the true gem that lies within the movie is the plot itself.  What is this werewolf that is killing the townspeople?  When the mystery of the beast is revealed, I was truly surprised and I must say that the final fight scene is 100 times better than any fight scene that appears in Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon.The camerawork in The Brotherhood of the Wolf is fantastic in the sense that it really captures the isolation of this French village as well as the haunting presence that the landscape creates.  The emotions of the characters are caught by the camera and presented in a way that leaves the impression in your mind long after the movie ends.Definitely an 8 out of 10 for being a fantastic action movie. "},{"Title":"Average story","Date":"4 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The story was average or even better, but the tricks were awful. They have done better tricks back in 60's in Hollywood. Especially the moving of the beast was anything but credible. Too bad it spoiled the promising movie. "},{"Title":"nonsence, utter nonsence","Date":"24 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Well what can I say.  it started with potential, beautifully shot and acted, but i think the director should have come on half way through, and apologise for starting the film without having a clue where it was going.the 'Beast'  looked like a  wolf in a suit of armour held on with a couple of thousand elastic bands, what was that about?  then half way through the film the beast is almost forgotten about as it becomes some sort of cult to overthrow the King.  disjointed isn't the word.the bloke who laments the loss of his arm for half the film, then produces one from under his corset.  why?the most ridiculous bit goes to the end when they were trying to wrap up the myriad of stories that had started in the proceeding 2 hours.  it jumps forward to have a flashback.  is it me or is this the silliest dramatic device of all time?the fight scenes were superb! and the brothel was indeed the best place in town to stay!preposterous nonsensical rubbish  "},{"Title":"I have the 3 disc Canadian set and found a scene not in the U.S. release.","Date":"19 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I first saw this movie in a local theater and could not wait to see it again. When the dvd came out I bought the 3 disc import from Canada and found it has a scene not on my friends U.S. disc release.Although a little too long I find this movie is my favorite from last year.The movie should be watched in french and with subtitles as the dubbed english voices seem older.I have watched the dvd several times and certain parts more often, the imagery is vividly beautiful. "},{"Title":"It was...ok...","Date":"16 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  1. The story was aite, but still almost fell asleep in some parts of the movie.2. The wolf looked cool, but how it was used in some scenes stunked.3. The fighting sucked. I prefer Matrix/Jet Li/Chinese martial art style.4. Well at least the first fight scene was kinda cool.5. This movie reminds me of The Musketeer...(shudders)3 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Not bad but...","Date":"2 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Enjoyed the movie but could have done without the phony martial arts scenes. They were badly out of place and I wound up fast forwarding through them which was sad since that was most of the combat in the movie. The story presented otherwise interesting charactors and moved at a good pace.  "}{"Title":"I enjoyed the first 6 hours, but...","Date":"15 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  If you can't gauge from my Summary line, I found this movie a bit too long. The opening to this film was the best that I've seen this year. There's a 'Jaws'-like attack and a Jet Li style fight scene. This is brought to you with excellent cinematography (I never thought someone stepping in puddles would look so good) and surrounded by awesome sound. Then what happens? Unnecessary character development, a painfully obvious mysterious bad guy, and a drawn out love story. This sounds like the whail of someone who just wants to watch a good action film. And whilst I am a John Woo fan, my movie tastes do extend beyond Van Damme. My problem with it is as follows- Some of the characters are mysterious, without their intentions being completely black and white. What's wrong with this? Yes character development is needed for plot progression, but not for every single character. As far as the bad guy goes, my 11 year old niece picked who it is, and she's been blind for 18 months. The drawn out love story? I'm not big on love stories at the best of times, but I accept them (hell, I like 'True Romance' and 'Private Parts'), but this was frustratingly long, and involved a guy that was so much in love that he visited whorehouses on regular occasions (I didn't mind that part so much). When I was beginning to lose hope in this flick, and write it off as a wasted opening, the movie became a mix of 'The Ghost and The Darkness', 'Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon' and 'End Of Days' (with it's 'Brotherhood' theme). This had some great scenes. A pis*ed off good guy out for vengeance, great hunting/FX/fight scenes, and solid blood levels. If edited by Robert Rodriguez, this movie would've been a 95 minute movie that was the envy of Hollywood. What we end up with is a 150 minute movie that is trying a bit too hard to be an 'epic' than what it really is - a monster movie/action film. 7.5/10  "},{"Title":"Filmed as if the French are trying to prove their importance","Date":"6 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  --- in the world of film making.Six -- Six -- Six story lines in one. Let's count!  Horror film cum historic epic, La  mystery, Tres Bein political intrigue, Parsian Kung-Fu fighting and a love story with the hero coming back to save the babe when we all foolishly thought he had been killed.And not one character talks like Maurice Chevalier. Imagine!! How rude.According to these film makers cross genres and haute cinematography are meant to replace your emotional investment in characters and a cohesive storyline.Call it -- Hidden Frenchie, Yawning Frog. "},{"Title":"re the negative posts","Date":"5 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I saw the subtitled film in a theatre dec 2 2002.In regards to the plot Does it really matter if the movie does not unfold like a novel?  The part about the rebels using the creature to terrorise the people to create problems for the king is not that bad.  If you think it is that terrible at least the events and situations throughout the movie maintains the excitement.In regards to martial arts On a movie review show in Aus two critics were arguing about its appropriateness.  In defence of the martial arts scenes one critic said that it was meant to be tongue in cheek and that the audience would know that.  Obviously not from the number of indignant comments like how would an Indian have known wing-chun?  I don't think the film makers pieced these characters bit by bit with a complete bio and history.  I think that being fans of martial arts movies, the film makers decided to add this element of excitement as a visual entertainment element. NOT a plot one.  Hence the lack of specific martial arts references from the characters to their abilities.Talking about the plot and martial arts, I found the fight scenes in this movie more entertaining than the matrix because while both were stunning to watch, Fronsac at least was fighting real and villainous people with added drama because he was avenging a dead friend.  Keanu on the other hand was fighting computer generated foes in his mind which was a little unsatisfying in terms of his combat credibility.  Some people thought the kung-fu scenes were boring but how could you not enjoy Fronsacs revenge seen in all its ruthless and bloody, vengeance.I did find the start a little slow in certain places, but the scenery that the dialogue was set against was so stunningly beautiful or haunting that it still maintained interest.  I was a little disappointed with the beast. It would always be scariest when unseen ofcourse, but the fact that it was so tame took a little of the menace away.  But, that is precisely the point when the main menace took the form of the people controlling it.  So its really a bonus that you get two scary evils in one movie.  Mani dying p***ed me off a little, if he had to die at least he could have done so more heroically, say rescuing someone.  Oh, and in response to the people that list its inclusion of racism as a bad point, IT IS MEANT TO SHOW A CHARACTORS STRUGGLE, not to glorify or endorse racism!  Isn't that evident due to the fact that Mani is a main character (with GOOD GUY plastered on his forehead)?  And in terms of the incestuous rape; Yes it is disturbing, BUT IT IS NOT GLORIFYING IT OR SAYING IT IS A GOOD THING.  It is meant to make the villain MORE VILLAINOUS.  In regards to the pacing of the movie being slow at the start; Its because it is BUILDING UP the excitement. Much like Beethoven's 9th symphony doesn't consist of the rousing 'ode to joy' finale the entire way through the piece.All in all, I tend to gauge movies like I do sketch comedy gags, even if the funny unfunny ratio is 60/40 its still good because the funny gags carry the crap ones.  In The Brotherhood of the Wolf, great action scenes (however unlikely), Monica Bellucci, and fantastic visuals carry the few bad points. The film makers were aiming to entertain by mixing different genres.  Are todays audiences so SOPHISTICATED that they can't enjoy a range of different ways?  Why can't we enjoy ruben's art as well as a movie poster, Fine cuisine and nachos, The opera and the chilli peppers?  Have we gotten to the point that having eaten lobster previously, we're going to compare it to the tasty fish and chips in front of us and say that it can't be enjoyed? "},{"Title":"Fun","Date":"2 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I don't understand why movies must be realistic in order to be good or even enjoyable. It wasn't as though this movie intended to be a documentary of any kind. Thus, I must say, while this movie was not anything particularly special, I nevertheless enjoyed it. The crazier it got, the more fun it became. While I didn't really understand why Monica Bellucci was in the movie, I wasn't going to start complaining about looking at her. Note spoilers I was a little disappointed in a couple of things. Firstly, it was a shame Mani the Indian had to die so early and so pointlessly. He was clearly more exciting to watch than the French dude who I didn't even know was the lead actor until he went on that killing spree. Secondly I would have preferred to see more of the beast, not only in screen time but also in the flesh, so I could try to figure out what it really looked like without all that gear on. I was particularly disappointed by the fact that the final fight scene involved two people and not the beast, even though the sword was pretty cool.  "},{"Title":"What the ????","Date":"2 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Beautifully filmed, beautiful actors, laughably stupid story. This film defies categorization, but it has everything a teen-aged boy loves a bloodthirsty monster, gore, nude chicks and AWESOME MORTAL KOMBAT FIGHT SCENES! And for the ladies really cute guys that kick ass!Annoying overuse of slow motion. High on visual style, but WAY too long and full of plot holes and absurdities likeSPOILERS!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!How in the heck did a Mohawk Indian (who looks quite Asian) become a martial arts master? For that matter how did a naturalist become a martial arts master? What was the whole point of the secret society controlling the beast? What the heck was the beast? A beast from Africa, what, a lion? I've never seen any lion move like that thing could. It sure didnt look like a lion, although we never see it without it's suit of armor on. And the number one absurdity (common to all martial arts films) when five or more people, all holding sticks, swords or other sharp pointy objects have the hero surrounded, WHY do they always insist on standing there and taking him one at a time, so he can kick their butts singly, instead of all just rushing him and making a human pincushion out of him? It's silly.END SPOILERS !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!IMHO Brotherhood of the Wolf is over-rated. Put some Matrix style fight scenes in and people seem to think you have a good movie. Don't get me wrong, I like action and horror films, but this was not a good one. Even my wife, who likes martial arts films more than I, thought this was way too over the top. But my niece pretty much summed it up with I don't care about the stupid story, the indian guy looks great with his shirt off, and he kicks ass. Well there you have it... "},{"Title":"Staggeringly beautiful...oh, besides Monica Belluci?","Date":"26 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  What a fantastically shot movie.  At times I wanted them to stop hammering me with the convoluted conspiracy theories and the contrite romantic entanglements of 18th century france just so I could watch the snow fall. Each frame is so perfectly lit, costumed, and photographed that everything else is forgivable.And while we're on the topic of beauty, let's just say on the day I meet the Creator, I'm going to walk up and say, God?  Everything else aside, this is for Monica Belluci! and give him a high-five.But all of this is really just cosmetic right?  If the story itself doesn't stand up, it isn't worth the price of admission.  And sadly, I have to say, I would recommend a rental over a purchase for this.  "},{"Title":"Plain and simple it looks cool.","Date":"23 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Don't come to this film hoping to be won over by a brilliant plotline or inspiring dialogue -- come to this film with your intellect down and your visual-aesthetics meter on high.  The cinematography is stunning, and the fight scenes eclipse even those of the Matrix.  If you have a flat screen or hi def television and surround sound you will be drawn into an ocular extravaganza of jumpkicks and violent sensuality amidst gorgeously layered nature backdrops and the most stunning rain scene since Shawshank Redemption.  This movie is cool; it looks cool, it sounds cool (use subtitles or all is lost), and it makes you want to develop the body and confidence of Marc Decascos (Mani).  Expect to sit through a long (Canadian version add ten minutes), self-indulgent film -- yet, if you allow yourself to indulge along with it, you will experience a masterfully directed, beautifully ornate martial arts romance. "},{"Title":"WAY TOO LONG!!","Date":"16 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"      Although no worse than any American made horror film, this movie takes way too long to get to it's simple ending!  A lot of guts, gore, nudity and sex!  If violence entertains you, than have a go at it!    For those of us that enjoy a good solid plot, the bummer of this movie is that it takes so long to let you down with the typical Hollywood style ending! "},{"Title":"A great, very stylish movie","Date":"14 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  First, I have to clear up a bit of ignorance being displayed in a few of the reviews. The Iroquois was a Five Nations Confederacy formed by the five Iroquoian-speaking nations; Mohawk, Onondaga, Seneca, Cayuga, and Oneida.I won't bore you with a synopsis. If you're reading this, you've probably already read one or more, and know the basic plot. Personally, I like the political/religious intrigues, the compelling and interesting plot, the highly stylistic fight sequences (not everyone's thing, but I like them), and the convincing acting.My only complaint is with the voice dubbing. The voice acting was well done, and matched the screen acting very nicely, but the purely technical quality of the sound seemed a bit off. Maybe it would sound better on a true surround-sound system. If you have the option, I'd recommend seeing it with subtitles. Then again, I generally recommend that. Its the only way I'll watch Jean-Paul Rappeneau's Cyrano de Bergerac, or Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon.My final recommendation is to ignore everything I've said (well, except for the historical corrections in the first paragraph; people who spread their ignorance tick me off). Rent the movie for yourself; in most places, it'll cost you less than a McDonald's Happy Meal. Watch it for yourself. Its much better to have your own opinion that to have someone else's second-hand. "},{"Title":"Great historical adventure!","Date":"29 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  On first viewing of this film I found myself underwhelmed by it.  Some of my criticisms were a) The film seemed unbalanced, the first hour being mostly a art-house style costume drama while the second half was all of a sudden filled with Hollywood action sequences b)Confusing and lacking in details in places (this may be down to me having seen a cut version) c)As I'm interested in the case of The Beast Of Gevaudan, I was disappointed that such a fascinating story is only a small part of this movie.  I wanted to see more of the history and legend in the film and see The Beast get used more. On a second viewing however, I was able to appreciate it's finer qualities and accept it for a an enjoyable well crafted historical adventure, that's only partly based on the real details of the legend. The film does a good job of incorporating various styles into it's story (martial arts/historical drama/political intrigue/social commentary/historical romance/horror/fantasy etc).  The action scenes are well done.  Mark Dascascos does a fine job in his martial arts scenes and Gregoire De Fronsac's series of battle scenes against the Brotherhood are excellently choreographed.  The Beast does have some impressive sequences too (pity it's underused overall).  The film does also have some clever ideas and is inventive in having it's own feel to it. It may take more than one viewing to fully catch everything, get to know who's who and appreciate the film for what it is, but ultimately it's largely satisfying and a thrillingly entertaining ripping yarn.  7/10 "}{"Title":"Two Thirds Incredible/One Third Groaner.","Date":"26 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is a film that is entertaining - surprisingly so.  I watched it last night - renting the dvd in response to an advertising blitz for the three dvd set.  By now - you, the reader, are likely somewhat familiar with the premise of this tale.  There's a Beast that is wreaking bloody havoc on the village, and it must be stopped.  Our protagonists - Fronsac (a naturalist and embittered war vet) and Mani (a mostly silent Native American Mystic/Savage) are hired by the King of France to deal with this Beast.  The first two-thirds of the plot are incredibly captivating with little filler.  Familiar elements are here - incestuous longing from the Gladiator, the noble Savage from countless films, conspiracies from Sleepy Hollow (and others), martial arts fighting from Crouching Tiger and so on.  However, it borrows these things and applies them in an original and engaging manner.  It's not until the conspiracies unfold do I develop a sense of uneasiness about the film itself.  The scenery unfolded magnificently - the backdrop landscape is on par with Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon.  The period concept was supported quite well also.  The costuming, the actual sets (houses, castles, whatnot) were stunningly rendered and quite believable.  As I watched, I was really there.As a non-French speaker - I am unable to comment on the calibre of the spoken dialogue - I watched the subtitled version. However, the inflections and tones seemed human and sincere.The actors were great, each handling her/her role with adroitness and humanity rarely seen in a film that involves this type of storyline (a hunt for a wolf of unnatural strength and its origins).Noting that the film is told in another language and I must resort to reading the dialogue due to my lack of worldliness, this movie (as with all Foreign films) is forced to try a little harder than most Hollywood fare to impress me.  It succeeds!  Even with this very slight handicap - I enjoyed the film immensely for the first two-thirds.  It had action, it had sex, it had intrigue, and most importantly - it had bravado.  The special effects and camera work were breath-taking.  The technique of slowing the action sequences down was brilliant - it made the scenes with the Beast all the more believable.  The Beast's appearance could have been dismissed as silly, yet the style allowed it to seem more real.Here's where I start complaining - *SPOILER ALERT* - The final third of this film went into overdrive on the conspiracy theories and justifying the existence of the Beast.  The Beast was a tool of a mystical secret society comprised of the odd bedfellows of gypsies, priests, and politicians who seemed to feel the need to re-kindle the 'fear of God' in the nation's people and especially into the King of France himself.  From there, the story became more pointless and less magical.  Revenge becomes a motive and an ineffective and unnecessary plot devise.  It tries to hard to be all things to all people.  (Conspiracy themes are over-used and simply too convenient these days -- whatever happened to the unsolved mystery?)  I suspect that this theme is the unfortunate byproduct of Hollywood reaching all the way over to folks in France - a shame really.All in all - I'll rank this film a 7/10.  This is based on an exceptional start - great scenery, excellent choreography of action sequences, strong acting, intriguing story (without the conspiracy theme in the final part) and good camera work.  The three points are docked due to the cumbersome conspiracy and the film's apparent need for complete closure.  Having said that - it deserves to be seen - rent it, watch it and form your own opinion (and post it here - if you're so inclined). "},{"Title":"Two Thirds Incredible/One Third Groaner.","Date":"26 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is a film that is entertaining - surprisingly so.  I watched it last night - renting the dvd in response to an advertising blitz for the three dvd set.  By now - you, the reader, are likely somewhat familiar with the premise of this tale.  There's a Beast that is wreaking bloody havoc on the village, and it must be stopped.  Our protagonists - Fronsac (a naturalist and embittered war vet) and Mani (a mostly silent Native American Mystic/Savage) are hired by the King of France to deal with this Beast.  The first two-thirds of the plot are incredibly captivating with little filler.  Familiar elements are here - incestuous longing from the Gladiator, the noble Savage from countless films, conspiracies from Sleepy Hollow (and others), martial arts fighting from Crouching Tiger and so on.  However, it borrows these things and applies them in an original and engaging manner.  It's not until the conspiracies unfold do I develop a sense of uneasiness about the film itself.  The scenery unfolded magnificently - the backdrop landscape is on par with Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon.  The period concept was supported quite well also.  The costuming, the actual sets (houses, castles, whatnot) were stunningly rendered and quite believable.  As I watched, I was really there.As a non-French speaker - I am unable to comment on the calibre of the spoken dialogue - I watched the subtitled version. However, the inflections and tones seemed human and sincere.The actors were great, each handling her/her role with adroitness and humanity rarely seen in a film that involves this type of storyline (a hunt for a wolf of unnatural strength and its origins).Noting that the film is told in another language and I must resort to reading the dialogue due to my lack of worldliness, this movie (as with all Foreign films) is forced to try a little harder than most Hollywood fare to impress me.  It succeeds!  Even with this very slight handicap - I enjoyed the film immensely for the first two-thirds.  It had action, it had sex, it had intrigue, and most importantly - it had bravado.  The special effects and camera work were breath-taking.  The technique of slowing the action sequences down was brilliant - it made the scenes with the Beast all the more believable.  The Beast's appearance could have been dismissed as silly, yet the style allowed it to seem more real.Here's where I start complaining - *SPOILER ALERT* - The final third of this film went into overdrive on the conspiracy theories and justifying the existence of the Beast.  The Beast was a tool of a mystical secret society comprised of the odd bedfellows of gypsies, priests, and politicians who seemed to feel the need to re-kindle the 'fear of God' in the nation's people and especially into the King of France himself.  From there, the story became more pointless and less magical.  Revenge becomes a motive and an ineffective and unnecessary plot devise.  It tries to hard to be all things to all people.  (Conspiracy themes are over-used and simply too convenient these days -- whatever happened to the unsolved mystery?)  I suspect that this theme is the unfortunate byproduct of Hollywood reaching all the way over to folks in France - a shame really.All in all - I'll rank this film a 7/10.  This is based on an exceptional start - great scenery, excellent choreography of action sequences, strong acting, intriguing story (without the conspiracy theme in the final part) and good camera work.  The three points are docked due to the cumbersome conspiracy and the film's apparent need for complete closure.  Having said that - it deserves to be seen - rent it, watch it and form your own opinion (and post it here - if you're so inclined). "},{"Title":"Bloated Euro-trash","Date":"26 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I am displeased.  But if you were to glance at any of my other posts this shoulden't seem unusual.  So I will first mention that I have decided to no longer pan only the most pannable flicks but instead expound upon my choicest favorites in the future as long as I see fit.  It only makes sense just to balence my ki a little. Commencing with the bash-o-rama.  I'm no stranger to meandering plots, theatrical swooning, and an occasional blood feast to pass the time with remote in hand, still I had yet to experience this frenzied atrocity.  How on earth was this movie supposed to pace it's sorry self?  It teems with dopey romantic dialog exchanged with excessive swagger from the utterly nonsensical taxidermist/forinsic B.S. artist gadabout in the lead role. He and his one note amer-indian buddy, who was entirely too Tonto-esqe for my liking, employed lethally farcical chop-suey fighting techniques to dispatch their gadally apparalled foes in brutal, unrepentant savagery.  Me and my friend were reminded of the overstylized violence in the moronic Mortal Kombat movie which of course fits right in place in a movie of this setting and period...yeah right! I was uttery clueless to just what in the hell the epileptic girl with her bedraggled father were involved with in regard to the slayings. I believe the problem in following that part of the plot was some young female was always being found half dead and being brought to the castle grounds to be cared for but I simply coulden't comprehend what that or anything revealed about the damn story! I should have stopped watching after the scene where the courtasan shrieked to the madame about being afraid of the indian's tattooed snakes for which the woman replied Okay, who will sleep with the redskin?. Utterly tastless.  "},{"Title":"overrated","Date":"24 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  OK, the cinematography and the art direction and sets, combine to give a fascinating backdrop to a promising mystery-horror story.  But the story is, frankly, stupid.  And the plot is extremely slow, ponderous and pretentious.  Often you feel you've seen that gloomy scene before, and before, and before.  And when it's all over, you wonder  What the hell was that really all about?  Was it worth 2 1/2 hours of mystery only to learn something that is ridiculous? "},{"Title":"DVD is marvelous and provides keys for understanding","Date":"4 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Early in 2002, I intended to see this on the big screen but missed it before it left our area in N. Indiana/SW Michigan; I was optimistic that a DVD extended version would be a good trade-off to seeing and hearing in the movie house.  I do recommend this feature to adult audiences who relish a thriller-mystery.  It comes with pretty interesting disclosures in the Deleted Scenes section and the narrative disruption in this film's flow was surprisingly subtle.  I won't give away much of this director's tricks but the film has some beautiful locales to feature and some amazing camera shots to catch the audience off guard.  Great use of stunts (very comparable to THE_MATRIX and CROUCHING_TIGER. . .)!  Don't expect a resolution of certain plot twists and turns but it evokes a France of +240 years ago in a way that keeps us looking for clues as to the beast and le Pacte.  I rate it 10 *'s !! "},{"Title":"Amazing... Breathtaking... Visually Stunning","Date":"3 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  So the last movie that I can honestly say made me feel the way Pacte des Loupes made me feel was Lord of the Rings.  Since then not a single movie had the capability of moving me the way this movie has moved me.  When I began watching this movie I could tell right away that the magic of the camera was going to be something special.  I can not emphasize enough how literally awesome this movie is.  I see so many movies that when I see something like Pacte des Loups, I rank it up there with Matrix, Gladiator, Lord of the Rings and Greenmile... those, my friends, are the best movies I have ever seen and now Brotherhood is going to be one of them... maybe even the one at the top of the list.  Next time I get a chance I am going to buy it... so you MUST see it.ASR "},{"Title":"not what i expected","Date":"2 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  this isn't crouching tiger, the medevil matrix, or anything else it is being touted as.  i guess not being a idiot frat boy i dont have the appreciation for this film that many others do.  if you have seen good movies you will immediately recognize that this is not one of them.  the story is weak, the movie relies on the occaisional tricky camera shot or gimic (which is strange and out of place because the film is otherwise shot in a very straightforward style) the talent cannot act and its not because they are speaking a different language, and, the movie is about 50 minutes too long and therefore is boring as hell. "},{"Title":"Fantastic-One of the years best","Date":"2 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I am going to say as well as others. This is a movie you either love or you hate. There really isn't any inbetween which is nice for a change when your trying to get an definite answer if your trying to judge if you want to see a movie or not. AnyhowsThis is easily one of my favorite movies of all time. The scenery was beautiful, the script was better then what I could have imagined. After all, for me, I am not really big into foreign films but a fan of the horror genre. But then again, this movie can't be classified at just one genre. Seems like there is a little comedy, martial arts,suspense. Basically every genre you can imagine is in this movie and it works surprisingly well. Even the english dubbing wasn't bad. The dubbing on this was much better then Crouching Tiger,hidden dragon (which i felt was better with subtitles because the dubbing was horrendous)I watched this with my dad last night and we both enjoyed it. His only gripe was the length (the running time is nearly 2 1/2 hrs, not counting deleted scenes), but the length didn't bother me since I am used to watching long movies to begin with.So I suggest everyone give this at least half a chance because it would be a shame for a movie like this to not be seen.  "},{"Title":"Be drunk","Date":"29 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of the worst movies I have ever seen. I wouldn't recommend this movie to my worst enemies. It is so boring and vapid I found myself praying for it to end. The storyline and plot are so unbelievably shallow you would wonder if the makers were ever told that a movie needed a plot or a storyline. At least you would think that the action scenes would be somewhat worthwhile - I mean, they didn't take anytime writing any story, they might as well make good action scenes huh? Wrong.. the action scenes are so contrived they seem like they come out of a bad video game. Beyond that, the director is utterly full of himself, using sped up shots and slowed down shots with no artistic reason at all other than to show off. A pointless movie and an utter waste of human effort. "},{"Title":"Quite appropriate, much related to the story line!","Date":"28 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  THE BROTHERHOOD OF THE WOLF was of particular interest to me psychologically and mythologically since the story tells of a creature that no one actually sees and which is so destructive to humankind.  I found that the visual, sound, actual writing made for a complete and satisfying experience.  I viewed the film three times in an effort to notice the small and special details of the characters and of the psychological aspects of the intrapsychic and interpersonal aspects which gave this film such strength and validity as a story. Myth often has much truth about the human species and its propensity for good and evil. This film story offers the viewer the opportunity to witness that goodness can win out and the the sadness of loss can be overcome and faced.   "}{"Title":"If you have the chance, see this movie.","Date":"22 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  No matter what one expects from this film, they will more than likely be impressed by the outcome.First I'll just point out the good qualities of the movie. The acting was decent, the cinematography and the scenery was excellent, the plot was very well designed and flowed together perfectly throughout the film.The only things I didn't care for too much was the english dubbing on the video I watched. Some people can tolerate dubbing, but I just find it strange to have peoples' mouths moving and the words not matching their mouths... Also the movie runs at 2 hours and 30 minutes, quite a lengthy movie based off of a folklore tale, especially when the first hour is noticeably slower than the remaining time.Just sit back, watch this movie with no expectations beforehand and you will be treated to a great movie that contains several interesting subplots within it, all worked in together to make a great story. "},{"Title":"A fine film, but how many versions are there? *Spoilers*","Date":"9 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  In keeping with many other reviewers here, I thoroughly enjoyed 'Brotherhood of the Wolf', even if it is slightly long and drags in parts.But what interests me most is that I've seen two different versions, each with *long* scenes changed and or/missing. The first version I saw several months ago, and last night I watched the UK DVD version.In the first version I saw, the Royal Hunter arrives in a grand procession, and (whilst sitting in a bath) fires the Chevalier before turning his attentions to an unwilling serving girl. Later in the film he presents the Chevalier with a dead wolf, and instructs him to use his skills as a taxidermist to turn the wolf into the semblance of the corpse of 'the Beast', and despite his protests, the Chevalier creates a magnificent fake, which is presented to the Royal court in Paris. A discussion ensues, leading to the statement 'officially, the Beast was dead'.These scenes were *entirely* missing in the UK DVD version, thus arbitarily removing a major character and important plot point. However, a long scene was added, starting with the theft from the brothel of the Chevalier's picture of the Italian lady, his dismissal from the castle by the the young lady and her brother and a dockside scene showing the Chevalier making preperations for embarkation. This very long scene wasn't in the original version I saw at all (and as it adds nothing to the film, I can see why itwas cut).Does anyone know *why* there are two versions, and why the UK DVD is the less satisfying release?  "},{"Title":"GREAT!!!!!!!","Date":"7 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  (MAYOR SPOILER ABOUT THE BEAST!)Well, like everyone with half a brain has written, it's a great movie in every sense. But the most original part for me was the Beast itself (spoiler ahead!!!) which is basically a giant cat (a lion, panther or tiger) very well trained wearing a custom-made armor. Remember HE-MAN's battle-cat? exactly, just minus the seat, and add very long and black furr on the back, almost like paster. This armor alows it to survive bullets and to have a shark-like bite (it has a helmet which surrounds most of the mouth as well, providing and upper metal jaw, and protecting the head from, say, a tomahawk). That's it. I don't remember seeing a monster like this before, therefore the originality. "},{"Title":"Awesome Movie","Date":"7 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I was in Scotland last year and saw this movie- all i can say i wow! What a great thriller!! Highly reccommended! I saw it with a guy and a girl and they both agreed that it was great. Don't be turned off by the subtitles, you don't even notice them after the first 20 minutes, and action sequences do not need subtitles!! "},{"Title":"Rent it, Buy it, Just See it Somehow","Date":"7 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The Brotherhood of the Wolf was quite possibly one of the best films of 2001, even if American audiences didn't embrace it. This movie had so much going for it, its a shame that people would pass on it just because it was subtitled. From action to horror to mystery, the movie was well balanced and well paced. The fighting/action scenes were incredible. The beast was convincing, if a little CG-ish at times, and the who-dun-it formula worked very well, always leaving you guessing. The subplot love story was even acceptably handled and didn't pull you too far away from the main story. I think this movie truly has something for everyone. The fear of the beast came across much better than in The 13th Warrior, where you were never really worried about the monsters in the fog. And the sudden change in character by Grégoire de Fronsac, the main inspector, was surprising and very entertaining to watch. If you can get passed the subtitles, give this movie a try, you will be pleasantly surprised. "},{"Title":"Entertaining, stylized French movie","Date":"5 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The historical background of this movie, with excessive footage is on France immersed in a discontent between the monarchy and the feudal power ,and in the middle a town with no food and much hungry, although more macabre is the presence of a giant beast which kill country mans in the forest area of Gevaudan. The question that appears, Is this work of a werewolf, a big bear, or something supernatural? Two mans Gregoire of Fronsac a naturalistic taxidermist(A magnificent Samuel Le Biahn) and his brother of blood the American native Mani,who is in fact an expert on martial arts and old magic traditions ( Mark Dacascos) arrive at the place with the purpose of preserving the creature after death, and suddenly  they are involved in the middle of the facts.  Well is AMAZING that a country as France had chosen a movie with this kind of narrative structure, maybe Hollywood but France, WOW, is a movie that moves between horror and fantasy, with some fight sequences a few plenty of the movie that remembered the style of Crouching tigger, hidden dragon and Matrix, mixed with the atmospheres and a similar kind of mystery as in the marvelous Sleepy Hollow from Tim Burton, and also the open spaces on the forest as Ravenous. One of the big achievements from the script writers is the use of fear for the creature as a way in which a social secret brotherhood try to fight for their class rights on that times. The camera movements are pretty originals, the soundtrack is so intriguing as action sequences, the locations are amazing, the photography brings to the story a macabre, twisted-horror atmosphere full of pretty country views. A competitive cast where also appears Monica Belucci in the strong role of a mysterious prostitute and Vincent Cassel as the perverse leader of a secret brotherhood, lord of the beast. Is an extremely intelligent movie, the attacks of the beast are impressive and violent-savage although this creature is not very well explained, Where was its origin? and probably some characters were a few short and colds, but in fact this story of legends and fantastic myths is a delirious gore nightmare with a clear and big visual style. "},{"Title":"stylish, cool historical romp that is long but worth it","Date":"3 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  An interesting film that is a mix of Hong Kong action adventure and historical pagentry.  At first I thought it would be a typical catch the bad werewolf flick but was very surprised at many turns.  For a french film it is surprisingly middle of the road on the King vs. The Revolution topic. Well worth a watch if you can see it. Very cool extras on the dvd.It is also unbelievable that the studios who own the dubbing industry still succeed in keeping all competition out by not not allowing theatrical releases to be dubbed.  Then we are told that it is so wrong to dubb a film. Who watched the spaghetti westerns in the original five different languages that they were filmed in? Fifth element was partially filmed in french, too........... Hmmm.  Maybe it might be time to get on the studios to stop doing this.This film is not Shakespeare but a well done good adult action adventure and should be enjoyed as such.   "},{"Title":"Not enough of Dacascos!!!","Date":"30 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film seems to provoke two types of reaction, love or hate.  I'm sort of in the middle.  The film is alright.  I wouldn't buy it nor would I condemn it.The main problem with this movie is that Mark Dacascos isn't involved enough.  Every time he is on the screen he is dominant and is buy far the most mysterious and complex, and so by definition, the most interesting character in the movie.  The film would have been so much better if Mani was around a bit more.The story line is above average.  It keeps you hooked to the screen.  I think because it is based on a true story it grabs peoples imagination.  Because the beast really did claim over 100 victims in Gevaudan it adds a bit more horror to the tale.  The directing was good as well.  Slow-mo mixed with real-time in the fighting scenes was good, reminds me of sam packinpah.  The country side was spectacular and the costumes looked magnificent, but when Dacascos is in the cast I expect a lot more ass kicking!This movie is defiantly worth renting for the night, but it's not a classic.  "},{"Title":"Another classic French drama!","Date":"29 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is the kind of superb drama that only the French can do. Along the likes of La Reine Margot, Cyrano De Bergerac and The Crimson Rivers, there is now Brotherhood Of The Wolf.All I can say, is that the intelligently written historical drama, is a wonderful blend of history, myth, fantasy and horror. Good acting, beautiful scenery, and a plot that never goes where you expect it.I would highly recommend this movie, but avoid the English dubbed version, which is possibly one of the worst ever committed to a foreign-language film!And, if like me, you loved the haunting End Credits song, it's called Once by Felicia Sorenson! Truly sublime! "},{"Title":"18th Century French action packed monster movie.","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" (***** out of *****)'Le Pacte des loups' or `Brotherhood of the Wolf' is never sure of what it really wants to be, but whenever it tries to be something it do so very well. The movie is based on a set of real events which occurred in France around the time of the revolution. Because of this the director must satisfy everybody including his French historical peers, scholars, the general French movie-goer and horror enthusiasts&#133;&#133;.. with a hit of softcore pornography for those that want that too. What you get is a mix of love, terror, kung-fu, monster attacks and French anarchy a brew in glorious widescreen for over two hours.The film is very French but whenever the beast is being hunted or is running amok the film goes into `super-overdrive'. This is really where the heart of the story should be but there is not enough of this as the plot drifts more into the department of seedy royal undertones and lovers who seem to sleep with everyone else but the ones they are supposed to be loyal too. But the result is pure and utter bedlam for two hours that never sits still or gets tired itself. You will be hard pressed to sit through this film without enjoying at least a good bit of it.The director has decided that every type of film genre should have its share on the screen. The result is something that is very original, new and has never been seen before! For that 'Le Pacte des loups' scores tops marks, but alas it does have its pitfalls.The monster does not make enough of an appearance towards the end, but the build up to it is akin to `Jaws'. The love triangles are not needed and are simply there for a taste of `Dangerous Liaisons'. The upper class characters are only explained through their dialogue and interactions but remain quite wooden apart from a good scene involving an Indian, Mani (a superbly acted Mark Dacascos!!.. can u believe it?)  telling them what their animal totem is. Although Mani is one of the highlights of the film, not to mention a main character, he never seems to escape the fact that he is just another `Queequeg' from `Moby Dick'.On the upside the editing, stunts, camera and rain is second to none. The screen violence is executed quite well (this is an extremely bloody picture in the second half) to quell the thirst of the horror fans and the investigation of the beast's species type is a cool neat coy that plays with you right up until the end.In short, this movie is a rare opportunity to see what an `all genre' film looks like if anything else. Undoubtedly in time it will become a `cult classic'&#133;&#133;.and it probably deserves it too.  "}{"Title":"Mystery beyond belief","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I was totally hooked by this action/thriller/mystery/drama movie. It really is hard to specify what genre would describe it best. The story itself is intriguing, making you want to know what really happened. The cast, including f.ex Vincent Cassel, Samuel le Bihan, Monica Bellucci and Mark Dacascos, does flawless job. Every scene is perfect I enjoy the colors, the lights and shadows, the camera angles, the speed and slow motion, everything. The director Christophe Gans does extraordinary job in this movie. All mystery/legend lovers will love this movie!  "},{"Title":"Its a hell of a thing","Date":"29 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Brotherhood of the Wolf is for lack of better words, pretty darnsweet.  Its a great martial arts action adventure, its a goodhorror/monster movie, its a good romance.  There is a lot of greatstyle and action.  Basically its an action fan's dream.  If you cantfind something to like about this movie you should probably getthat stick removed, if you know what i mean ;)  I highly recommendseeing this one, its something you have never seen before.   "},{"Title":"Surprising and Delightful","Date":"22 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Often you can predict the full plot before the credits are over. You then settle back, turn off your brain and enjoy the show. With this film you keep getting jarred awake and find yourself saying, What the hell is that!.You are never sure who is the hero, or even what is the genre. Its like fusion cuisine (e.g. French-Thai).Its quite goofy in spots and afterwards it doesn't hold up to too much logical analysis but it sure is entertaining. It is also cinematically very lush. A good date flic. "},{"Title":"Never underestimate this one!","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Never underestimate this movie. The name doesn't tell much, not to even mention the boring translation to swedish that was on the box of this video...Neither does the back cover of the video tell much about what it is.I tell you people, do NOT underestimate or underrate this movie. It will really surprise you, that even if it's a french film, I promise you that it will really really twist your mind and change your opinion about foreign films.This one doesn't have like all those Hollywood cheesy boppin kliché-filled scenes and no-brainers. This one is real close to a masterpiece.Even though the actors aren't known to our american viewers doesn't make the movie bad.The landscape-scenes are really astonishing, the way the camera moves is something really really special in the action scenes. I can't describe it with my own words.You GOT to see it!I'd rate this movie 9/10 because it's top-notch! "},{"Title":"finally a good french/action film with french actors!","Date":"5 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Without any doubt in my mind, le pacte des loups is one of the best french action movies of the last twenty years. I am a french living in America and enjoy movies from both nations, unfortunately the french have never been really succesful in making action/hollywood movies.  The only good director in that department is Luc Besson who even though French makes his movies with american actors(Milla Jovovish, bruce willis, dustin hoffman).  But le pacte des loups has a special atmosphere to it that makes it unique in many ways.First and foremost, it is not everyday you see martial arts in 18th century France.  In the beginning i was very skeptical but then i realized the formula is perfect, the director never overuses the style and keeps it very balanced throughout the movie(wait until you see the last fighting sequence)The story is also very interesting but might be a little confusing for the non-French speakers if using the subtitles.  I will not reveal any part of the story since the IMDB plot outline tells all you need to know without giving any spoilers.Finally the actors, Samuel Le Bihan the new French Brad Pitt is great and you should expect a lot out of this guy in the near future.  Vincent Cassel is still awesome although not as good as in la haine but he still gives a top notch performance.  Last but surely not least, Mark Dacascos shows his martial art with great style, although he does not talk a whole lot, his physical performance is worth watching the movie.Whether you are into martial arts movies or just looking for something different, le pacte des loups will surely capture your imagination. "},{"Title":"La Pacte De Wonderful!!!!","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I was glad I didn't know ahead of time that this was a sub-titled film.-otherwise I would've never seen it. I had never sat through a foriegn language film before(EVER). once I forced myself past the language barrier I found this to be the best film to come out since Lord of The Rings-part 1Fellowship of the Ring. If a movie is going to be better than this one in 2002, it better be 200 times better than fantastic, otherwise this film will probally end up as my favorite film for the year 2002(NO KIDDING)its going to be hard to beat-----The story with all the plot twist sub-layers is nothing short of AMAZING, the Action and fight sequences are as good as any film I've ever seen, the cinematograghy is as briliant, and the costumes were also excellent.----I cannot wait to purchase a copy on DVD  or Video and see this film again and again.  "},{"Title":"Breathtaking, Less a movie than a work of art.","Date":"11 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  When I first heard of Le Pacte des Loups I didn't know what to expect, I just knew I had to see it. Sitting in the theatre though, I was blown away. I never expected to see a French martial arts film in a first run Cinema. The camera work absolutely amazed me. The combination of the choice of colors for scene and costumes combined with the cinestropic effects stopped my heart. The story was incredible, and the acting and dialogue were so believable that I empathized with the characters and actually forgot that I was watching a foreign film. Not to mention the choreography which was excellent. This film impressed me so much that it is the first film that I have given a 10 to on this site. Bravo. I can't wait for the DVD to be released. "},{"Title":"Good, pretty good!","Date":"6 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film is a real art of work!  It is mostly based on a true story, though Mani is a fantasy-character whom did not exist in reality.  But who cares? This film is wonderful!  I am going to get it on Dvd(It is already given out on Dvd in Norway, with subtitles).  The fighting scenes are... Well, what can I say?  Better than the fighting in The Matrix, is my opinion.  But I don't really like nudity in films, which there are some of in this movie.  Not much, and I am glad it is that way.  When I watched this movie, I even forgot that they were speaking in french.  Christophe Gans, you are a genius! "},{"Title":"Le Pacte des loups (Brotherhood of the Wolf) was an astounding movie","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Le Pacte des loups (Brotherhood of the Wolf) was an astounding movie.  The plot was excellent, the slow motion scenes were out of this world, the sound and visual effects were amazing, and there was a lot of foreshadowing in the movie.  Even though this movie was not in English I had no problem with seeing subtitles because I have seen other foreign films with them.  I am really glad that I have seen this movie.  If you want to see a movie that has action, adventure, drama, with foreshadowing and a ferocious beast in it, you would love Le Pacte des loups; even though it's not in English.  I give Le Pacte des loups two thumbs up (I may not be a critic but I think my comment counts too).  It got my attention and after the movie, I couldn't stop talking good things about it. Kudos to the director for making this great movie.             "},{"Title":"Wonderful movie","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  One of the best movies I've seen in the past few years.. and the soundtrack is superb. 10 stars and a little more... it should be considered for an Oscar..This is a movie that I will buy for sure if ever comes out on DVD in the USA.. Some international movies are difficult to watch but this movie was extraordinary! "}{"Title":"Dr. Strange-Arm or How I grew bored watching this film.","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Ohhh man...  what a nightmare...  How long was I watching this film?  2 and a half-hours of sitting in a theatre seat, not to mention and hour and half getting to and from the theater... Man, this movie was soo bad it is embarrassing.  There is a lot of talent behind it good cinematography, good color timing, some okay FX (and a lot of cheesy stuff too)...  But my god, where the hell was the story going!?  Anywhere but forward is where.Think of this thing as a 2 1/2 hour video game, only the effects aren't as good, the sound isn't creepy enough, and it was written by a first-timer (must have, the script was awful, I'd be ashamed if that wasn't my first script).  Oh, and yeah, regardless of how badly you want to, you cannot control this video game.The sad thing is it isn't even good enough to be a good popcorn movie.  Fist of all, its like 3 times too long to be a good popcorn movie, the dialog is far too ho-hum, and at least good popcorn movies have some sense of continuity even if in some funny way &#150; but this!?  Yeah right&#133;  Maybe they where trying to create some action epic.  What they created was a room full of sleeping people who at least got a decent nap for $9 admission price.The more I think about it I cannot understand how Studio Canal+ was able to honestly put the movie out in its current form.  They need to seriously hack off and hour and half of the movie and re-title it.  Either make it,   `Kung-Paw Enter the Fist Holding Stick' or  `I Know What you Did Last Century' or hey, they have so much footage they could probably even pull off something like `Wild Hearts Can't Be Broken in Slow Motion through Puddles'.Too bad.  I have had the production booklet from Studio Canal+ (cousin works there) for over a year.  Maybe I had worked up expectation levels too much.  But honestly, is making a movie coherent enough to pay attention to for 2 ½ hours too much to ask for?  I guess in this case Yes.Better luck next time.Oh, and instead of trying to show everyone you can do all the fancy techniques that Hong-Kong and the US have been perfecting for the past decade, try to be unique next time.  At least your attempts wont looked botched.  You can always get by with saying that it's new! "},{"Title":"Ultra-hip, utter rubbish!!! Burn the negative!!","Date":"14 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I guess we have John Woo to blame for crap like this. In the hands of a real director this could have been good, since a real director would have focused on the true history background and let it evolve from there, instead of cramming it full of those Goddamn awful, always unnecessary camera speed changes and cool martial arts fights and really lame CGI, whose sole purpose are to give 14-year old, acne-faced schoolboys with no sense of what good film-making consists of, something to masturbate to. I am  being harsh, yes, but if you´ve seen the movie you are sure to agree with me, unless you´re a 14-year old schoolboy...  "},{"Title":"Good one, but one worrying aspect...","Date":"13 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I really liked this film, but that's already been said.I was wondering something was anyone else greatly distracted by the fact that the Iroquois looks like Lorenzo Llamas?  I had trouble concentrating on what was going on thematically when I was constantly reminded of Renegade. "},{"Title":"I thought this movie was great, and this movie is even better than great for anyone with an interest in special effects and great filmography!!!","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I just watched this GREAT movie, and it ROCKS. The special effects and film techniques are WONDERFUL, I would reccommend this to almost anyone with a good heart. This movie has wonderful uses of colors and effects throughout the whole of it. I think that this would match up with Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon, special effects wise. "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I am a big movie buff and I have recently seen this movie.  I felt that it was the best I have seen in a long time.  It covered most every movie genre except musical and kept me interested the entire time.  The acting was done superbly by everyone cast and the plot was excellent.  Although based on a true story it was modified greatly to keep the viewer entertained without letting the truth give it away.  I recomend this movie to anyone! "},{"Title":"A Beautiful Film","Date":"7 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Some Spoilers. All I could talk about after seeing this film was Mark Dacascos' itty bitty loin cloth (Yeah Baby!) and what a great story this was. Who would've thought of introducing a Mohawk blood-brother into 18th century France or adding women that can fight into fight scenes  AND letting them get their asses kicked. Loved it! It all sounds like a book I would love to read. The twists in this movie were believable. The fact that the Beast turns out to be a lion makes perfect sense. Maybe the secret religious cult was a bit much, but necessary to explain other parts. The only thing I didn't like about the film was the overused stop motion action scenes. Yes they are beautiful, but too much of a good thing becomes laughable. The Brotherhood of the Wolf evokes a beautiful and creepy provincial town and crosses so many genres, I highly recommend to anyone this joy to watch. I'll probably go see this again, but I'll be sure to take my girlfriends so they too can enjoy Mark Dacascos-I mean the movie. Bring on The Adventurer Gans, I'm there!    "},{"Title":"A movie that tries to deliver everything...AND DOES!","Date":"6 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Action, suspense, mystery, romance, martial arts, period piece, horror, art film.  Use any one of these adjectives to describe Brotherhood of the Wolf and you would be right and yet so wrong.  Because it is all of these.  Kind of interesting that it took a French film to deliver the kind of movie that I've always wanted from Hollywood. Seeing Marc Dacascos as Mani, the Mohawk from the Americas visiting France, in a French film was a bit unnerving at first but Dacascos has delivered a character that could easily become the hallmark for any other like-characters in future films.  Intense and yet underscored, Dacascos uses his facial expressions and body language to deliver his lines and the audience fully understands what he is saying even without the subtitles. The rest of the French cast is also spectacular and judging from their filmographies, something close to a French Ocean's 11 (2001) ensemble.Highly reccommended.  Beautiful to watch.  Go see it in the theater before you have to settle for the dubbed video version. "},{"Title":"You check your attention at the door, and 2 hours later, it's handed back to you.","Date":"3 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  In this age when one knows how the movie will end as soon as you see the opening credits, few movies captivate the attention like this one. You want to look away from the blood and guts, but you're afraid you'll miss a detail that'll give you the slightest clue of what is really going on. It's visually daunting, the soundtrack is very well placed and rich, the acting is superbe, and it all comes together in a piece that's well made, and greatly enjoyed. "},{"Title":"Refreshing, different, French!","Date":"2 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I'm glad to see this flick FINALLY achieving some sort of wide release.  I gotta say, if nothing else, this is the most beautifully-shot and creatively-edited piece of cinema I've seen for quite a while.  Every shot seems creatively rendered, and there are various subtle-to-overt effects such as bended time, ripples, and even snapshots.  Never have you seem splashing mud so succulently captured.  The action editing wasn't bad, flashy and quick-cut without being incoherent.  Wish American filmmakers could do the same with Jet Li, instead of burying his skill in half-second shots and CGI.I have a small problem with the rather abrupt revelation of Fronsac's own fighting prowess, which should have been displayed earlier.  He fights just like Mani, and it's also offsetting that while Mark Decascos probably did most or all of his own stuff, it looks like the guy who played Fronsac sat on the sidelines while a stunt double wore a nice blonde wig.  Also, the ending drags on just a bit long.  I think they could have left things a little bit more vague, and not quite as happy.  But who cares, don't skip this one just because it's French or you've gotta see How High.Oh, and the fact that our heroes BOTH make completely unapologetic use of prostitutes is very refreshing.  Fronsac may be in love with someone else, and Mani may be noble and spiritual and all that, but heroes need love too, and it's awesome when protagonists are not ridiculously moral all of the time.  They see hookers, they have fun, there are no repercussions.  Has any movie character in history before this ever gone to a whorehouse without either being killed soon after or having their life fall apart?  Go France! "},{"Title":"In your face Adventure","Date":"2 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Bang!! Off you go with beautiful visual; sound music and ideas.  The presentation is brutally harsh, but believable and interesting (at first) to those open to it.  Folks with weak stomachs for brutality should definitely beware since it one of the most realistic and harsh movies ever brought to the screen.  Some nice dialog that is witty and well delivered (or lack of dialog in Mark Dacoscos' case) in the first half. The first half of the film is beautifully crafted even if some of the performances and story elements are weak.  The film unfortunately suffers in the last half when the director tries to hard to have lots of action and tie up the story ideas that had already been laid out while adding a few new things for flavor. Too much concentration on the gruesomeness and action leaves the story far behind and most of the performances reflect this. These weaknesses don't make this a bad film, but weaken it significantly unlike From Hell which made use of the gruesome elements to punctuate the story. A good movie over all, lots of fun in many places with Mark Dacascos giving the best performance overall and (not just because he kicked a lot of butt!) Edith Scob and Emilie Dequenne close seconds.   It is worth watching in good theater with a big screen and great sound, but it provides little in the sense of intellectual stimulation and romance as one might hope it would. I give a 7. "}{"Title":"Not only can the French cook, but they make great movies!","Date":"2 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I first heard of this movie when I went to the movie theatre, but I knew it was a movie I would want to see. I saw ad after ad for this movie but was having a hard time finding anyone to go with me. I finally did and let me tell you that if you are interested in seeing this movie but are having a hard time finding anyone to go with you, go by yourself. This movie is excellent.The acting is superb, the cinematography is glorious, and the story is thrilling and entertaining. Though there is nudity and gore in the film that only, strangly, adds to the story.We are dealt just the right combination of horror, suspense, drama, and great fight scenes that normally would seem out of place, but for some reason are perfect for this movie.If you are nervous about the movie being a foreign film and having to read subtitles, fear not. You can quickly read along and still keep your eyes on what is happening. Or do what I intend to do and learn French (for me before it comes out on DVD))In short, see this movie no matter what; with someone, alone, whatever. It is greatly worth it.  "},{"Title":"Incredible","Date":"1 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Brotherhood of the Wolves is beautiful and riveting.  Set in 18th century France, and steeped in the politics of brewing revolution, it concerns a legendary beast (thought to be a wolf) that terrorizes a small outlying province, slaughtering mostly women.  It's bite marks, however, are twice the size of those a wolf would make, as the protagonist Fronsac (a natural historian sent to sketch the beast) immediately ascertains.To call this film atmospheric is like calling Queen Elizabeth rich.  It has fabulous lush cinematography of the French countryside, candle-lit interiors of chateaux and hovels and dungeons (and a great velvet-and-gilt bordello), and a great hulking vicious monster always lurking somewhere.The plot is absorbing, full of twists and turns, but coherent and satisfying at the end.I really think this might be my favorite movie in what has been a very good winter.  I like it perhaps even better than Lord of the Rings, which is saying a lot, although unlike Lord of the Rings it ultimately does not require a complete suspension of disbelief.  And actually, if you stir Lord of the Rings together with Count of Monte Cristo, you would land pretty close to Brotherhood of the Wolves.  Perhaps a dash of Last of the Mohicans also -- Fronsac has journeyed to Nouvelle France and brought back a Mohawk shaman as a companion.The only flaw, for my taste, was the inclusion of kung-fu type fight sequences.  But nothing could take away from the magic world created by this film.  Outstanding! "},{"Title":"A flawed work with numerous treats","Date":"1 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Brotherhood of the Wolf will most likely play better in general to audiences who understand French than those who don't since this is indeed a foreign-language film, but for those English speaking folks or other, here are my words on this new film.Wolf tells the story (partially on fact) of a beast who prowled the landscape in the mountains and closer in France in 1764, and of the people who were sent to hunt it down.  But for the few most determined of these hunters, they discover that this wolf-monster goes deeper than expected.  The film drags too often and while it kicks up good momentum enough at times to keep even the most drowsy at attention, I was hoping for more.  This film which gained French and worldwide acclaim is overlong and overdone in parts where it doesn't need it (do I have to see slow motion used in some form in every fight or action scene), but it gets the grade given since it is an entertaining and exhilarating experience that should make up for the lulls for some more or less than others.  Great design on the beast by the way.  B+ "},{"Title":"Visual effects bring this story right to the movie goer.","Date":"1 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This story is told by a Marquis as he waits in his home during the French Revolution.  The events in the movie are based upon historical facts from mid 18th century circa 1760s.  Watch and read as the tale plays out before you.  If you are a student of history, this tale will lead you to the tellers situation and why it occurred.  Enjoy the action and great scenes.  The movie will make you take notice as events occur.  When it is released on DVD, I hope it will be dubbed so I can watch the action easier. "},{"Title":"BRILLIANT, BUT EVIL","Date":"29 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Le Ghost and the Darkness as an anti-Catholic Bruce Lee flick! That's right, imagine a French version of The Ghost and the Darkness that's shot as an anti-Catholic Bruce Lee movie.  What a shame.  Remove the politically-correct animus towards the Pope and Church and you have a beautifully shot, wildly entertaining monster/martial arts period piece.Brotherhood of the Wolf is the best looking foreign film I have ever seen. In fact, except for the subtitles, you'd think you were watching an American release.  I'd be shocked if director Christophe Gans isn't being courted, as I write this, to direct the next Jerry Bruckheimer action flick or an epic a la Last of the Mohicans or The Patriot.  Given his visual style during the beast's Jaws-like attacks and his handling of the alternating quick-cut/slow-motion fight scenes (never have sequences like this SOUNDED so good), Gans can't be ruled out to direct the next big film from the horror or martial arts genres either.With so much going for it visually, it is unfortunate that it is so difficult to get beyond it's repulsive conclusion (which I won't reveal in detail).  Suffice it to say that the heroes one must root for include a libertine naturalist, a sadistic, blood-tasting whore and an Iroquois warrior/medicine man (Mark Dacascos is excellent in a role that would have been great for the late Brandon Lee).***POSSIBLE SPOILER***And of course the real beast they are trying to destroy is the Catholic Church.  This is a film that Nietzsche would have loved.  Good is evil and evil is good.  I give it 5 stars (out of a possible 5) for the cinematography, thrills and action minus 4 stars for the overt bigotry. What a monumental waste of talent. "},{"Title":"Go see this one.","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Brotherhood of the Wolf is a most interesting movie!   It is a French movie with English subtitles that are a tad bit more distracting from the screen than the subtitles in Crouching Tiger.  The story is set in the 18th Century in France, when something is stalking and killing women and children.  That something is rumored, and reportedly witnessed by some, to be some incredibly awful, female wolf-type of creature. The notoriety of the killings prompts the King of France to send his Naturalist, who is also a veteran of American colonial exploration and battles, and he takes his companion, a Mohawk Indian from America who has been educated in the French language and customs.  As the protagonist, the Naturalist is a man of the emerging age of scientific knowledge who is cast into the midst of a rural France still steeped in superstition.   Not only is science vs. superstition fascinating as a real-life factor, but after all was a classic underlying theme of such great horror stories as Frankenstein.     This is a French period movie, combination horror flick, combination martial arts flick.  As the sum of such parts, it is unique.  It is also very intense.  The cinematography sets the dark and constantly foreboding, often damp or wintry, mood in French rural country, and there are murder victim sequences, a wolf-hunt, and taxidermy sequence that can easily make one squeamish.  There is also the always-interesting theme of the politics involved between the Roman Catholic church and the Crown, with intrigue and a female agent whose benefactor is shrouded in mystery.   The actors are wonderful, and the effect of the movie is enhanced by the fact that the faces of the French actors may not be familiar to American audiences as movie faces.     When the creature that has been doing the killing is finally seen, there are some CG effects that work well and some that don't look as good as they should.  This may be the only serious weak part of the movie.  (Actually, there was one other technical flaw with regard to the depiction of cutting open a dead wolf, but not so serious a flaw as to spoil the scene).  The real title of the movie is Le Pacte des Loups.. recommended despite one sequence of substandard CG effects, and perhaps a couple of minor plot flaws.  The recommendation comes with a warning of some gruesome graphics and intensity.      "},{"Title":"I think Merchant Ivory meets Crouching Tiger about covers it","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I'm a big fan of the Wu Xia genre.  I love watching well-choreographed martial arts sequences with a good rhythm to them.  I love sci-fi movies. Well, I love *good* sci-fi movies, at least.  The Matrix was an expert blend of these two that has earned a place on my personal top ten.This one comes close.  Not quite there,  but close.  A real description of the movie's convoluted plot and character twists would simply take too long, and someone else has done it already.  It clocks in at apx. 2.5 hours, and uses every damn minute of it.  The acting is better than a lot of movies have had lately, and to see this caliber of work in an eighteenth-century-French-Wu-Xia is really damn refreshing.The shooting is way above average.  I got a little tired of the variable-speed film effect about two-thirds of the way through, but otherwise the cinematography is excellent.  Characters are framed well, the scenery is treated respectfully without making it the star of the film, and the period-piece touches are superb.I would never in a million years have expected to see a Wu Xia film set in this period or place.  Kung-Fu Fightin' in pre-Revolution France???  Even so, it actually works, and works real damn well.  There is one notable exception where the need to have really cool weapon work just gets out of hand and almost ruins the last twenty minutes of the movie, but aside from that, there wasn't any move that I flatly discounted as implausible.In short, just go see it at least once.  On a really big screen with good sound and comfy seats.  A DVD isn't going to do this film justice without at least an HD-capable LCD projector. "},{"Title":"Half of the film is good","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film is hard to form an easy opinion of.. the first half of the film is fairly dull, layered down with low paced expository scenes that basicaly started to put me to sleep.. but once things get rolling and blood starts to fly and i didnt have to waste my time reading subtitles anymore I got into the movie.. a weird film for sure with its mix of period french film, hong kong martial arts pic and american slasher film.. obviously i enjoyed the slasher aspects best... the film does contain a number of surprise twists to keep you off guard, though i did guess the resolution several beats ahead of the cast. All in all, a film worth catching a screening of. GRADE B+ "},{"Title":"Vive la France! and I know kung-fu!","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  When the movie opens with Jaws in the country side, you know you won't stop giggling at this movie. Like last year's international hit Crouching Tiger and Hidden Dragon, this is a movie which isn't primarily about action, but has a surprising lot of it to serve. And if this movie gets nominated at all, I know why it will be Finally, a white guy in a foreign movie doing kung-fu! (And not shamefully wearing a ninja outfit like in TAXI2) Well, that's probably the same attitude the French movie-goers had when they made this a smash hit in a day. Finally, a French movie with all the American cliches! From X-files to Saving Private Ryan and Titanic passing by Mortal Kombat, this movie is a big guilty pleasure. A lot of the action actually lies on the editing room floor, and you only get a lot of quick undeciphrable movement across the screen from different angles--none of the acrobacy of traditional wire kung-fu movies, but, this French movie has enough of what it does best to make up for it. The cinematography will be undeniably beautiful no matter how dumb you think the film is, and if you like movies that feint an ending then deceive you to go on some more, this is the movie for you. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Crouching Tiger, Hidden Werewolf!","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Without a doubt, the best French werewolf period drama I have ever seen. No, really, this movie owes a great debt to last year's CROUCHING TIGER, HIDDEN DRAGON. Both subtitled (for us ignorant Americans), both with rich breathtaking photography and a lot of style. You could make a case for this as an allegory about the Age of Reason fighting against the age of magic and superstition, but its ambitions are not quite that high. It's about 10 or 15 minutes too long, but excellent otherwise. 8 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Brotherhood of the Wolf keeps your attention Spoilers!","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Brotherhood of the Wolf caught your attention from the minute it comes on the screen. The cinematography is fantastic! Then comes Mark Dacascos with his Martial Art action, that DID fit in. When fighting more than one person, you must use more than just your fist! I've heard so much back and forth about using MA in this movie along with the beast. Everything was so well done, and done to the time period. The lion in the armor to look like a wolf was very well done. They used materials that were to the time and not done with something that was modern day. The explanation was acceptable as well. But I have to applaud the performance of Mark Dacascos, without speaking a word, would steal the scene. When he was gone, one would wonder where he was... I think this is Mark's stepping stone to bigger and better things!  "},{"Title":"If you see only one movie, SEE THIS ONE","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I recall back when Crouching Tiger Hidden Dragon came out way back when, and everyone raved about it. Personally, i thought that movie was awful. But when this foreign movie came along, i realized that this was a movie that actually deserves publicity and rave reviews. The plot is so engrossing, and the characters act in such a way as to induce feelings of empathy. The fight scenes are absolutely stupendous, and there are many events which happen that are unexpected. The characters perform perfectly, and this movie utilizes the matrix effect outstandingly well. SEE THIS MOVIE "},{"Title":"I must admit.....","Date":"26 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I must admit, when I heard about this movie I thought to myself This is going to be terrible.  A period piece with martial arts and with a killer wolf creature in French didn't seem like a good idea at all.  I went with a friend to see it because it was playing in select cities and thought I should take advantage of it.  I was totally shocked to find that this movie works extremely well.  All of the elements listed above come together to make a very entertaining foreign fantasy film.  The action is very cool slow-motion-esk (a la John Woo) and the special effects are perfectly tied in together to advance the story.  Think about it... when are you going to see a unique movie like this in America again? "},{"Title":"One of the best movies I have ever seen","Date":"26 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This has got to be one of the best movies I have seen. It has everything you could possibly want action, suspense, horror, and a fantastic plot. Basically this movie is about two guys who are sent to investigate these killings made by a giant wolf. This movie has incredible martial arts action and sword fighting. If you enjoy movies like The 13th Warrior and The 3 Musketers then this is the movie to go see    "},{"Title":"I gave it a 9...great visuals and good story","Date":"26 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I thought this movie was amazing...really beautiful to watch. It has (at least for me) a really unexpected plot twist, good acting, and even a fairly strong plot. The cinematography was great, and hearing the French was interesting (it has English subtitles). Be warned...the movie does have a few, fairly mild sex scenes, and is VERY violent and gory...not a movie for young children. But, I'm going to see it again, and I recommend it for anyone who doesn't mind a slightly bizarre movie, or fantasy. "},{"Title":"Cool )","Date":"24 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I've seen Le pacte des Loups for the first time one year ago and I loved it. I've seen it again when the DVD R2 came out a few months ago and I loved it again (despite the few more minutes that weren't there in the theatrical cut).I loved it because of the fun I had with it. It's a horror movie with an historical background. Fights and cinematography are great. Sometimes,the film is slower and permits a better exposure of the characters.If you want fun, go and see this great pop-corn movie. If you like Soul Calibur, don't miss the last figth.I just want to make a few precisions about other reviews I've read, but be careful, there are spoilers***** Spoilers *****- The plot is unbelievable This story isn't a legend. It is a great historical mystery in France.The truth The beast really lived. After a year of unsuccessful hunting, an famous hunter has been sent by the king to get rid of the beast. He killed a big wolf that has been shown to the court. The case has been closed but the beast went on killing people. It ended a day, when Chastel killed the beast which was standing next to him without a move. It has been said that the beast was belonging to Chastel (Chastel is the old man that cure the beast in the movie).It is well explained by an historian on the DVD. A few names have been changed in the movie and the sect didn't really existed but the story of the beast belonging to a human is true.- It's a little too long yes , I admit.- Martial arts Why do the figthers don't use swords as Errol Flinn does ? Do you really think the people in the 18th century really used swords ? They used their fists, their legs, wood stick. Only nobles had swords. And for this kind of fights, martial arts are more fun in an action movie ;-)- The beast looks like a dinosaure Remember, the beast is under the carapace. It could be a lion or a bear (yes, I know there's no bear in Africa-).- They have killed wolves to make this movie . This kind of thing is strictly forbidden in France, so no animals were harmed during the making of the film. Actually, there have been an accident with a horse that fell but the scene has been cut by the director. If you didn't see a Human Society label in the credits, it's because it has a different name. The Société Protectrice des Animaux is always there when animals are in a scene.- This movie is a mix of many genres Oh yes and it's great fun; and that why I love what Chritophe Gans makes. He is a movie lover and has been a well known critic. He has grown with European Fantasy/Horror movies (Mario Bava, Hammer films, Sergio Leone) and he manages to share his passion for this kind of cinema. If you can, listen to the commentary on the DVD, because it's full of explanations about Christopher Gans visions of this movie and cinema in a more general way.- It looks like Crouching Tiger Hidden Dragon ???? It's not the same movie at all and they have been released nearly at the same time so CTHD can't even have been an inspiration.- There's too much background to be an efficient action movie. That's why it's so good. It's not another Vandamme movie. Go and watch Crying Freeman from the same director It had the budget of a tv action movie and Christopher Gans made a wonderful romantic gangster story with great action as well.- It has nothing to do with french movies. In the 2001 Top5 Box-office in France1. Amelie (Comedy/Fantasy - France)2. La vérité si je mens (Comedy - France)3. Le placard (the closet) (Comedy - France)4. Le pacte des loups (Brotherhood of wolves) (Fantasy/Horror - France)5. Shreck (Comedy/Animation - USA)In the Top 20, there are many action, fantasy and comedy french movies (Belphegor, Wasabi, Yamakasi, Kiss of the dragon, Tanguy, Crime au paradis, Le petit poucet, Intimacy, ...)So remember,french movies aren't only a man and a woman talking in a old kitchen -) They don't need to be boring to be good. They can also give you great fun if not taken too seriously.Finally, I'm sorry for my barely understandable english ;-)  "},{"Title":"I was on the edge of my seat with giddy excitement.","Date":"24 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The first 30 seconds had me.  I truly enjoyed this film.  Definitely one of my most favorite films ever.  I was captivated by the beauty, gore, upredictability, action, and simply the power of this film.  The story held me and kept holding me till the end. Incredible have to see again in the theater type movie.   "},{"Title":"Odd French horror film","Date":"22 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  In 18th century France, Gregoire de Fronsac (Samuel Le Bihan) and his Indian companion Mani (Mark Dacascos) try to capture a beast which is killing people in a remote village.  That's the main plot, but there are many others thrown in.  Among the elements put in--a love story; politics (LOTS of it); racism; incest; rape; murder; gratuitous female nudity and kick-boxiing!  A few of the fight scenes would not be out of place in a Jackie Chan movie.**SPOILERS AHEAD**Basically, this film is all over the map...way too much.  The film tries to cover too much material (and characters), it runs over 2 1/2 hours and there are HUGE plot holes (the explanation of the beast makes no sense and one character is killed and then brought back to life, yet we're never told how or why!).On the plus side it is well done and Dacascos' Mani is a very interesting, complex character (as Dacascos is a good actor, is very handsome and has a great body).  Le Bihan is OK as Fronsac.  Also Monica Bellucci is on hand looking great, giving a wonderful performance and really boosting the movie.So, it's too long, too serious, too plot-heavy but somewhat worth seeing for the fight scenes, the beast (which is incredible), Dacascos and Bellucci.  "},{"Title":"Finally a killer new flick from overseas!","Date":"22 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Killer cinematography and sound! Whoa, and I thought the kung fu camera shots in The Matrix were cool! You want scantily clad turn of the century French babes? Holy moly!  Check out the camera transition of Monica Bellucci's breasts into a snowy mountain range, whoa! I never mind subtitles, but for those of you who do, believe me... not to worry because there's actually a great storyline as well. This one will sweep at awards next year! Even though it's a must own on DVD (when it becomes available)... it's also a MUST SEE at the theater.Run, don't walk to see this in the baddest theater digs you can find! Bon Appetit! "},{"Title":"the best film ever...","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film is clearly the best film I've seen in my life. The visual effects and storyline is fabulous enough to hold any human being in it's seat for the ride. Great job from the choreographer. Awsome job from the actors and director. But most importantly is the phenomenal score of this movie. The sound mixed with the storyline produced this awsome film...Amust see and a must have on dvd.... "}{"Title":"Beautiful.","Date":"20 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Well done, wonderful, emotional film. Many people may not like it because it is subtitled, but this really did not take anything at all away from it. In fact, it added that mystique of Other Worldliness that made the film that much better. The action was fantastic and well filmed, and there was no lack of surprises throughout the entire 2 hours and 22 min. When we make period films in the USA, we somehow make them stylized and garish. The French invented fashion, and it shows in the costuming, which is neither overblown nor hard to appreciate. The direction did not pander to the audience like so many American films do; it made you draw conclusions on your own, and even though there was a great ending, it was in no way a Hollywood ending. All in all, I would recommend this film to anyone who enjoys action movies, romantic films, foreign films, monster movies, and dramas. In short, everyone I know. "},{"Title":"Oh yeah!!! I LOVE this film!!","Date":"18 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is a beautiful film. It covers nearly every genre of film. It has elements of horror. romance. comedy. thriller. action. drama. And the Director deals with everything with an energy that just keeps our attention on the screen.Just 'cause it's a French film, don't let the subtitles deter you from this masterpiece.The plot does have many sub-plots, and they sometimes distract from the film's running time. The film is two hours long, but it feels like three, but I don't hold that against it. It has it's own pace, quite hard to define due to all the genre characteristics involved.John Woo and the Matrix styles have clearly effected the Director's visual fight sequence's and they are poetry in motion. I really enjoyed the fight sequence's in this film. They are controlled. The choreography is faultless and the control the actors have over their presence on screen is great. Most of all, the fight sequences are BELIEVABLE.I won't give you any plot details, I came here to brag up the film's stunning visuals!!The beast itself is a product of a twisted imagination. The film is very effective when we never see the beast, but it's inevitable that we do, and when we first see a good shot of it, it is very frightening.There are some plot developments that will send you reeling and shouting at the screen - you'll know it when they happen! The two leads are perfectly cast, and the character of Mani is the by far the best in the film, and he only utters about 15 lines, if that!So, if you like your films complete with a visual feast, some kick-ass set pieces, and a 5 minute sequence indulging in T+A, then this is definitely for you!10/10 - perfect!!!Catch it if you can!! "},{"Title":"Encore, Encore!","Date":"16 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  As the BROTHERHOOD OF THE WOLF character SYLVIA (Monica Bellucci) would say Encore, Encore!. This film was definitely easy on the eyes. (*Almost as much as Monica herself). Beautiful, Sexy, Fun. It was my first exposure to Mark Dacascos for whom I thought did a great job. Vincent Cassel was as cool as ever.  And the actress newcomer Virginie Darmon stole many a scene as La Bavarde...and most importantly, I thought it great that they showed the wolves used as scape goats for the crimes of the beast, not to mention many a real wolf has paid the debt for such similar events. I highly recommend all people who think they are beautiful or evil to educate themselves by visiting wolf.org. Educate yourselves on this misunderstood & misrepresented animal. AND Monica Bellucci fans educate yourselves (if you have not already) by seeing L'APPARTEMENT and MALENA. You will see why she too is a rare species. To be so talented and beautiful is a sight to behold. -G- "},{"Title":"CROUCHING TIGER, HIDDEN WEREWOLF","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  BROTHERHOOD OF THE WOLF (LE PACT DE LUPES) (2002) **1/2 (FRENCH W/SUBTITLES)  Samuel Le Biahn, Vincent Cassel, Emilie Dequenne, Monica Bellucci, Jeremie Renier, Mark Dacascos, Jean-Francois Stevenin.  Stylish mix of horror/martial arts and period piece that has potential but eventually just remains a hodgepodge of genres  in this tale about a mysterious beast running amok in 18th century France with much intrigue with lurid horror underpinnings.  Despite some effective action sequences the film lags in its length and weightily dull dialogue in between the debauchery and violence.  (Dir Christophe Gans) "},{"Title":"GREAT","Date":"13 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I have been waiting to see this movie since I saw previews for it inFrance 15 months ago.  i didn't know what they were saying, butboy did it look cool!  Now it is finally here, and all the waiting andmental hype I had built up were worth it.  It is a movie that you havenever seen before, nor likely to again.  The fights were great, theattacks were intense, and the main scene where they fought thebeast was fantastic.  Gans loves Hong Kong cinema, and it showshere.  The movie is truly something...I couldnt be happier with it. "},{"Title":"A long time ago, in a country far, far from the United States...","Date":"5 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Hi, I'm french, so I saw Brotherhood of the Wolf (Le Pacte des Loups in France) one year ago (on the 2001, January the 31rst). Well, it's a very good film, and I think the American trailers that you've been able to see don't represent the vision of the director Christophe Gans on his film. Yes, there are many fights, but there's also a very strong story, which is the most important thing in the film. So I won't tell you the story, I just hope that you'll enjoy the movie ! "},{"Title":"An Amazing FRENCH movie..!!","Date":"22 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Even though i hardly know french...i found this movie quite interesting. The english subtitles were more than sufficient.I have never seen a french movie in the cinema..in my entire life..but this one was good. The choreography was awesome.Therez martial arts, sword-fighting, horror.The only thing i didn't like abt the movie was..it was too long.It dragged a bit in the middle. But the ending was pretty good.The 17th century matrix-style action just pumps up the adrenaline. Mani dominates the screen with his presence. the other hero also does well.Action/ adventure/horror lovers...GO watch this movie !!! "},{"Title":"It won´t get better than this!","Date":"19 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The best movie I have seen since Gladiator! Great Story, great Soundtrack, great Actors, perfect Looks!! Make sure you see the version longue = 144 Min.(PAL) Long Live Christophe Gans! Lookin´ forward to his next movie(s) "},{"Title":"What's all the fuss about?","Date":"31 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Don't get me wrong.  I love French films.  However, I'd like to put all the other IMDB comments in perspective by saying It wasn't really that great, guys!.It was good to look at, and had its moments as a costume drama, but ... come on!  It's just plain WEIRD!!Sorry.  Didn't do a lot for me.  And I'm someone who normally LIKES weird.I'd just like to add how refreshing it is to be able to see subtitled French films at your regular teenie-oriented multiplex.  It can't last, though.  Go see this and keep the numbers up.  "},{"Title":"I changed my mind...","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I always thought that French films are (*sorry*) awful. And I never went to see them. But this time I went to the film and I didn't know who made it. But I really liked it, I changed my mind about French film in a good way. So, it was a great film with great actors, I loved it) "}{"Title":"A masterpiece","Date":"23 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  There is no doubt that this movie is historic!It is the first time a french director realises such an achievement,it is magic!If you have ever have the opportunity to see it don't hesitate you won't be disapointed.First of all the filming and the directing are magnificent  moreover all the ingredients of a great blockbuster are presentdrama,action(incredible fighting scenes),a breathtaking scenario and excellent dialogues.All the actors are wonderful ,especially le Bihan,Dacascos and Cassel,they are all sublime.This movie should draw masses of spectators in the US and throughout Europe!!!!! "},{"Title":"Now THAT'S what I call entertainment!","Date":"28 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" In a word, Brotherhood of the Wolf is awesome. It's got everything action, horror, suspense, romance, and a little bit of comedy. If there's a genre that Brotherhood of the Wolf misses, I'm at a loss to point it out. Yes, it's french, but honestly, if you were to make it in English and cast a few well-known actors as the leads, no one would be able to tell the difference. Anyone who refuses to watch a movie with subtitles is SERIOUSLY missing out.France, early 1700s. In the province of Gevudan, a beast is terrorizing the populace, killing hundreds of women and children. The king sends two men a naturalist, Gregoire de Fronsac (Sameul le Bihan), and his Indian blood brother, Mani (Mark Dacascos) to hunt it down and destroy it. But the truth behind the beast is far darker than they ever imagined.For an action movie, Brotherhood of the Wolf is unique. Most films, especially the action ones, follow a relatively strict formula. Even the best ones are a bit predictable. Brotherhood of the Wolf is anything but. Knowing the true story behind the Beast of Gevudan won't make it any easier to guess where the story is going. Where the film ends up is eons away from where it begins. Unpredictability is an asset, but only if the story is good. This one's exceptionally strong.Even better is the fact that Brotherhood of the Wolf has a cast of strong performances. Samuel le Bihan is terrific as Fronsac. Le Bihan plays the part relatively straight, but he isn't afraid to have fun with it. For an action movie, Fronsac is especially well-rounded, and le Bihan has no trouble essaying the part. As Mani, Mark Dacascos doesn't say much, so all that is really required is that he can kick major butt without even bothering to take names, and have a commanding presence. Dacascos fits the bill (it helps that he can speak credible French). Jeremie Renier is immensely likable as Thomas d'Apcher, the young aristocrat who follows Fronsac around like a groupie, but he can fight like the rest of them. Emilie Dequenne is equally good as Marianne. She may be a damsel, but she's not going to fall for just any guy who thinks he can sweep her off her feet. Monica Bellucci is a scene-stealer as Sylvia, the prostitute with some kinky habits and who is in equal parts mysterious and sexy. Vincent Cassel devours the part of Jean-Francois, Marianne's crippled brother.Brotherhood of the Wolf drips with atmosphere. Gevudan is an ominous place, with every hour looking just like dawn, or four in the morning. The atmosphere enhances the tension that is prevalent throughout the story, and it never becomes overbearing. It's strong, but it doesn't hamper the film's sense of fun when the occasion calls for it.Christophe Gans knows exactly what to do with the material. He plays everything for exactly what it is simple entertainment. Gans gives the film the perfect tone serious, but not downbeat, yet fun, without a jokey tone. Gans uses many visual effects to get the response from the viewer that he wants, but he doesn't overdo it. The result is a wild ride.Enjoy. "},{"Title":"A hidden gem of French Cinema","Date":"26 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This movie was the French Answer to Crouching Tiger Hidden Dragon. To sum it up, the fight scenes were hard core. The choreography was awesome from none other than Mark Dacascos, who was an unexpected surprise in The Brotherhood of the Wolf. He was actually good in his role since I usually have those Steven Segal type of expectations towards martial artists when it comes to acting performances. Gregoire De Fronsac, the other protagonist played by Samuel Le Bihan, started to bust out some nifty fight moves as well in order to carry on from his fallen comrade Mani halfway through the movie. There is consistent adrenaline pumping action with solid story and plot twists to keep me interested in this movie.Surprises in the story and the abilities of each protagonist and villain are really well executed. A naked Monica Bellucci is always nice to look at. The mystery of the Wolf is pretty intriguing though there were some questionable special effects when De Fronsac faces the beast.My only real complaint was that some of the English dubbing sounded a little ridiculous. So for the sake of French style, I would recommend viewing it with English subtitles, if available.Overall, this is a well executed, well acted, well choreographed and properly delivered story in a film. You can't go wrong with Brotherhood of the Wolf. I strongly recommend this movie, even if you don't understand it. "},{"Title":"And the winner for most gratuitous use of slow-mo goes to..","Date":"22 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This movie tries to catch France up to Hollywood by making a brainless spfx action movie, instructing again Be careful what you wish for. Yeah, technically it's a better movie than I could make but it's not very good. So it's found the same shots that an American director would use. A hoof splashing in a pond, a steadicam copter shot of a landscape. Let's hope this isn't consider film progress in France.Structurally the movie doesn't make too much sense. There no reason that Mani has a fight with two guys, then two girls at the point he does. And it meanders it's way forward. At chapter 12 when I thought I was nearing the end, I learned it had 21 chapters. Nothing that another twenty person fight can't fix.The old sensitive Native American without weapons thing is trotted out again. Just because you're saying positive things about the supposed inherent skills of race doesn't mean it's not racist. When you're imbuing a character with qualities just because he's a member of a race, that's racism. The Mani role is every bit as racist as the old Westerns.I give the movie credit for showing the casual consumption of sex as not leading to the hero's downfall (There's a scene in a whorehouse). But instead of being terrifying, the beast looks like a rubberband collection come to life. And when you shoot a pumpkin orange paint bursts out.Not since Z-man in Beyond the valley of the dolls has there been such a fey homely villain.'Highlander' meets 'Ridicule.'No thanks. I prefer the French to think, and the Americans to make brainless movies. "},{"Title":"Bad plotting, bad pacing and questionable scripting. Not even good enough to label a 'guilty pleasure'.","Date":"12 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I don't think I'd ever actually seen a film that had been produced through Canada and was entirely in French at the same time but at least I can now lay that particular ghost to rest; what I can't lay to rest is how horribly bad this film actually was. Le Pacte des loups, or Brotherhood of the Wolf to the English speaking among us, was in actual fact a horrid mess of over the top melodrama, guilty excuses to have action sequences and daft melodramatic film-making that you'd usually associate with Hollywood throughout the early 80s and into the mid 90s.The film takes a detective route and starts off very much like a Western. These masked, anonymous riders ride into a village (on horseback of course) that is being terrorised by an animal or animals large enough to raise some eyebrows when some villagers either go missing or are found mauled. One survivor even had a glimpse of it and it wasn't pretty. What follows is an often laughable display of action, talk and eerie scenes that just weren't really that eerie. I think the film was supposed to be a horror, kung-fu, romance, action film but it borrows so much from each genre that it's hard to take too seriously; I read that it could be classed as a guilty pleasure but I don't even think that's feasible given the themes it attempts to cover.The action scenes; although well choreographed, are daft. They're presented well but they contain too many lingering close ups of dramatic expressions on the character's faces, they feel the need to pile on the slow motion when doing this and it's all rounded off with some silly sounding music to patch over what we're seeing. These form the basis for the film's selling point &#150; the kung-fu/fight scenes so already the film is struggling. Secondly, the inclusion of certain scenes is questionable. Before rounding up to go out and kill as many wolves as possible, some characters feel the need to start a fight with one or two of the film's main characters; resulting in a muddy, overly long and ultimately pointless fight scene still retaining the things I've just mentioned.Also, despite what information everyone has &#150; they still feel the need after their pointless little fight to go into the woods and shoot as many wolves as possible in an attempt to stop the killings. Two things Did they really think they'd kill EVERY wolf in the entire wood? Did they really think this would stop the deaths? Also, did they not ever stop to think that maybe wolves do actually harm people whom encroach their land? Seemingly not which is why when, during the hunt, the hero of the film stops a fellow character from killing a wolf in a venerable position, you start to question the need for such previous scenes in the first place.The other problem I had with the inclusion of some scenes in the film corresponds to the way we see a woman out, walking her dog or something, in the forest of said deaths. She knows of all the murders, she knows of all the tales of the beast yet she still feels the need to go wondering off without protection and on her own. When she gets stalked and eaten, it is again, a needless action scene that is there to merely wake the audience up if they'd drifted off. Utterly pointless and with actions completely unbelievable.The inclusion of the native American character is another silly bit of scripting. This character acts as the strong, silent type that knows better than everyone else with religion and spiritual beliefs playing a strong part in his psyche. This ridiculous inclusion is laughable in its own way. The inclusion of themes about religion and enlightenment, etc. tries to makes the film look better than it actually is and is only in there for people who are watching and that have religious beliefs. The character's totally out of its depth and doesn't fit in this film. Consequently, any emotion evoked towards this character is anti-climatic.Towards the end, the actual point of the heroes being there in the first place goes away. The plot of the murderous animal seems to just disappear and another sub plot involving a supporting character suddenly revealing his evilness takes over.Brotherhood of the Wolf is an absolute mess, in truth. Watch it for the action sequences' choreography but even they're let down by some bad post production touches. One to ultimately avoid. "},{"Title":"An wonderfully entertaining mix of action and horror","Date":"17 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Beast of Gévaudan is the name of a legendary creature that, according to history, terrorized the former province of Gévaudan, France, killing nearly 100 people in the three years from 1764 to 1767. The mysterious Beast was described as a huge wolf-like creature that preferred humans over other preys, and powerful enough to crush and remove the heads. Many attempts of hunting the beast were organized, all without luck, until according to tradition, a local hunter killed the Beast. Since the Beast's origin was never completely cleared (and the story of its death has the tone of legend instead of history), it quickly became the source of many rumors, legends and conspiracy theories. The legendary Beast became part of folklore and subsequently has appeared in numerous works of fiction, including this movie, director Christophe Gans' Le Pacte Des Loups, known in English as Brotherhood of the Wolf.Le Pacte Des Loups is the story of Grégoire De Fronsac (Samuel Le Bihan), the royal taxidermist of King Louis XV, who is sent to Gévaudan with his Native American friend Mani (Mark Dacascos), in an attempt to capture and study the Beast. A skeptic of the Beast at first, Fronsac prefers to dedicate his efforts to romance Marianne De Morangais (Émilie Dequenne), much to the displeasure of Marianne's brother Jean-François (Vincent Cassel); however, as the killings continue he begins to take his job more seriously and concludes that no normal wolf could be the responsible of the attacks. As the story of Gévaudan reaches Paris, it begins to get used to mock the incapability of the King, so the Government demands Fronsac a quick solution to the Beast problem. Soon Fronsac and Mani begin to discover clues that point out to something bigger than any Beast they have met before.The story of the film was written by Stéphane Cabel and Christophe Gans himself, and while it is an entirely fictional story built around the case, the plot follows somewhat closely the recorded history of the Beast's legend. The plot cleverly mixes period drama, mystery and adventure under a constant atmosphere of horror; pretty much like an updated version of the movies that the legendary Hammer Films used to produce in the 60s. Filled with intrigue and conspiracies, the plot can get confusing at times, as it ambitiously attempts to create a complicated plot for the film's main mystery. While there are a couple of plot holes, Gans and Cabel manage to pull out an effective horror story that is captivating, albeit being a bit overlong.True, the plot is a bit too convoluted for its own good, but Gans makes the film work by making up for that flaw with an amazing visual work that creates a haunting atmosphere that fills the screen completely. However, this is not an art film or a serious interpretation of the story, this is at its core still a thrilling film of action and horror, so Gans allows himself stylish deviations to the story such as wonderfully choreographed fight sequences and a romance story that truly bring back the days of those period films of adventures. In the same manner that director Tim Burton did in Sleepy Hollow, Christophe Gans resurrects the Gothic horror adventures with very good results.Samuel Le Bihan takes the lead role and gives life to Grégorie De Fronsac in a very real portrait of a 16th century libertine. As Fronsac, Le Bihan is charming and witty, although not a character without flaws. Mark Dacascos plays Fronsac's best friend, the Iroquois Indian Mani, who unlike Fronsac, is of a very focused and responsible nature. Often used only as an actor of action film,s Dacascos shows a surprising dramatic talent (clearly Gans knows how to give good use to Dacascos' talent, as proved previously in the underrated Crying Freeman), and often ends up as the best actor on the screen. Émilie Dequenne plays Marianne, Fronsac's love interest, but her screen presence is weak, and is often overshadowed by other members of the cast. The film's highlight is Vincent Cassel, as the bizarre Jean-François De Morangias, making an interesting character of what easily could had been a caricature.Le Pacte Des Loups is a remarkable film that combines perfectly the horror with the action genres in a period piece. This mixture of genres may come off as overtly ambitious at first, but it works very well as it doesn't attempt to be anything more than an entertaining tale of mystery and intrigue. As written above, the movie is not without flaws, as in the attempt of making the story interesting, Gans falls in the trap of making it too complicated, and specially too long for its own good. The overall ending of the film is a bit weak, but it fulfills its purpose of giving a conclusion to the plot. Another minor quibble is that the creature looks a bit fake, as the CGI is among the worst things in the movie; however, Gans makes the intelligent decision of keeping his creature hidden for most part of the movie.Christophe Gans has created an enjoyable film that is very good in its own terms, as many have pointed out before, this is not a redefinition of cinema or its genres, it's just a great adventure movie to have 142 minutes of good entertainment. Like Hammer Films used to do in the 60s, Le Pacte Des Loups, or Brotherhood of the Wolf, takes us to a roller-coaster of action and horror. A very recommended movie. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Accustomed French movie A fabulous Fantasy myth!","Date":"12 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This movie is probably one of the best movies I've ever seen! I can say you why because of the magically story, the great atmosphere (typically for a French mystery movie), the wonderful soundtrack and the ingenious actors (from this movie on I became a Vincent Cassel fan, because his role is the best one and he has a big talent >> I call that some action!). An other thing is the multitudinousness genres, which are included in this film. Everything is in it romance, action, mystery, fantasy, adventure, horror and even humor! I haven't seen a fantasy movie, which is made as good as this one from Hollywood, maybe only Star Wars IV-VI. All in all it's an amazing movie with great actors and a good story. Watch it, otherwise you'll miss something! "},{"Title":"A great atmospheric entertainment","Date":"8 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Based on actual, mysterious, never-resolved events of French history, Le Pacte Des Loups should NOT be viewed as a history lesson. Often talked about because it has martial arts scenes and that's weird because it's in 18th century France, it should also NOT be viewed for it's martial arts.Le Pacte Des Loups is a long (2hrs 30mins), engaging, beautifully shot, skilfully acted, thoroughly entertaining piece of cinema. For these reasons, Le Pacte... comes heavily recommended and should be watched especially by those who enjoy their films atmospheric, slow yet explosive, mysterious and twisted. Those of you enjoyed Tim Burton's Sleepy Hollow might want to check this out, as the two films have more than a few things in common.All in all, just delve into Le Pacte... and you will be rewarded with a great movie, which is at the same time a period piece, an action movie, a mystery, a horror movie, a drama, and a romantic comedy, succeeding in all fields.Oh, and by the way, the martial arts make sense. Not all martial arts are Chinese or Japanese. "},{"Title":"When a mysterious beast ravages the country, two heroes are called in to fight the evil","Date":"24 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I myself am a very big action fan and this foreign action flick is one of my all time favorites. The story is loosely based on true events that happened in the 1700's in France. A beast has been ravaging the countryside attacking women and children when two men (Dacascos, Le Bihan) are called in to find it and kill it. The cinematography is unbelievable and the fight scenes are great. The fight scene in the very beginning with Dacascos is awesome and i think you will agree. Some people will tell you that the beast is stupid and ruins the movie but when the story is explained i think you will find that it makes more sense and is more believable. My only complaint is the length of the movie. At 2 hours and 35 minutes it can be very slow at times but this movie will not disappoint. I would recommend that you watch it in subtitles because the American voice overs are just awful. But if you just hate subtitles then go ahead and put them on. Don't miss this one. 9 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Overrated film, with not enough Bellucci","Date":"17 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The horrific acting of stars Samuel Le Bihan and Mark Dacascos are the things I hate the most about this film.  The only thing redeeming about this are the fight scenes.  Fight scenes don't make a movie though, and the bad acting doesn't help.  I guess it's hard to act when you are doing such a bad movie.  Monica Bellucci was not used well and she should have not shed her clothes for this director.  How this has such a high rating I will never know.  It's not even a good action film.  4/10 "}{"Title":"Wow.","Date":"5 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Being a typical woman of this century ... juggling everything, including a family, a regular job and an acting/singing career, I don't get to watch many movies - at least not all in one sitting.  I get the end, then the beginning, then part of the middle.  However, I MADE SURE I watched this one from start to end when it came on our movie channel again, because I only caught the ending and part of the beginning the first and second times it was on.  I don't like horror movies at all, but boy, did I enjoy this movie, and I'm not so sure people should call it a horror movie anyhow.  I love movies based on at least some piece of truth, myth or legend, and this one not only told me a story about a myth/truth I had never heard of, although I've been to France several times, it also has unbelievable fighting scenes, and I love it that Canada is mentioned a few times, too.  I prefer the subtitled version, as I like to hear the beautiful French language, and I like to hear the actors' real voices.Take the time out to see this movie.  Even if you have to flick through the brothel scenes (not my favorite type of scene), the story is SO good, and the good guy wins in the end, which is always the kind of movie I like. I thought the filming must have been well-budgeted too, because some of the effects (slow motion rain and fighting) reminded me of Gladiator.  I don't get to watch a lot of whole movies, so if I took the time to watch this, you should too.  For adults only, though.And, finally, I had never heard of Samuel le Bihan before this, but I hope he does more stuff I get to see.  He's one of France's best-kept little acting secrets, and they should share him with us WAY over here more!  "},{"Title":"It was as strong as it was beautiful!!!","Date":"13 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I am not one to critique things but i have watched enough movies that i think i know a little bit what i am talking about. I have nothing terrible to say about this movie at all. I LOVED IT. It brought mystery, suspense, romance, and full frontal action all on the same page. I love the mysterious hero style. How fronsac and mani rode into town quit, face covered, just very powerful. Dacascos' fighting ability is fantastic, he just keeps getting better and better. I loved the motivation for revenge, when fronsac has to avenge mani. He transforms to this deadly assassin that just destroy's the brotherhood. I was just left in complete awe! If you ever get a chance watch the movie and just enjoy. Don't tried to read to much into it. Just watch it. The story will explain itself. The only thing i can think of is if you don't like voice dubs or subtitles then don't bother. I don't even like them but i still love this movie. Brotherhood of the Wolf was a great film!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"A sadly underrated, beautiful historical fantasy destined for cult status","Date":"3 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  It's almost a sure bet that someday this film will re-surface as one of the greatest cult classics of the double-aught decade. Incorrectly labeled a horror film, it is actually an, albiet violent, entrancing action-adventure film with vibrant and mesmerizing cinematography.Mostly free of the clichés with are so common in American films, the story-telling is involving and classical. It's progression is almost story-book style, yet with the realism of the unexpected. Symbolism abounds without a direct attempt to be deep. The story left me considering the fine line between supernatural and superstition.Both the characters of M. Fronsac and Mani are brilliantly written and well-played. Samuel Le Bihan's performance of the transformation from the less driven, more frivolous attitude to the furious, deadly bearing of an assassin is excellent. Dacascos oozes coolness in the movie's opening fight, which has a raw power and distinct style.This brings me around to the fighting. The comparisons with Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon and Matrix (or really any Kung Fu movie), in my opinion, are completely ridiculous. Although punches and kicks fly in abundance, it's more brutal and emotion driven then the calculating, lightening fast fu fighting you usually see.The cinematography has something of an oil-painting feel, completing the story-book atmosphere.In conclusion, I think the American response to this movie displays just how blind we can be to things outside our culture. Once again, we begin to calculate it's mileage, only to realize we should be thinking in kilometers. It's things like this that create future cult classics, but in the meantime, don't miss out watch this film, and remember to keep both eyes open. "},{"Title":"A little of everything....","Date":"25 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I was very fortunate enough to see this movie in the theatres twice. The storyline was great because it managed to fuse in horror, action, and romance all at the same time. The fight scenes were excellent. The acting was great. The storyline was fun. And the cinematography was well done. Try to get a hold of the canadian version on DVD. It's a 3 disc set instead of the cheesy american one disc set AND it also has a better cover. If you're in the mood for a horror film mixed with action and romance this is definitely for you.  "},{"Title":"Beautiful Cinematography","Date":"9 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Le Pacte de Loups (Brother of the Wolf) is a brilliant piece of work. It is complex, frightening, and human. The only drawback to the film is that the audience does not get to hear the spoken French. I enjoy watching a movie in the language in which it was shot. French is a beautifully expressive tongue. I can live with the subtitles in English. Bravo to Monsieur Gans! "},{"Title":"A mindless amalgam of horror genres but fun","Date":"22 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  SPOILERS....I can't decide how I should look at this movie, but whatever happened in the two hours of seeing this, I ended up enjoying the movie in the end despite its over-the-top production and rambunctious directing.Brotherhood of the Wolf is about a secret society of noblemen/gypsies (???) under the leadership of a manic priest (yes you heard me), for no explicable reason seem to think the current King of France needs to be taught a lesson in religion. Their weapon? Some lion, we assume, from Africa (it was never fully explained) that is trained to be super evil and to eat women and children. With a stretch of imagination we can accept this as the plot. The King of course is horrified by its powers and so hires the two heroes, Francos (the scientist/lover/semi-ninja) and Mani (the quiet-American Indian who has the uncanny ability to kick your ass in a couple of hundred different ways), to investigate. Needless to say, conspiracies follow and a whole lot of subplots are resolved through an abundance of martial arts.The action alone in this movie was handled pretty well, although there were way too many scenes involving Mani, or Francos tearing someone a new one. None of the characters in the movie were adept with their respective fighting styles, but excellent camera work by Gans took care of that. I was actually genuinely surprised by this.Everything else is over-the-top and lavish... the costumes, the women (Bellucci is especially delicious here), the blood, and the parodies (keep the rhyme Mary had a Little Lamb in mind when you see this movie, heh). It's almost an equivalent of an orgasmic frenzy of violence and action. I can't stress enough how well the cinematography was in Brotherhood. The scenes and choice of locations were incredible and a perfect fit for this dark and murky movie.This movie is about personal taste. You either like French-directing, or you don't. For me, the movie was nothing to write home about, but it was entertaining and it did not leave a sour taste in my mouth as many action movies do (like Swordfish). By the way, anyone who is claiming this a rip-off of the Matrix needs to have their head examined. 7/10 "},{"Title":"The criticisms are irrelevant.","Date":"20 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I do not understand the criticisms of this film.  It is well done, the characters are sympathetic and easy to identify with (except perhaps the martial arts use that I wish would have been explained), people react realistically, there are few--if any--plot holes.  I can only think of one continuity error myself (at one point the narrator's wrong arm is in the sling).Everybody has already established this movie has incredible cinematography, camera work and direction.  Reminded me of Gamera 3.  The special effects are, for the most part, as good as you're going to get CGI.  The creature is quite a site to behold and, surprisingly, looks better at day than at night.The movie plays for the first half like a land-bound period Jaws.  Not in a bad way (except for the first death is aped from Jaws's first death), but in finding the better parts from Jaws and the parts that fit and using those--the political and interpersonal parts.  This seems to have thrown some people, that a horror movie could concievably concentrate on the characters and how they must deal with it.The second half has bursts of rousing action, but stays within its bounds and works hard to keep the audience guessing and on its toes.  The most suspensful part of this film doesn't even involve the monster.Somebody complained that this movie is disgusting because parts of it take part in a brothel, there is gore and death, and there is an incestuous rape.  Welcome to the real world, France, circa 1772.  All of these things contribute to the story and, above all, are realistic.  These things happened in actuallity.  To ignore such would be folly and a lie.I must recommend this movie based on the first watch.  I have a feeling that should I watching it again, I'll pick up quite a bit more (there is one scene were the beast is nonchalantly stalking a man on horseback in the background--I didn't pick it out at first, but a friend of mine watching saw it).When I heard some people didn't like this movie, I figured it would be because the movie takes a very slow burn, letting the viewer see the various tribulations the characters had to go through in the course of the expedition.  However, I was not expecting people to be thrown by the showing of these scenes themselves, these characterizations and the realism of it all.  But so be it.  Like Jaws, much of the power in this movie comes from the characters dealing with each other and with those in charge.  The political edge of this movie is necessary and only adds to it.  This deserves a 9/10, at the least. "},{"Title":"Phenomenal Action Movie with Great Action Sequences and Actual Depth of Characters and Storyline","Date":"13 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  When I first rented this movie, I did not expect much of it; I even told my friends, with whom I watched it with, that we should simply treat it as somewhat of a background entertainment. However, this all changed in the first 5 minutes, when we were drawn to the sofas by the brutal and attention getting murder that takes place. Mani, played by Mark Dacascos, is by far one of the best characters I have ever seen in a movie. Although the whole foreign pagan from distant lands gimmick is a cliche, the types of action sequences and several one liners he has makes him the most memorable character of the story.The storyline, although not the best ever, still is extremely intricate in comparison to its contemporary peers. It actually attempts to be elusive and keep the audience guessing throughout the 144 minutes (and, for the most part, succeeds). In addition to Mani, there are several other characters, such as Fronsac and Sylvia, who prove to deceive the audience greatly in terms of what their roles in the movie are supposed to be. It also includes the elements relevant to its time period politics, question of religion, and of course, the great romance (it is, after all, the century of the French Revolution). Overall, this is a definite must for any action movie fans. Its quality, simply, is far superior to the likes of The Gladiator. Grab this movie at the Blockbuster near you; it'll be worth your money. "},{"Title":"One Of The Best Films Of 2001","Date":"8 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Please watch this movie and enjoy the beauty.... This is one of the finer films I have seen foriegn or not. All the actors are wonderful and the movie overall is one of the best I have ever had the pleasure to view. The two lead actors are unbelievably talented and I expect to see more of them in the future. What ever you do don't listen to Imdb user Deveney. He didn't enjoy Brotherhood of the Wolf, but did happen to think the Movie BABE with a pig was a winner? Ya ok Deveney? You argue a strong case.... "},{"Title":"MTV meets wolf monster","Date":"7 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Not much to say here about this trivial piece of film history.  A beast is loose amongst the country side of France in the 18th century.  The film opens with a damsel in distress.  She is quite attractive even with the dried blood plastered on her face.  Well, she gets it and gets it good.  The viewer is subjected to her body tossed about slammed against rocks repeatedly by something unseen.  One more good smash of her head then we are hooked or disheartened by what's to come.  Well, we get a semi-ninja-robed fighter who goes on the hunt for the big bad wolf. It keeps up to par with the recent kung pow-hi-ya movies. Poor dialogue, a beautiful woman, a secret society, and goofy cheap camera tricks follows.  (Love the slow-mo guys). It looks like a long drawn out video for a one hit wonder band called Wolf.   "}{"Title":"Predator and The Name of the Rose meets Last of the Mohicans.","Date":"5 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I absolutely enjoyed this film!  I am usually not one for subtitles, but this French production was worth every penny.Le Pacte des loups (Brotherhood of the Wolf) defies genre classification...it is one of these rare hybrids of different genres that actually succeeds at all levels.Part detective story (The Name of the Rose, 1986, Sean Connery), part evil-beast-hunt (Predator, 1987), and part visually-stylized historical interpretation (Last of the Mohicans, 1992), Brotherhood of the Wolf is good entertainment for nearly everyone.  It is a blend of unlikely film ingredients, too!  Mark Dacascos (successor to Brandon Lee for The Crow II) does several Matrix-martial-arts scenes for us, while garbed as the Mohawk-Iroquois native Canadian. Sinister cult-like ritualism, political intrigue, and belligerent gypsy-types frame the context of a werewolf-beast.Combined with over 2 hours of stylish visuals and well-executed narrative, this is a terrific rental. I would even recommend this as a first-date movie because of its broad appeal to many tastes.Go rent this video.  Go now. "},{"Title":"Bad movie, great cinematography","Date":"1 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Watch this movie for the colors, the shadows and the landscapes. The rest is a joke. If we ignore the American Indian in France of the 18th century who knows Kung Fu, the story is very similar to 'Sleepy Hollow'.There are a lot of similarities with Tim Burton's movie, but unfortunately there is no humor. A lot of pretentious moments in 'Le Pacte des loups' too. It is pointless for Europe to try to compete with Hollywood, especially in special effects movies. Dramas are the only movies where European productions can be successful, although 'Le Pacte des loups' looks quite nice. The script needed more work and the director could do a little better too.Watch this if you are interested in how much European cinema has advanced at an area where Hollywood was always unbeatable.5/10 "},{"Title":"Wow, this movie kicks ass","Date":"26 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Brotherhood of the Wolves is one of the best movies I have ever seen yet. The storyline is tricky and surprising and the characters are well developed. There's no doubt that it is one of the best european movies ever made.... "},{"Title":"at last!","Date":"1 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Saw this film at the so called Leeds Showcase, which is halfway to Manchester, bussed it, had to pay a small fortune to get home by cab but zoot alors was it worth it!Been dying to see it again, thought Greenpeace had kidnapped it or the WF were using it as a training film, can't wait to see it asap this week. It has to be the best ever, um, action, er, horror, mythic beast, peasant ignorance, papal conspiracy, lushly shot, head kickingly sonic film that Monica Belluci ever got her kit off... um, in.Just been checking various sites reviews and obviously not everyone gets it. Too 'scripty' for your average action fan and for lovers of 'arthouse' foreign fare, well, kickboxing Native (red)Indians named after former Stone Rose and current Primal Screamer Mani are maybe not their tasse du te.Don't care, this stylish, genre-hopping cross-breed of visuals comes at  you as if Grandmaster Flash swopped his decks for a camera and a croissant. Hiphop, this film dont stop! Le Loup, il rock ma maison.Get it. Watch it, it'll rock your world I swear or I'll eat la plume de ma tante. And Monica sheds her threads, merci Dieu  "},{"Title":"Cest fantastic","Date":"14 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of those foreign movies that is never noticed by the crowds and yet if it had been made by Hollywood with an American cast with fake French accents then it would have been massively hyped and seen by millions.  This is yet another film that sticks two fingers up at the industry and says good action films don't have to come from the States. "},{"Title":"How can a movie this bad get so much good PR?","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie opens like a lot French historical pieces, and seems to have promise. It's all downhill not long after. The effects are cheesy--you have to laugh at the monster--and the story is riddled with silly cliches. The noble, mystical Indian. The evil white men.  The boring, repetitive searches for the wolf. The conspiracy at the top of government. The pretense of self-importance with the French revolutionary flashback.  As poorly done as the monster is, the good news is that by the time you see it, you'll probably be asleep.Whatever the Cannes Film Festival may say, Brotherhood of the Wolf is awful.  Tedious. Stupid. Cheesy effects. Recycled cliches. Hilarious attempts at solemnity.How can a movie this bad get so many favorable review?It succeeds on no level whatsoever. "},{"Title":"One of the best films I have ever seen","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  To me this is by far the best mixture of genres the movie world has ever seen (well, let's say that I have ever seen). The editing, music, and cinamatography would deserve an oscar. The lightning is just great. The atmosphere is so thick, you can almost cut it. And  the characters are very well drawn (good acting). I like movies that take their time to create an intense experience for the audience and Le Pacte des loups does this superbly. I could have watched this for 6 hours more. I think the best word to describe this film is intense. If you expect a realistic historical drama or a nonstop action film, or if you expect anything at all, you will be very disapointed. But if you just take this movie the way it is you will probably enjoy it as much as I did. This is just one of those films that you really have to be open-minded for. Take it as a tale someone tells you. If your grandfather would tell you a tale and if that tale would contain some mysterious elements or a little overdrawn pictures you would not complain, would you? This is part of the storytelling and this is what makes this movie so incredibly intense. "},{"Title":"Beautiful time, place, concept.","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Loved this movie. The sound effects were very effective, especially in the first scene, I could feel her pain. Wonderful cinematography, the forest scenes were spellbinding. Completely enveloping. Want to be there. "},{"Title":"France has produced many great works of art...","Date":"12 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" ...unfortunately, this isn't one of them.  The scenery is beautiful but is too often interrupted by the actors showing up.  I've tried to comprehend just what they were thinking when they made this movie.  The best that I can come up with is they intended a fusion of a very bad 1970's kung fu movie with an equally bad horror movie of the same period.  "},{"Title":"Oh My God, Why was this movie so good?","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I totally loved this movie.  This definately goes on the top of my list of the best movies I've seen this year - right next to Lord of the Rings. Anyway, this movie is spellbinding as well as entertaining the whole way through.  It captured your attention in the first 5 minutes and just kept on getting better as the movie moved on.  The cinematography was like nothing I've ever seen.  And the wolf....  scary as hell, and with the sound it created a total sensory experience.  Go see it, you will not be disappointed. "}{"Title":"Best film I've seen for a long time","Date":"29 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I had seen the trailer for this and knew it involved some swashbuckling martial arts stuff, but knew nothing else about it. I expected it to be good, and it was definitely better than I expected!I thought the film might be dubbed so I was pleased when it was subtitled. It is SO much better to see a picture in its original language. Dubbing absolutely ruins it for me most of the time. I am also interested in French, having studied it, so the whole despotic aristocratic thing really worked for me. People will criticize this film for having boring dialogue and lengthy filler scenes. Not a bit of it. If you view it as just a horror film then you might well be waiting for the next bit of action, but if you see it in a wider historical context I think the dialogue scenes work well.I found it gripping right from the opening scene - the setting was so atmospheric. It was also graphic in the sense that it showed very realistic looking dead bodies and so on.The scenes where the beast stalked people worked INCREDIBLY well in my opinion. You really empathise with the prey. I particularly liked the bit where the beast chased the child into the rabbit hole - great cinematography.Most of this film was superb, but there were a few daft elements that shouldn't have been there IMO. The whole beast thing actually worked for me by the end; the one thing that really didn't was the climatic fight at the end. That sword was just silly, and so was the fact that men were crashing through boulders - why??? Oh well, it was still good action.I will see this film again, and maybe even again. Superb. "},{"Title":"A wonderful film!","Date":"28 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I have seen BROTHERHOOD OF THE WOLF recently and I would like to say that it is one of the best films I have seen in many years. It has an extraordinary story which envolves the viwer from the beggining to the end. Never have I seen such a beautiful French film. And on the other hand I have to say that Samuel Le Bihan is a very good actor, apart from being really attractive. The story and the actors, specially Samuel are extraordinary good. "},{"Title":"excellent film, a must see!","Date":"27 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I have seen le pacte des loups several times, and I think it is an outstanding film. I have always loved costume films and I love action , romance and mysteries. This film offers all of it.For me personally the performance of Mark Dacascos was the best. His fight scenes, and on the other hand the way he portrayed his role as the Indian shaman, Mani, with less words but perfect gestures, is just brilliant. "},{"Title":"The Best Halloween film This year!","Date":"21 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I so want to tell you a little about this Film! (But we all know that is not allowed here!)What I can tell you is that First of all, The film is entirely in FRENCH ,With subtitles. (But your'e used to this by now!)This movie has it all for this Halloween season! It's a Deeply Dark movie, set in the 17th century.Watch out for some very entertaining scenes, and don't get caught hiding behind your seat!!!That's about it, without spoiling it for you. Infact, DO NOT watch any reviews of this film! just get outand watch it already!!(I rated it 10 out of 10) "},{"Title":"Good!!!","Date":"20 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I liked this movie alot! It was very entertaining, and not to complecated. It was just the right movie for me at the time. =) Vincent Cassel is a great actor and he gave the movie great energy. "},{"Title":"Da Vinci Code for real idiots","Date":"2 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I thought the movie was predictable and boring. Anyone with half a brain could figure out halfway that every liberal Hollywood-cliché was going to be used to the fullest extent possible the creepy blue-eyed villain, the evil clergy, the whore and the Indian who are wise beyond all measure, the historically displaced but feelgood minority sidekick. And what's with that martial arts nonsense in 18th century France. The Belucci character was just stupid. A papal courtisan? Sigh. It's not that catholic teaching is a big secret. Now, before the exhaustive and condescending replies from provincial California commence I approve of the Laïcité (like y'all know what that is), but anti-catholicism is so safe and commonplace nowadays (see Da Vinci Code). I wouldn't mind some good ultramontanist villains, but can't they at least keep their anti-catholic bigotry straight. There is a downward spiral from La Reine Margot (1994) to Le Pacte des loups. It shows that even French cinema is thoroughly corrupted by American Political Correctness.I'm glad we left the era of anti-Indian prejudice behind us, but do we have to put up with all that present day's happy-clappy New Age rubbish? "},{"Title":"Can anyone honestly say they didn't like this movie?","Date":"30 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I don't know if there is anything which could be considered a spoiler in here, but I wanted to be safe....The only reason I'm writing this review is because I recently became aware through the marvels of IMDb that there are actually people who hate this movie! How is that possible? >lol< This is perhaps the best film I have ever seen, and for some inexplicable reason I feel duty-bound to defend it. So here goes. For one thing, the inability of narrow-minded movie-goers to pigeon-hole this film (a lot of hyphens there...might be a personal record) is evidence of its brilliance. Action, historical, mystery, martial arts(wait, I'll get to that--be patient), horror, Gothic romance, period piece, espionage (well, sort of), all done to perfection in my humble opinion. OK, now for the martial arts Fronsac and Mani are world travelers. It is made clear that they have had numerous adventures in several countries. Is it that far-fetched to think that perhaps two open-minded, fairly intelligent adventurers studied chop-socky somewhere in the Orient? As suspension of disbelief goes, I find that fairly nominal. Besides, the fight scenes freakin' rocked, which covers a multitude of sins. As to the characters being arrogant? Most of them are aristocrats or church hierarchy, so...yeah, they're arrogant. And Fronsac is such a bad mofo, how can he help but think he's better than everybody? And since when is it strange for old men in the 1700s to woo young girls? Creepy, yes, but far from abnormal for the era. I'll admit that it is a long movie and probably could have been streamlined a little, but I have to say, any film that is shot so beautifully...well, I can forgive some superfluousness (look it up, it is so a word) just for a chance to see more of the cinematographer's purty pictures. Someone actually said this movie was gory and shocking...Oh you naive child! Go watch a film like Hostel or High Tension, then tell me this movie is shocking or bloody! Anyway, to make a long story short (TOO LATE) this film simply CANNOT be dismissed with a flippant it sucked. Well, technically it can be, but it's WRONG. "},{"Title":"directing genius!!","Date":"12 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" excellent movie with a stunning cast and fantastic visual effects and directing.. The director Christophe Gans should be rewarded for his incredible job on the movie.. He has perfected every scene- even an ordinary one- and turned the movie into a masterpiece of art!I love this movie and recommend it to everyone that likes movies with personality, originality and obvious nuances from the director , and movies which are not all about hot actors or the glamorous LA life and fast cars.. and movies that have been turned into work of art and telling you how hard the crew has worked on it night and day with .. Not to mention the stunning performance by the actor Vincent Cassel as Jean-FrançoisI hear that Mt Gans will be directing the upcoming horror movie Silent Hill and I am thrilled that he is gonna do it. 'cos I love the pc game and can't wait to see the movie version and I am relieved now for I have no doubt he is gonna do a great job with the directing.. "},{"Title":"Excellent blend of genres!","Date":"20 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The movie is an excellent blend of genres. The story is based on actual events that took place in 18'th century France, when a series of brutal murders was giving birth to speculation on who or what could be behind these events. The movie gives a more or less possible reason and explanation for the events by blending fiction with horror, adventure, with fantastic elements, great music and costumes and a great cast. The action is complementary to the extremely well written story, with quite realistic and not over-done use of special effects. Extremely spectacular martial arts fight-sequences and the very best use of American B-movie star Mark Dacascos. Beautiful art-work with some spectacular designs( a special mention to the fantasy chain-sword used by the character of Vincent Cassel, and the monster). Terrific performances by Samuel LeBihan, Vincent Cassel and Monica Bellucci only add to the over-all entertainment value of this film. "},{"Title":"A little too long, sags a bit but is a solid action period piece","Date":"9 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  In 1794's France a mysterious beast is terrorising the countryside savagely killing women and children.  The survivors tell of a wolf the size of a cow that has huge teeth and has a grey streak down it's back.  As repeated hunts bring no success the King sends out two men, Grégoire de Fronsac and his blood brother Mani, to discover the beast, slay it and return it for study.  However as Fronsac delves deeper he uncovers things about the beast that point to more than a savage wolf&#133;.I was lent this because I discovered that a friend of mine shares a like for Mark Dacascos.  No matter the quality of the film (usually low) I do like him as a physical presence and an actor.  So to this.  I had heard reasonable things about it but knew little of it.  My first impressions of the plot is that it is not dissimilar to Hound of the Baskerville's in it's outline &#150; although this is purportedly based on truth so I'm not claiming plagiarism!The plot's big weakness is also the failing of the film &#150; it moves far too slowly at times and the running time of 140 minutes is really luxurious considering what it is.  It could easily have lost 30 minutes just by losing a few scenes and making it a tighter, pacier animal (excuse the pun).  Even the action scenes suffer from not having as tense a build up as some of them deserve.  The film noticeably sags at times which is a real shame because it does have times of pace and tension.  The wolf is (wisely) kept pretty much under wraps for the duration and, even when revealed, is only seen in part to keep CGI from ruining the image in your mind.The fight scenes are quite good but don't use Dacascos to his full.  They are quite good but the director makes too many edits and fancy slow-mo to really appreciate the display of ability.  Dacascos, although my reason for watching, is good at the action but has little dialogue (for good reason).  Le Bihan is good although he does have a touch of the Holmes about him &#150; I wonder if that was deliberate?  In support Cassel is much better than the last film  saw him in (the horrible Doberman) and is delightfully weasel-like and smarmy as a good French villain should be.Overall this is a strange mix of genres but it pretty much all works.  The mystery is good for those who like Holmes and the action is appropriate for the modern action fan.  The direction is good save some gimmicks and the film is visually very good with a real sense of time and authenticity to it. "}{"Title":"What Garbage!","Date":"3 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Awful, just awful the entire movie is in French so you have to read subtitles throughout the entire movie.  It gets very annoying. The story is lame, the action sequences are dull, the wolf looked more like a dinosaur. Just absolute crap. 1/10 "},{"Title":"Whatever","Date":"14 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The moment I saw one-line of dialogue North American Indian doing wing chun and Thai kickboxing on stunt doubles and walking CGI I stood up and left. Absurdity and gratuitous violence does not redefine horror. It only adds to the cheesiness.  "},{"Title":"Long,long,long. Lets give it an Indian to make it look cool.","Date":"7 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Brotherhood of the wolf was not what I expected. First off for everyone be prepared for subtitles, they are there. That in itself is not annoying unless the movie starts to get old, which it did. This movie is way to long and often spends a minute or two on slow motion freeze frames on certain action sequences. At least the action on how water falls or splashes as this seems to be a fascination of the director. There are also parts of the film that left me saying what was the point of that scene as it plays no role at all in the rest of the film. Also, I guess this is supposed to be a mythical world of some sense as the beast is somewhat larger than life, but there are times when things again don't make sense. They try to make it a realistic world as much as possible except for the beast but then they throw in swords that can break apart and come back together again. What the...??? Not to much of a surprise on whats going to happen because there is going to be the big fight at the end. The only thing that might keep you guessing is when will the credits roll. "},{"Title":"Worst movie of the year!","Date":"7 April 2002","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  No emotion (not even in death scenes).  Stupid contradictory  heroes.  Worst special effects ever.  Unwarranted incestous rape scene.  MTV whorehouse and a whore with a heart of gold.  And what is the plot again?  This crap doesn't even entertain.  Mindless, plotless French garbage from a talentless wannabe music video director. "},{"Title":"A.D.D. the movie","Date":"12 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Brotherhood of the wolf is set in a small French village during the 18th century. Were we are told the story of gevauden village and the beast that terrorizes it. Although the true species of he beast is never explained to us it is suggested to be ether werewolf, dragon or even the devil. Gregoire de Fronsac and his insisted Mohawk Indian brother are sent to this small village of peril to solve the mystery and capture the beast for it to be displayed in a museum in Paris. After a few distracting side stories that don't really go anywhere or serve much purpose it is eventually revealed that the beast is the pet of a large underground gang. The under ground gang, played by a selection of Harley-Davidson riding extras from the film wild hogs, are apparently lead by an elderly man and his daughter whose characters are given unusually few lines. Gregoire de Fronsac is shown to be a peaceful character during the film and is said to be a philosopher, a scientist and even a doctor. Gregoire is the type of person that uses carefully chosen words to discuss confrontation if unable to avoid a confrontation in the first place. That is until his Indian brother is killed in a secret base, no really they have a secret base. Gregoire goes on a Rambo style mission and breaks into their secret base, OK so maybe its not that secret, and begins killing all in his path. Its as if the director realized he had killed the ninja karate skilled character and thought ah... how do I put more kungfu in my film now that he is dead? then, after watching a couple of violent tom and jerry episodes he constructed this ludicrous fight sequence that builds up and builds up until... he just levees. He just seemingly walks away as another group of the goons come round the corner, perhaps the directors mother had popped in and said it was too violent and he was told to stop it straight away.The director, Christophe Gans, makes it very clear to us that Gregoires Red Indian brother Mani has severe anger problems. It seems that every scene Mani is in he starts fighting. This is not only wrong for the 15 year old children allowed to watch due to the low certificate given to it but it is also a crime against all martial arts films. Christophe gets so caught up in his genre greed he brutally abuses each and every one. None of them more abused than period drama. Christophe naively takes the period drama genre for nothing more than its fancy costumes and posh houses he doesn't even account for the change in language that would have occurred between present day and the bazaar 18th century in which this film was apparently set.Which brings me to the beautiful dialogue. Stephane Cabel is easily noticeable as one of the best writers of all time. That is unless anyone smarter than a rock with a face painted on it with any history of an education manages to apply pen to paper before time ends. I can only assume she has attempted the short and powerful approach and hoped to bring us such remember able lines such as Jesus wept. In reality there is no impressive quote I can give or any remarkable sentence that I will remember forever, well not in a good way. The one piece of dialogue I will always remember from this film is during a slight dramatic peak where two characters engage in an aggressive confrontation. Boundaries are crossed and secrets are reveled. One of the characters looks at the woman to his side and with all the emotion the actor can squirt through his dirty little face he says, with true sincerity, Go away. A textbook example of an anti climax. Something I became very knowledgeable of while watching this film.Although the film is set only in 18th century France we still see some interesting sights throughout the film. We are treated to rolling hills with lush green grass and perfectly ornamental rocks, extravagant French palaces filled with the finest gold pearl and ivory, but then things change. Its as if the director had a strong blow to the head which killed of the imaginative part of his brain. He gives up on searching for awesome and breathtaking locations and instead just uses the sets from previous successful films with vague interest in keeping the authenticity of the 18th century. Remember this is all still in France and yet we visit the Amazon set of Indiana Jones, the Newzeland forests of lord of the rings, the wondrous bamboo traps of skull island used in the film king Kong and I'm pretty sure at some point they travel through a wardrobe into a snowy fantasy land were they are asked by a lion to fight the ice queen.Did Christophe Gans take a brutal blow to the head? Was Christophe Gans a tragic sufferer of A.D.D? Is Christophe Gans an easily influenced director that makes his films purely out of nice bits he has seen from other films cloaked with a translucent veil such as period drama? The answers? Yes, of course. Would anyone with half a functioning brain honestly put his name on the cover of this DVD? With the bazaar decision for explosion noises when puddles are splashed and the tortes style decisions when it came to using the ghosting effects during editing it is easy to see that Christophe Gans honestly struggles to make a film of acceptable standards. I could write a joke here connecting Christophe Gans to the mental hospital on the outskirts of my town, making you think I'm smart and witty whilst at the same time making a mockery of Christophe Gans. But, there is no need, such a joke exist. Its name? Brother hood of the Wolf. "},{"Title":"whoa!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"11 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" i watched this movie and i am still thinking about it i am thinking about how excellent the movie was? i have to say this movie is a masterpiece nothing less it has lots of violence and fight scenes which is cool because i am a fighting freak.this movie is really good and sometimes it might get boring but who cares it entertained me a lot i am definitely buying it for my collection.the characters where awesome i liked mark docasos cause he stand out and he did most of the fighting scenes. Samuel Li bihan was not too bad but okay. Monica Bellecuni was totally crap in this movie because she was boring.i just wanted the beast to be a half man half-something rather than a beast that looks like a crocodile. "},{"Title":"Easily one of the greatest motion pictures ever produced","Date":"22 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Brotherhood of the Wolf (aka Le Pacte des loups) is easily one of the 10 best motion pictures ever produced. Lovers of complex, compelling cinema are seriously missing out if they've not experienced such a truly amazing film.The elements comprising this unique period piece are each honed to perfection The plot is mesmerizing, the direction stunning, the editing flawless, the acting brilliant, the music wonderful and the costumes are amazing. As a whole these elements created an unparalleled historical drama that fused several cinematic genres and historical facts like few films ever attempted let alone accomplished.Discussing the film further jeopardizes your experience. You don't want to know much of anything before watching. Suffice to say during a three-year period of the 1760s a wolf-like creature murdered 100 people in a mountainous region of France.Yes, it's subtitled in English. Just put down the large Budweiser and adjust your bifocals. More than worth the effort.Haven't yet seen the film? Quit wasting time. Find a copy. And tell your friends. (You can thank me later...) "},{"Title":"Pure Entertainment","Date":"12 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Based (very) loosely on the Beast of Gevaudan in late 18th Century France, Brotherhood of the Wolf is an almost perfect piece of entertainment.There is the battle with the beast, elements of horror, a love story, some kick ass fight scenes, erotica and political elements. It all adds up to a fantastic 2 and bit hours where you are taken to the world of the beast. Adding to this and giving the film an extra edge are the brilliant performances, Samuel Le Bihan as the old fashioned hero(something that seems to be increasingly rare these days), the always excellent Vincent Cassel as the twisted Jean Francois while Monica Bellucci is absolutely sizzling (in more senses as one) as the seductive and lethal Sylvia. At the end of the day, the filmmakers knew that they were making a piece of entertainment and they have excelled themselves. "},{"Title":"Stunningly good!","Date":"15 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Maybe the best french film in many years. This is a romance/action movie set in pre revolutionary France. It revolves around a large wolf like beast that is terrorising a rural french town, killing women and children in large numbers. The king sends 2 men, an adventurer and 'intellectual' called Fronsac and his Indian warrior comrade named Mani, who is a dab hand with a tomahawk. The 2 men set about hunting the beast with help from a few of the locals.The local aristocracy however are hiding a deadly secret.I enjoyed this movie to the max. Very impressed from beginning to end. The music is haunting and effective. The action is well styled and exciting. The story is gripping and well acted with very few boring parts. I found myself immersed in the characters and plot. I highly recommend this to any fan of cinema. Unforgettable to say the least. "},{"Title":"A total mess!","Date":"31 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is one of the strangest movies i have ever seen. Parts martial arts action movie, part costume drama and part monster flick. More than anything it leaves me completely bewildered as to what my opinion should be.In the province of Guevadan in France a monster is rampant. It's killing women and children on the country side. The king of France has now decided to do something about it and sends two men to deal with the problem. The gardener in the royal gardens, Fronsac, and his loyal native American companion Mani. They start to investigate the matter.This movie starts up like a serious costume drama. The whigs are in place, the costumes are impeccable and the visuals very nice. But the movie soon changes style Suddenly there is kicking and fighting in the mud. Flying kicks and martial arts from the native American. Fronsac goes seeking the pleasure of prostitutes, the monster keeps killing people and the movie seems to go on forever.The thing with Le Pacte des Loups that strikes me more than anything is that director Christophe Gans never seems to have decided what kind of movie he wanted to make. So we have a little bit of everything. A little action, some special effects for the monster, some drama and fraternizing the castle Sense and sensibility-style. The actors are mostly well-known french actors that i have seen in many movies before. It is easy to see that this is a high-budget project.And in some ways this is an impressing movie. The visuals are stunning most of the time. The acting is well done and the action scenes are mostly very well made. But still this is a mess. There is just too much going on. Not to mention that at least thirty minutes should have been cut away, the movie drags on forever.Usually when i see a movie that i don't really like i can point out the flaws with relative ease. That's not so easy here though. Most of the parts in this movie are quite well-made. But together they become a mess with a story that doesn't come together right. But still, even though i strongly feel i should think that this is crap i still liked it quite a bit. Not because the movie was good, rather because it was something unique. And it's always better to try and make something unique i think, even if you do fail. Better to have tried and failed... "}{"Title":"WTF","Date":"11 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  WTF? This film was barking. I don't know why any of the characters in this film did what they did. I don't know why some of them were even there. What was the point of the Mani character? Why did the film suddenly go into slow motion every 10 minutes even though nothing in particular was happening?(mild spoiler, though I don't know if there is anything to spoil here.)Why do all the main characters 'die' 3/4 of the way through the story? What was the point of the disappearing re-appearing arm? Why were they in a brothel? What did the Church have to do with anything? Who tries to take over a country by releasing trained wild animals? Where would they get them all from anyway? Why did it jump to the French revolution 30 years down the line? Why would anyone like this film?I would recommend Ravenous instead as it is equally confusing and silly, but much more fun.  "},{"Title":"bad Dubbing","Date":"8 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  If only this film came in french with English Subtitles.The dubbing was the biggest let down ever. Excellent film and Vincet Cassell was fantastic though some of it did get confusing towards the end. "},{"Title":"The best French movie I've ever seen!","Date":"29 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  It's an excellent movie with an interesting story. The best French movie I've ever seen! Although Monica Bellucci doesn't have a main role, she fits perfectly as Sylvia, a deadly beautiful woman. Mark Dacascos, which I knew from The Crow Stairway to Heaven, had an excellent performance. I strongly recomend the Director's Cut version! "},{"Title":"The ultimate French action film.","Date":"27 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Brotherhood of the Wolf (2001) is a film loosely based upon a local French legend that happened during the 18th century. A Frenchman and his Canadian-Indian buddy are in the area to find out if the legend about a giant beast is true or not. But what they uncover has to be even stranger than anything they could have ever imagined. Is the legend true? This has to be the ultimate French action film. Not only is the direction superb but the action director Phillip Kwok stages some of the best fights that I have seen in awhile. How can you go wrong with state of the art action scenes and a naked Monica Bellucci? You can't. Besides Dobermann, this has to be the best French action flick around. This movie has everything you can want. The photography is excellent and the editing is sharp and edgy. Highly recommended!Monica Bellucci is so hot, she's on fire in this one!! "},{"Title":"So much better than anything Hollywood has yet produced","Date":"4 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of the most thoroughly enjoyable films I've ever watched.  The cinematography is absolutely beautiful and so are all of the principal actors with a wide range of good looks.Samuel le Bihan in the lead role gives an understated performance that lends a quiet and intense strength to the Chevalier de Fronsac with a clever humor that kept me smiling through much of the film.  Mark Dacascos' fighting is always wonderful and especially so in this film.  After watching Le Pacte, I want to see his film Crying Freeman also directed by Christophe Gans. Vincent Cassell is outstanding in his role as is Monica Bellucci as a beautiful and mysterious prostitute.  Emilie Dequenne is very charming and humerous as a young noble woman.  Jeremie Renier is someone to watch for. That boy's star is on the rise.The movie is filled with action, suspense and clever humor.  The costumes are outrageously gorgeous and accurate for the time period.  Though this was a high budget film for France, in Hollywood it would be considered low budget.  Too much money poured into a film must kill the creativity.  You would have to go way back in time to find a Hollywood film as creative as this one and you won't find one made anywhere in the United States with an artistic sensibility that compares to this.  Le Pacte de Loups must have gotten just enough money to put it together but not enough to let technology replace all signs of creativeness.  I hope Christophe Gans continues to direct on a mid-range budget so that he doesn't become just another 'Hollywood director of technology'.Get ready to kick back, relax and have a thoroughly enjoyable evening watching a great film.  "},{"Title":"what?","Date":"15 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I was pumped to rent this film, but was sorely disappointed. I thought the martial arts would be exciting, but the choreography was boring and they used the same 4 moves over and over.  Also, the jagged cinematography and arbitrary slow/fast motion was pointless (after the 20th time used). The story was prosaic and many of the scenes were unnecessary, making it way too long.  "},{"Title":"Boring and Predictable","Date":"6 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie ultimately fails because there is not enough interest in anything which we see.  Everything is constructed in ahistorical ways, take for example the whore house, it looks like a clean, luxurious house where they drink wine all day.  Not only are the Indians portrayed in a negative light but the action scenes are so inept that one wonders what they were doing.  This is not appealing to anyone other than high school midgets. "},{"Title":"Basically a good movie, but in serious need of editing","Date":"20 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was certainly different. It's a mystery story that takes place in the mid 1700s France, in which a nobleman is sent to investigate a series of grisly murders that may not be what they seem, sort of in the vein of Sleepy Hollow. However, it's quite the ecclectic mix, with excellent martial arts and fight scenes interspersed with suspense, political intrigue and philisophical discussion. The special effects for the murderer are quite good, as are the overall production values and acting. My one criticism, though, is that this movie runs 142 minutes, when it should have run 100. There are a lot of superfluous scenes that do nothing for the story but slow it down to the point of boredom. I recommend this movie, but only on tape or dvd, and have your remote ready for fast-forwarding at the right parts. "},{"Title":"Wow. Must see.","Date":"3 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Awesome film. Just saw it and so I am still a little awed/cathartic.  Amazing film that twists and turns and stays true to era. Amazing. Only the French can make amazing films like this. ONLY THE FRENCH. WOW. "},{"Title":"Boringhood of the wolf","Date":"22 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Yes, this movie was a tad slow.  I am not one to bash a long movie that has subtitles but this movie kinda dragged.  It is not nearly as wonderful as Crouching Tiger Hidden Dragon.  This movie is about a wolf dressed up in wooden armour who is ruthless in the manner in which he KILLS his victims.  The karate scenes were pretty good but a bit too much on the Jet Li side for me.  Too many WIRES. "}{"Title":"WireFoo meets WongFoo. Something like that...","Date":"20 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I wasn't sure quite what to make of this either, equal parts 'Crouching Tiger', 'Musketeers', 'Man in Iron Mask', Lon Cheney and Benny Hill. You know-those old 'Scarlet Pumpernickel' skits he did, running around all fast-those too were in there....Anyways-I found this to be fun, violent, nicely done, w/ some BAD Wolf-creature F/X, and a nice sense of the era and place. You didn't need the WireFoo stuff, and at times the storyline loses it's way, but for me-it was def. worthy. Seemed to be a little incest line there-'little sister come here..' which is wince inducing, but the rest, it's worth yer time.***, check it out either dubbed or subbied, no matter.  "},{"Title":"A beautiful but esoteric spectacle","Date":"3 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The Brotherhood of the Wolf is a ravishing spectacle which tells a fabled tale about a huge killer wolf-like creature which plagues the peasants in remote part of 18th century France. The film packs more meticulous production effort into its 2+ hour run than most films as it lays out its story of intrigue, horror,  romance, and church/monarchy politics with an unusual array of characters, lavish costuming, beautiful locations, superb music, splendid cinematography, and excellence in all aspects of the film. The mixed reviews the film received probably has to do with the simple-minded couch potato mentality which rules much of filmdom and the film's honest docudrama approach to period esoterics which makes emotional connections and buy-ins difficult. ...Wolf is an elegant feast for anyone who appreciates sheer excellence in film-making without regard for content. (B+) "},{"Title":"A true French Triumph for the 21 Century!","Date":"26 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  From it's initial opening through to it's outstanding ending I knew that Brotherhod Of The Wolf was going to be a visual delight. .  .BOY WAS I RIGHT!Spectacular opening sequence in the first ten/twenty minutes since Lord of the Rings. Sweeping landscapes and ultimate kick ass fight scenes that even rival the likes of Lord of the Rings as well. Since we in Europe, manage to get movies like this before hand I was happy to know that it wasn't USA that would claim it first. Mark Dacascos was for me the biggest highlight in this film since Brandon Lee in the Crow (by the way hats off to the reviewer who mentioned that he would've been ideal for this role). In fact I even hope that Mark Dacascos could even be considered for a role in X-MEN 2 as either good/bad. I don't give a damn what anyone said about genre mixing being dangerous. The whole concept about film making is to experiment and risk take.Okay so the French make alot of notable arty films I just hope that this'll be a memorable piece of movie entertainment for everyone to recall. Christoph Gans should be immensly proud of himself (Peter Jackson check this out). Credibility to some of the other actors involved Samuel Le Bihan as the lead sidekick to Dacascos, Monica Belluci as beautiful as ever. And not to mention Vincent Cassel. My only dissapointment was why on earth has this film not been nominated for any Academy Awards this year.Wake America this film should be a bit of a wake up call, Lord of the Rings ain't the only film to impress. Trying adding this one to the equation.I just hope that Gans and Dacascos have Hollywood falling head over heals for them. They truly deserve it.Brilliant. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Great foreign film","Date":"8 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this movie two times in the same day because I thought it was a great film.  I haven't seen a lot of foreign films, but I would rank this as the best one I have seen.  To steal a quote from another IMDB user, this was what Sleepy Hollow should of and could of been.  It is a French film with subtitles but I didn't feel like I was reading after the first five minutes. The two lead actors, Samuel le Bihan and Mark Dacascos, did a great job and the supporting cast was very good. The only negative thing I could say about the movie was that it could have been cut by a couple minutes here or there.  It only runs at 140 minutes though, so no loss there.  Overall, spectacular movie and a definite must-see. "},{"Title":"The best foreign film I have ever seen!","Date":"3 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  What more do you want?  This movie combines action/adventure, drama, horror, a little bit of comedy, and much, much more. It really can't be placed into a single category. This is an entertaining movie that will keep the audiences interest with exceptional action scenes and tons of twists.  One of the best parts of the movie was the monster.  It was the most well done, frightening monster since Alien or Predator.  The major reason why the creature was done so well was because instead of using today's special effects to create a monster, the movie goes back to the classics and uses a style originated by Jim Henson known as creature shop.  Do not miss your opportunity to see this while it is still in the theaters.  It utilizes the theater's superior surround sound and is a real aural and visual treat to the audience.  All in all it is a magnificent movie that is well worth two hours of your time. "},{"Title":"The best movie ever","Date":"12 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is the best movie I have ever seen. The picture, the actors, the language is outstanding. It is thrilling and breathtaking. You just have to see it! "},{"Title":"Like an uninformed teenager's view of the 18th century.","Date":"5 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Brotherhood of the Wolf is a slickly made film--with a large budget and lots of gorgeous costumes and camera-work. It discusses a strange and relatively unknown bit of mythology of the period--about a supposed monster that killed a lot of folks in Gévaudan, France. It seems that while some folks did die, what, exactly killed them is not 100% certain--though it was most likely the work of wolves. Here, a cryptozoological approach to the killings is entertained--that there is some fanciful creature (like a Bigfoot or Loch Ness Monster) killing people. Now this sort of fantasy story is not a bad thing--but how it's all handled irritated me in so many ways. While superficially the film appeared to be from this era (circa 1764), so much of it is hogwash--anachronistic crap that teenagers might think is cool but which have absolutely no place in a period piece. Here are a few examples Martial arts fights like you might see in Japan or China, crazy special effects, witches and lots of gratuitous nudity. It seems more like a video game's version of history than history! While I don't normally do this, I found the film so annoyingly self-aware and slick that I got tired of it very quickly and eventually turned the thing off--right after the cliché about the wisdom of native religions and the evilness of Christianity was introduced. Give me a break. Dumb and a bit offensive--just what I want in a movie! Not!By the way, this film reminded me in some ways of the recent film Sleepy Hollow which also was very anachronistic, slick and vacuous. "},{"Title":"American Vapidity with French Attitude","Date":"5 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Le Pacte des Loups (U.S. title Brotherhood of the Wolf) is a beautifully set and photographed stupid American action flick. It apes martial arts action flicks, stranger comes to town flicks, suspense/mystery flicks, kitch stereotypes about the mystic awareness of primitive cultures, even ruffle and lace historical fancy dress flicks- all unconvincingly. As other commentaries have noted, it has a bit of everything in it and each of those bits stands out in awkward isolation. The story fails to unite the disparate elements into a whole that compels my interest.Furthermore, emulating every cheap film genre was not enough. This is, after all, a French film and, therefore, pretentiously artistic. In this case, art is speeding up and slowing down frame rates during action sequences- temporal punctuation, as it were. Also, a number of scenes and actions in the film seem added more out of consideration of their panache or sheer unexpectedness rather than how they propel the story along. For a film already rendered discordant by the variety of its ambitions and inspirations, these extra jolts of surprise don't help believability one bit.I should warn readers that I have yet to develop much respect for French cinema. I guess I've watched too many French films where the protagonist kills an enemy right after promising mercy- my bad luck. Nevertheless, I was sad to see such an American film coming out of France- a film with the weak story line, underdeveloped characters, mind-numbingly repetitive action and special effects which all characterise the American throw-away action flick we know so well today.The film did have a lot going for it. The photography is quite good- scenes are well and appealingly lit. Exposure is well-balanced in all weather conditions- all of which render more enjoyable the beautiful countryside and well-appointed period indoor sets. The editing is, as I remember, generally satisfactory and the camera is controlled sufficiently well during action sequences so they don't look like they've been through a blender. With the exception of story, the film is competently and, often, quite well executed.Who should watch this film? Guys who like an action film unencumbered by emotional depth. Francophiles who want a taste of where beloved France is headed despite all its efforts to cling to its own culture- oops!Who shouldn't watch this film? People like me who are worn out with formulaic action films that are gross ripoffs and stereotypes of other bad formulas. People who aren't so easily tricked by special effects into thinking they are watching a good film. "},{"Title":"Warning, do not buy movie!","Date":"18 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I really must say, I read imdb prior to purchasing this movie sightunseen.  We have purchased many dvd's this way.  I was justshocked at how bad this movie was.  My husband and I justlaughed at parts that were to be serious and just could not get overhow bad some of the fight scenes were.  And the beast at the endof the movie?  Just awful and contrived and every bad thing youcould imagine wrong with a climax.  We didn't know a great dealabout the background of the movie, but thought since the reviewswere good, we'd take a chance.  Now we're stuck with a movie wewouldn't give to our worst enemy.  It's just that bad.  God bless thepoor soul who purchases this next.  I gave it a 2.  But only becausesome of the actors were cute.  Nuff said.   "},{"Title":"Aesthetic hole","Date":"2 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The pictures, set and costumes are as perfect as the characters and the story are empty. Leaving the theater, I just felt like having just seen a beautiful but dumb Renaissance Street Fighter.The Gévaudan myth and history is simply scorched, ripped. The armored lion is the most ridiculous creature I've seen for ages and even the fantasy dimension of the film can't mask its lack of credibility. Each character was like a playable fighter with his own abilities and weaponry but no background.The last combat staring the Soulcalibur video-game's whip-sword is a poor excuse for so many wasted film rolls. And, if it wasn't enough, all combat scenes are fragmented into slow-motion multi-angle short replays making the encounters last forever.A film to be seen on stills, at most. "}{"Title":"Simply Dreadful","Date":"24 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I went in with some very high expectations of this movie, and was disappointed on every count.  While it's got slick production values, it's a terrible muddle and a thorough waste of my time.  It can't make up its mind what kind of movie it wants to be, and none of its attempts come off very well.  Its whole is not greater than the sum of its parts by any stretch of the over-enthusiastic imagination.I saw this film at a festival devoted to horror, fantasy and action, and the opinion in the lobby, afterwards, seemed universally one of, Wow...what a stinker. "},{"Title":"well produced garbage","Date":"27 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  at the moment of writing this review, i have not yet finished watching the movie .....But i hate already. Nothing really makes sense in this ridiculous flick. there are too many sequences that could have been left out.the scenes involving the wolf are so few, and they are so phony.... i would not recommend this one.  "},{"Title":"HORRIBLE!","Date":"2 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The cheezee action of a John Woo films with the over done effects of Lucas! I am horrified that the French film industry is taking movie lessons of america! America pumps out 50 duds to 1 decent film and up until now I would say they could take a lesson from France, a nation that nursed great film makers such as Luc Besson. I hope this was just a failed experiment and the French will go back to making films of content. "},{"Title":"Old fashioned in a good way","Date":"4 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" After reading other comments or viewing the movie with the eyes glued on the Martial Arts scenes and the CGI, the title of this commentary might seem odd to some.But it really shouldn't, as it refers to the storytelling more then to the way its delivered.Having just watched the Brotherhood for the fifth or so time on DVD, I decided to delve a bit more into the gutsy side of movie review, something not entirely usual for me, as I'm more the analytic type - so please bear with me if I seem to struggle for the right words.Brotherhood feels like a good, old fashioned adventure story; one that could have been told in one of the books many of us have read under the blanket as young boys or girls. Thats not just because its based on a mix of facts and legends of the 18th century, but also because of how its told - with the right mixture of suspense, sympathy for ones heroes and villains and, just the right amount of pathos a truly good adventure tale needs. This is a feeling only very few books or movies today can deliver (I wont delve into cultural analysis of the reasons, one could probably fill entire books without coming to a definitive answer), and thusly it earned a place high in my esteem. It might not be what many people would call a modern classic or even a cult movie, but its the next best thing A truly entertaining and emotionally gripping movie, if you allow yourself to look at it like you would have read all those books and stories by Edgar Rice Burroghs, JF Cooper, Robert E. Howard or Jules Vernes.Instead of a post scriptum Brotherhood Of The Wolfes gets often compared with Sleepy Hollow - understandably if not entirely correctly I think. But as I like both movies a lot and to keep with the theme of this comment, let me make a final comparison here. If Brotherhood is like a story by the above mentioned writers, Sleepy Hollow would be a tale by Poe, Lovecraft or James Herbert. All of them great writers in their own right that shouldn't really be compared, just enjoyed. "},{"Title":"One of the best  action/horror movies!","Date":"18 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The title of the movie doesn't prepare you in any way for what you are going to see. The movie is very complex and the ending is one of the best endings of an action/horror film I've ever seen.The action takes place in medieval France and from the historic point of view it is very well prepared. The actors did a most impressive job at learning the ways of the french. The movie starts with a very sinister scene that shows you in a way how the movie will go from that point on. So, basically, there is no dull moment in the entire movie, it's full of suspense, action and not to forget the special effects and costumes which were perfect. You should be very careful while watching the movie because there's a great chance you'll get carried away by all the action and forget to see the plot which is very very complex and interesting. There's no aspect of the movie I feel I need to criticize because the good parts made quite an impression.Enjoy the movie and try not to get spooked early in the action because you'll miss a great movie. "},{"Title":"not so great but Monica is in!","Date":"28 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Whether it was the director or Ms. Bellucci truly a missed opportunity for a very erotic and sensual scene. We see plenty of her in Malena but due to the nature of that film, hardly erotic. Here with the camera angles, distance, pans the viewer is more teased then pleased. The only time her nipples appears are in a drawing towards the end. The best shot is of her generous Italian rear. The only one to be pleased with the nudity in this movie will be the vid-capers. The major nudity is by minor performers in the brothel. At least three are noted in the credits Isabelle Le Nouvel .... Brunette prostitute Albane Fioretti .... Prostitute at Teissier Clarice Plasteig dit Caffou .... Prostitute at Teissier But as there are some 15 ladies there who can tell?  "},{"Title":"Finally something fresh and original.","Date":"14 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Le Pacte des Loups is an original and visually impressive action/horror and one of the best movies of the year.Incredibly beautiful photography by Dan Laustsen(Mifune),great acting and wonderful location sets.Plenty of wonderfully choreographed fights(Philip Kwok-Hard Boiled,Tomorrow Never Dies)and lots of suspense.Christophe Gans is a great,highly underrated director and I loved his earlier movies-Necronomicon-part 2,and brilliant actioner Crying Freeman also with Mark Dacascos.And lovely Monica Bellucci(Malena,Doberman) is also here-Man,she is incredible!Definitely my favourite actress of all time!So if you like French cinema,check out this exciting film! "},{"Title":"One of the best films to ever come out of France","Date":"13 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" From start to finish this movie is enchanting, incredible, and spell binding. The cinematography and fight choreography are amazing. This movie takes the slow motion camera tricks of other modern classics such as Hero and The Matrix and makes them its own.I applaud the directors decision to reveal the monster halfway through the movie. I believe this is because the monster is not supposed to be the focus of the film. Right around the time the story takes a few third act twists and turns the director lets us get a few unflinching looks at the monster and we are no longer in suspense to see it. By this point in the film the viewer is in suspense because a larger conspiracy is unraveling and one wants to see it resolved.I highly recommend it, there are a few flaws, as it did not earn a ten in my opinion. The scene at the dinner table where one of the characters recites a poem he wrote about the beast is particularly hackneyed and almost painful to watch. But this scene is merely a case of when bad scenes happen to good movies. Overall is it excellent "},{"Title":"Tasteless, Horrid, Misogynistic  Movie","Date":"30 December 2005","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Horrid, tasteless movie. I cannot emphasize that enough.The trailers looked excellent and I couldn't wait for the movie to come out on DVD and I snatched it up as soon as it was released. (Yes, that was three years ago, but that's how searing an impression it made on me.) I really shouldn't have wasted my time, nor my money on this chauvinistic, exploitive crap. It appears that the trailer was the best part of the movie as the movie itself was so haphazardly slapped together. It could have been a good movie, judging from the historical legend it's based on and keen martial arts-type fighting scenes, but the characters were stereotypical caricatures, the fighting scenes were nothing special (I guess I've been spoiled on too many Hong Kong kung fu movies), and the incestuous rape scene was the most gratuitous, disgusting single scene I have ever seen in a mainstream movie release. This was utter tripe and a waste of the celluloid used to print the film. Though I can't say that this is the worst film I ever tried to sit through, it definitely ranks up there on the list.Vincent Cassel and Monica Bellucci had to be bribed or drugged to be in this movie. I have no idea what their agents were thinking. I liked them in The Crimson Rivers and Malena, respectively, but to think they followed up those roles with roles in this film is just frightening! (For the teenage boys praising the fact that Monica Bellucci has a nude scene in this movie- you know you can still see Monica naked in other films that aren't nearly as painful to watch.) People who will not like this film anyone with an IQ above average, anyone who is disgusted by misogynistic characters and the maltreatment of women, anyone who likes intelligent movies (Save your money) People who will like this film Connoisseurs of snuff films, people who liked the Faces of Death series, people who thought the LOTR films were too long and too complicated, lovers of gratuitous, pointless violence and misogyny "},{"Title":"The Beast of Gevaudin couldn't convince me of its bad intentions.","Date":"3 November 2004","Score":"5 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I've seen the English dubbed version and I liked it, but I'm convinced that it would have been a lot better in French. I know many of you, especially the English speaking people, prefer this version, because they are not used to subtitles and they don't speak French. Still I think it is better to see the original movie. It just feels more natural, which I certainly prefer.What I liked about this movie was the story. In Europe every region probably has its own legends and it is nice to see one of them appear in a movie. Le pacte des loups or The Brotherhood of the Wolf tells the story, which is partially based on true events, of the Beast of Gevaudin that lived and killed in the mountains of Southern France in 1764, and of the people who were sent to hunt it down. As these hunters get closer to it, they find out the truth behind this beast that prays on innocent children and women...The cinematography is really breath taking, the actors did an excellent job and most of the time the fight scenes are nice to watch and yet the movie didn't blow me away. Everything was fine until I saw the Beast. Why did the director have to make it the way it looked? (no, I'm not going to tell you how it looks, you'll have to find it out for yourself) Why did he show it in the first place? I mean, wouldn't the suspense have been a lot bigger if he kept us waiting to see a glimpse of it? For me, the movie lost a lot of it's credibility and charm when I actually saw the 'Beast', which is really too bad. I guess I would have rewarded it with at least an 8 if I hadn't seen the Beast of Gevaudin crawling around in those beautiful landscapes, now a 7 will be more than enough. "}]