[{"Title":"Damned good fun","Date":"6 January 2005","Score":"141 out of 199 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" As a fan of the novels and the movie Interview with a Vampire, I spent a good half hour yelling at the screen before realizing the following1. These are not Anne Rice's vampires. Every character is different, despite their names (The only one to nail a character was Vincent Perez, the highlight of the movie as Marius. Good job.) 2. The plot of the movie is not based on the books. It as if someone picked up a copy of The Vampire Lestat and Queen of the Damned, opened to random pages, made assumptions, got bored and stopped reading, then wrote a screenplay.3. The vampiric rules adhered to in the books are not followed in the movie. The vampires just do whatever is coolest. A certain vampire can't fly? Why not? And why not give him a trail?Once you have acknowledged all these things, you can watch the movie. Have fun. This is not heavy stuff like Interview with the Vampire. Watch Stuart Townsend dance around in a mesh shirt and tight pants, and applaud when his shirt disappears, or, if you like it better, watch Aaliyah gyrate in a scanty metal bra contraption. It's what these two do best. Embrace its plot holes and stupid dialog (which lends itself to random quoting), sing along to the entertaining rock songs. Try and figure out what each of the ancients are named. Pride yourself if you can provide any explanation for what happens at the end of the movie, because trimming to help the pace leaves the ending fairly incomprehensible, especially to those who have read the books.Be sure to watch the extra features, the gag reel for laughs and the deleted scenes if you want to know what happened in the movie. Also try the various documentaries, which are entertaining when they throw in weird special effects while people are speaking.Perfect for a loud, popcorn-filled Friday night with the friends!Prindora (Eibzesii) "},{"Title":"As a stand alone vampire flick, it's worth seeing.","Date":"17 September 2002","Score":"70 out of 105 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Combining The Vampire Lestat and the Queen of the Damned novels into one screenplay was, ahem, damned to suffer massive story cuts because of the intricate and detailed background of a dozen or so characters involved. The amount of detail always was the strength of the Vampire Chronicles, in my opinion, and they were certainly worth the read.That said, the question remains, without the detail and extra characters, can the basic story of Lestat's re-awakening of the Queen of all vampires be entertaining and sufficient enough to sustain itself?  While I can not answer the question with a glowing appraisal, I will certainly admit that it did a decent job of combining all of the basic elements into a stand alone movie.  The fact that this movie can stand on it's own without any ties to the prequel, Interview with the Vampire, is one of it's assets.  You do not need any fore-knowledge of the characters, books, or prequel movie in order to watch this.Even though it fits into it's own little package does not mean it was packed very well.  There were some plot holes, some of which could have been filled by simply restoring the Ancients scenes that were on the dvd.  I understand, as the dvd points out, that they were left out because it introduced another subplot and characters that would add unnecessary confusion.  While I agree with their reasoning, I do think they should have somehow salvaged the scene so that while the introductions of the ancients would have been left out, Maharet's few lines about Akasha's reign of destruction and the vampire's responsibility should have remained.  They would have added a needed sense of urgency and motivation that would have made the final confrontation with Akasha and the ancients a bit more reasonable and satisfying.The character of Jessie is supposed to be the human link for the viewer to empathize through as they are taken into the world of vampires.  In some scenes, this works adequately, but on the whole, Jessie's motivations, while they are explained, seem kind of empty.  I am not sure if I can fault the actress or script, but when the movie was over, I still felt ambivalent about the character's experiences.There were other elements that were not as fleshed out as they could be. The paranormal Talamasca needed a bit more background about their vampire tracking as did the character of Maharet and her family tree.  Like Jessie, they were given some explanation, but I think a couple more lines of dialogue would have helped.As I mentioned, the movie did a decent job of the basic story, but massive changes were made from the source material.  Characters were dropped completely, or merged together, and huge sections of character history were removed.  Most notably, Lestat's history is extremely compacted and revised. Nonetheless, there are some things that remained that I thought were done pretty well.  The character of Lestat in this picture is rebellious and reckless which is more true to the character than he was portrayed in Interview.  Lestat's re-awakening and concert scenes were exactly like I had envisioned when I originally read the book.  The character of Akasha was also as I pictured and a very good casting choice.If you are a fan of the books, and you need the twins, Gabriel, Magnus, and crew, you are going to have difficulty sitting through this.  If, on the other hand, you can set that aside and view this as a vampire movie of it's own, unrelated to the chronicles, you will probably enjoy this for the stand-alone vampire flick that it is.In summary, worth the rental.  "},{"Title":"By any other name. . .","Date":"22 November 2003","Score":"71 out of 112 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This might have been a good movie it they hadn't of associated it with the book.  Any reader of the Vampire Chronicles knows what I mean.  They changed so much of the story that they will be unable to make any of the other books into movies without changing them completely also or remaking this one.They totally trivalized the debate between Akasha and her 'children'.Marius (who did not make Lestat btw) in the chronicles is the great reasoner of the Vampires.  In the book he had a long argument for Akasha.  In the movie all he says to her is Akasha, please.  He was never jealous of Lestat drinking from Akasha (he himself had many many times) and didn't try to hide Enkil and Akasha from Lestat. They turned the Vampires from sad and beautiful creatures of the night who only kill the evil-doer into blood hungry wanna-bes who eat whatever mortal wanders by. Maharet's twin, Mekare, isn't even in the story.  Mekare crawling out of the jungles after thousands of years, insane and single minded, to fufill the curse she spoke to Akasha in her court in ancient times was a major plot point. Anyway, my point is that a very well thought-out and seductive story was turned into a joke of a movie.  Honestly, don't bother seeing the movie, read the book. "},{"Title":"Exactly what I expected","Date":"9 March 2005","Score":"56 out of 87 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This film was basically set up for failure by the studio. One, Anne Rice (author of the book) offered to write the screen play but was refused by the studio. Two, they tried to stuff 2 in depth novels in to a 2hour movie.I maintain the only way for these two books -Vampire Lestat and Queen of the Damned- to work in a live action form would be through a mini-series. First off the the Vampire Lestat alone takes place from the 1700's to the 1980's and has a plethora of character vital to the plot understanding of the main character, Lestat. The entire book Vampire Lestat sets up the events of the second part Queen of the Damned. Without that full understanding the premise of a movie is destroyed.Lestat was not cruel and vicious to all, he was not wanting to go along with Akasha's plans, Marius did not make Lestat, Lestat did not love Jesse or make her, Lestat could not go remain unscathed by the light, Marius was not after David nor the other way around, every character was completely represented wrong, BASICALLY same names different story.If they wanted to make a vampire movie, fine. Even if you wanted to be inspired by these novels, fine. But don't piggie back into the theaters off the success of Rice's great novels and characters just to destroy what her loyal readers have come to love.If you haven't read the books you won't understand the film really, if you have read the books you will be insulted. That being said, I am such a huge fan I had to see the movie knowing full well this was going to be the case and still went for it. Catch 22, must see it, will hate it. "},{"Title":"If you read the books, avoid this movie.","Date":"24 March 2005","Score":"90 out of 158 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I should have known when I heard Anne Rice left the project that the movie would disappoint me. I couldn't have predicted that years after it's release just thinking about the movie still makes me angry. The novels are amazing, and while I understand much gets lost in the translation to screen, this movie was a great big middle finger to her original work. I hope one day someone tries again, the right way, starting with The Vampire Lestat. They change the roles and looks of major and minor characters alike for no good reason. They destroy Lestat's history. The acting of the Queen is exaggerated to the point of comedy, but I just can't bring myself to laugh. The charm and allure of the novels just isn't there. The movie is a bad excuse to cram as many musicians and dark imagery as possible into one movie, hoping the teeny Goths of America would lap it up. Part of the appeal of the first movie, of Louis' story, is that he is caught between his humanity and his curse. Lestat is supposed to take over and display the magic and excitement of the vampire world. Thank goodness I read the books first, or I'd have never touched them after this movie. "},{"Title":"Addictive and visually beautiful","Date":"25 July 2002","Score":"55 out of 95 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I've seen this movie countes times now and still can't get sick of it.  It's like a frickin' drug.  I know a lot of people don't like it but there's something about it that just draws me in.  Every single performance is spectacular, but Aaliyah is the one who steals the show.  She not only played the role of Akasha she became it.  Her body movement and beauty was captured exceptionally well.  It's also nice to see that a black girl was chosen for the role of an Egyptian Queen (No, I'm not predjudice against white people, I am one).  True it's not known what color the ancient Egyptians really were but this was a nice change.  Stuart Townsend completely made me forget about Tom Cruise's portrayel of Lestat and Marguerite was striking once again.  All in all it was a good time at the movies.  For those who haven't seen it, be sure to watch it with an open mind and not take it too seriously.  I mean, it's a movie about a vampire who becomes a rock star.  Take it as that. "},{"Title":"One You Can Sink Your Teeth Into","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"55 out of 99 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  	If vampire tales are your cup of blood, then this Goth-fest based on the Anne Rice Vampire Chronicles should prove to be a satisfying experience.  A veritable consortium of the undead in a contemporary setting, `Queen of the Damned,' directed by Michael Rymer, is a story of shadows and darkness, and of the unfortunate souls who dwell therein for eternity.	The vampire Lestat (Stuart Townsend), bored with a world that no longer excites him, has been `asleep' for many years; but suddenly, the sounds of that world he hears from his extended slumber change, and liking what he hears, he ventures forth to investigate.  What he finds is a world filled with new sounds, a new kind of music-- driving and penetrating-- sounds that assault the senses and make him feel alive and welcome.  And he knows that at long last his time has come, that it is time for him and those like him to come out into the open and face the world on their terms.  Toward that end he becomes the front man for a band-- a singer and performer unlike any the world has ever known.  He presents himself as a vampire, and very quickly amasses a following that extends far beyond London (where it all begins), and will ultimately take him to Death Valley, California, where he plans to give a concert that promises to be beyond anything anyone has ever seen or experienced.	Lestat is powerful, without question, but there are those of his kind who do not take favorably to the fact that he has revealed them, one of whom is Marius (Vincent Perez), a vampire powerful in his own right-- the vampire, in fact, who `made' Lestat so many years before-- and they are gathering, coming together and making their plans to meet Lestat at the concert.  And they are not going for the music.  But there is something else, as well  At one point Lestat has inadvertently awakened the `Mother' of them all, the most powerful of all the vampires, Akasha (Aaliyah), who is about to make her presence known to all, and especially to the one she has chosen to rule by her side as her King  Lestat.  And at the concert, rest assured, Akasha will be in attendance, without fail.	Make no mistake, this is Lestat's story, and Rymer presents it amid a setting rich with atmosphere and with some exquisite moments, though his film has less bite to it than say, `Interview With the Vampire,' or `Bram Stoker's Dracula.'  He sets a good pace, and there are some scenes that provide some real thrills, but overall the film isn't as soaked in menace as it could be, or as much as one might expect.  In the final tally, in fact, the amount of flesh that is incinerated wins out over actual blood-letting, though there is more than a taste of gore, and more than a fair share of lips and mouths dripping with the red stuff.  There's some good F/X on hand, too, especially in the sequences that accentuate the speed of the vampires, as they move and hurtle through the air faster than the naked eye can discern.  It's a decent job by Rymer, but he could have put more teeth into it had he played up the alienation hinted at by Lestat; as it is, you get a sense of his detachment, but not enough to get you totally involved.	In `Interview With the Vampire,' Tom Cruise brought some charismatic star power to the role of Lestat, but Townsend is even more effective, with a look and an attitude that captures Lestat perfectly.  He plays him with a sense of acceptance, and under closer scrutiny you may even find a hint of remorse and longing.  It's a good performance, and one that sells his character convincingly.	As Marius, Vincent Perez does a nice job, too-- he is, in fact, one of the strengths of the film-- though his character is a bit ambiguous; that, however, has more to do with the way he was written than with Perez's performance, which is quite good.  	Turning in noteworthy performances, as well, are Marguerite Moreau, as Jesse, a young woman too curious for her own good; and the gorgeous Lena Olin as Maharet, Jesse's Aunt, who ultimately plays a pivotal role in the outcome of the drama involving Lestat and Akasha.	And as Akasha, Aaliyah is an absolutely riveting presence.  What more can one say about her other than she is a gifted performer, with tremendous talent and beauty.  And, tragically, she has left us much too soon.	The supporting cast includes Paul McGann (David), Christian Manon (Mael), Claudia Black (Pandora), Bruce Spence (Khayman), Matthew Newton (Armand), Tiriel Mora (Roger) and Megan Dorman (Maudy).  With a much stronger story than the usual offerings of this particular genre, Anne Rice fans, especially, will be pleased with `Queen of the Damned,' a film nicely crafted and delivered by director Rymer and his engaging cast.  By focusing attention on the drama of the story-- and the way it's presented-- rather than concentrating on merely providing some cheap thrills, Rymer has succeeded in turning out a true horror film that is definitely a cut above, and one that just may whet your appetite for more of the same.  And that's the magic of the movies.  I rate this one 7/10.  	  		      "},{"Title":"It had potential. Oh it had potential!","Date":"8 October 2006","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie was horrendous, and is definitely not worth your time, nor money. I must admit, this movie had potential, but in the end some major factors made this movie rot.First of all, aside from probably the names of the character, this movie respected nothing of Anne Rice's enthralling book. Oh yes I know,to those who haven't read the book it doesn't matter much. But you see,it does because those who haven't read it are deprived of the depth of the characters, and their powerful inter-relations with each other and the whole 'human' aspect of the book. All of which made the book so appealing. The whole point of the book! Some characters were excluded from the movies, characters that carry import to the plot, such as Mekare, Maharet's twin and the sorrowful Legend of the Twins, Armand, Daniel, and Louis and Gabrielle, both Lestat's fledglings and lovers. Akasha had a whole maddened plan to bring peace on Earth. You see, Akasha isn't evil. She is simply single-minded and selfish, lost in her own reasoning. So many characters had so much to offer. And the movie failed to deliver that, which made the characters utterly one-dimensional, and not ones the audience can relate to. It stripped so much of the book, which saddens me, because believe me the book was wonderful. I find some scenes were completely irrelevant, and that they could have been replaced with some decent book-respecting ones. There were a considerable amount of factual errors.Second of all, the acting and faulty accents was enough to make me want to cringe.Also, the movie was too fast-paced. I know, I know, a movie cannot last eight hours to fully capture the profoundness of a character or action, but honestly! The whole Jesse/Lestat love affair could have blossomed if only they had some decent dialog and a little more time! It was like everything had to be hurried. A two-minute scene with Jesse and boom! He has a soft spot for her. Give me a break. Make it believable at least!By the way, Lestat's singing was horrible. He sounded tone-deaf.So I leave you with one advice go to the library, loan the book and read it. Well I would advice you to start from the first tome (Interview with the Vampire). It is such a worthwhile experience to discover Anne Rice's awing piece of literature. "},{"Title":"Loved it!","Date":"17 April 2004","Score":"38 out of 67 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Although this movie doesn't have the darkness of the books, it is in my opinion a great movie. It's great campy fun with the beautiful Stuart Townsend as Lestat. He may not have the blond hair and blue eyes that are so vividly described in the book, but to be fair, he would not look good with blond hair, and Lestat is most definitely about looking good. He moves like the predator I always imagined Lestat would have. The visual effects are pretty good, and the soundtrack is absolutely amazing. It's not Interview with the Vampire, so don't try to compare the two. Interview is Louis' story. This is a cut and paste version of Lestat's. In any case, I highly recommend. "},{"Title":"I guess it depends on your point of view, but I think it's good","Date":"24 November 2004","Score":"21 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I'm notorious among my loved ones for my love of movies that most people wouldn't like. I'm blessed with a gift to appreciate them, I guess. And I'm also blessed with the ability to take movies as totally separate from their book counterparts. Die hard Ann Rice fans might not like this movie because it slams two books (The Vampire Lestat and The Queen of the Damned) into one to make a relatively short film. So, obviously, a lot of the story was changed or left out. Which makes it understandable why some were upset. I mean, come on, Interview With the Vampire was over two hours long, and it was the movie version of just one book.However, taken as it's own story, the movie is actually very good. Well, in my opinion. Stuart Townsend's portrayal of Lestat is wonderful. And it doesn't hurt that he takes off his shirt quite a bit (he has a really nice, defined, if lean, body) and wears leather pants quite a bit. He also has the rock star quality that is often missing when most actors play musicians. You can see how into the music he is. He also is able to project Lestat's arrogance and loneliness very well.Vincent Perez, who plays Marius, also does a wonderful job. Though quite popular in Europe, he is sadly under-appreciated in the U.S. I can't honestly say that his portrayal was dead on (so to speak) because I haven't read any of the books the character appears in, but I thought he was quite good. (Another one that is good-looking, ladies.)Akasha, unfortunately, displays very few emotions, so Aaliyah didn't get a chance to really showcase her acting talents in her final performance, but she did play the evil vampire convincingly. Since she was said to be quite pleasant in real life, I'd say her performance was excellent.Most of the remaining cast were also enjoyable, if not impressive in their performances.There are also interesting special effects.I loved this movie.If nothing else, you should at least check out the soundtrack. The songs are well penned and preformed by a number of talented musicians. My advice? At least give this movie a chance. Despite the bad reviews, you may find yourself pleasantly surprised. "}{"Title":"Great soundtrack, HORRIBLE movie.","Date":"6 February 2005","Score":"23 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The soundtrack for this movie, made by Korn's Jonathan Davis, is fantastic! But that's all that's good about this film. From a purely film point of view there are a bunch of under-developed characters, plot holes, and it just doesn't make a whole lot of sense. It's not really surprising, since the director (Michael Rymer) has done nothing but 'B' movies, as have the two writers (Scott Abbott and Michael Petroni). I'm truly surprised that Anne Rice supposedly liked this film. If the screenplay had followed the book in any real way, the film would have been EPIC. No matter what the producers say on the official website, it could have been done right, as with The Vampire Lestat, if they had found the right writers and had actually wanted to work at it. But they were more interested in making a money maker, and so ended up with a movie on the threshold of 'B' movie, with a story that makes no sense, and actors that are only so-so. And some may say that the effects are cool, but I say they could have been a hell of a lot better. Especially given the fact that the film was made in 2002.Now here are my biggest pet peeves about the movie 1. MAHARET IS A TWIN! In the book she has an identical twin sister, Mekare, and they can both see and speak to ghosts. This is a very important fact as to how Akasha is made into a vampire. The Story of the Twins in the book would have translated fantastically into the movie. They are also very important as to how Akasha is killed. Both of them kill her, not just Maharet. And Maharet does not turn into a statue afterwards. She just goes on living.2. AKASHA IS NOT African! Don't get me wrong, Aaliyah was very beautiful, was a good singer, and may have become a wonderful actress, but Anne Rice's Akasha was not African. Despite what the producers on the official site say is historical accuracy, it is not. Akasha was a princess from the historic city-state of Uruk, located in what is now Iraq. THIS is historical fact. Akasha would have looked Middle-eastern. Her husband, Enkil (who was sadly under-represented in the movie compared to the book), may have been African, since he himself was from Kemet (very ancient Egypt before it was known as Egypt). But Akasha was not. And I don't understand how in the movie Akasha and Maharet knew each other in the movie, since it is never explained. In the book, they meet in the ancient times, when they are both mortal, along with Maharet's twin sister, Mekare, Enkil, and Khayman, who was Enkil's steward. (Khayman was another destroyed character in the movie. He is also an important part to the creation of vampires.) 3. MARIUS DID NOT CREATE LESTAT! It was a vampire called Magnus, who kidnapped Lestat when he was a young man living in Paris. (This is in The Vampire Lestat.) Magnus then burns himself to death after creating Lestat, leaving Lestat on his own, with no idea what is going on. (Which is why Lestat says what he does in the movie version of Interview with the Vampire.) Marius does play an important role in Lestat's life, and IS the keeper of Akasha and Enkil, but he is not Lestat's maker.4. JESSE IS NOT A 'COOL, HIP' TWENTY-SOMETHING THAT IS MADE INTO A VAMPIRE BY LESTAT! Yes, she is made into a vampire, but by a vampire called Mael, who lives with Maharet. Yes, she is a member of the Talamasca, because she can see ghosts like Maharet, but she is in her thirties, not twenties. Also, she is a direct descendant of Maharet and Khayman through about thirty generations. Confused? Well, in the movie, Maharet mentions something about the Great Family. Some may have interpreted that to mean the whole human family. Not so. In the book, the Great Family are the descendants of a child that Maharet had right before becoming a vampire, whose father was Khayman. Maharet protects ALL of them, which is why Jesse ends up with her at times when she is a child. Another cool fact about Jesse from the book She goes to New Orleans and sees the ghost of Claudia from Interview with the Vampire.5. AKASHA DOES NOT GO AROUND JUST KILLING ALL KINDS OF HUMANS. Yes, she does kill a lot of people, (and just about every vampire), but the humans she kills are MEN. And she doesn't kill them just for their blood. In the book, Akasha, while sitting on her throne like a statue, has come to believe that she is some type of goddess, and wants to rid the world of vampires (who can try to destroy her again as they tried to in the vampire wars of the ancient world), and of men, so that she can rule a peaceful society of women. She believes that all of the worlds problems will be solved that way. She takes Lestat to be her lover, and together they rid a couple of islands of all but a few men (for breeding purposes).I have a bunch more pet peeves, but I'm running out of room. All in all, if you like the movie, fine. But do not assume that the movie is based on the book in anyway other than title, and the characters names. The actual book by Anne Rice is sooooo much better, and I highly recommend anyone who has seen the movie to read the book. With the book you will NOT be disappointed. (And for those who may have tried to read Interview with the Vampire after seeing the movie, and found it tedious, all the other Vampire Chronicles are a lot more entertaining. They don't read like Interview with the Vampire. Give them a try!) "},{"Title":"My condolences to Anne Rice","Date":"1 August 2002","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  First of all, I would like to give major credits for the music contributed to this movie. Excellent! This is why I gave it 2.If you've read the book by Anne Rice, and preferably the trilogy(Interview with a Vampire, Vampire Lestat and Queen of the damned), you will probably get sick by watching this movie. It misses all the major points of the book, and is even missing major characters from the original story. I won't say much more than the fact that it sucked.Don't watch this movie! Read the book instead! "},{"Title":"Wow, what a massive step down from Interview With The Vampire.","Date":"20 May 2012","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Interview With The Vampire dealt with the anguish that goes hand in hand with becoming a vamp. In contrast, Queen Of The Damned panders to that goth/emo fantasy where it is really cool to be an immortal bloodsucker, likening it to the life of a rock star with millions of adoring fans. This approach mightn't be all that bad, if only Queen Of The Damned didn't do it all in such a lame and predictable manner.Stuart Townsend takes over the character of Lestat from Tom Cruise and delivers a weak central performance lacking the star power and charisma vital for the role; his pale boyish looks would certainly not earn him the respect of hardcore nu-metal fans. As ineffectual as Townsend's turn as Lestat is, however, it is nowhere near the worst thing about the film the pacing is dreadfully slow, the dialogue is dreary, the direction lacks the sumptuous detail and elegance that Neil Jordan gave Interview, and the less said about Aaliyah's awful performance as Akasha the better (suffice to say that even the way she walked annoyed the hell out of me). "},{"Title":"Well I liked it","Date":"19 July 2003","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I thought it was great! kay, so i know there is alot that is wrong to the books, but i just watched the movie for the movie! I didn't sit there thinking what was wrong to the book and i enjoyed it. I thought Stuart Townsend was great as Lestat, he is what I imagined Lestat to be! And i thought Aaliyah was fantastic!! Okay so I know that Marius is not Lestat's maker but i thought Marius was good!! I would give it about a 6 or 7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"WOW!!! I waited 2 years for something and I finaly got it!!","Date":"8 April 2002","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  OK, so it wasn't what I expected, but I still thought it rocked.  I've read the book several times and the movie is no contest, but I think the Movie would have sucked if it had been a direct interpritation from the book.  I think those who like hard rock, a little bit of romance and a small touch of the super natural will like this movie.  I suggest seeing this movie and judging it for yourself though. "},{"Title":"Not a Fan of da books...But likes da movie.","Date":"2 April 2002","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I have never really read the Anne Rice books b4, but I loved da movie. It had its ups and downs, but it wasn't that bad! I especially loved the rock music, and normally I'm in to rap. Jesse wasn't that emphasized, which made me feel like she wasn't part of da main cast.The main leads I thought were Queen of The Damned and Lestat. I think Aaliyah and Stuart Townsend did a good job in actin as the undead, they made themselves sound hypnotic and yet powerful. So maybe if you have read da books, you wouldn't think dis movie is as powerful as the books, but I for one have not read the books, so I think dis movie is great. "},{"Title":"Brilliant Comedy or Bad Movie?","Date":"12 November 2004","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" My friends and I enjoyed this movie immensely when it came out, but were almost tossed out of theatre. We'd read all the books, so to us the film was high comedy. Most of the other people in the audience were just Aliyah fans. (I remember hearing a guy behind us going Oh! They're <i>vampires</i>! lik they hadn't mentioned that in the trailer.)The saving grace of this movie Stuart Townsend, who has his godawful moments, but is mostly quite good, and very pretty.I bought this DVD used for $6 and my friends and I put it on at parties. Since it has no real plot, we can talk through most of it without missing anything. "},{"Title":"Never see this movie.","Date":"23 January 2003","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Not even a score of 1 is low enough for this movie.  It is a complete butchering of Anne Rice's masterpiece novel The Queen of the Damned which you should read if you haven't already because once you read this book you will realize how bad the movie truly is.  In my opinion the only reason it did as well as it did in the theaters is because of all Aaliyah's fans who wanted to come see her last movie.  Take my advice stay as far away from this movie as you can get! "},{"Title":"A Very Bad Movie","Date":"11 June 2002","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I went to see this movie opening night because for years I have been a big fan of the vampire chronicles.  I was expecting something along the lines of what they had done with the first movie, however, that was not the case. In fact, it seems to me, with this movie they did everything they could to distance themselves from the first.  The script for this movie was nothing but trash.  Some of the lines were so cheesy I couldn't believe what I was hearing.  The acting wasn't the best it could have been and a lot of the scenes were so awkward that I laughed at loud.  It didn't flow very well, and I'm not sure that someone who hadn't read the books would be able to identify the characters or have any idea of what was happening.  Though, I went with a good friend of mine who is also a big fan of the books, and even he had trouble trying to figure out who was supposed to be who because the characters we so drastically different from what they were supposed to look like.  They kept introducing new characters (which most they didn't even bother to name) before they had even developed the existing characters. They moved so fast that you weren't even really sure who you were supposed to side with.  I would advise hard core Anne Rice fans to stay away from the movie because it will only upset you.  Anyone who was going to see it because it was a sequel to Interview With the Vampire should avoid it because it was nothing like the first one.  Anyone going to see it because it's a new vampire movie shouldn't waste their time because it was more cheesy then the sequel to From Dusk Till Dawn. I really wouldn't advise anyone to see this movie at all.  There is no need to waste your money on nonsense like this.  I'm just afraid that people will think this is what the books were like.   "},{"Title":"Read the book instead.","Date":"10 August 2003","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie was a good book turned into a brain dead vampire movie aimed at teenagers. First of all it's based on half the story (the book before it in the series The Vampire Lestat ended with the beginning of Queen of the Damned) They left out main characters, omitted the histories, and even changed how Lestat became a vampire, what was left out of Interview With The Vampire felt like they just needed to fit into some time constraints, what they did with Queen of the Damned was a hack and slash job. Even taking it separately from the book, it was at best mediocre. The characters were two dimensional, and bland, and the plot was boring and unconnected. This movie's only redeeming qualities were the mood the lighting and the sets added, and the costumes, which both were wonderful, but besides that, read the book instead. "}{"Title":"Fantastic!","Date":"17 April 2002","Score":"11 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  When I heard about the movie,I thought-Great,another movie about blood and gore! But when I watched it I was pleasantly surprised.The film was wonderful.Not just goths or vampire and horror/thriller fans will be able to appreciate the movie.It has something for all of us.Its not just blood and gore, although it has some of that.It has a story for one.Also,it speaks of loneliness, what some of us will do to overcome it and what it means to be truly alone...and I think all of us can understand that sentiment.  "},{"Title":"I like it","Date":"7 November 2005","Score":"13 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Maybe it is a low quality movie, but I like it!Maybe it doesn't follow the Anne Rice book, but I like it!I feel that one misses out on a great thing by NOT watching this movie (if you like Vampires that is) another thing is the soundtrack/score to it. Its wonderful! The violin-score on the beach for example is just absolutely magnificent! The artists on the score did a great job on this film, and so did Aaliyah (R.I.P) she was amazing as the Queen. Stuart is incredibly convincing at the role as Lestat. That was All !hope you can use this for something ) "},{"Title":"Sigh","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"14 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Words cant describe how much this movie stinks.. They call the movie Queen of the damned yet the queen appears for like 20 min of the whole movie. Its a shame my girlfriend liked it or else i could have walked away and used the time to something usefull like watching a rock... "},{"Title":"Why God?! WHY?!","Date":"2 November 2006","Score":"41 out of 77 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Why did they unleash this movie upon us? It seems as though they set out to make this movie a total slap in theface to Anne Rice and every self respecting Vampire Chronicles fan. It ignores the ground work laid down by Interview with the Vampire,mutilates the plot of the novel and has Stuart Townsend stumbling around drunk.Stuart is NOT our Lestat! Our brat prince, our adventurous rebel with the damndest sense of humor. Stuart IS a second rate, boring rip off of Dracula in black leather. He DID NOT read the books or know the character...is he illiterate? Tom Cruise is dyslexic and still he made a point to read the books and know and love Lestat.Don't kid yourselves, it is not a Stand Alone vampire flick it's trash plain and simple. "},{"Title":"Uuuuh...","Date":"24 September 2009","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" WWEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEELL, let us see here. This might contain spoilers for anyone stupid enough to watch this.... movie? Let us start with the beginning. Lestat did not go to sleep in the 18th or 19th century and when he did he was still horribly wounded from being repeatedly stabbed, having his throat cut, being set on fire, and being thrown from a large tower. As I am a fan of the books this flick annoyed me so much I started shouting at the TV. As far as I know Lestat wasn't a fan of the goth genre. He was supposed to have risen in the 80s and was a ROCK star... not goth, not metal, not rap, but ROCK star, proper 80s rock. He wore denim and huge 80s sunglasses, rode a Harley Davison or a Porsche, which sadly got totalled but thats another story (that SHOULD have been in this movie). Thats the least of the flaws. As many here have stated, many characters and about 90% of the story and background has been cut out and probably sh*t on by the B-movie hacks responsible for this tripe. Even those characters that were wedged into the background were just nameless, funny looking freaks - i had to look up these people on the internet to find out who they were. The character of Armand looked more like Marius was supposed to look than the actual Marius character himself. AND, since when did Akasha have a semi Russian accent and an African heritage? The concert scene in the books was much more interesting than the awful spectacle in the movie. It was a nice touch that in a giant arena Lestat didn't need a microphone because of his powerful vampiric voice. Jesse was supposed to be severely injured at the concert too, having her spine smashed and it was Mael (the freaky old scarecrow guy in the movie) who turned her. Don't even get me started on the P!SS poor ending of this overzealous mtv ad because that was just a load of crapola!I'm gonna stop now because thinking about it is just angering up the blood. Michael Rymer, Scott Abbott, Michael Petroni, you all suck the dangling unmentionables of a syphilitic elephant!! You should just quite your jobs and become full time morons.Oh PS, it does have one redeeming value. It ends eventually. "},{"Title":"Bad to the bone and not in a good way","Date":"27 June 2004","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I realize that no movie can ever be as good as the book.. but the screenwriter took the book and wiped his ass with it. It mishmashes Vampire Lestat and Queen of the Damned into a choppy story line that left much to be desired. The casting not done well either; Vincent Perez and Stuart Townsend are good actors but NOT good choices for the downy haired,seductive beautiful, pretty boy killers that the characters are described to be. Marius' character looks like he walked out of a 50's vampire B movie. Interview with the Vampire was an outstanding adaptation (mind you not the same as the book but still very close to the point) this not even close. If you've read the book skip the movie it will only make you angry. If not give it a whirl who knows....  "},{"Title":"A let down","Date":"18 July 2008","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I was actually looking forward to seeing this film, as I had been pleasantly surprised by Interview with the Vampire's adaptation. Though not a massive Anne Rice fan, I enjoyed both The Vampire Lestat and Queen of the Damned and thought I would enjoy the film.I was wrong.I think possibly I would have enjoyed the film much more if I hadn't read the books. The vast majority of the plot has been left out due to time restraints on a contract or something like that, so there is no legend of the twins, and Lestat's actual maker Magnus is not mentioned at all. But none of this annoyed me as much as the fact I spent the whole film patiently waiting for my two favourite characters to show up, those being Louis and Armand. Louis didn't appear at all for some good awful reason, and although I was told Armand made a brief cameo appearance I didn't work out who he was until after I'd seen the film. Daniel was also left out completely, and Pandora, Khayman and Mael were cut down big-time. Marius' character was butchered. Now, I've only read the books twice in the past 3 years, so I fail to see how I managed to see what gaping holes these emissions left in the plot line and the writers didn't. I just didn't get Jesse and Lestat. In the context of the film, yea, it sorta made sense, but to anyone who read the book it was just weird, to be honest. Stuart Townsend did a good job as Lestat, and although I do think Tom Cruise was better, you can't really take the fact that Townsend is GODLIKE in the looks department away from himThough I am giving this film 1/10, I can maybe, POSSIBLY see why someone who hadn't read the books might enjoy it to some extent. Nonetheless, i think overall it was just a massacre of 2 very good book. "},{"Title":"A new Lestat is an improvement.","Date":"18 March 2002","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  When I went into the theater I did not expect to like this movie at all, but I was pleasantly surprised.  Stuart Townsend was a wonderful Lestat and was much like I would have preferred to see in Interview with the Vampire. The scenes were well adapted from the book and followed the book as best as possible.  The movie was not exact, but neither was Interview and that was a pleasant surprise as well.  Give this movie a chance and give the newer, better Lestat a chance as well.   "},{"Title":"Stuart Townsend In Tight Leather Pants","Date":"5 March 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  yes indeed this movie rocks, not only does the music kick ass, but the costumes and set and everything else in it just rocks. stuart townsend is so hot in leather. my favorite scene was the concert of course, just because it was so awesome looking and the effects kicked ass. there wasnt much of a plot to it, and the love story at the end kind of sucked. other than that it was awesome and everyone should go get the cd!!! "},{"Title":"Modern Day Rocky Horror Picture Show Really Rocks!!!","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Queen Of The Damned is a great Rock and Roll movie. Stuart Townsend plays Lestat and even though the blond hair may be gone he has that rock star cool/sex appeal that makes him irresistible.  Aliyah nails the character of Akasha, and the movie will most definitely go down as a cult rock musical vampire horror classic! "}{"Title":"This Movie Rocks","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I see that it got some bad ratings on here. If anyone actually READS the books, they might like it better. I have nearly finished both The Vampire Lestat and Queen of the Damned. In the movie, there's some noticeable differences- Marius is not Lestat's orginial creator, Magnus was... Small things but they mean a big difference. And the ending to Interview with the Vampire was s***!Totally bogus, and if anyone saw that movie before seeing this one, they'd be so confused how this one starts. But all in all, Stuart Townsend is an awesome Lestat. Woo woo! "},{"Title":"Awesome Movie","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I'm not sure whether people have seen the same movie as I have so I don't understand what there is NOT to like about it. Everyone was played excellently. The movie did not follow the books exactly and as an Anne Rice Fan, that ticked me off; however, the movie was still quite excellent. I enjoyed it so much I've seen it twice and still want to see it again. The imagery and music still play in my mind everyday. Obviously, the good reviewers and bad reviewers each believe they know how vampires should be portrayed. I think both Interview and this movie portray them as they should be; past and present. Although Tom Cruise played Lestat well in the first movie, Stuart Townsend portrays Lestat as he also should have been played; sensual, dangerous, and emotional. A definite must-see for vampire fans. "},{"Title":"Great adaption which most will enjoy...","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  After seeing this movie I was left with an unusual taste. This was the taste of satisfaction. It is unusual because I haven't seen many vampire movies that could produce like Queen did. Not having the big named stars of its predecessor, (i.e. Tom Cruise, Brad Pitt, Antonio Banderas) Queen still managed to be a very entertaining and interesting film for ANY movie-goer yet alone just a vampire fan, Anne Rice fan or not.The film takes points in the books The Vampire Lestat and Queen of the Damned and forms them to make one helluva movie! This was questioned by many fans of the Anne Rice novels and was answered by the explanation of the Producers are making one movie and did quite frankly one of the best damn jobs possible. The sexy bravado of both Aaliyah and Stuart Townsend mix as they form a great on-screen vampire duo. Fans of Interview With the Vampire won't be left missing the same actors as the new cast adds a better feel for the ethnic backgrounds of all the vampires. Also, the character of Lestat must be thought about for a second or two. In Interview, Lestat was shown as he was in the eyes of Louis. In Queen, Lestat is how he is in his own point of view, these are two different images with some likenesses but many major differences.Queen of the Damned showcases great acting, a great sense of atmosphere, a kick-ass soundtrack, and an all around vampire feel. I enjoyed the movie as will you! "},{"Title":"Different. And good. Damn good!","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  People are just dumping on this sequel because it isn't `Interview with the Vampire.' It is different.And it is good. Damn good.Aaliyah was absolutely WONDERFUL. Townsend was a very good Lestat, again, different, but good. Overall, the movie didn't quite manage the dark erotic power of the first, but it came damn close-and Aaliyah had all the same erotic energy.I look forward to the next installment. "},{"Title":"Great Movie; Aaliyah ROCKS","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I'm not an Anne Rice fan. I haven't read any of her books so I'm not basing my rating on a comparison of her book and the movie. The movie as a movie was awesome! I did see Interview With the Vampire and I actually prefer Stuart Townsend as Lestat rather than Tom Cruise. He brought much more charisma to the character than Cruise did and I enjoyed his on-screen presense more.Unfortunately, it is the late and great Aaliyah's last movie (unless they use her few filmed scenes in the Matrix 2), but she definately proved herself as an amazing actress in this film (and Romeo Must Die); better than all of the other singer-turned-actors. It's a shame she is only in about 20 minutes of total screen time (the ONLY disappointment with the movie)The movie was just awesome. It had amazing special effects that enhanced the great plotline BASED ON, but not exactly interpretted from, the book. Queen of the Damned is the best vampire/horror movie I've seen in a while. All this was tied in a nice length of time that wasn't long or drawn out. I can't wait for this movie to come out on DVD! See it no matter what!5/5 "},{"Title":"Did we all see the same movie???  I loved it!","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I was reading through the reviews, and I seriously wondered if we all saw different movies???  I am a big Anne Rice fan, and I was terribly excited about seeing this movie...and I wasn't disappointed!!  In fact, I loved it!!!Yes, a lot was changed from the book/books (is really a combination of Vampire Lestat and Queen of the Damned), but isn't that usually the case?? I was incredibly impressed with Stuart Townsend (sp?)'s Lestat...He was sooo much better than Tom Cruise..I always thought that Cruise was too old to play Lestat, and I think Stuart's portrayl was definitely closer to the Lestat in the novel charming and dangerous, and at the same time, alone and tragic.  The supporting cast was great Aliyah was effective as the Queen of the Vampires; Vincent Perez was great as Marius.Maybe it is just me; I loved the whole dark, almost Goth theme to the movie, along with a Lestat who is tired of living through eternity alone.  I think the movie was wonderful and much better than Interview with the Vampire (although I like that movie too and I missed Louis in this movie)Plus the soundtrack is great!!!9.5/10 (I must admit that Lestat's accent was a little annoying at times) "},{"Title":"In memory of Aaliyah...","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie is a very good movie no matter what anyone says.  It's smart, kinda qwirky, and the music rocks.  But that is not what makes this movie so kick ass.  Don't listen to anyone who thinks otherwise until you've seen it. This movie is beautiful.  At first it started out kinda weird....Lestat being a rock star just isn't right...and the whole creepy cult chic in love with Lestat really p***ed me off, but I'll get to that later.  The place where this movie starts to transform is the most hauntingly beautiful scene I've ever seen.  Aaliyah walks into a bar decked out in her ancient egyptian best.  I don't want to give anything away, but lets just say a lot of bloodsuckers fry.  The reason this movie, especially this scene is so beautiful is that it makes you feel like Aaliyah is alive.  That is also why this scene is so haunting.  You know she's dead.  And she's just incredibly beautiful.  But then again that stupid cult chic (Jesse just incase u don't know who I'm talking about) gets in the way and ruins Akasha's plans to rule with Lestat at her side.  Akasha's final scene painfully reminds everyone of Aaliyah's tragic death, but it is almost like a tribute the way she died so beautifully tragic.  So if you like vampires, Aaliyah, kick ass music, beautiful things, or just great movies go see this flik.....It's ten dollars I'm glad I spent. "},{"Title":"What was everybody expecting","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" First of all people, a book is not a movie. In a book Anne Rice's creativity is limitless and not limited to what you can do in real life. Also Anne Rice did not really have direct interaction in the movies production so do not base you opinion on that! For people who say they are real fans and hate the movie, readers be warned they are not true fans. First of all this is not a sequel to Interview with a Vampire this is the third book in the series. Therefore the director had to give some kind of background (mostly made up but loosely based on the book The Vampire Lestat) on Lestat and the other vampires present.The movie in directing and screen play was Excellent. The voices were great and for people who said there wasn't enough of the vampire queen in the movie... well Aaliyah died before the editing was done so forgive them for that!To end the movie in my opinion was an A+. Mainly because it wasn't based on the book. When I read the vampire Lestat and queen of the damned the way I pictured things in my head the way Anne Rice intertwined the language she used is in no way re creatable on screen. The movie was a great original ideaPlease go see it and do not be discouraged by these reviews.  "},{"Title":"Oh my God...","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie rocks.  I just came from the 1030 PM showing here in my town, and I am totally blown away.  The books are great and full of detail, but to see the parts you remember live and in the flesh (and some not alive) just drives me insane.  Give me Lestat, or give me death! "},{"Title":"Absolutely Awesome... Anne Rice would be proud.","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I just came from seeing Queen of the Damned and cast my 10 vote. I was very much looking forward to seeing this particular book of the Vampire Chronicles as it was my favorite of the original three that I'd read many years ago. I thought it was divine fate it coming out on my birthday so my friend and I went to the first show. I was definitely NOT disappointed and I don't think anyone else into vampire  movies will be either. I absolutely think this movie did complete justice to the sentiment of the author and her characters. First of all The sets of the movie were beautifully done. The backdrops, the props, all of it. Special effects were awesome!!!! Another great thing about the movie were the original songs that Lestat sings. This was something that could've potentially been a disaster for the films makers had they not been both believable and very very good. They were more than believable and more than good.. I foresee the soundtrack being a big seller with me at the front of the line. The vampires were beautiful and terrifying as was my impression when I read the book. I thought the depth and scope of the companions relationships were underplayed but was very happy it was note entirely overlooked Ie, Marius and Lestat, Marius and Dave Upon leaving the theater the only semi fault I could find when speculating on how this fabulous film could have possibly been any better was the relationship between Lestat and Jessie was not explored enough to jive with the ending. I felt like there was a little skip in the record there. Why would Lestat care so much? etc... The movie surely could've done with another hour to develop the intensity and length of all of the relationships between Lestat and Marius, Jessie and Lestat, Marius and Dave, Marius and Akasha, and Lestat and Akasha, and so on. As a Lestat fan I certainly would sit through any length film with Lestat... But for the time given to the films makers it was really well done.I loved this film and would see it again and recommend it to everyone who likes vampire movies. My friend who went with me who has never read an Anne Rice book, but who is very into vampire movies like Blade, loved it.  "}{"Title":"Entertaining and wild","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Woohoo, what a wild ride. I'm not even sure what I really expected but it sure paid off. A friend who I dragged along said that it all looked like a big video game referring to the vast number of scenes that span across a large terrain  making it look and feel like you're inside.To start I must say that Stuart really captured the Lestat look, he very sexy as my friend remarked, and I must agree, wow!!! I did not see anything wrong with his accent I actually enjoyed his part the most in the whole movie. He captures Lestat and his wayward ways perfectly, and his skin looks beautiful in the movie. The concert scene was very well done and the song System playing along, while Akasha killed the vampires, was a nice touch. The little Jesse was adorable and the grownup was also compelling. Marguerite Moreau pulls off her part with a lot of flair and innocence, she's probably the only innocent in the whole movie. Akasha was physically enchanting though it was hard to make out the dialogue especially when she and Lestat were on the beach. Even though her role is not overly large she  holds your attention when she is on screen. I enjoyed the scene when Lestat crawl away from the groupies and then crawls up the wall, very nice. Also when Lestat is listening to music lying in his coffin and then he realizes another vampire is in his mansion that is also very for lack of a better word, yummy ). The ancients who were barely featured seemed very reserved and not enough lines for them all, if they had any. I counted only about three lines from Armand, and Matthew Newton did resemble a pretty girl as my friend interjected. I think he was a pretty good Armand in appearance, he did not speak enough to find out if his character was very complex and dark, like it is. I like that Lestat calls his band my children, very paternal and sweet of him, if Lestat can ever be sweet ) Also his biting sarcasm and humor worked well for the movie especially the line Sorry I'm late, I was trying to catch my breakfast. And when Maudy (a band member) first saw Lestat and was surprised about his statement that he was a vampire Maudy-Vampire, that's funny. and Lestat's reply Yes, it's hilarious. Some of the special effects were a little shoddy and I'm not sure why but the way that the preternatural speed was conveyed was a little funny looking. Overall the movie deserves recognition for all the hard work put into it by everyone. I don't think it's fair to judge it so poorly especially because of the fact that it wasn't what you expected.  "},{"Title":"The second best move Aaliyah has made, to bad it had to end!","Date":"12 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I saw The Queen of the damned at a sneak preview at my school. Being a big fan of Aaliyah, anything she does musically, and movie is DYNAMIC! So it was no BIG surprise that this movie was going 2 get a 10. It's better than all vampire movies, because the Queen Vampire is Sexy, And Beautiful, and VERY TALENTED! Aaliyah was the best, no IS the best and no matter how many years go by she will not be forgotten! And on top of that she gets 2 work with a hott Co-Star! So on a scale of 1-10 this movie gets a 100% ONE AND A MILLION! "},{"Title":"An amazing movie....one that can become ur all time favourite!","Date":"1 September 2009","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" okay... first to Anne rice BOOK fans....sure lestat's eyes are not blue...sure he isn't blond in this movie... but even though Marius is not lestat's maker...even though they COMPLETELY altered the story.....how can u say its not a good movie..this movie...is the BEST vampire movie i ever saw...and lestat is pictured perfectly in it....maybe not his features...but i don't think one can find a better lestat....the way he speaks...and the way he looks at mere mortals...his arrogance..and sheer love for fame is pictured flawlessly.if u for once...consider it just a movie..and not try and relate every scene to the book...u will love the movie as much as i do.now...to the non readers..be prepared to fall absolutely in love with this movie....it has every thing....and the goth music...is like an added treat... the dialogues...are beautiful...and catching...and even though its a vampire movie..u will find yourself smiling...at the wit of the characters...and u will find yourself sympathizing with the vampires..overall...one of my fav movies...!!10/10 "},{"Title":"One of my favorite movies","Date":"8 August 2009","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I have to say this movie is absolutely amazing. I don't understand why it got such a low rating. It has romance, music, darkness and vampires. Also Stuart Townsend did a great job of being Lestat, the acting was great. Also, normally I am not into that music, well sometimes. But I have to say in this movie the music fit it perfectly. If you like dark movies about vampires this is definitely for you or even if you don't there is a love story to this.But,all I can say is one word Amazing! My Rating is defiantly 10 out of 10. Anyway, I seriously suggest you watch it. I remember not seeing this for years, I watched it again about a year ago and im addicted to it again. lol. Great movie!!! "},{"Title":"brings out the vampire in you","Date":"13 November 2008","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This film is brilliant, a must see for Goth's and vampire lovers alike. Stuart Townsend is brilliant as lestat but not as good as Tom cruise who lpayed it effortlessly but Stuart plays it with a bit more charm and grace . if you have read the book before the film then your bound to be a bit confused, but then you realise its a cross between the books Queen of the Damned and The Vampire Lestat. i think this film is a credit for the untimely death of Aaliyah who , if not for the tragic plane crash, I'm sure would have had an amazing career. This film has brilliant camera shots, the overhead tracking shot of lestats concert, is possibly the best camera shot in the whole film. The stunning visual effects are amazing, and just in general the Mise-en-scene is brilliant.all in all a wounderful film that wants you wanting more. "},{"Title":"Lestat is afraid of being alone, so he ventures out into the mortal world.","Date":"12 December 2007","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This was an excellent comedy; nothing like Anne Rice's books, though.I thoroughly enjoyed the computer generated graphics--these really made the movie enjoyable. It must have cost hundreds of thousands to add those to the movie.Lestat really had a good heart, and he demonstrated that by being ever so gentle and loving with Jessie, don't you agree? And in turn, she showed love and tenderness for him even before that much desired first bite....and he knew it instinctively. He truly made her, and she seemed so happy and so content to finally feel like she was where she belonged.I love happy endings, don't you?I recommend this highly--it's just the DVD to watch with a large crowd who appreciates tongue-in-cheek humor. Just be sure you're in charge of the remote so you can pause it while the crowd chuckles, so you won't lose your place. "},{"Title":"simply brilliant vampire movie(adds to the mystique)","Date":"13 January 2007","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Queen of the Damnedis based on the novel by Anne Rice,as part of her popular The Vampire Chronicles series.The screenplay is written by Scott Abbott, and directed by Michael Rymer(various episodes of the new Battlestar Galactica Series)Stuart Townsend plays the vampire Lestat de Lioncourt,and Aaliyah plays Queen Akasha,The Queen of the Damned.the basic plot is that Lestat has been asleep for hundred of years.he wakes up to a new world and craves to become famous.he becomes a wildly popular rock singer,and publicly announces the existence of vampires.The vampires are threatened by this and believe their continued survival is at risk.they attempt to destroy Lestat before he can do irreparable harm.meanwhile,Lestat's music has awakened an ancient evil,Akasha,mother of all vampiresqueen of the Damned.Akasha has decided to take Lestat as her king.i'll leave the plot at that.moving on,Stuart Townsend,as Lestat,gives an astounding performance.his charisma and screen presence radiate off the screen.But,it is Aaliyah, in the title role who steals the show with a performance nothing short of miraculous.she is simply smoldering as the queen.this is Aaliyah's last screen role before tragedy struck.there is no doubt she would have gone on to become a legend.as for the movie itself,it is stylish beyond words,beautifully photographed,superbly directed.add to that a haunting musical score,and you have one extraordinary movie.i loved this film. 10/10 "},{"Title":"best vampire movie despite lead off from book","Date":"11 November 2006","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" i know some people do not like this movie do to its lack of following Annie rice' s book. yet i still believe this movie to be the best vamp movie ever. this movie doesn't portray vampires as blood sucking monsters, but immortal being who see life differently. also this isn't just a blood and sex movie, but actually has a plot and the intensity that is hard to find in most movies anymore. Anne rices books are some of the most amazing things I've ever read, and i recommend them. but the fact that the movie doesn't walk closely doesn't mean the movie isn't amazing as well. if it wasn't, do you think Anne would have put her name on it? (ps, i recommend reading the books!!) "},{"Title":"Oh my gosh.............","Date":"22 March 2006","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I had to go out and buy this flick a.s.a.p....Stuart Townsend is the most captivating vampire I have ever laid my eyes on. And when he is calling out all the others, Come out, come out , wherever you are.... The special effects are so realistic that you get whisked away in the moment as if you are right there experiencing it as they are. The music was perfect throughout and I am having a heck of a time trying to find who the artists are and the c.d.'s to purchase to hear the songs performed during the concert scene. Not the soundtrack, the song in entirety, if possible. Anyone? One more question?? Isn't that the lead singer in Korn in one of the scenes?? Thanx fellow Lestat lovers....Till dusk...... "},{"Title":"about my favorite character in the movie","Date":"27 February 2006","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" QOTD was the best movie I have ever seen as a vampire movie it was romantic in ways that no word can describe, and inspiring too. Plus I also own the movie too. Soon I will own the sound track too. Stuart Townsend was the best choose that was chosen for the place as Lastat De Lioncourt plus he was excellent in Night Stalker too. Also Marguerite Moreau was the best choose for Jessica'Jesse'Reeves too. Plus I was also born in New Orleans, Louisiana surprise surprise plus my birth date is near Stuart Townsend's too. 12/11/1979 . I was very surprised when I found out too. Ann Rice is an excellent author, I enjoy listening and reading her books, plus she is right if you really think about it we are like vampires in a way. Just think about it and you will see what I am saying. "}{"Title":"An Entrancing Movie For An Enchanting Story","Date":"2 February 2006","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I just wanted to warn all that this may possibly contain spoilers to some amount for those of you who are a bit picky. This movie I find to be very interesting and entertaining. Yes, maybe it should be entitled Parts of THE VAMPIRE LESTAT mixed in with THE QUEEN OF THE DAMNED but that wouldn't be very catchy now would it? It's true that the movie does contain scenes from both books, but that's not so bad. THE VAMPIRE LESTAT leaves you hanging a bit with the concert anyway.Though some things are a bit changed, all movies do that. I think that this movie stays fairly close to the book even though it does bring in some artistic changing rights. I've heard some people complain that there's too much 'sexual hinting' in the movie. However, I must ask how much of the book these people have read? Ever noticed that Lestat's a bit of a perv as well as several other characters? But yes, overall I would give this movie a ten. Nice effects, brilliant story line. And a very nice Lestat. ^_- "},{"Title":"1 of the best movie","Date":"27 January 2006","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Queen of the Damned Congratulations too everybody who worked to produces and act in this movie,it is fantastic and definitely 1 of the best about vampires. We all look at this type of film in a different way. If I have any comment about poor acting it concerned Queen Akasha, the way she walked was unnatural. I'm still impress of this movie after 3 years, I watch with interes again and again from start to the end. The acting, special effects and the music are more than 10(exellent).If you dissociate the fact that this is a horror movie and the actors are vampires this is the most beautiful love story I have ever seen. One more time CONGRATULATIONS for this wonderful imagination. "},{"Title":"Queen of the Damned is amazing!","Date":"8 January 2005","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Stuart Townsend plays the role of Lestat better than anyone could have ever dreamt. Pale skinned, dark haired and red lipped, he does mysterious, intriguing, irresistible and evil all rolled into one. Aaliyah is not quite as wonderful. Although she wasn't bad, her acting was slightly wooden or way over the top and she should have stuck to the day job. (No offence.) This is an incredible movie with a great plot and generally stunning actors. The sets and costumes are just SO Gothic (obviously) and some of the scenes are breathtaking. It's one of those rare occasions where the sequel is actually better than the previous (Interview with the Vampire). A brutal tale with a happy ending. A perfect movie. "},{"Title":"great movie","Date":"26 December 2004","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" this movie was awesome, although it didn't really stick to anne rice's chronicles it was still good. my favorite actor in the movie was Stuart Townsend, he did a terrific job with the character Lestat. if you were really into this movie you could buy the soundtrack, i did. it has a lot of amazing artists and songs from the movie such as marilyn manson, dead cell, disturbed, korn, etc. if you haven't seen this movie, you should really check it out. its right up there with bromstoker's Dracula and interview with a vampire if you're into vamp flicks!! it's erotic, Gothic, and bloody. it has a good romance story tied into it as well. when the beauty and wonder of the 19th century french meets modern rock you just cant go wrong! "},{"Title":"great movie","Date":"28 October 2004","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I have watched this movie at least a hundred times. It is fantastic. Aaliyah did a great job and so did the other actors. I am a fan of vampire movies an also of Aaliyah's work so for me it was a good combination. The title is a little misleading since the movie is not based around akasha but it is still a great movie. If you have not seen it yet, go out and buy the DVD. Personally I would have enjoyed seeing a bigger fight scene and more of them between akasha and the other elder vampires, I did not understand why they were so set on protecting mankind. They are the biggest group of vampires I have seen with consciouses. It was different, refreshing. Can't wait until Ann Rice makes another one. "},{"Title":"What happened to the plot???","Date":"20 February 2003","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Gosh, this must be one of the worst movies I've ever seen. I really love Anne Rice's Vampire Chronicles and Queen of the Damned is one of the best in the series. I loved her ideas, all the philosophy and the emotions that were in the book... BUT WHAT HAPPENED??? This movie has nothing to do with the book! They just picked out a few characters they seemed to like, mixed up the whole plot and made a 'common vampire film'. Hello??? Did I miss something? A pity Anne Rice sold the rights to Miramax, and I'm also sorry for Stuart Townsend who does his job as Lestat quite good (well, obviously he was the victim of a very very bad director!) If you liked INTERVIEW WITH THE VAMPIRE, you won'T like this! Interview submitted the right feeling, but this movie is crap! "},{"Title":"dumb concept, boring movie","Date":"9 February 2003","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Easily one of the most boring movies I've see in my life. A vampire rock star? Gee, that takes willing suspension of disbelief to a new level. I don't know if the book this is based on is this dumb but whoever greenlighted this movie should be shot. Bad acting too but not bad enough to be funny. Just a dull dull movie. I adored interview with the vampire and this movie does not measure up in any way whatsoever. The actor who plays lestat lacks any charisma as well. I fell asleep during this film. Avoid like the plague. "},{"Title":"My mom always said if you can't say anything nice, don't say anything at all. So, the novel was fantastic...","Date":"14 September 2002","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  It was horrible. It might as well have been completely different story from the original novel. All of the characters...well most of them, perhaps a few...fine there was one character that came close to following the book and that was Akasha. And she wasn't even that similar. Usually, when adapting a book into a movie the screenwriter usually cuts parts to make it fit into a time slot. In this case, they cut out so much and added things that never really happened. For goodness sakes, Mael was older than the man who played David and David is supposed to be in his 60s during this time. They completely cut out Louis, Gabrielle, Mekare and the entire story of how the Vampires came to be. Then the characters of Pandora, Armand, Mael and Khayman were merely extras and only showed up at the very end. They never even speak their names. And Pandora is a Roman woman, not Indian. Khayman was young when made a vampire, not an elderly man. Marius did NOT make Lestat and he should've been typed out of the role. Finally, Lestat. There is almost nothing right about Lestat. Lestat is a BLOND and was made by MAGNUS and had several fledglings, including his mother and best friend. Thats where he got the Stradavarius violin.  "},{"Title":"Worst adaptation of a novel yet...","Date":"29 June 2002","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  If you haven't seen the movie yet, you might not want to read this.  It might give some parts of the film away..... This was by far one of the worst adaptations of a novel to a movie I have ever seen.  The only thing that the film had going for it was the sound. They did a great job doing sound effects.  Other than that, everything abouut the movie was just wrong.  The plot was incredibly shallow.  The movements of the vampires were wrong.  Vampires move faster than the eye can see, which would mean that you would not see trails.  Every vampire in the film could fly.  I seem to remember that in the book, Lestat couldn't even fly until after he drank the blood of Akasha.  So there is no way that the other vampires would be able to.  Another MAJOR flaw in the film is that Lestat says that Marius was his maker.  COMPLETELY WRONG!!!!!!   In The Vampire Lestat, he clearly tells us that Magnus made him a vampire without any choice, and then jumped into a fire and killed himself.  The movie also left out the legend of the twins.  Maharet is not the one that kills Akasha, her sister did.  To go even further, they didn't kill her by sucking all the blood out of her.  They killed her by cutting off her head, then Maharet ate Akasha's brain, and her sister ate the heart.  She then became Queen of the Damned.  I guess what I'm trying to say is that the next time Hollywood attempts to make a film out one of Anne Rice's books, they should probably at least read the book first.  That way, they might get the facts right.  "},{"Title":"Take A Bite...","Date":"19 February 2002","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The movie focuses on Lestat (Stuart Townsend) a vampire lured into the whole new rock scene. So tired of hiding underneath the shadows, he was quickly engulfed with his new discovery he joins the goth band Satan's Night Out and before we know it in a flash--- he has the music industry and legions of fans attention. Part of his mystery is he kept people guessing if he was a real vampire about to catch his breakfast. Enter Jesse(Marguerite Moreau ) a Talamasca member, her job is to research on all things out of ordinary, you guessed it right she gets to know about vampires! She stumbles across Lestat's old journal which gave us a background about his 'life' or whatever you want to call an undead's life. Instantly Jesse has this little school girl obsession towards him. They meet, have a connection.Meanwhile,we come to learn about Lestat's fascination of the Those Who Must be Kept the very first vampires and that is Akasha(Aaliyah) and Enkil who are hidden in Marius'(Vincet Perez)chamber as statues sleeping. We later learn Lestat drank from the Queen the night he played his violin for her. Marius his teacher and maker warns him about the danger of the Queen. Back to modern day,Lestat has a Death Valley Concert and Oh no! Akasha has awakened! Lestat joins her and gets to do the vampire nasty. Now this beautiful evil lures Lestat to become her lover and partner in her wrath to destroy. Will Lestat turn his back on her now?The film is not something to be taken seriously, I don't think that was the intention. It's a fun vampire rock movie, no more,no less. It's flashy, fast paced,funny,vibrant and violent, at times scary. It completely butchered the book. First of all,Queen Of The Damned and Vampire Lestat combination already sounded awry, it's completely hard to adapt that part of the chronicles. The vampire history was completely scrapped in the movie, which disappointed me.  I do see why though, it will turn out to be so long-winded and that's like a whole movie by itself. Lestat is basically the focal point here and the filmmakers basically had a new spin on his story. I believe if they did take themselves seriously as a page by page adaptation for a film, I don't think it might work quite as well.The acting was decent, my favorite would be Vincent Perez's Marius though odd looking as a short haired, pale and thin lips, he surprisingly caught the essence of the character. Lena Olin was a great Maharet what the hell she's great in everything. Stuart Townsend though he got the evil, mischievous, sexy and androgynous side of Lestat, he's no Tom Cruise.  I literally squirm at the sound of his horrible accent, he would've been good but that accent really irks me. He should've been mute all through out,aaah! The nightmares I will have. Marguerite Moreau (Jesse) suffers with such a boring and lousy chracter with hardly any depth, at times how I wanted Akasha to drink her all up or do that heart stunt to her. Poor girl, she did what she could do, I can't blame her she can only do so much to a bland character. I must disagree though about the comment given about Aaliyah's acting, coming from someone who was never a fan and am never familiar with her work both as a singer and an actress, I thought she played Akasha very well indeed. Sensual,arrogant and totally intimidating and screwed up as hell. Sure, she's a mediocre villain but that bar scene made me want to clap as she walks over the fires with this serpentine movements,so alluring. As a sophomore film effort, she was great.About the soundtrack Jon Davis and Richard Gibbs did an amazing job integating the nu-metal influence in this vampire flick, although I thought it was a bit overdone, I would have wanted more of the violin score from time to time. Maybe because I'm not a big fan of hardcore metal/rap music anyway.Overall, take a bite it's an entertaining ride. You're right this is no 'Interview'...I don't think it wants to be.  "}{"Title":"I hate this film, give me Peter Cushing and Christopher Lee any time over this Hollywood crap.","Date":"31 January 2005","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Queen of the Damned opens with a tedious monologue by the Vampire Lestat De Lioncourt (Stuart Townsend) who basically says that he has been asleep for 200 years because he is lonely. However, it appears that the present day interests him enough to awake and forge a career as a rock star. He has become highly successful and openly admits he is a Vampire to the press, although nobody seems to actually believe him. He lives off the blood of female groupies that his Manager Roger (Tiriel Mora) picks up and brings him. A woman named Jesse (Marguerite Moreau) who works for 'Talamasca Center for Paranormal Studies, London', listens to some of Lestat's lyrics and is convinced that he is a real Vampire because he talks of a pub called the 'Admiral Arms' and various other silly things. Jesse's friend and colleague David Talbot (Paul McGann) says that the organisation knows of Lestat and are already onto him. David gives Jesse Lestat's journal to read which chronicles Lestat's life, how he was turned into a Vampire by Marius De Romanus (Vincent Perez) and how he first came across the Queen of all Vampires, Akasha (Aaliyah) who was at the time some sort of weird statue. Jesse becomes obsessed with Lestat and heads to the 'Admiral Arms' in which she finds acts of Vampirism taking place. There she meets Lestat who lets her live. Lestat heads back to Los Angeles to prepare for a sell-out concert. Jesse follows him. It appears that most Vampires dislike Lestat for his high public profile, which is drawing unwanted attention to all Vampires and not just himself, and they want him dead. While in Los Angeles Lestat is contacted by Marius who he hasn't seen in nearly 200 years, he begins to fall for Jesse when they meet again and Akasha makes an appearance as she plans to wipe out the human race and rule the Earth with Lestat by her side as King and Queen! All this while trying to prepare for a big concert too! Will the Vampires successfully assassinate Lestat? Will Akasha wipe out the entire human race? Will Lestat turn Jesse into a Vampire and condemn her to eternal life as a blood-sucking Vampire? Who cares? Directed by Micheal Rymer I hated this film. This film isn't horror as far as I'm concerned. It's as much horror as a music video. The script by Scott Abbott and Micheal Petroni based on the Novels 'The Vampire Chronicles' by Anne Rice is an absolute mess. It tries to have various story lines going but forgets about them during the film, it also fails to juggle the various sub-plots so that I cared about or even remembered them. The flash back to Lestat's early years is almost redundant, Akasha's plan to take over the world isn't even mentioned until the last half an hour or so, Jesse at first is trying to track Lestat down as part of her job but that is also quickly ditched as she becomes the love interest, Lestat as a rock star is only really focused on during two scenes, there's a scene where Lestat and Akasha fly to an island and well, I'm not really sure as it's so choppy as to be almost incoherent and generally speaking there just isn't a single focused story going on. There is a typical Hollywood 'happy ending' that almost made me sick. It's really slow and boring too. There's no blood, gore, violence or Vampire action except a ripped out heart a bloodless decapitation and a couple of Vampire fights with awful CGI effects that are simply embarrassing to watch. Having said that I did like the way Akasha died, but it only lasts for about a minute so doesn't compensate for the lack of any decent horror throughout the rest of the film. The acting is poor and no one looks particularly interested, Aaliyah stands out as being as rotten and miscast as anyone else and she looks like she should still be in school! It's quite well made but for a film with a budget this big that's the least I expect. Just to round this terrible film of and add insult to injury is the soundtrack which features mind numbingly bad rock tracks throughout. I hate this film. Avoid if at all possible, you'll be glad you did. "},{"Title":"The vampires aren't the only things that suck...","Date":"19 January 2003","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie is terrible.  It really had no plot, and no reason to ever be made.  The acting was poor, but it didn't really matter.  The movie could have starred Orson Wells and Katherine Hepburn and it still would have been one of the worst movies ever made.If you want a good vampire movie, check out Dracula and From Dusk 'Til Dawn.  Hell, even the Leslie Nielsen movie Dracula Dead and Loving It is a masterpiece compared to this garbage.  Trust me, do not see this movie. "},{"Title":"if you read the book, don't even bother","Date":"27 June 2002","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Fans of Anne Rice's Vampire Chronicles will not be pleased with the butchering of one of the best books in the series. Many main characters are absent from the plot, as seen by the cast list. No Louis, no Daniel. Also, chronology and major story details are changed. It explains absolutely nothing. If you saw the movie without reading the book and are confused, please read the book. The movie sucked.  "},{"Title":"The Queen of the Damned, awakened by the sound f Lestat's music, is woke to a new world.","Date":"14 March 2002","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The Queen of the Damned, awakened by the sound f Lestat's music, is woke to a new world. As one who has read the first five vampire chronilcles, I must admit some dissapointment. No with Aaliyah, who was wonderful as Akasha, or Stewart Townsden. But with whoever brought the book to the screen. Facts were wrong (Lestat's maker, for one) while some were altogether missing (the story of the twins). Where is Maharet's reason for wanting Akasha dead? Why a gudge to last 6000 years? What makes Akasha such a danger? Because she killed a few vampires who tried to attack her? Because she helped Lestat? These are questions the movie leaves you with. And Lestat? Where is his lust for the kill? Why turn him into Louis? Now, as much as it pulled from Anne Rice's novel, it was, unto itself, an entertaing movie. Townsden s amazing with the filmaker's version of Lestat and Aaliyah is grand as the doomed Akasha. Too much time explaing The Vampire Lestat and not enough explaining The Queen of the Damned. But fr all its cons, its still worth Aalyiah's acting. It will see my movie shelf. "},{"Title":"Regal feast","Date":"13 March 2002","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Romance, suspense, horror and treats for the theater 'gore' abound in this grade b spectacle.  Eye-candy, an exciting script and 'delicious' actors make Queen enjoyable for intellectuals. aficionados and Rice-purists.  A wild ride with a heart.  See it with someone you trust 0) "},{"Title":"Crazy fun","Date":"12 March 2002","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  One good thing about 'Queen of the Damned' is that it doesn't seem as if it were written by a committee. It's loopy and personal, somewhat loose and rambling. It seems as if it were written by a real live human writer, a person; perhaps not the world's most talented person, but a person nonetheless. This has to count in its favour when you compare it to other recent robotic exercises in camp such as the horrid 'Tomb Raider.'The other good thing about 'Queen' is the casting. Stuart Townsend makes a far better Lestat than Cruise did. Unlike Cruise, he has a certain malevolent effeminacy that is appropriate to the character. Also, he's tall.Aaliyah demonstrates a truly commanding presence as Akasha. At times, she almost makes you want to laugh; she's so over the top. But at the same time, you really can't take your eyes off her. She's so beautiful, so confident -- she really does manage to pull off this quite ridiculous character. Kudos.In spite of the low ratings the film seems to be getting, here's hoping it goes on to find a loyal cult audience.  "},{"Title":"The best vampire movie ever to be made!!","Date":"8 March 2002","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Queen of the Damned is one of the best vampire movies ever made. No make that is the best. Stuart Townsend plays the vampire Lestat. And very well. No one can play the part as perfect as he does. If you like vampire movies with a good storyline, as in scary, go see this!!! I recommend it With all my black little heart. -Stuart/Lestat So go see it, you will be hooked on it!!! I am!! "},{"Title":"For a vampire movie, it sucked  P","Date":"11 September 2002","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I remember all the hype around this movie when Aaliyah was killed.  Being a fan of Ms. Rice's novels, my first thought was how can they do Queen Of The Damned without doing Vampire Lestat first?Having finally seen the movie, now I can see how they did it.  If you have read these books, imagine taking out the gory parts from Vampire Lestat, cramming Marcus and Marius into one character, and removing everything to do with Lestat's beginning (the wolf hunt, his violin playing, the Theatre Of The Vampires, and also Louis, Claudia, and Gabrielle), then in the last 15 minutes cramming in Queen Of The Damned.What we loose is a very important piece of Lestat's character.  His inner agony of having to kill to live, the fact that he carefully tries to select killers as his victims, and his love-hate relationship with Louis, Armand, Gabrielle, and all the other vampires.Also important to the story is that we loose the Story Of The Twins, which is the Genesis of Ms. Rice's vampires.  And while I am sure the cannibalism was to intense for showing on the screen, they could have done something closer, and showed us more of ancient Egypt.Even worse, we have this love interest thrown in between Jessie and Lestat.  The Vampire Chronicles is basically an American Yoni story.  For those that do not know, Yoni is another form of Hentai (Japanese Porn Comics).  But in Yoni, it is about gay male relationships, told by a female.  While I am sure many men object to the gayness of the characters, in this movie they went to the far extreme the opposite way.  For instead of Lestat persueing killers, he goes after young female groupies.And the other flaws in logic and storyline are vast.  At the beginning Lestat emerges from a century long sleep, then later on asks Marius how he made it through the 1950's in red velvet.  Marius has no idea who Elvis is, and says he slept through that period.  Makes you wonder how Lestat knows about 50's fashion and music, since he slept through the same time period himself.  And nothing is ever even mentioned about Louis, Claudia, or Gabrielle.  I think that is a huge shame.  Is like seeing Snow White and the 3 Dwarfs.Overall, the movie I thought was really bad.  About the only good thing about it was the soundtrack.  Most of the acting was poor, the accents drove me up the wall, and all of the really in-depth parts of the book were removed, leaving us only with a hollow shell, kind of like Enkil after he was sucked dry.If you want to see a good modern vampire movie, get Lost Boys, the original Interview With A Vampire, or even some old episodes of Dark Shadows.  Let this one Rest In Piece, with a stake through the heart, cloves of garlic around the neck, and a vial of Holy Water in the mouth.In ending, remember that before Aaliyah was killed, this was intended to go straight to video, no theatrical release was planned.  It is obvious now why this was.  It is only sad that somebody as talented as she will be remembered for this dog of a movie, instead of something where she really might have shined.I rate this a 2 on a scale of 1-10. "},{"Title":"Perfect film!!!","Date":"14 April 2002","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  i think that Queen of the Damned is the best film i have seen in ages. i love the way Stuart Townsend is portraide as Lestat, especially with him wearing tight pvc clothing. Even if you're not the vampire type, you have to go to see it because Stuart Townsend is soooo gorgeous in all that make-up, lush! overall i think it is a brilliant film and all the make-up, special effects and sets are fantastic! It all creates the atmosphere of danger and evil, once again, fantastic! "},{"Title":"Come out come out wherever you are...","Date":"15 March 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Lestat de Lioncourt is awakened from his slumber and bored with his existence, has now become this generations new Rock God. While in the course of time, another has arisen, Akasha, the Queen of the Vampires and the Damned. He want's immortal fame, his fellow vampires want him eternally dead for his betrayal, and the Queen want's him for her King. Who will be the first to reach him and Who shall win the final battle of the vampires and survive.......There are some films that never need a sequel, despite the fact hat the first was based on a best selling collection. Interview With A Vampire was a phenomenal movie, and changed the way the vampire movie was imagined for a few years.It was classy, sultry, and Cruise conquered the screen as Lestat.So eight years later, this movie was as welcome as a hole in the head, and was just a blatant cash in for those good ol' greedy folk at Warner Bros'I haven't read the scourge material, and forgive me if I'm wrong, but who in the right mind would bring back a very sinister signature character, and have him try to conquer his race by becoming a Rock Star. In the hands of Rea, its possible that it could have been something, and he may have coaxed Cruise back in the title role, but no, we get an out of his depth Townsend trying to emulate the panache cruise had with ease eight years prior.And despite his best efforts, it's no surprises that he fails, and the fact he is carrying the film only adds insult, the audience know he isn't Cruise, so detach away from him.And I don't want to speak ill of the dead, but Aaliyah is awful in her role, and spends her screen time movie really strangely and hissing her lines.It's a worthless sequel, most of the cast know this, and I feel sorry for Townsend, he's a decent actor otherwise. "}{"Title":"Did they even read the book?","Date":"10 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I must say that I was very disappointed in this movie. When a movie is supposed to be based on a book I expect a little more in common then the name. I think that this movie had a chance to be a great one, but they took a little too much artist freedom. As a fan of the book I was taken back by how much was wrong with this movie. If you are a fan of Anne Rice and her books then I do not recommend this movie. If you are looking for a ok vampire flick then you might be interested in this movie. I give Queen of the Damned a 3/10 "},{"Title":"wow!This was bad.","Date":"3 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Okay....I watched this movie more than once and I think I got it! They casted the wrong actress as the queen. I know in this day and age throwing a successful musician in a movie lead puts butts in the seats but..uh.......I dont believe they banked on Aaliyah doing such a suck job. Why else would one of the main characters have 15-20 mins. in the film!(She was alive when the movie was finished,so I dont want to hear that excuse!)It just doesnt make sense. I do believe that Aaliyah was a great dancer and mediocre singer with a sexiness and style which was just what the doctor ordered in R&B. On the other hand,as far as acting goes.....she was out of her element!! The accent was horrible...(and even if that wasnt her voice in the movie, it was her voice in the gag reel) she didnt at all convince me that she was an ancient queen of all vampires that caused massive terror in her day. She was pretty enough and sexy enough but they should have gave that role to a seasoned veteraness!! The role seriously lacked.Sorry to say but Aaliyah took away from the film in my opinion and she wasnt one of the fortunate singers who could cross-over into acting. And I think they realized the same and thats why they were going to send this film straight to video.They basically capitalized off of her death and fooled her fans as well. She has about four small scenes at the end of the movie!*****SPOILER I think******** *****                ********The dying scene was the worst job of dying i've ever seen!  The way she looked at her hands and turned into stone was shocking absurb.  The way she jumped on the scene at Lestat's concert was asinine. She looked like a love goddess instead of a deadly vamp. Even when she ripped the heart out in the bar and sunk her teeth into it.....it came off like she was sipping tea in England.  And when she crushed the heart...with her over exaggerated acting....she did everthing but stop and yell out look im an evil queen and im crushing a heart!!!*******end of spoiler************The truth of the matter is, Queen of the Damned would have been an alright movie if a.we saw the queen more b.a lil' more goreSo if your not picky and you just want to see Aaliyah's last perfomance I would recommend it but if your looking for an interesting horror flick...dont look here! "},{"Title":"I miss Tom Cruise...","Date":"22 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie has nothing to do with the book and is filled with so many inconsistancies that it will drive anyone who read the novel insane!They throw a bunch of vampires in the movie but nobody knows who the hell they are, and since when was the queen of the damned black?  Poor acting too it is actually kinda humorous to watch these people try to portray these characters in a serious manner.... Oh God how I miss Tom Cruise as Lestat and Brad Pitt as Louis, come to think of it where was Louis in this movie?? Excuse while I watch Interview with the Vampire again to erase my memory of this travesty  ! "},{"Title":"What I thought of Queen of the Damned...","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  When I saw the movie, I wasn't exactly sure what to think. The special effects weren't too good, Aaliyah was barely in it, and the singing voice of Lestat (which was Jon Davis of KoRn) didn't fit Stuart Townsend. I would have liked to have seen Tom Cruise return in the role of Lestat, but I guess I can see why he didn't. But I guess it would be a little weird to see Tom Cruise play a rock star...I think that Queen of the Damned was a movie that would have been better unmade. "},{"Title":"VIEWER BE WARNED!","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I just saw Queen of the Damned..... I suppose saw isn't really the word I want here, is it?  Let's start over. I just endured Queen of the Damned.....It was quite possibly one of the worst movies ever!  Do NOT waste your money on this piece of cinematic whiplash - it will leave your head pounding, eyes bleeding, stomach in a knot, and your common sense in a tizzy.  It was one of those movies where if you didn't read the book(s) you had no idea what was happening... and if you did, you just kind of twitched through the whole thing.  Horrible.  I thought Anne Rice learned her lesson after Interview With the Vampire - apparently NOT! Sad as it is, they're lucky Allyah died, because otherwise they wouldn't even break even at the box office. "},{"Title":"Anne Rice fans should avoid this at all costs","Date":"20 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Saw a free screeningIf you are a fan of the books, avoid this movie, it is nothing like the book at all. They changed so much it's SCARY So much was changed they should have just renamed all the main characters. Its a lame Teen Flick. If you like cheesy B-Movies, this is probably your thing. Because the whole thing is a train wreck IMHO.One of the Worst book to film translations I have ever seen. Lestat in Love with Jessie, she is in the book for maybe 2 chapters, and the Twins are nowhere to be found are the center of the story. (Only Maharet is there...) Marius as Lestat's creator?!?!? A women with a violin?!?! what?!?! Leaving out Louis, Lestat's Mother, and Daniel, and Lestat having Brown Hair is a crime. Lestat's diary?!? LOL! Lestat would never keep diary, that was Claudia's diary in the book. AWFUL! I could list changes forever.Stewart is passive, forgettable and corny as Lestat (what is with the Dracula-ish accent!?!?!). And poor Aaliyah is completely sub-par to completely horrible to cheesy. The two main stars are below average. And the rest of the casting has got be some of the worst casting I have seen this year. I HATED Jessie, they turned her into a stupid teenager! Completely hated her character. She was a minor character in the book anyway (and not to mention she was 35 years old in the book).Vampire fans who have not read the books, might be kinda entertained. But even they might be bored or confused.If you really must see it, wait for rental or even HBO. Not worth a $10 ticket price at all.FANS OF THE BOOKS AVOID AT ALL COSTS!2/10 "},{"Title":"Disappointing B-Movie","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I thought this might be alright as it's a kind of sequel to Interview with a Vampire.  However, Queen of the Damned has no depth. The acting is largely mediocre.  The plot is thin (though some of the effects were good).  I definitely would not recommend it to anyone looking for an even remotely highbrow film.  Perhaps if you liked The Mummy Returns, you would enjoy this film...  5/10 stars. "},{"Title":"An insult to Anne Rice","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  For months I have been anticipating the opening of Queen of the Damned. Luckily my university had a free sneak preview last night.  I read the book and knew beforehand the movie did not follow the book very closely (as basically none of the character's physical features were kept true to the book).  If I had paid to see this movie, I would want my money back.  This has to be one of the worst adaptations I have ever seen.For those who have not read the book and/or are not Anne Rice fans if you really want to see it, don't expect much from the script or from Aaliyah's acting.  The story seems very shallow and skips around without really giving any character or situation any depth.  The movie has a bright spot with songs from Jonathan Davis of Korn, Godhead, Deftones, and more.For those Anne Rice fans Do not see this movie unless you want to walk away mad and with your head shaking.  The fact that they changed so much from the book is astounding.  Let me give you some examples.  Lestat has brown hair and eyes.  Maharet does not have red hair, but luckily Jesse does.  There is no Legend of the Twins, and there are no twins- just Maharet.  The origin of the vampires is not told or even hinted at.  Louis, Gabriel, and Daniel are omitted from the movie.  Marius makes Lestat and teaches him all about being a vampire (but in Interview, weren't we told Lestat learned nothing from his maker?  Hum.) Marius is never trapped in ice.  Jesse longs to become a vampire and it is Lestat who turns her into one, she is never injured.  Armand has a minute of screen time, in which he is a blond haired fop.  When Akasha massacred, they were men and women.  There is no female liberation is this movie.  David Talbot is young.  Akasha kills Pandora by making her burst into flames. Akasha dies when Lestat, Armand, Maharet suck her dry and because Maharet got the last drop, she is now stone.In addition to all this, the opening credits and first 10 minutes or so are pure cheese.  The theater was laughing at its corniness.  Other scenes seem silly, though they were not intended to be this way.  Lestat lacks the fire and cockiness that Tom Cruise's character possessed.  Every character is a very watered down version of what they should be.  It was also just so lovely to hear Aaliyah speak every word with a Dracula accent.Basically, if you are going to spend any money on Queen of the Damned, spend it on the soundtrack, not this butchered, Hollywood version of a great book.  "},{"Title":"A huge disaster!","Date":"16 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" When I heard that they were going to do this movie I felt very excited and really looked forward to seeing it. Interview with the vampire was a wonderful movie and I think Tom Cruise did a wonderful performance in that one. Unfortunately when I heard that Aaliyah was cast as Akasha I knew something had gone terribly wrong. First of all Anne Rice should have written the script (like she did for IWTV). The Vampire chronicles are very popular and the film company wouldn't have had any problems getting famous actors in the leading parts. I think Catherine Zeta Jones could have been wonderful as Akasha, Jude Law as Lestat, Lena Olin was great as Maharet and Ralph Fiennes as Marius.With a great director this movie could have easily been as great as IWTV but Warner Brothers were so cheap and did not care s### about this movie so they hire this nobody from Australia to direct and cast a couple of Australian actors in supporting parts. Claudia Black was alright as Pandora but the Australian actor who played Armand was totally wrong for the part.Stuart Townsend was a disaster, I don't understand where they found him cause he looked like he was acting in a totally different movie. Aaliyah (God rest her soul) was a beautiful and talented singer but her acting abilities were limited and that is clearly shown in this picture. (Her accent is awful in this movie).The screen writers, producers and director is to blame for this mess and that they dedicated this movie to the memory of Aaliyah was a disgrace. She will be remembered for her wonderful music and not for this huge disappointment.I don't understand why Anne Rice haven't gone out stating how the movie company totally ruined this movie. She was angry that Tom Cruise played Lestat but at least he did a good job in a wonderful movie but this movie should have given her a heart attack cause they haven't been true to her books.They only good things about the movie is the Music (Jonathan Davis rules), the Score written by Jonathan and Richard Gibbs and Lena Olin's performance, the rest is crap!!!Stay away from this one!!!! "},{"Title":"Saw once and refuse to see it again","Date":"5 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is a horrible movie, especially for those who've read the novels the movie is adapted from (The Vampire Lestat and The Queen of the Damned). One I can't believe the disregarded Anne Rice writing the screenplay, the morons, they were her books for pete's sake, vultures! Two MARIUS!! Look what they did to him. Someone wrote that the actor nailed Marius, I think not!!! Marius is described as a blue eyed blond hair roman, that guy did not strike me as Roman! Plus Lestat first met Marius in Egypt, with his mother in tow. Marius made Armand not Lestat... Three Lestat was made into a vampire by Magnus, who was searching for a blond haired blue eyed man. Also Lestat learned from Marius to seek out the evil doer, so that scene with the two girls and having his manager get them for him....CHIGAU DAI YO!!!!! (wrong) One in the book, I believe the manager was female and two He hunts on his own. Four Jesse was made by Maraharet and Maraharet didn't become the next Queen of the Damned that was her twin, Mekare. Also the others didn't drink from Akasha. (Mekare ate the heart and brain of Akasha, taking in the spirit of Amel, who was a spirit of sorts who liked the taste of blood and knew Maraharet and Mekare first because they were witches). Five David Talbot was in his sixties, seventies damn it all!!!(though he became a vampire in book four...in another body)I saw this movie once and I swear to never see it again. It was absolutely horrible and didn't do justice at all to the books it came from. Interview, was wonderful but this was just crap!!!! Hell they made the Harry Potter, and Lord of the Rings movies quite close to the books why couldn't they do it with this one!!!! "}{"Title":"Pretty damned stupid","Date":"11 November 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie is about as enjoyable as an audit. The characters are so flat, there is absolutely no substance to them at all. When Lestat's gigantic smirking face appears on the jumbo-tron, it's all so damned stupid and contrived. There just wouldn't be eight hundred reporters all standing around firing questions at the vampires, the very idea is lame, like an unfunny Saturday Night Live skit that no one laughs at. The dialogue is so flat and smarmy, like it was written by a fourteen-year-old girl (but that's how Rice writes, or so I'm told). Akasha sways through the movie like she has deteriorated motor skills; instead of making her sexy and mysterious, it makes her look like she needs physical therapy. And that hissing would get on anyone's nerves. Most of the time, Stewart Townsend just stands there like a male model, staring blankly at the other characters without a single thought going through his empty head, or so one would gather by his deadpan expressions. Who would ever think that a vampire movie could be boring? Even John Carpenter's otherwise awful Vampires kept the action moving. This movie is slow, dull, and stupid. "},{"Title":"should have been a comedy...","Date":"17 June 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I have to admit this isn't the best movie ever, but its also not the worst. Everyone is down on this movie because of the cheesy lines and somewhat bad acting. I think before you watch this movie, don't expect to be scared. Instead get ready for some of the funniest lines and facial expressions ever! I know it wasn't in the film maker's intentions for this to be funny, but it just is. I say if you want a good laugh, and aren't already dead set on hating this movie, you should watch QOTD. Some horror flicks are so bad, one can't make fun of them, but this movie is just great. I also have to add that if you're in to rock music, you should really watch this. The soundtrack is excellent, and original. Hopefully once you get over the fact that this isn't going to be scary, you can enjoy the comical lines performed by stuart townsend and yes, even Aaliyah has some.  "},{"Title":"This is pathetic","Date":"18 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is pathetic.To begin with I'm surprised that Anne Rice didn't sue what ever jackass made this bad movie and claimed that it was based on the book with the same name (sorry, couldn't stop myself there).Well, I'd say it's rather obvious that i dislike this movie...allot, but I think you will come to understand why after reading this text.Basically the movie is about our all time favourite vampire Lestat who, after a couple of decades of sleep, wakes up in a world pretty different from what he used to know. Now here comes the first enormous flaw of the movie. Why the heck does everything look like present time? If my memory serves me right the friggin story is supposed to take place somewhere around 1985. Oh well, i guess it could be worse, right? Right, and it gets worse.Every character, for some reason, has opposite personalities when compared to the book. Not to mention looks. The only character that even resembles the descriptions in the book is Maharet.And on top of that the whole storyline has not only been altered but been completely changed. About the first five minutes is all good, except for the visual flaws, then it all turns to crap when suddenly the start meddling with everything. I can understand that all the scenes and material won't fit in 90 minutes but there is no excuse for changing as much they have done here. For example, since when did Marius make Lestat a vampire?It is a disgrace to call this movie Queen of the damned as it has about as much to do with the book as a potato has in common with a sock.If you try to overlook the fact that it's not really a movie version of queen of the damned that your watching it magically turns into your ordinary run of the mill crappy horror-adventure-mainstream movie which might please those who liked Underworld or Blade, but unless you are the type who like such rather tasteless action flicks you really should keep away.I can only say it again, this movie is pathetic.  "},{"Title":"laughable","Date":"5 January 2012","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" interview with a vampire was so amazing good, this movie just really came out of left field.i do like Stuart Townsend as lestat, i think he is very much the brat prince. aaliyah was amazing as well. and if you like that type of music the soundtrack was beyond good. but thats all that is good about this movie.for one it is nothing like the book and doesn't make any sense. its not just the its not like the book thing either. the cgi is terrible. the supposedly hott vamps are old and the makeup is horrible. its like a made for TV movie. they tried to combine two books into one on a TV movie budget, it was just terrible.i wish they would have made a TV series on hbo or something of anne rices series it def deserves to have been made. 9 books is to much movies. and a TV series would have been wayy better than vampire diaries or true blood imo.this movie is for 16yr old girls that like music, vamps, cute boys with no shirts, and sexy dominatrix women "},{"Title":"Execrable nonsense","Date":"31 August 2011","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Recently I sat through TWILIGHT, and I thought to myself that I'd never see a worse vampire movie. Then I watched QUEEN OF THE DAMNED. An adaptation of the Anne Rice novel and a follow up to 1994's well-remembered INTERVIEW WITH THE VAMPIRE, QUEEN OF THE DAMNED updates the action to the present and recreates the vampire Lestat as a rock star. The film sees him crossing swords with an age-old vampire queen. That's about it.Everything about this movie smacks of self-indulgence. There were qualms over Tom Cruise's casting in INTERVIEW, but Stuart Townsend (who he?) is a million times worse. His Lestat is a character you want to beat mercilessly with an iron bar, he's so smug and supercilious. The supporting cast are diabolical, the plotting is straight out of a bad episode of BUFFY THE VAMPIRE SLAYER, and I actually felt sorry for Paul McGann, so extraneous is he here.This movie wants to be so achingly hip and cool and the truth is that it's a ridiculous mess. A mix of trite dialogue, absurd and poorly filmed action scenes and a great deal of badly animated burning vampires straight out of the BLADE films. I was hoping for Wesley Snipes to come and kick some namby-pamby vampire ass, but sadly it wasn't to be. Watch out for the rock concert invaded by flying vampires, undoubtedly this awful movie's nadir. "},{"Title":"it was so great","Date":"23 February 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" oh my god i loved this movie my best friend and i watched this movie over and over again because we loved it so much!! we know all the words!!we have the songs from it on CDs!! i know what you mean about the song system i love it it is my favorite song besides slept for so long.Stuart Townsend is so hot and i have always been curious about vampires and i love vampire movies and it is definitely better than interview with a vampire because Stuart plays a better Lestat than tom cruise any day.Gosh what else is there to say except for this movie is the best! i am in a really bad mood right now and i am mad at my mom and my neighbor and i am gonna kill someone!!! is that enough lines for you???Jesus... i hate it when my family does this it is really making me really mad!!! well i like this movie!! "},{"Title":"Potential to turn into an all time classic","Date":"8 September 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Now first to the obvious, this film is inseparably linked to the tragic demise of Aaliyah, which is playing Akasha the Queen of the Damned.This has directed some attention to it.In case of The Crow, the film has gained its special status to its Fans due to the Death of Brandon Lee during the making ... and both films have more in common than that.. I love both and both touched me, though Queen of the Damned took some time to do so, it did not when I saw it in the cinema first. It did as I rerented it for some reason I am still not really sure of, maybe because I love everything that is connected to Vampires and if I do not find a movie to watch I like to return to watching one of those I already know... and this one I had not seen as often as the others, well - now I have it in my collection and it is one of the most stressed DVDs.To the plot Vampire Lestat is not the usual kind of Vampire. Supposed to seek the night he yearns for being among the living, cannot understand why he as one of the powerful kind has to hide and be lonesome as seems to be his fate. So one day he lays down to take a time out of a hundred years and awakes in the London of the present. He sees it fit to finally do as he always pleased, he joins a punk band playing in the ruins of his old house (or rather makes them join him)and with the help of his Vampiric charisma then turns famous, groupies yearning to be bitten by him not really aware what that means... but that is not enough to him, he openly states to be Vampire, breaking the rules of his kind, telling of their secrets in his songs and challenging the other of his kind. Those are afraid of a world aware of them and seek out to kill him. Lestat is not alone though, there is an organisation dedicated to observe the Vampires and among those there is a female apprentice who slowly succumbs the aura of Lestat. And there is the ominous queen of the Vampires, Akasha, who once ruled the earth with terror, living a life in the open, who one day with her King went to a sleep over the millennia as they were simply bored with their life. Sensing in Lestat the same yearning to be out in the open she is awaking and looking for her new king after she killed her old mate asleep. Lestat finds himself between two women, the Vampire Queen that was born Vampire, has incredible powers and offers him his share of those on her side, seeming to offer all he always wanted and the feeble and soft woman, mortal and still fascinating him with her yearning of joining his kind or die in the effort.I think Aaliyah is presenting us with a very attractive and credible Queen of the Vampires. I also think her role in this film is overstated, in the title as well as in many comments. She is contributing to the plot exactly what is needed and not more. I join others in the statement that for her, this was an ungrateful last film. She will not be remembered because of it like Lee will be for the Crow, but not because this is a bad movie, only because her role simply is not the central one. The central person is Lestat and his way through time. So we learn about his making, his dissatisfaction with his Vampire fate, making him the murderer of those whose attention and worship or even only company he craves and then the sort of suicidal decision to challenge all of his kind with breaking unwritten rules and do as he feels compelled to. This almost suicidal tendency he has in common with Jesse, the girl that has been raised under ominous circumstances and does seek the Vampires for reasons she herself fails to understand, there they are alike.. they are driven, forced to act in a way that other warn them is beyond reason and would lead to their destruction.This movie is fascinating in many ways. First there is the music, a score full of singers of bands like Orgy, Excess, Marilyn Manson.. something you not really would expect with a Vampire Movie, but really working well in exchange with the classical tunes one would expect, going along with the plot of the film and being of importance, not only some background aspect as in most movies.Second we have those main characters that really are well composed. Aaliyah personates the totally inapproachable cruel ancient Egyptian goddess returning on earth to spread terror again in a way she could not have done better. Stuart Townsend is making Lestat a sinister and profound creature of the night, wrestling with what contradicting emotions he is exposed to without getting a whiner. His way to interpret Lestat is superior to Cruise's performance in the prequel Interview with a Vampire.. for what reason ever. (IMHO this role here would have been asked too much of Cruise)Marguerite Moreau is making us almost feel Jesse's fascination, making us understand why she is the moth drawn into the fire and accept it as in its own twisted way logical.The plot is not as action packed as many would like and it is dwelling in its slow moments as well, it is a film you are drawn to on an emotional level and either it accomplishes that with you or it does not. What I love most though is its subtle humour and that not everything is stated obviously. Sometimes less is more, that has been proven to be true with this film again. It is a classical like or distaste case, I think. I for one love it.  "},{"Title":"EXCELLENT!!!","Date":"14 May 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I thought the movie was excellent. Aaliyah (R.I.P) was the most sexiest vampire I have ever seen in any vampire movie. She did wonderful as well as her music and dancing. Stuart Townsend was also one of the sexiest vampires I've ever seen. He also did a wonderful job as well as being sexy in general. Marguerite Moreau, I would love to see her in more movies not just because she's attractive with that long hair but a good actress as well. Vincent Perez, I believe, really did a good job as in actually looking like a very sexy vampire from back in the day. The music was awesome. I think it fitted straight into the movie. All the artist were very good. As I say again, I thought the movie was excellent. "},{"Title":"Unlike the first movie, this was much worse.","Date":"15 November 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I was going to see this at the cinema, but decided against it. I tried to work myself to see it on video, but I again decided against it. Now I finally saw it on Cable TV, and still wondered why I bothered.Queen of the Damned, where do I start? I read the books nearly a decade ago, but I still remember quite a lot about the story. To make the novel into a two hour movie is a really BIG ask. To release it as this tragedy, well.The origin of Lestat is completely wrong (as any Anne Rice fan will tell you.)The back story of Akasha and Maharet was completely neglected. How and why did they become what they become? I know, let's not tell the viewer and let them work it out!Stuart Townsend as Lestat was okay, but he could only play with what he got. The major vampires from the story were delegated to background characters - Armand, Pandora, Khayman and Mael. And just where the hell was Louis???Aaliyah was surprising as Akasha, although I still believe someone unknown should have played the role; much goes the some for all of the characters.Jesse however was not turned into a vampire by Lestat, but by her Aunt Maharet after having her neck broken at the concert during a crowd crush.And they completely forgot that Maharet had a twin - Miriam - but that should have been covered in the back story.If they were to make a decent adaptation for this book as a movie, it would be close to four hours long, if not over. So I can see why they cut a majority of the story for a two hour movie.I just hope that some day, that Anne Rice's The Vampire Chronicles will be remade as it should be - a mini-series for each novel. Yes including The Vampire Lestat. But I can see that won't happen none to soon.It might have been better not to have made the books into movies at all. After all, Anne Rice's descriptive style made the reader imagine vividly what the characters were going through.Completely disappointed. "},{"Title":"A Travesty","Date":"24 June 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I'm a big fan of Anne Rice's vampire books.  Queen of the Damned is my least favorite of them all, however it is still a very good book, though slow in a few sections in my opinion, and that Queen is damned better than this damn Queen.Others have explained how this movie doesn't bother to follow the books so I won't dwell on that, but I wholeheartedly agree.  What the hell were they smoking when they wrote the script to this?  Or perhaps, since some drugs do make people more creative, (throw your music collection away if you don't think so) what WEREN'T they smoking?The only storyline gripe I'll go over here is all the vampires fighting Akasha at the end of the movie.  Those other vampires are MAJOR characters in the book.  They're given a glimpse of screen time in the movie.. all of a sudden the vampire posse you've seen 3 frames of previously shows up and wipes out the main villain who wasn't even in the movie much. (yes, I know she died, doesn't make the movie any better)  They really needed to at least introduce some of the other vampires before they came in to play the hero role.My biggest gripe with this movie is the soundtrack, and more specifically the garbage Lestat sings.  Why does Lestat suddenly turn into the guy from Korn when he sings?  Does that make ANY sense??  ANY?!?!  Besides, Korn is awful, and regardless of their talent, I don't exactly think of that when I think of something a vampire would sing.  I think maybe something similar to Type O Negative music, with NEW vocals, not just an existing band's song, may have fit a little better without sounding like glam rock, which is kind of what the book makes it sound like, and I think even that would work beautifully in comparison with the crap that comes out of Lestat's throat... oh sorry, I mean out of nowhere since it doesn't sound like Lestat or even close to it.This is pure tripe that was thrown together to take advantage of Vampire Chronicles movie rights, was made for a quick buck.  As a fan of the books I was insulted by the plot, and I don't think there would even be enough there for this thing to even make sense to people that haven't read the books.Avoid it.  Interview With the Vampire didn't follow the book 100% either, but it was beautifully filmed and retained the feel of the book.  This is crap.  Read the books The Vampire Lestat, and Queen of the Damned and you'll understand why, and you'll likely get a lot of enjoyment out of them in the process. "}{"Title":"awsome","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  i thought queen of the damned was one of the best films i have ever seen. This film is a must to see and i cant wait to get my hands on the dvd. I think it is one of the best vampires films ever to made. The soundtrack is awsome. I give it 10/10, the film rules!.  "},{"Title":"Review of The Queen Of The Damned","Date":"17 April 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I saw the movie and I loved it, they made Melbourne look fantastic and Stuart makes the perfect brat prince. It's only faults were that it didn't follow the book I was a little annoyed with that. Also why didn't they introduce any of the other vampires that ticked me off to.Other then that I seriously loved the movie and would gladly watch it again. "},{"Title":"I LOVED IT!","Date":"6 March 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I love Anne Rice! And I love vampire movies! Although it wasn't as good as Interview w/ a Vampire.. It still rocked! Who would have guessed that Lestat would become a rock star... This movie put together two of my favorite things in movies 1) rock music and 2) vampires!  "},{"Title":"The best movie I have ever seen!","Date":"3 March 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie is the best I have ever seen!  Queen of the Damned was my favorite book from the Vampires' Chronicles.  I must say that Stuart Townsend was Lestat!  I loved everything about how he portrayed my favorite vampire.  He was soo much better than Tom Cruise.  Aaliyah was awesome too as Akasha.  I couldn't have think of a better person to play her.  Even though the movie isn't like the novel, I just loved it!  The love story between Jesse and Lestat was beautiful.  I would have like to see the Legend of the Twins and more of the Ancients!  But the Death Valley concert was awesome too!  The music!  The actors!  WoW!  Truly the best movie I have ever seen! "},{"Title":"People Were Expecting Too Much","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Alright for the Anne Rice fans, myself being one of them...this movie was, it really was a bad book adaptation. But I really feel that if fans and non-fans alike view this movie as simply a vampire movie they'll enjoy. Don't go into a movie already having expectations of what it is going to be like. And don't expect it to be close to Interview With The Vampire. Why did I like this movie so much? As the girl in Lestat's band stated, Sex, blood, and rock n roll I thought Stuart Townsend did a pheonomonal job of playing the modern/rocker/playful Lestat.  I thought the music was excellent and if you actually read the lyrics that make A LOT of sense, seeing as Lestat was supposed to be the one who wrote them. Aaliyah fans who are going to see this movie simply because she is in it...a word of caution she is only in it for about 26 minutes, but...it's a very good 26 minutes. With the little screen time she had she carried the role of Akasha very nicely. The movie does express some corny lines, but they make you laugh...and the communication between Lestat and Marius is also rather entertaining. This movie has a lot...action, gore, a twisted love story, rock n roll, amusement...it's something you can really sink your teeth into.  "},{"Title":"Read up before you critique...","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  First off, before you critique a movie, it's a good thing to have your ducks in a row regarding the director's vision of the movie.  Those who bothered to read up on the movie would know that Jorge Saralegui did not make this movie as a sequel to 'Interview', and that he intended for the movie to make an entirely different kind of statement than the first. As well, each movie is, in itself, a different story.  Remaining true to the novel is not always possible, and is sometimes impossible due to time constraints and intricacies of plot development that do not come easily to the screen.Having said this, I believe the movie was very well done, and captured the characters' personalities quite well.  The interpretation from the original book was appropriate, even if some of the characters' roles had to be left out.  The sets were lush and the camera work was well done, providing a lot of eye candy for most scenes.  The acting is effective and thought provoking.  All in all, a decently done movie I would recommend to anyone with the ability to appreciate the darkness the director provides. "},{"Title":"It's NOT SUPPOSED TO BE JUST LIKE THE BOOK","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  It's a good movie, on its own. Granted it isn't exactly like the book, but ya know what? It's a movie, not a book, and certain artistic interpretations have to be gained and lost by the transition from book to movie. Also, notice how it says based on the novel. It doesn't say, exact replica of the novel. So as it stands alone as a movie, it's entertaining(granted, that doesn't mean it's good necessarily, but if it's entertaining, it can't be all bad). Plus, it has vampires, and biting, and blood, and good music, and more vampires, and more blood, and more biting, and hot girls, and more vampires*gush*. And for those of you who wish it was a sequel to Interview, it's not. It's not meant to be. They are two completely different types of movies. I read a local review saying that QotD is just a very long music video, what's wrong with that? It's just a different way to make a movie. Sorry it isn't Schindler's List. So for those of you in want of an entertaining movie, with a great soundtrack, featuring Static-X, Deftones, David Draimon, etc., that has lots of vampires, biting, blood, and hot girls, Queen of the Damned is very cool. "},{"Title":"Brilliantly Done Film","Date":"26 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I had known about this film since the Fall of 1999. I had seen Interview with the Vampire which intrigued me to see Queen of Damned. I patiently counted down the months until the films debut. On the night of the premiere, I had come down with a stomach virus, but that did not deter me from seeing it on opening week. The Sunday after its release, I called a few of my friends and we went out. I sat in awe as I watched the movie. The acting was brilliant. Stuart Townsend captured Lestat in ways Tom Cruise never could. And Aaliyah- There is no other person that I thought could tackle the role of Akasha as well as she did. And THE MUSIC! Even if you hated the movie, you could not have hated the soundtrack. Jonathan Davis of KoRn had the perfect vocals for the rock star vampire. It was slightly upsetting that Davis' voice could not be heard on the CD, but the artists who were chosen in his place were equally as excellent. It is certainly as must have album. The film was incredible in my opinion. "},{"Title":"Queen of the Damned got my blood excited I wish I was in it.","Date":"26 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I loved queen of the damned it got my blood excited I only wish the characters could have grabbed me from my seat and brought me into their world.I will continue to go see it until it is no longer showing and I am planning to by it when it comes out on video.   "},{"Title":"My favourite vampire movie!","Date":"25 November 2008","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Don't listen to the critics, seriously i loved the book and loved the movie even more! Stuart Townsend was incredible.. i had never seen him act so when you see Lestat for the first time you don't think oh thats just tom cruise in make-up... the image is much more believable this way.Aaliyah was beautiful and the fact that this is one of her last pieces of art made it that much more intensifying, especially given her role in this movie.Marguerite Moreau & Vincent Perez also play there roles quite strongly and fit the story line well.The plot gives a great mix of rock and horror, it brings alive not only the dream of being a vampire but also a rock-star. The soundtrack is wicked! For someone not interested in vampire movies or rock you probably wont enjoy it too much and why should you... However if your into both i highly recommend watching it! If you were really keen id even recommend reading the book first by Anne Rice. "}{"Title":"My opinion on the movie ''Queen of the Damned''","Date":"28 November 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The movie is very good, i loved it, but it doesn't compare with the book.The role of Lestat was very well played by Stwart Towsend, i simply fallen in love with this actor even if is the first movie in witch i saw him.Aaliyah was also very good in the role of Akasha The Queen of the Damned.The part of the movie that i liked very much was the concert scene when Lestat sings on the stage and the scene when he fights all those vampires beside Marius the older vampire.I hope all of Anne Rice's book will be movie subject because she was a very good writer. This is all i had to say . Goodbye "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"5 January 2004","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Excellent vampire-story, one of the best I've watched and seen most. Aaliah was very good as the queen and I couldn't have asked for much more from the rest of the cast. Some of the side roles were filled maybe carelessly..The plot is a whole new thing in the league of vampire movies, probing the origins of the race and developing surprising scenarios.A must see for people who find they like the mystique of the genre. "},{"Title":"great film!","Date":"2 January 2004","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I thought that Queen Of The Damned was one of the best vampire movies to come out in a very long time, and I still haven't seen anything that comes close! I still have system in my head - Why won't you die, you blood in mine, we'll be fine, then your body will be mine "},{"Title":"cool and edgy","Date":"5 November 2002","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  loved this flick... good music and edgy plot... sensual theme with diverse scenes and hard hitting tunes. Can't see why the ratings are poor. The film has great intensity with steady action and execution. Good special effects. "},{"Title":"GREAT!","Date":"2 September 2002","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I, being a devout Anne Rice lover, was not let down at all by the film Queen of the Damned. I thought that it was excellent! I thought it was very erotic and sexy, along with being mysterious, like it should be. I think they did a wonderful job of catching everything. Usually when a film is based off of a movie, things are weird and skipped at times but I did love everything about this movie. Aaliyah was wonderful and how many times would I have to sing about how beautiful Stuart Townsend is? The movie was just wonderful! "},{"Title":"Although incorrectly titled, a supremely entertaining movie","Date":"22 April 2002","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Having read and loving the Vampire Chronicles, I had to force myself to enter the theater with no expectations.  (I was lucky enough to see Interview before reading it.  The proper way to do it.)  What I got out of Queen of the Damned was a wonderful movie that was BASED ON THE VAMPIRE CHRONICLES.  I emphasize this because the movie was as far from the novel as night is from day.  The entirety of the events in the movie Queen of the Damned took place in the novel The Vampire Lestat.  And there are elements from other Anne Rice books (The Talamasca) thrown in for spice.  But, this movie perfectly blends the music, setting, acting and directing in order to show the vampire world as it should be experienced.  Fun, exciting, thrilling, and totally engrossing, this is an incredible movie that I've gone to see again and again.  Just don't expect to get what you already know as Queen of the Damned. "},{"Title":"Followed Ann Rice novels well and Stuart Townsend a perfect LESTAT.","Date":"17 April 2004","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I HAVE BEEN READING Ann Rice Books and have been To New Orleans three times now and am totally into her books, where I can smell and picture everything she writes about. I think Stuart Townsend was THEE PERFECT Lestat! I picture him exactly as he looked in Queen Of The Dammed. Lestat has a unique personality and a great sense of humor. All this was so well done by Stuart. I HOPE THERE WILL BE MORE MOVIES FROM HER BOOKS IN THE FUTURE.Sheila Kautmanps...I have loved vampire stories and movies since I was a small child, watching all the Bela Lugosi,Christopher Lee,Frank Langella ( really a sexy vampire ) and Gary Oldman, and less we forget Klaus Kinski as Nosferatu. "},{"Title":"AMAZING!!","Date":"2 January 2003","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The movie was simply amazing! The effects, the actors. It was simply wonderful. A little unfaithful to the book, but the dialog and special effects made up for it. Anne Rice is an amazing author, and to see her work on the big screen again is delightful. A must see if your a fan of vampires. "},{"Title":"queen of the damned","Date":"29 October 2002","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Queen of the damned is the best vampire movie of this decade with potential to be the best of the centry it has a more reality fealing then Blade and Dracula 2000. Stuart Townsend does a better portrait of Lestat then Tom Cruise did in Interwiew with a vampire. And it's Soundtrack is the best of all time thanks to Jonathan H. Davis from Korn  "},{"Title":"Be careful what you wish for...","Date":"21 October 2002","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  After going to sleep out of sheer loneliness, Lestat wakes from a 100-year sleep to the sounds of a new music he wants to be a part of and the band The Vampire Lestat is born.  His longing to end his loneliness and his living in the light attitude along with his music, anger his fellow vampires and awaken an evil that has been slumbering for thousands of years.This film is not for those looking for a true book-to-film adaptation. Those who have read the books and expect to see it on the screen are in for a huge disappointment.  This film will appeal to those who really enjoyed the Interview With the Vampire film.There are a few plot holes and incongruencies, but as a whole, this film was satisfying.  Stuart Townsend portrays Lestat with a sensuality and sexiness lacking in the previous film.  The relationships portrayed in the film were very sexy and sizzling.As a film, the story compels you and draws you in.  Casting is wonderful. Loved this story and film.  If you like simmering sensuality and sexual tension you'll love this film! "}{"Title":"Very Great","Date":"13 October 2002","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Queen of the Damned is one of the best vampire movies I had ever seen! The movie had suspense, action, and gore.  The combination of the fierce demanding attitude of the Queen and the rock mood of our star, very well acted by Stuart Townsend, makes a wonderfully done movie that only this combination can create.  I'm always the one to give advice to my friends and family members on which movies are worthy of renting and when they ask me if Queen of the Damned is worthy, I tell them it's worthy of buying.  This movie is most for sure a must-have in all horror movie lovers' homes!  "},{"Title":"I liked it alot","Date":"21 September 2002","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is the MOVIE Queen of the Damned not the BOOK.  People keep say oh this wasn't there or that was different.  Its supposed to be different, I wouldn't pay to see a movie that follows the book word for word.  Its just based on the book its not a visual representation of the book.I liked the movie, if you let go of the damn book you'll probably enjoy it too.  I think Aaliyah was perfect for this role, and the music was very good.Overall I loved it.  People need to stop being so analytical with movies and just sit back and enjoy, unless your a critic, and movie is supposed to just be a fun activity and I had fun watching this movie. "},{"Title":"I really enjoyed this movie","Date":"8 September 2002","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Okay, I am a HUGE Anne Rice fan and love the vampire chronicles.  I admit that I did find myself sitting there and watching the DVD and saying, that's not really what happened but I just told myself that it was hollywood.  At the beginning it says that the movie is based off of the Vampire Chronicles, not Queen of the Damned.  It is about more than just one book.  I thought Stuart Townsend was a great Lestat and Aaliyah was amazing. She's how I pictured Akasha.  Although I was upset that the ancients were not mentioned that much.  It wasn't until watching the deleted scenes that I realized Pandora and Armand were even in the movie!  I also love the music. Jonathan Davis and Richard Gibbs did a great job and I think they were really able to make Lestat fit in with the sounds of today.  Forsaken is my favorite song and I love David Draiman singing it on the soundtrack. Overall I really enjoy this movie and it is a nice escape from reality whenever I am swamped with midterms and finals to study for! "},{"Title":"Rocked Harder Than The Soundtrack!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"2 September 2002","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I'm going to start off by saying I absolutely LOVED this movie! Stuart Townsend does a wonderful portrayal of Lastat.  He looks SOOOOOO gorgeous in the movie as well.  There was something about the seductive way he moved and spoke that literally sucked me into the movie.  But it was Queen Akasha that stole the show! This role allowed Aaliyah to shine, even though she didn't get as much screen time as she deserved and that the film focused more on Lastat than the QUEEN OF THE DAMNED. But besides all that, she did an amazing job of bringing Queen Akasha to life.  Aaliyah looks absolutely beautiful in this film, her natural beauty really stands out throughout the whole film. The music in the film is really awesome as well, but as I said before, the is movie rocks harder than the soundtrack! I give this movie a a HUGE thumbs up! I would also like to add that Aaliyah is greatly missed by all of her fans and she will be remembered not only for her beautiful voice, but also for the wonderful job in this film. RIP Aaliyah! "},{"Title":"Don't expect a lot from this one.","Date":"1 June 2005","Score":"27 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Despite a few acceptable adaptations of the books' main themes, QUEEN OF THE DAMNED/THE VAMPIRE LESTAT did not stay true to Anne Rices's complicated story telling. The deep layers that build up all the characters were shredded apart to only their surface, if not a completely different identity. The chronological order of the major events in the movie seemed warped and uneven.However, there were quite a few things the movie did to deserve my rating of 7. One was that the film strongly captured the affect that Lestat (among other vampires)had to the public, especially young girls. The movie also did a fairly good job focusing on the importance of heredity and history that the vampires took pride in. The scenes of sensuality were also atmospherically satisfying.The acting in QUEEN OF THE DAMNED was moderate, if disappointing. Stuart Townsend and Aaliyah have a surprising chemistry, though it only shows when the acting is at its best (not very often). The characters are nothing compared to the ones established in INTERVIEW WITH A VAMPIRE. It also lacks the emotional intelligence of THE FEAST OF ALL SAINTS, which is a shame because Rice's Queen of the Damned book had that, and more.This movie doesn't give all that it appears to be. The effects are dull and very disappointing. The extravagance needed in many scenes is not given, and the dialog is tiring. The settings for many scenes are not how I pictured them in the book, and I think that many of them weren't even taken from the story. There are only a few areas of incoherence near the beginning and middle of the movie, but it wraps itself up fairly neatly, giving the viewer a full story (if they had not read the book).Somethings that I feel the movie needed include a good original score (Howard Shore or Elmer Bernstein), instead of the mix of rock music; though I had no problem with some of the songs. Another thing that would have made the movie better is better set direction. The scenery was boring as well as unclear, which is important in a story that moves around quite frequently.Overall, QUEEN OF THE DAMNED was an unevenly disappointing yet somewhat satisfying adaption of the important novel. With a few simple changes, it may have been a very successful piece of film work. I'd recommend this movie for people who has seen INTERVIEW or have read the books, so that they can make their own opinion on the adaption. "},{"Title":"(coughing sound)","Date":"15 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Cheesy. Like a hot pizza. I love pizza. This was the high tide mark for the goth scene. A lot of leather pants and clunky boots. Are vampires supposed to come off as lame-asses? No, I do enjoy this movie but not because it was done well. Queen Of The Damned was done badly, very badly, but that's why I like it. It is more entertaining than Interview With A Vampire, which is a noteworthy achievement, I mean I guess. Its just so goth, but such a wormy high glam version of goth, it boggles the mind. The soundtrack is hideous, terrible terrible music, all of the songs sound the same but are done by different bands. Believe it or not this was based on a book. "},{"Title":"Majority report","Date":"19 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  For once, I agree with most comment reports on this movie. It could have been great, since it features many valuable items (soundtrack, image, special FX, some pretty good acting, too). But the whole of it leaves you thirsty, and gets you saturated with gothicware. This movie is not really a film, it's a sophism.. "},{"Title":"BOOOOO (this movie is scary in a bad way)","Date":"30 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Talk about wasting an opportunity to make a good book into a great movie. First of all, tell the whole story, or none at all.  Obviously you can't put the whole book in.  That's why we people who paid attention in literature know how to summarize.  Secondly, Korn as the vampire lestat's music??? What a horrific choice.  Anybody with a brain know's it should have been HIM (His Infernal Majesty)  If your a fan of the books, listen that HIM.  The lead singer is sooo lestat it makes me want to scream. "},{"Title":"Damn be damned!","Date":"28 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I have read a number of reviews and comments, and they seem fair in the aspects that are disliked.  Viewing it as an individual thoughtless movie targeted for teenagers, I enjoyed it immensely-p  The visuals rule and the music rock.  I enjoyed the movie, and Interview with the Vampire more, enough to want to read the books. "},{"Title":"A laughable plot","Date":"23 December 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This film is about a vampire who is tired of living in the dark. He joins a rock band and tell the world he is a vampire.I can't work out whether Queen of the Damned is a parody or not. The plot is quite laughable and illogical most of the time. The film is just an excuse for a lot of blood and semi-erotic scenes. Lestat's self disclosure is so poorly built up, that I just don't understand why he wants to do so. If it is human contact he yearns, then maybe he should try to find a way to become human again, or seek revenge from the vampire who bit him in the first place. All the rock music feels out of place with the film too, as I do not regard vampires as very rock and roll. Maybe I have been brainwashed by the Twilight films to think that love ballads should be playing the background? "}{"Title":"This is a film that was never meant to be.","Date":"14 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" As an independent film, this is almost entertaining, but more a pain. Let me explain first, why you shouldn't trust this as an adaptation of the novels by Anne Rice. The film makers think they stayed true to the spirit of the books. But how could it be possible, if they don't respect anything about the books?Most of the original character's personalities are totally altered or reversed; especially Jesse has no personality characteristics in common with the novel version what-so-ever. Lestat, who in the novel is joyous and happy, and becomes a rock star to see what happens and to do good for the world by revealing secrets of evil... is suicidally depressed in this film!! Marius is aggressive and cold, though in the novels he is very loving and gentle, especially with Lestat, and would never ever do some things he does in this film. Does that sound like sticking to the books's spirit and adapting the books's characters into a story adapted from the books?But then, what the heck, they also completely rewrote the guts of the story - the producers himself uses that phrasing about the matter. Completely rewriting something that crucial, isn't adapting. Rewrite 'the GUTS' of the story, says the producer. Tthat is in other words 'multilating the insides'. As in, butchering. They butchered the books and they admit it! They just don't give flying *beep* about it! But still, they talk about the production as if it was adapting type and this film is unfairly advertised as Anne Rice's though pretty much only the names are in common with her work. It's very misleading for others and very infuriating for some of the passionate The Vampire Chronicles fans, who usually are already dropping heads for the butcher in itself.I find it funny the producer complained about information overload as for why they couldn't stay more loyal to the books - yet they waste half of the film on something that wasn't in the book(s) at all. I'm talking about the so called romance between the characters Lestat and Jessica.Those minutes they could've used for real information from the books, on the Queen of who the title is about and the vampire history. Not only is that history important but it would've also given a lot of awesome atmosphere for this film as a vampire film as well. But even without this actually does work. You are only left to use your own imagination and speculations, which should not be all that bad thing.I think some changes they made good and working perfectly for the film since they were not really adapting the books anyway. They changed the person who makes Lestat into a vampire - that change just serves the film's limited amount of minutes so well, and even for the characters that was perfect. Even when comparing to the novels. (I have in-depth analyzed Lestat and that character's relationship in the novels, for two years.) This film however lacks showing how excellent substitute maker he is, because they abused the original characters' personalities.)Can't compare Townsend and Cruise as Lestat. They had completely different scripts in their hands Cruise had a wonderful script helped by the author herself. Townsend has a horrible mess of a butcher from a production that literally told Anne that they'd do whatever they want. And since that was a story completely different than in the books, it wouldn't have made any difference if Townsend had read the books. It's the story what makes the character who it is. But it's undeniable that Tom Cruise did put 100 times more passion into his portrayal, than Townsend did. But ST still makes a very fine Gothic rock star vampire and showed potential for a true Lestat in the very few in-character moments that were left for him in the film.As an independent film this is a pain because it's full of old clichs, which however could be bearable if only they had a logic storyline & relationships there, but it's all utter nonsense! Above all the Lestat/Jesse paiting they have there. Lestat clearly hates the woman and has every reason to, and he doesn't even imply at any point that he'd be interested in her in any emotional way - actually at all as a person. I don't know what the film makers were smoking when they made the certain two scenes, which had NO realistic development into them. In fact, one of them had a moment that totally contradicts something very crucial that Lestat had said in the same scene, like 5 seconds earlier! WTF!? I repeat; I don't know what the writers were smoking. And why there is no realistic development for the Lestat/Jesse relationship, is because the characters had NO romantic nor sexual chemistry what-so-ever, while they also meet only twice before the ending and they're both loaded with negative emotion from Lestat's side.This works well as a vampire movie in general - but if you want to introduce yourself to Anne Rice's Queen of the Damned and The Vampire Lestat - this film is not the way. If you do not know the books, and can ignore utter nonsense, you're probably the one enjoying this the most. And if you are a fan of the book - do keep open mind and think before you judge.The cast; everyone are great in their roles. They would've just deserved more true versions of their characters! I especially love Stuart Townsend as Lestat and Vincent Perez as Marius. The atmosphere of this film is darkly romantic. The music is hooking.Pick this film if you like vampires and you don't have anything else but this and Twilight at hand. Because, the two are the worst you could waste your time with, but this one is superior to Twilight, as this has actually vampires in this. "},{"Title":"Sigh","Date":"5 September 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I think Stuart Townsend was a GREAT vampire. He was however NOT a great Lestat. Other than the obvious appearance differences, Stuart made Lestat sexy, seductive and slinky. Lestat is charming, loud and in love with himself. I think Tom Cruise (and I'm not the biggest Cruise fan) did a way better job of Lestats character. If you have read the books then watching this film will be painful. If you pretend that the only thing in common are a few of the plot ideas and the names then I'm sure it's a half decent vamp flick. I've actually not seen a book so butchered before. At least this new Twilight movie got its characters correct. "},{"Title":"a sad swan song for Aaliyah","Date":"17 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I'm very sorry this was Aaliyah's last movie.she looked gorgeous,but her acting was much better in,romero must die.the young girl jesse, wanting to be a vampire was very absurd.the rock music was cool,for those who like that type of rock.The star of the whole movie was stuart townsend.He was a very sexy vampire indeed.i even loved the sound of his voice.very seductive.i first noticed him in league of extraordinary menI'm really surprised he hasn't gone any farther than he has,but i wish him well.But alas,poor Aaliyah.i really wasn't a great fan of hers.i only enjoyed her songsat first you don't succeed and are u the one.I thought her acting career would take off afterromero but alas,fate had other tragic plans.ill remember Aaliyah for a couple of decent songs,andRomeroQueen of the damnedonly made any money because Aaliyah was killed.Other than the movie should have went straight to video.  "},{"Title":"On Big Gothic Mess","Date":"13 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"    The immortal Vampire Leastat(Stuart Townsend) is awaken by a heavy metal band(Music by KoRn).He joins them,And tells everyone about him being a vampire,Knowing all the other Vampires will plan to attack him.The Vampire Queen Akasha(Aaliyah)Who comes for him...  I'm a fan of KoRn,And ther Music was good here.There were some cool scenes,And great Gothic imagry,And some good camera work,Plus the Queens Costume was cool.Everything else was terrible.Bad plot,Bad acting,Bad Vampire Action.Boring,Uninteresting,Not near as good as Interview with the vampire.This movie is as bad as Shadow of the Vampire,Which I thought was terrible!Queen of the Damned is possibly the worst vampire movie I have seen. "},{"Title":"Praise to Actors, shame on AR and scriptwriters!","Date":"29 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I'm a purist, it's true, when it comes to book/movie adaptations.  In the past, I'd have read a book and then watch a movie, and I'd always be disappointed.  I've seen some bad ones(Little Women the one with Winona Ryder as Jo), and some very good ones(the HP movies, the Firm, IwtV). But this movie definitely falls under the bad ones category.Just before this movie came out, I'd made a vow never to support Anne Rice again by buying her books or watching her movies because of the travesties that were The Vampire Armand and Merrick.  So I didn't see until a week or so ago on cable.First, kudos go to Stuart Townsend.  I believe that for the most part, he captured Lestat and made him his own.  The scene with the two blonds at the beginning was very Lestat-like.  He captured his innate curiosity and his arrogance, as well has appreciation of living human beauty.  It also helps that his stature and carriage and beauty is appropriate for the role.The actor who played David Talbot did well with the lack of character development.  He may have been a tad too young, but he played the concerned father-like archivist/researcher true to character.Now Marius, what a piss-poor job of putting this remarkable and wonderful character on the silver screen.  The actor, in spite of this, is very good. I hope to see him in more, and better, things.Aaliyah, may she rest in peace, easily captured her character and portrayed Akasha expertly.  Her early death has robbed Hollywood of an actress with potential.The lack of the story of the twins and the explanation of the Great Family, one of the main plots in the book, is reprehensible.  This part of the book explained Marius' role in the vampire hierarchy, as well as Maharet, Khayman, etc. value to the storyline.  It puts Jessie in a frame of reference.  Without it, her character has very little importance.On the same note, the omission of Mekare is just unfounded.  There was no reason whatsoever to cut her out.  Especially as she is essential to the end.The scenery, costumes, music, and all the behind-the-scenes type stuff was done well.  The sound of Lestat's rock group was excellent, very well done for the modernization of it.I thought that for a stand-alone, it doesn't function as well as IwtV did. Because of all the gaps in the story and lack of character development, I'm glad I've read the book to fill it in.All I'm going to say about the end is that it is completely wrong.  And while that worked for The Firm, not so well for this one.In the words of Capt. Blackadder from Blackadder Goes Forth  Well, it started badly, and it, it tailed off a little in the middle, and the less said about the end, the better.  But, but, apart from that, excellent.Well, maybe not excellent, but maybe you'll like it anyway.  Afterward, read the book.  But just a warning, after this book, AR goes absolutely barking, and she loses her focus.  But this book is just amazing, one of my favorites.  Make up your own mind. "},{"Title":"Fine Cast, Lousy Script, Bad Editing, Great Special Effects!","Date":"14 March 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Unless you have already read, as I have, each volume of the vampire chronicles written by Ann Rice, there is no way this movie makes any sense. It's a shame too because it's a fantastic cast that is totally wasted. Stuart Townsend (About Adam) one of the sexiest screen presences in many years, plays Lestat as if he were impersonating Larry Hagman doing J.R. Ewing. I suppose the reason for his performance is shame about accepting money for it. He looked as if he couldn't wait for this movie to wrap. Victor Perez, another fine actor with enormous sex appeal who was devastatingly touching and heroic in Indochine seems equally embarrassed to be in this turgid mess. The homo-erotic connection between Lestat and Marius in Rice's novel of the same name might have been powerfully kinetic in the hands of these two sexy actors, but this movie cares more about admittedly stunning special effects showing bodies self-immolating. Akasha's hand in that is explained in the novel but not here, nor is Jesse's fascination with Lestat ever explained, or the reason for the Talamasca or the importance of Maharet (played by the always wonderful Lena Olin). These are important recurring themes in Rice's vampire chronicles that drove the novel, Queen of the Damned.  Without them, the final coupling of Jesse and Lestat makes no sense at all or anything else, come to think of it. If Ann Rice was upset about Tom Cruise playing Lestat, I can't imagine what she thinks about this mess. "},{"Title":"Inconsistent","Date":"31 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Although i heard this movie was bad, i reserved my expectations until i had actually seen the film. I remember watching Interview with a Vampire, and loved it. Queen of the Damned is nothing Interview with a Vampire was... maybe instead of spending all of their budget on finding what teens today would like to see in a movie, they should have used it to get some talent, in all areas.  Stuart Townsend (Lestat) plays a awful vampire, given he has to live up to the extremely talented Tom Cruise, none-the-less, he can't even speak with a French accent which is one of the many inconsistencies of the movie.  Also inconsistent, is in Interview with a Vampire Lestat is searching for Louis (Brad Pitt), but in Queen of the Damned he has just awoken from his slumber of 100 years.But not to stick on inconsistencies, because this is Hollywood and no one expects perfection....Special Effects are at best sub par, the way the vampires move reminds me of the Matrix meets the Bionic Women, this is not a good thing.  Although there is a couple of cool moments, like when Akasha (Aaliyah) dies.  But once again there is just bad editing, when Akasha leaves the bar after she had killed everyone, there is a burning fire inside, and she just appears in the doorway, without having a shot of her approaching, when seen on film it looks terrible and in my opinion ruins the, what could have been cool, scene. And don't let me forget the obvious green screen shot of Lestat and Marius (Vincent Perez) on the billboard, that was atrocious.It seemed as though the creators were going for a PG-13 rating, because there is practically no foul language, and the sensuality? you can forget about that. Hey, i thought these vampires were supposed to be seductive?, there was no on screen chemistry,and the dialogue was absolutely horrid. Although there was some vampire violence its nothing to be proud of, nothing really made me gasp out loud, or say to myself oooooh, he did not just do that.  There wasn't any real gore, exempt from the decapitation, and the ripping heart. which were both not even as cool as they sound.The movie wasn't all bad. The sound in the movie was extremely well done, sound effects, and music were all top notch, despite having one of the stars die, before she could re-read her lines, to get better clarity. i heard her brother did all of her lines, and they mixed the two together to get what you hear on screen. Lighting was also grand, i can't remember a scene with bad lighting.Despite an attempt to appeal to me, a teenager, the movie falls way short. The fights are nothing new, the dialogue is pathetic, and the special effects do more harm then good.  I have no idea why they got stuart townsend to portray lestat, cause he couldn't act his way out of a 6th grade play. This gets a F in my book and thats generous... 3/10 stars "},{"Title":"Three Queens Trumps the Flush","Date":"19 November 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Some genres are cinematically pure somehow they fell or evolved into a form that leverages film in some special way. And the other way around -- they just couldn't exist without what film has to offer. The best example to my mind is the vampire film. The form is a lot of useless gabble with people moving about setting up situations, and then you have a few, very few, powerful images. Those images are what matters, all else is forgiven, actually forgotten. Those few moments matter.In the vampire genre, as with a few others, it is all about archetypes. These have to be clear, deep, singular. Sex, dreams, anxiety. Self, blood and death. Vampires in film are strongly self-referential the vampire is from another world and enters the world of the story as a performer, just like all the other actors enter the film. That world-with-the-film helps to clarify the archetypes. Its why `Shadow of the Vampire' is so powerful. Its why these vampires are in show business, as were Banderes' ones in `Interview.'Anne Rice's idea was to map these archetypes into soap opera stereotypes. She has had some success with this strategy in selling books. But in the film version of those books, the filmmakers went back to the original film-vampire vision. These characters are not real like she intended, somewhat like Stan Lee made Peter Parker. No, these are good, old fashioned, pure archetypes. And it works, at least for me. Not the skinny strutting males, but these glorious women. The filmmakers knew what they were doing. There is a bunch of to and fro to satisfy the fans of the books -- this stuff is absolutely dreadful, at the level of John Carpenter's excrescences. But the whole thing is built around clever powerful images of Jesse, Akasha, and Maharet. These are played by striking women to begin with.--Lena Olin has been a sexual sorceress before. Her roles  in `Unbearable Lightness,' and `Ninth Gate' stick in my mind and few actresses do. She has in fact herself built some of that film archetype that she fills here.--Aaliyah has the lithe, cool sensuality of the second of the three basic types. (These are from Carl Jung.) It depends on and exploits elements of race we would be better off without, but she does do it well. If she hadn't died, I suspect she would have faded anyway because there just isn't much call for this sort of thing. (Remember the similarly striking Jaye Davidson?)--The third type doesn't require much, just to be a reasonably attractive redhead. Why a redhead I do not know just now, but that's the way it is. Moreau did this type well enough in `Firestarter 2' and does so here satisfactorily. Alicia Witt might have been better.That last scene with the three keeps this out of the toilet for me.Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 4 Has some interesting elements.  "},{"Title":"Queen of the Damned","Date":"12 October 2010","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I had an idea of the concept, and I knew it was meant to be rubbish, but I also knew the actress playing the title character died during or after making it, so I had to see it. Basically vampire Lestat De Lioncourt (Stuart Townsend) is woken from his slumber by the sound of rock music, and he plans to be a success in the industry, with everyone knowing what he is. Jesse Reeves (Marguerite Moreau) is a journalist looking into the paranormal and obviously Lestat in particular, specifically his lyrics and past. The past reveals Marius De Romanus (Vincent Perez) was the vampire who made Lestat a vampire himself, and he disappeared years ago, but has come back to warn him that he should not be exposing himself. There is a point in the past when Lestat discovered a secret door leading to the statues of Queen Akasha (singer Aaliyah) and the King, and in the more recent days he bit her. This leads to her waking up, and gains her powers back by biting the neck of the King statue, and she is now on the rampage killing vampires at random until she finds Lestat. It all leads to Lestat's big selling concert performing his material, and Queen Akasha shows up to create chaos, oh, and Jesse finds out that she is the daughter of a vampire. In the end most of the vampires team together to drain Queen Akasha until she turns into fire and ash, and the new Queen becomes a statue, and everything is back to normal. Also starring Withnail and I's Paul McGann as David Talbot, Lena Olin as Maharet, Christian Manon as Mael, Claudia Black as Pandora and Bruce Spence as Khayman. It is tragedy that Aaliyah died in a plane crash not long after completing the film, but it is also tragedy that her final performance is pretty terrible. So she only looks good in her metal plated bra, the rest of the cast are terrible, the special effects look slightly cheap, and it isn't a scary horror at all, a waste of time. Pretty poor! "},{"Title":"It's an awesome movie.","Date":"15 August 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I am a huge Anne Rice fan, and whenever her books are turned into movies, I always look forward to seeing them in the theater.  I have to say that the movie doesn't reveal as much as the book, but it still kicks butt.  The soundtrack to go along with the movie was absolutely mind-blowing;it's such a cool soundtrack.  I can listen to the entire CD without skipping one song.  That tells me it's kick-ass. I loved the movie because of obviously the vampires, but also it's so dark and dramatic and intense and erotic and romantic in a way.  Taking everything into consideration, it's an incredible movie for anyone who is into vampires, hard rock, metal, Anne Rice, or action/horror films.  I recommend it to anybody who is in the mood for a thrill ride. "}{"Title":"I found the movie to be great!!!!!!","Date":"27 July 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  i loved the movie i can't wait until it comes on tape  i don't care what people say about it. i give it 2 thumbs up and aaliyah will be severely missed  rest in peace angel!!!! "},{"Title":"This is about how I liked the movie! Super cool!","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Hi I just want to say how much I loved that movie The Queen of the damned. I have the cd right now and that is the only cd in my player ever since it came out.  The music is so good. I know it by heart.  And the movie! I went 7 times to see it in the movies and now I'm just waiting for it to come out on DVD. I've been waiting forever it seems. I have always had a thing for vampires and I think I have seen almost every single one there is about them. But the Queen of the damned is cool. Not like the others.  It is different. Cool. Sexy! Totally my kind of a movie! Loved it! "},{"Title":"wounderful","Date":"7 June 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I may be a teen, but I know a good movie when I see one, and this was great! The people who don't like it probably don't understand it.But I understand it completely, so if you have any questions at all e-mail me  "},{"Title":"Anne Rice has done it again.  She is truly the master of dark fiction.","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  A movie I have eagerly awaited since the release of Interview with the vampire, and I was not in the least disappointed.  Stuart Townsend is fantastic in his role as Lestat, a perfect choice and exactly as every fan of the books would have imagined him.  He gives a much darker display than Tom Cruise did in Interview.  This movie will definitely be on my A-list for 2002.  "},{"Title":"Anne Rice should be ashamed of this movie","Date":"13 June 2006","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" ''Queen of the Damned '' is one of the worst adaptations of a book to a movie that I already saw. The only thing that I like in this movie is the soundtrack, anything else besides that.( Since I am a fan of Korn, Marilyn Manson, Chester Bennington of Linkin Park and Wayne Static of Static-X)There are so many mistakes and so many bad choices that I don't even know how to start. So many stories were cut, like the twin's legend (one of my favorite)Armand and Daniel's relationship and even Louis is not present, to mention a few.(The plot was dead) First, they should have made a movie of ''The Vampire Lestat'', because it is the second book after ''The interview with the vampire'',and not ''Queen of Damned''. They tried to squeeze in a single movie so many informations, that you finish not getting almost anything unless you read the vampire chronicles.So many meaningful characters doesn't seem to have a real importance in this movie. It is Pandora's case, for example.The actors that they choose to play all the characters doesn't match with many of Anne Rice's descriptions, specially Marius, that is suppose to be a beautiful,tall,imposing blond guy with blue eyes, like Lestat. (Stuart Towsend is also far from being like Lestat) I didn't understand why they changed Lestat's maker to be Marius instead of Magnus as well.''Interview with the vampire'' was an awesome movie, I loved the actors and Tom Cruise as Lestat was PERFECT and far superior then Stuart Townsend.(I am sad that Tom Cruise declined the chance of playing Lestat again) Only Antonio Bandeiras as Armand didn't match with Armand's looks, but anyway, far superior from this crap movie called '' The Queen of Damned''.Anne Rice was so picky about Interview that I didn't get how she just sold the rights for this terrible production. "},{"Title":"Loved it...","Date":"30 October 2004","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I for one loved the movie. For one, I am not a fan of Anne Rice at all. I saw 'Interview' and was so not impressed with Tom Cruise playing a vampire. He was totally unbelievable to me. I thought Stuart Townsend did an excellent job in his role as Lestat, washing away the distaste I had for Cruise in that role.I know a lot of hardcore Rice fans detested the movie and that's their opinion and this is mine. I loved the movie, the music was great and the cast was excellent! (Props to Vincet Perez as well for playing Marius and of course....to the late, great Aaliyah for her portrayal of the Queen.) My only complaint of the movie was that it should have been titled something other than 'Queen of the Damned' due to the fact that she was not in it for a considerable amount of time. "},{"Title":"Not great, but better than I expected","Date":"28 February 2005","Score":"13 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Once you get past all the Nu-metal music and MTV pop culture overload (which is really prevalent in the first half hour or so), this is actually a pretty good movie. Back in ancient Spain (I think) a guy named Lestat (Stuart Townsend) is bitten by a vampire named Marius (Vincent Perez), who then takes him under his wing and introduces him to the vampire lifestyle. He really likes the power and immortality at first, but grows cool on the idea when he figures out that he will be pretty much alone for eternity. While sneaking around Marius' castle one evening, Lestat comes across a secret room where he finds two statues, the king and queen of all vampires. The queen's statue (Akasha, played by Aaliyah) comes partially to life, and Lestat drinks a bit of her blood and gains a bit more power, and perhaps a lot more attitude than he had previously. This increased amount of arrogance comes to fruition hundreds of years later (fast forward to the present), as Lestat is a Nu-metal rock star and has publicly stated that vampires are among us. The rest of the vampires get mad, Akasha comes back to life, they kill off all the vampires that oppose them, then Akasha offers Lestat the opportunity to be her king and rule over the world with her.There's also a subplot about some girl who was raised by vampires but wasn't one herself, who was sent away to live among the mortals but who always wanted to be a vampire, and she hangs around at a vampire bar and eventually comes back to the vampires who raised her just in time for the big showdown. Overall that whole subplot seemed like a distraction more than anything else.This movie has a lot of cool stuff in it. In ancient times, Lestat was a violin player, and when he finds the statues of the vampires, instead of being fearful he cheerfully asks them if they'd like to hear some music. It's scenes like that which make this a good movie. I'd say the acting is very good overall, as Lestat is quite a fascinating character in old Spain, though he turns into a complete clich when he's a Nu-metal star. Aaliyah does an excellent job as the queen of the vampires, totally unsympathetic to humans, vampires, and pretty much anything else. It's the way the character needs to be, and she pulls if off very well. Looks very good doing it too!The biggest problem is all the MTV pop culture stuff. This movie is going to seem incredibly dated in 10 or 20 years. But Lestat's violin playing makes up for it. Some of the dialog and action sequences are supremely corny and very B-movie in attitude, but it doesn't drag the movie down too badly. It could have been great, but it turned out pretty good. "},{"Title":"Fun for the casual viewer","Date":"14 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" It says on the front cover of the DVD of 'Queen of the Damned' that it is the sequel to 'Interview With a Vampire' &#x96; you remember that &#x96; the smash hit movie, starring Tom Cruise and Brad Pitt. Everyone loved that. It was a hit! Unfortunately, 'Queen of the Damned' is only a sequel as it's using some of the same characters (characters, not actors &#x96; there's a difference) and set in the same universe, so to speak. Basically, it's not really a sequel. It's another vampire story written by Anne Rice following some of the characters who you might have seen before. Don't expect to see Tom or Brad in this one.However, just because it doesn't really follow on, doesn't make it a bad thing &#x96; a disjointed thing, but not a bad thing. But, in some ways, it's not really the film's fault. It's about a vampire who has got disillusioned with drinking people's blood over the centuries and has gone to sleep for hundreds of years. Now he's woken in the modern age and decided to 'out' all the other vampires and their blood-sucking ways. It goes without saying that the rest of the vamps don't take kindly to his outspoken ways and decide to take him out. So where does the Queen come into it? She doesn't. That much. Unfortunately she's only in it for two scenes because the young actress playing her tragically died while the film was being made, leaving the story lacking what should have been a big part of its central element.Plus it doesn't really do the book justice. I haven't read the book. I'm one of the many who just watches the film, but I've generally browsed through enough internet message boards to realise that a lot of die-hard fans of the source material didn't appreciate the transition to film.So, it's got its fair amount of negative points. And yet it's actually quite good. Not great, but somehow highly watchable (if you're into vampires in general). It should all be quite campy and yet Stuart Townsend plays the lead vamp pretty well and is actually fun to watch. Aaliyah, for the few scenes she's in, sizzles as the Queen of the undead. It would have been pretty good if she'd have been able to show what she can do all the way through the film.It's probably not a film you're going to want to see again and again, but if you're not totally bored with vampires after binge-watching box sets of 'True Blood' then take a look at vampires rocking out on stage and fighting each other in the chorus. "},{"Title":"Best movie !","Date":"8 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I see this movie 7 times. Is the best movie !!! Is the best movie !!!Is the best movie !!!Is the best movie !!!Is the best movie !!!Is the best movie !!!Is the best movie !!!Is the best movie !!!Is the best movie !!!Is the best movie !!!Is the best movie !!!Is the best movie !!!Is the best movie !!!Is the best movie !!!Is the best movie !!!Is the best movie !!!Is the best movie !!!Is the best movie !!!Is the best movie !!!Is the best movie !!!Is the best movie !!!Is the best movie !!!Is the best movie !!!Is the best movie !!!Is the best movie !!!Is the best movie !!!Is the best movie !!!Is the best movie !!!Is the best movie !!!Is the best movie !!!Is the best movie !!!Is the best movie !!!Is the best movie !!!Is the best movie !!!Is the best movie !!!Is the best movie !!!Is the best movie !!!Is the best movie !!!Is the best movie !!! "},{"Title":"They killed Rice's books!","Date":"30 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This film tried to be an adaptation of two Anne Rice's books that portrayed the life of Lestat, the vampire. Thus, the film shows his birth to the world of vampires and his connection with the vampire queen Akasha, who awakens from a secular sleep.It is, in theory, the continuation of the movie Interview with the Vampire, although there is no connection between these two productions (remember that Tom Cruise and Brad Pitt starred in these film, which was a huge success). So, who expects Queen of the Damned will also be great is going to have a big disappointment. In fact, it's the worst vampire movies I've ever seen, sacrificing the dramatic and psychological depth of the characters in favor of a pop-rock approach of the vampire world, which seems to have been thought to sell the film to the teen audiences and not to make it better.Directed by Michael Rymer, this film has an unfortunate and shameful script by Scott Abbott and stars the singer Aaliyah (deceased shortly after the shootings) and Stuart Townsend in the lead roles. Despite this stars, the film goes from the grotesque to the comic, depicting the teenagers like a bunch of mentally retarded with serious identity affirmation problems. Ah, of course if you read Rice's books, forget them. This movie failed to portray the books or his essence. Basically, it's a different story whit characters with the same names of the Rice's books. A shame, a tragedy the great victim of this film's vampires was Anne Rice's stories. "}{"Title":"I Kinda/Sorta Liked It...","Date":"19 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A discussion recently about the 1994 Neil Jordan film, based on the Anne Rice novel, Interview With The Vampire, led me to this 2002 film I just finished up off HBO GO. Stuart Townsend, by far inferior to Tom Cruise's Lestat in Interview stars, with the vampire awakening out of years of seclusion, and decides to come out of the closet and become a rock star! I thought about this- and for today's audiences, with David Blaine and everybody, I honestly don't think they'd really notice all the vampire stuff- I think they would just think it's just one big special effect- Oh, yeah, HE's a vampire- surrrrre. LOL The late Aaliyah is really hot as the queen of the vampires, who decides she wants Lestat all to herself (I feel bad about thinking of the dead like this- but kept hoping she would take her clothes off at some point- ?? ( ), and that actress I recently saw on Wet Hot American Summer (also on the US version of Shameless), Margeurite Moreau- absolutely BEAUUUU-tiful!!All in all, I'm a bit on the fence on this movie. I think if you go into this expecting the great film Neil Jordan made in '94 with Cruise and Brad Pitt, etc.. you'll be sorely disappointed, but if you go into this just on it's own merit, it's not too bad. That being said, at times I was thinking that the acting was kinda lousy- or at least, a tad over the top-?? Lena Olin (also pretty hot for an old lady) also stars. "},{"Title":"What A Great Horror Movie!.","Date":"16 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Queen of the Damned is a 2002 vampire horror film and a loose adaptation of the third novel of Anne Rice's The Vampire Chronicles series, The Queen of the Damned, although the film contains many plot elements from the latter novel's predecessor, The Vampire Lestat. It stars Aaliyah as the vampire queen Akasha, and Stuart Townsend as the vampire Lestat. Queen of the Damned was released six months after Aaliyah's death and is dedicated to her memory.Vampire Lestat is awakened from decades of slumber by the sound of a heavy metal band which he proceeds to take over as the lead singer. Achieving international success and planning a massive live concert, Lestat is approached by Marius, and warned that the vampires of the world will not tolerate his flamboyant public profile.Jesse Reeves, a researcher for the paranormal studies group Talamasca, is intrigued by Lestat's lyrics and tells the rest of the group her theory that he really is a vampire. Her mentor, David Talbot, takes her aside and tells her they know he is and that a vampire called Marius made him. He also shows her Lestat's journal that he recovered and is now in the Talamasca library. In a flashback to his origins, Lestat recalls how he awoke Akasha, the first vampire, with his music. Jesse tracks him down to a London vampire club where he saves and confronts her. She later goes to Los Angeles for the concert and gives him back his journal. The two spend some time together and Lestat shows her both the horrors and the perks of being a vampire. Showing him that she's not scared of him Jesse stays with Lestat as she sees how lonely and miserable he is. She asks him to turn her as she reveals that it's her dream to be a vampire, but he refuses as he won't do it to her. The more time they spend together, the closer they become and soon Lestat and Jesse start to fall in love. Meanwhile Akasha is awakened by Lestat's new music. She arrives and torches the club, and all the vampires inside, who want Lestat dead.At the concert in Death Valley, a mob of vampires attack Lestat and Marius. Akasha bursts through the stage and takes Lestat with her as her new King. The two vampires then proceed to have a sort of sexual intercourse in Akasha's home where they mutually feed on one another. During which time Lestat becomes spellbound by Akasha and is forced to obey her. Empowered by Akasha's blood, Lestat and the Queen confront the Ancient Vampires at the home of Maharet, Jesse's aunt, who is an Ancient Vampire. The Ancient Vampires were planning to kill Akasha, to save the human world from demise. Akasha then commands Lestat to kill Jesse as The Queen sees her both as an enemy and as food as she is Maharet's mortal niece and Maharet is a big enemy of Akasha's. Queen Akasha also wanted to make an example out of Jesse because Jesse dared to stand-up to her and to put fear into the other vampires. Lestat ostensibly obeys the Queen, but afterwards he quickly comes to his senses and is released from her power. He then very angrily turns and begins to drain Akasha's blood with the help of the Ancients. Mael and Pandora are killed by Akasha's power. Armand is almost killed, but is saved as The Queen's powers diminish. Maharet is the last to drink Akasha's blood, and thereby ends up becoming a marble statue. Maharet then becomes the new Queen Of the Damned.Lestat then turns and walks to where Jesse is lying lifeless, and cradling her in his arms, gives her his blood, turning her into a vampire. Jesse, now a vampire, and Lestat then return the journal to the Talamasca, and walk away, among mortals, into the night. As they exit it is shown that they are now a couple and hold hands while Marius enters the Talamasca. The film closes with a scene of David reading the journal as Marius's voice catches his attention, cheerfully saying, Hello, David. "},{"Title":"It's only loosely true to the books but forgive it that and it's not at all bad!","Date":"28 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The low score on here is not from a majority of 5/10 scores given by viewers after watching a borderline bad movie but much more a reflection of how passionately Anne Rice fans feel about somebody altering the content of their beloved Vampire Chronicles. This is no relation to Interview with a Vampire which was closely based on the book. Queen of the Damned is only loosely based on the original and there are some significant changes to the story and certain characters, even to the extreme of characters being left out completely.I myself am a huge fan of the books, but am also realistic enough to accept that the books contain such detail that they do not lend themselves easily to screen, except perhaps in the form of a film series such as The Lord of the Rings. So, as a stand alone vampire movie that is heavily influenced by the book, any grievances can be left outside.The film's story (spoilers!) in brief then, tells us about Lestat (Stuart Townsend), who has been at rest for decades but stimulated by the sounds of the time he rises, soon becoming the front-man of a successful metal band. Publicly admitting that he is a vampire and revealing vampire secrets within his lyrics soon draws the attention of the authorities, both of the living and the un-dead. It even wakes up the original vampire Akasha (Aaliyah), a very different creature to the rest of them, with near god like powers and an insatiable blood lust.We learn of Lestat's past life and of his creator Marius (Vincent Perez). We also meet a few of the other Ancients, namely Maharet, as the aunt of another main character, the Talamaskan Jesse who develops a fascination with Lestat. Jesse is the link the ancients have to the living but she soon becomes caught in the middle of the action.Marius therefore is a change from the book where he is not Lestat's creator, and the changes don't end there, however he is a compelling character and is well played by Perez. The plot is far from complex and has holes, but then it was never intended on being taken too seriously. Accept it for what it is and not what it isn't. It is not an accurate adaptation of the book to film, but as a stand-alone vampire movie inspired by it, what's left is a decent and entertaining vampire movie.The soundtrack of the movie is from Jonathan Davis of Korn, and other famous names from the industry including Maralyn Manson feature so the movie gives a very credible musical contribution from what is ultimately a fictitious rock band. This aspect is worth consideration after all, as if it had not been good, this film could have stunk! "},{"Title":"Better Than Expected Less Than Hoped For","Date":"11 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" First off let me say that I have never read either of the books that this movie was inspired by. In fact Memnoch The Devil is the only Anne Rice Book that I've ever read. However, after watching Queen of the Damned for the first time now, nearly 12 years after is release, I am intrigued by it's premise and will make time to go back and read both books. As for the movie, it is a middling affair. There are many positives, among them are Stuart Townsend's portrayal of Lestat, Aaliyah as Akasha, fantastic songs written specifically for the movie and a few stylistic flourishes here and there. I absolutely bought in to Lestat's hard rock persona. On a lesser note I couldn't help but make involuntary comparisons to Interview with a Vampire. Needless to say THAT is a better movie. Yet this movie could have been much closer in quality had some more elaborate choices been made in regards to special effects, a moodier screenplay and a greater focus on detail in general. There is absolutely zero tension or suspense in this film in thanks partially to it's metal music overload. I like the songs yet I feel that the dramatic scenes would have been better served with a more brooding or sinister soundtrack. Also, the climax was a bit rushed or underwhelming or trivialized. Not bad though. "},{"Title":"If you think it's silly, read the book first","Date":"24 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  As a response to Theo's comment about this movie being silly, maybe but to REALLY understand it you have to read the book, Interview with a Vampire, The Vampire Lestat and Queen of the Damned. It will open your eyes to the silliness. Trust me )...unless your already set and closed your mind to the whole idea... "},{"Title":"approach this queen with caution!","Date":"9 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This queen was originally damned to to straight to video if it wasn't for the untimely demise of RnB singer Aaliyah, who gives a decent performance here as the murderous vampire queen Akasha. As a supposed follow-up to the hugely successful Interview with a Vampire this movie fails on all levels. Anne Rice devotees are in for a major disappointment.The adaptation is weak, the budget low and the overall production leaves a lot to be desired, which is perhaps the reason why none of the a-list actors from the 1st movie (Tom Cruise, Brad Pitt, Kirsten Dunst) decided to show up in this flick.If you forget about the comparison to the brilliant Interview with a Vampire and the original novel than this movie can pass as a mediocre 'vampire-turns-rock-star-teenage-goth-movie' that will appeal to the same audience as Buffy The Vampire Slayer or Charmed.2/5points. "},{"Title":"a creative story","Date":"6 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  all though many ppl did not enjoy this movie i did enjoy it very much i thought that the story for it was very good b/c it looked at vampires in a diffrent point of view as having a feeling of lonliness which i liked and is isnt brought out in many movies the only other i know of is interview with a vampire which was written by the same person the acting also int his movie isnt half bad stuart townsend does a very good part as lestat the only thing i did not like about the movie is that it felt as if it was missing something but i cant ever figure it out no matter how many times i watch it "},{"Title":"hmmmm","Date":"1 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  yes, thestory is a little interesting,and dont deny it, but why is aaliyah billed as the lead?  she didnt appear until about 40 minutes into the film and lasted for about a half hour!  i was a little dissappointed. i saw the deleted scenes at the end and one that i feel should have remained was the meeting of ancient vampires ( it gives alot more detail as to their mission and reason for even apperaing on Queen of the Damned) although aaliyah did complete filming before her untimely death, i feel it could have been more worth her while.  What was the director thinking!! "},{"Title":"if you love Anne Rice's book, don't see it!","Date":"27 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I am a huge fun of Anne Rice's books. When I found out they made a movie about one of my favorite books, i couldn't wait to see it!Poor me! I couldn't believe my eyes! Lestat transforming Jessie? Marius (by the way he is supposed to be blond with long hair!!) jumping on the scene and killing vampires? Marius making Lestat a vampire? And so on!Why do they bother to make a movie after a book, when they don't respect its course?If you forget about the book and just watch the movie then you will find out an average movie. Another movie about blood sucking vampires!My advice, don't see it if you want to read Anne Rice's book! Read the book. It's beyond compare!  "},{"Title":"Boring vampire movie.","Date":"14 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I never thought I'd say this but I was bored during a vampire movie. I love them, they're scary and funny sometimes. But QUEEN OF THE DAMNED is just long and boring. Aallyah was in it for about 15 minutes...waste! The kill factor was low, I thought Lestat like to kill lots of people a night. The movie also took a bad tole on reality. Who knew after rising from a hundred year rest in a cascate, you could instantly become a rockstar? If I was a vampire I would have a very dry throat and couldn't even talk. DAMNED is just another excuse for seeing people get their necks bitten, their blood sucked, and then turned into vampires--and its all too boring. Don't waste your money. My Take 4/10 My MPAA rating PG-13 for some vampire violence and brief sexuality. "}{"Title":"Where Do I Begin","Date":"28 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I've just finished watching this on DVD. And.......As a 21st Century vampire movie, Queen of The Damned, isn't bad. Despite its plot flaws, it's visually appealing and has an awesome soundtrack. (Not really my preferred type of music, but I do appreciate some of it. And the music was very fitting for the film and Lestat character.) Chock full of special effects, the roles were well cast (for Gen. Y'ers to whom the movie appears to be directed) and performed.....for a vampire flick.Just not an Anne Rice Vampire flick.Granted it's been a few years since I've read Rice's Queen of the Damned (a book I adored btw), but this movie bore no resemblence to the novel whatsoever. Why on earth it bears the novel's title, I have no clue. Aaliyah's Akasha appears in only...maybe...15 mins of the entire film. The rest is a rather disjointed mess (relative to the novel) and runs like an overly long music video. (Why is Pandora---a former Roman noblewoman---walking around in an Indian Sari?!??!!?)The DVD's special features section has about 10 deleted scenes, which in my opinion, the producers should have left in the movie. That way, the movie would have made a heck of a lot more sense and we would know who the hell is who.  Other than Lestat, no one else is recognizable. And Lestat only because his name is repeated over and over and over and over again.Though Stuart Townsend makes an appealing and sexy disaffected and rebellious vampire turned rock star, Lestat he is not. His portrayal (more a flaw of the writers than his acting, I think) shows none of the maturity, cunning, nor charm Lestat should have had after a few hundred years of existence. This is particularly true given the Lestat character Tom Cruise played in Interview with A Vampire and given that the events of that movie took place long before those of this one. (Please note that Cruise wouldn't have been my choice for Lestat either, but in the end the character he turned out was well done.)I found Akasha's shimmying around annoying.  If its purpose was the emphasize the Queen's etherealness, it failed.  She comes off looking more like a second-rate backup dancer/groupie than Queen of all that is unholy. Again, this is not the fault of the actress, but one of the writers and director. However, I did get the impression that Aaliyah's portrayal would have been much better had they given her more to do than shimmy around.Vincent Perez's Marius was one of the more all-around appealing characters, if inconsistant. Of indeterminate sexuality, the character of Marius displays at times his loneliness and disenchantment, yet a certain mischievousness (sp?), as he should be. The inconsistency comes in the fact that he's never really one or the other in the same scene. His personality seems to shift for no reason. Yet another fault of the writers.The Jesse character was well-played by the actress (sorry, I forget her name). And the love story between her and Lestat was fitting for **this** version of ***a*** vampire movie.  Tho, she kind of made me feel, will someone please slap her. But since, I can't remember the character from the book at all, I don't know if that was intentional or not.As for the other characters, there wasn't enough of them on screen to really offer an opinion.In sum, if you want to see a visually appealing vampire movie for the new millenium, rent Queen of the Damned. If you're expecting any resemblance to Anne Rice's books and their characters stay far, far away. "},{"Title":"** out of 10","Date":"23 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The Vampire Lestat (as most of you might know from Interview with a Vampire) is back, not in the shape of Tom Cruise but Stuart Townsend.And that is the problem throughout the entire movie. But first things first..Lestat awakes from a long slumber, by the sound of Heavy Metal. Realising the power in the music he decides to take over a band, and becomes the leader of heavy metal act Lestat. Provoking both humans and foremost fellow Vampires. Now to get back to the problem of the movie the casting. This movie is a perfect example of what happens when the wrong people is casted. Stuart Townsend as Lestat is terrible, ugly and as sensual as a toilet-seat. Aaliyah is not much better as the Vampire-queen. And the list goes on and on.. This movie should be shown in school as a perfect example of terrible casting!! "},{"Title":"A Horrid Movie...","Date":"20 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie must be one of the worst movies ever to be made.  Not only is the acting horrid, the writing, the plot, the shots, the clothes, etc. were all terrible.  Anyone who has seen this movie is now immature at least 3 years of their life from being stupified.  Now I am a Horror movie fanatic and I love the whole vampire thing, but this movie just sucks.  1 out of 10 for effort. "},{"Title":"Lestat portrayal","Date":"13 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I was extremely disappointed when I found out Stuart Townsend was reprising the role as Lestat that Tom Cruise started in Interview with the Vampire. I mean I understand they couldn't get the same actor, but in the novel Ann Rice wrote she described Lestat as fair skinned and yellow hair, they could have atleast dyed his hair. Stuart Townsend does not come close to being the character Anne Rice described. "},{"Title":"a lot of fun....","Date":"30 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie is really a disappointment for any Anne Rice fan, or anyone who expected a good scary movie when they saw all the advertisements. Beware, they are misleading.The most disappointing part was the way they excluded the main characters and then wrapped up the whole thing fairly quickly. Aaliyah didn't get much screen time which is a shame, but she was a very convincing queen of the damned. Her movements were fluid and her voice seemed perfect, kind of chilling. Stuart Townsend was a good Lestat, his performance was convincing. This movie probably is not really worth bothering with and a waste of time except (oddly enough) I wouldn't mind seeing it a few more times.It's a lot of fun to watch...the plot doesn't matter that much with the music...I don't know why but I loved the music and when Lestat became a rockstar...the best part in the whole movie was the rock concert, and all the special effects really liven up the film.So if you aren't really in the mood to be scared, but just to enjoy yourself and watch a (kind of) okay movie that Queen of the Damned is perfect.If I wanted to be realistic it probably only deserves * out of ***** but I give it **** "},{"Title":"Could Have Been MUCH Better","Date":"27 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Ok...it certainly won't be confused with Interview With A Vampire... but it's not ALL bad! The sorry thing is it could've been SO much better. They really needed Anne Rice to rewrite the screenplay. Aaliyah was surprisingly effective in her too-short role. Unfortunately, Lestat was done pretty poorly. I don't really care for Tom Cruise (in ANY movie) but even he would've been an improvement. Lena Olin is a fine actress and she was wasted in this movie. As was Claudia Black in a nothing role. I guess the main problem wasn't the actors but the story itself. Too bad... could've been so much better... "},{"Title":"Too far from the book, too far from the first movie","Date":"25 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  'Queen of the Damned' is a mix of the books 'Lestat the Vampire' and 'Queen of the Damned', specially the second, by Anne Rice. They are two very long books that the screenwriters of this movie have left in only 98 minutes of movie. Of course, to do this they've had to cut much of the story, but the truth is that they've made it so bad that they've made this movie to be ridiculous. There are many changes from the books, some of them very important, like the vampiric origin of Lestat. The character of the Queen has no sense. She doesn't speak too much and we don't know which are their reasons to act like that. Very important characters as Louis, Brad Pitt in the first movie, aren't in this movie (although they were in the book). If you've read the books, you'll see that you have to read the end credits to know who are some of the vampires.But not everything is bad in this movie. They've made a great work with the music, giving Lestat his own videoclips and great performances in the concert. Unfortunately, the script is so bad that buying the music CD is like buying the 80% of interest things in this movie.Too far from 'Interview with the vampire'. In fact, this is not a second part of that movie, because there are some things that don't connect well the two movies. But, as I said, what can you wait when Armand, Daniel or the same Louis have been removed from the movie? "},{"Title":"Good Soundtrack but...uh...that's it.","Date":"17 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A major disappointment on all fronts. The soundtrack, provided by, Korn front man Jonathan Davis, is not bad at all it's just a shame I can't say the same about the film. This routine vampire flick, dogged by pedestrian acting and un-charismatic characters (which is a major problem given that Lestat is meant to be a rock star!) is pretty average. And married with Stuart Townsend's wooden acting is some laughably bad dialogue. Ascetically, it comes off like a big budget tele-movie. Do yourself a favour and rent 'Near Dark' instead.NOTE You know a film's in trouble when the author of the book (Ann Rice) offers to help with writing the and they turn her down. "},{"Title":"the shame ...the shame..","Date":"16 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  oh mi god!! ..what can i say.. i actually have enjoyed many of Anne Rice's vampire chronicle books and liked a lot of interview with the vampiremovie.. but the shame i felt when me and my girlfriend where watching this movie was excruciating(i actually wanted to see this movie..the fool!!).. the only thing supernatural in this film is how come no one told to the makers just to please stop the production ,because there are no reasons for you or anyone else to watch this horrible peace of scheisse!!!!!!!consider yourself warned. "},{"Title":"Amazing! The soundtrack, I mean...","Date":"16 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This awful movie has one of the best soundtracks ever. Of course, if you don't like Korn (or that sort of music) you might find it awful too. Davis' songs are so cool it's a shame they have to be connected to this film.Fun fact What drove me to watch this was the aforementioned soundtrack. I hadn't seen Interview with the vampire, so I presumed that in order to understand Queen... I should see the previous one. I felt it like I was doing homework in a way, so I approached the movie without high expectations and, what do you know, I really liked it. Then it was time to watch Queen... and, well, this just plain stinks.There's no reason to see this film, just buy the soundtrack.  "}{"Title":"Queen of the Dumb","Date":"4 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Absolutely no plot to get in the way of the story.  You would think that a vampire mother from the beginning of time might have something interesting to say, but nooooooo.  When she says That's enough Lestat she sounded like an inner city grade school teacher.Don't look for character motivations here, this movie works at about the level of your local tractor pull competition.  And this vampires are sooo cool business is tiresome.  Bouncy and tittery groupies (as well as our hapless heroine) line up to be fanged, no doubt to p*** of their parents. Whatever.The worst episode of Buffy the Vampire Slayer on TV is better than this movie. "},{"Title":"Way wrong","Date":"1 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The people who made this movie should have read the books! They did a horrible job of telling the stories.  They totally forgot the fact that both Lestat and Morius are blond haired and blue eyed.  Morius did NOT make Lestat! And the violine was from Nicolas not a gypsy.  Over all the movie did a poor job of the book, however it was a nice try.  If you've read the book you'll notice but if you haven't then you might enjoy it... "},{"Title":"over before it really starts","Date":"19 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I was reading the book when i found out they made a movie from it and I thought 'how'? but they chopped it to bits, twisted everything and got away with it. I think 'tale of the body thief' would make a better movie. So i watched it and got into the story and was really enjoying it but the darn movie was over a good 20-30 minutes before i expected it -( on the plus i thought lestat was played very well. 5/10 poor ending "},{"Title":"the damned - cameo by the queen","Date":"17 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  hilariously, this movie called 'queen of the damned', with aaliyah's character featured prominently in the promotion & packaging only gives aaliyah's character 10 minutes of screen time in an 1hr 40 minute movie.that would be like calling 'the mummy 2' 'the scorpion king'.oh, wait, they actually put the title character in the whole movie when they made 'the scorpion king'.the 'movie' itself is nothing more than a superlong music video for the soundtrack, with tiny bits of 'plot' (given that it was taken from 2, count 'em, 2 books, the lack of plot in this movie is astounding) inserted.fans of the novels will probably hate it. average movie-goers will probably hate it. fans of the soundtrack artists might like it (if they understand that it's music videos & not a movie).if you want a vampire movie, check out blade ii, john carpenter's vampires, or shadow of the vampire. "},{"Title":"Watch Interview with a Vampire, trust me!","Date":"17 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This was not a good movie. For one thing Tom Cruise was a lot better as Lestat than Stuart is. The movie had flashy scenes an lots of good colors, but I still wasn't that great. Aaliyah wasn't in the movie that much. It just could have been better than what it turned out to be. The music was all right I guess, I'm not much for heavy music. It didn't have the dark creepiness that Interview had. But I guess I recommend this movie to anyone who loves Ann Rice movies, or a vampire movie. Just to tell all you guys out here, interview with a Vampire was twenty times better than this garbage. "},{"Title":"Considerably better than I expected.","Date":"6 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Considerably better than I expected.Aaliyah was fantastic, perfect for the part. And it is sad she is gone. Townsend was not a good Lestat, so I cannot envision a sequel.It was far too much of the books to cover in such a short time, and strayed a bit from the stories, but fun to watch. Not Interview, but neither was the book.I wonder if someone who hasn't read the books can enjoy it though, other than as a Vampire movie?I was surprised at Townsend being in the part, after the rumors of his and Tom Cruise's romance I would have thought they'd have avoided him. "},{"Title":"better than Interview-- still NOT up to snuff","Date":"1 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  At least we dont have to sit through 2 hours of Tom Cruise and that annoying 10 yr old Kirsten Dunce.  Stuart Townsend is okay as Lestat (anyone else get Crow-like Brandon Lee vibes besides me?).  I know I'll probably draw a lot of flack for this (especially after what happened to her), but I don't think Aaliyah was very convincing as Akasha.  She's a fine actress-- i like her in Romeo must die-- but here I just didn't get the POWER feeling from her as I did from Akasha while reading the book. The movie actually suffers (IMHO) for deleted the scenes that are available on the DVD.  They provided substance lacking from the editted release. I realize no production of these novels will satisfy everyone, but lets hope Rices The Mummy will provide better fare. 6.5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Could have been MUCH MUCH better, if they had followed the books","Date":"27 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" First of all, this movie shouldn't have been called Queen of the Damned. Nor Vampire Lestat. People who have read the books will probably be disappointed. I was, and it even was painful to watch this movie. They mixed the books, and sliced them at will, removing important parts of the plot, removing really important characters, and changing others.Next few lines might be considered SPOILERS, so be warnedSPOILER WARNINGSPOILER WARNINGSPOILER WARNINGThey even removed the twins' story, and even one of them, changing their importance and the ending in the meantime. Other vampire characters are removed, like Louis, and the ones that do get shown can't even be recognized (Pandora, for instance, says two words in the whole movie, and I read in another post that Armand was in the movie, although I have no clue about who he was). The story about the Family was also removed, it was only mentioned near the ending. There are many other things that were changed, but I'll keep the list short.What's the point in making a movie about a book, if you're going to change most of it? Running time is not an excuse, it could have been a bit longer (it wasn't too long).  "},{"Title":"Oh well never mind","Date":"26 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I have watched almost every Vampire film there is  and have my favourites. This one took the cake, a bit of an insult to vampire films. It took a great idea and tried to make it like Blade but failed miserably, the idea had merit but was slow in its build up and then a drop inthe climax with no real battle as such. Would not recommend you even get this one out, get Bladeinstead, even if you have already seen it, it will leave you more satisfied with the 'taste for blood' vampire film Rate this a 3/10 - poor performance  "},{"Title":"If you read and liked the book, don't see the movie","Date":"25 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I went into this with high hopes.  I had seen what had been done with Interview with the Vampire, and told myself that if someone had managed to do such a great job with that complicated -yet excellent- book, then Queen of the Damned should be even better.  Boy, was I wrong.  The basic plot of the movie somewhat resembles that of the book, but some crucial parts were left out of it.  Where was all the history of the vampires, as recounted by Khayman, which constitutes a significant part of the book?  And what about Akasha's sinister plan of killing all but one male out of every hundred, to let women rule the world?  There were so many other discrepancies (which vampire really made which?), and they made this movie thoroughly unpleasant, being able to point them out as I was through my love of Anne Rice's novels. Although, if you really have no idea of the story and are into gothic vampires, than this movie is for you.  Now, this movie does have its strong points, such as Stuart Townsend, who does a wonderful job bringing Lestat to life, and the soundtrack of the film, very good if you like that sort of new-rock music.  All in all, I give it a 4 out of 10.  "}{"Title":"Not bad","Date":"4 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I have read loads of reviews on this film, and have had mixed responses to them.  I have never read Anne Rice's books, therefore, this film had nothing to live up to, except Interview With A Vampire. About 30 seconds into the film, I realised that comparing this film to Interview... was pointless, they are obviously two very separate interpretations of one author's work. Interview with a Vampire was a stylish take on vampire movies, this is the same-old-same-old.  The one thing that made the film thoroughly enjoyable was Stuart Townsend, not for his acting, but because of his uncanny resemblance to Brandon Lee in The Crow.  That and the fact that his French accent kept slipping and his Irish accent showed.  I have a thing for both Brandon Lee and the Irish accent.  I can't imagine the same holds true for every viewer, so I'll move on. Aaliyah.  Hrmm.  Ok.  I think she probably did the best she could with what she was given, but to be honest, I wasn't impressed.  (I'm just a lowly British nobody who got a D in GCSE drama, so I'm well aware that Aaliyah was far more talented that I could ever hope to be, so let's not get upset about what I have to say). Marguerite Moreau was enjoyable, but I couldn't get past the fact that she was in all three Mighty Ducks films and kept expecting her to ice skate and start quacking.  This isn't QotD's fault, this is my brain's inability to move on. To sum up rent it on DVD (the extras are great, a bad film can be saved by the amount of extras on the disc) if you're not an Anne Rice fan, you'll probably (given the reviews on this board) enjoy it, providing you've never read the books.  I liked this film, but then, I'm easily impressed by men wearing leather trousers, so I'm probably not the most reliable source. "},{"Title":"SO DAMN BORING","Date":"25 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I don't understand why Aaliyah accept to play a part in this BORING movie????? Akansha fall in love with Lestat even though she never knew him (he only drink her blood once and that was a century ago), Lestat after a long time sleep and then he awaken, became a rock star....all of this got me confused...... Let's think back in 1994, Interview With The Vampire, Lestat was played by Tom Cruise, I think he is the only actor who can really played this sexy, stylish, and unbeatable Lestat. Stuart Townsend is kinda good too but if we compare him with Tom Cruise, he need to worked more harder to became a biggest actor. One more thing that I need to point out is the movie's title is about Queen Of The Damned but the movie is talking about Lestat and Jesse, Akansha only played in the last 15 - 20 min....??????? I think this is a worse movie ever, don't waste your moneyy...... "},{"Title":"Kept wondering when Aaliyah was going to show herself.","Date":"20 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  (Spoilers)I understand the hoopla surrounding Aaliyah's last movie.  But I think much of it is overkill.  Since she only has about 15 minutes of showtime in the 105 minutes given.  It's of course mostly about Lestat and his new girl.  Aaliyah's character is a total flake.  We don't even get her true voice in this movie.  Another point, if you liked Interview with a Vampire  (I didn't when I watched it, but that was 94, now 8 years later maybe I've changed) you probably won't see much connection between the two movies.  In the first movie I came to hate Lestat.  In it's sequel, he's supposed to be the hero. That and now it's about Vampires who grew up watching The Crow.  Even Vincent Perez (Crow 2) is in it.  What can I say?  Unoriginal?Watching Aaliyah's character get hers was pretty much totally lame.  No tension whatsoever.  Boring?  (Anyone screaming in the theater needs a head check)The casting of Lestat was totally off base.  To go from Tom Cruise to this nut?  Couldn't they of picked someone a little older?  A 200 year sleep certainly can't make a vampire look younger can it?Still, this movie beside itself is better than a few vampire movies I know.  (John Carpenters Vampires for one)5/10Quality 5/10 Entertainment 5/10 Replayable 6/10 "},{"Title":"Not good.","Date":"21 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie is not good.I read almost vampire chronicles, so I could understand the story and secrets and reasons of characters. If you didn't read novell books, you never understand this movie. I recommand if you are not a fan of Vampire chronicles, do not watch this movie.So many tails are cut. I couldn't accept the fact that script of this movie made by Ann Rice. Yes, original novell is really long and complex story. It never couldn't be as 2-hour movie. But is that a really impossible?In other view, this movie can be some cool vampire story.(never be one of vampire chronicles!) But, actions of vampires are too kiddy to be a serious movie. Their actions are really sucks. (If I was not a fan, I couldn't watching movie continually.)This movie is a service pack of novell Queen of the Damned from Anne Rice. Yes, just same Windows Service pack. If you have not a Windows, Service packs are unusable. This movie is just that. To watch this, you must read whole novell books.Service pack. No more. "},{"Title":"Good visual...  No story","Date":"17 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The visual aspect of this movie was great.  Great looking cast, great special effects, but it ended there.No story.  It tells a little of Le Stat's origin but nothing is cohesive. Bits and pieces here and there that don't pull together.If your looking for action and horror, you'll like it.  If you want more, this is the wrong movie. "},{"Title":"A Nice-Looking, Fun Vampire Flick","Date":"14 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I don't understand why there's so much controversy over this movie. Expectations not met regarding its deviation from the Anne Rice novels, or from the movie `Interview,' and Aaliyah not being used to her full potential, etc.  Forget all that.  `Queen' is surprisingly an enjoyable movie.The visuals look sharp, the action is fun, and the songs and score sound great.  This movie kept me entertained from start to finish--isn't that enough?My real complaint is that the storyline isn't thoroughly cohesive, and the plot leaves a few things utterly unexplained.  However, the deleted scenes in the DVD extras make up for this.  Apparently, they needed (?) to cut a few important and interesting scenes due to time constraints or some nonsense.  Too bad the DVD wasn't released as a director's cut or something. "},{"Title":"I can see why Tom Cruise didn't want to do this movie","Date":"14 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Don't even try to compare this move to Interview with the Vampire. Queen of the Damned was dumb, all over the place, and a completely different style of movie than Interview with the Vampire. After watching it, it didn't surprise me to learn that originally it was going to be straight to video. (According to IMDB trivia.) "},{"Title":"Her performance was amazing...","Date":"7 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Aaliyah's performance was spectacular! The way she acted was so natural and professional, as if she has been in many movies. It is a real shame that we lost someone that talented. I'm sure her role in The Matrix sequel would have been better. R.I.P. Aaliyah, I will always miss and love you. "},{"Title":"Fanatics have unfairly criticized this movie.","Date":"6 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  O.K., so it's been more that 10 years since I've read the chronicles, but I seem to remember Queen of the Damned as being my favorite and I thought that given the extreme pressures that were placed on the making of the movie (Aaliyah dying) it was worth seeing.So the movie took liberties with the book - big deal!  If you want the book, go read it!  If you haven't read the book, do so!  The actors are near perfect visual representations of their parts.  If you have read the book, then you should have been able to fill in the parts that were missing and enjoyed the film for what it was.  The movie inspired me to re-read the books.All in All, it's worth the rental. It's a good story; and, it's not a bad movie.   "},{"Title":"Artistic license used on a rather long (but cool) advertisement for what could have been&#133;","Date":"4 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Ok&#133; Here I go again. After reading the reviews, on here, about Queen of the Damned, I was convinced to skip it at the theaters. It was pretty obvious by the scorching reviews that this was not going to be a cinematic epiphany. It should be noted that I am and always will be a huge fan of Anne Rice's work. I have read and loved the Vampire Chronicles by her and Queen of the Damned was one of my favorites. I know how Hollywood works though and had rather low expectations on how they would treat this story. While being grateful that I didn't pay theater prices to see it, I also feel it doesn't deserve the flaying it has received.First of all most of the movie was based on The Vampire Lestat and not Queen of the Damned. Second, no, it is not possible to contain the entire scope of this story into 111 minutes. But then, what do you do when the lead actress dies suddenly? Do like they did on The Crow and try to put some semblance of a motion picture together? Exactly. I think they did a pretty good job here, considering. While the performances weren't &#145;break-out' they were passable, they did move the story along. And there WAS a story here, a diluted one, yes, but a story just the same. It didn't follow the books exactly but you recognize enough of the characters that your memory can easily fill in the gaps. In fact the people that read the books should have had an easier time with this than those who did not. As always there was artistic license taken, especially with the ending but, given the circumstances, I felt the attempt to capture the feel of the books was there. The look and movements of the vampires were exactly as I imagined from the books, which was missing from Interview. (Go back and look at that film again. Especially the scene when Pitt is burning down the mansion. Talk about over-the-top drama! And tell me Mathew Newton as Armand, in this one, did not at least LOOK perfect; far better than Antonio Banderas in Interview) It may have been better converting the books into a mini-series or chronicle like the Lord of the Rings movies but, alas, not so. I don't think an attempt should or could have been made to put these stories on the big screen until now. I think if an attempt would have been made back when the Vampire Lestat was first published (1985) it would have been laughable. Today's music, fashion and attitude just seem to fit better. Not to mention the special effects technology is far superior now. What better time for Lestat to rise than this period, when we have Marylin Mansons and Rob Zombies running around? Why not a Vampire Lestat? (You know Trent Reznor would promote him and he'd wear Dolce & Gabbana just because it was expensive) Although this movie certainly fell short of the mark I feel it was attempting to reach, it wasn't horrible to watch. In fact as just a movie, not considering the novels, it wasn't that bad at all. It was no worse than those Mummy movies. I truly think the makers did a pretty good job cleaning up the mess that was left. The overall look of the film is, in my opinion, slick, stylish and enjoyable. Some say it looked rather MTV like&#133; well, don't you think it was supposed to and shouldn't it be so? We are dealing with the brat prince, Lestat de Lioncourt, right? Don't you think Lestat himself would have taken advantage of the MTV generation? You don't really think he'd settle for public access, do you? All in all, this movie was like a long, pretty cool advertisement of what could have been with some music videos thrown in. It's worth the rental price. My thoughts. Yours?  "}{"Title":"If you've read the book and enjoyed the chronicles, DO NOT WATCH THIS FILM!!!","Date":"2 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Ok,  I can make this really short for you!!  If you've read the book and enjoyed the chronicles (especially the trilogy), DO NOT WATCH THIS FILM!!! You'll sit, like me, the whole way through screaming at the tv Thats not rightI've seen books ripped to shreds when being made movies but this bites the cookie clean!!  it's not just the naming Lestats maker wrong, but even David seemed like a younger version a Giles from Buffy rather than the traditional old English bloke he is in the books!!  I'm not even going to go into how they portrayed the Ancients SO BADLY!!!!Really really not worth it!!  you'll only tear your hair out in frustration. "},{"Title":"THIS MOVIE IS HORRIBLE","Date":"1 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I don't know how Anne Rice could have allowed this movie to be made, and anyone who has ever read the book The Queen of the Damned had better agree with me.  101 minutes is not nearly enough time to tell such a complex story as Queen of the Damned and so much of the actual story was left out if I hadn't read the book I would be thinking And what was the point of all that Not one mention of the redheaded twins or why it was that when Lestat awoke on the island with Akasha he found corpses.  Don't see this movie read the book instead. "},{"Title":"Horrible","Date":"30 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I just finished watching the Queen of the Damned DVD.  I am still shocked that they cut out the scenes of the ancients.  Personally, I thought the movie didn't make sense.  I also thought Lestat was older than he was potrayed in the movie.  I haven't read the books, but I did see Interview with a Vampire.  It was a beautiful movie, and stayed close to the book. Tom Cruise made a better Lestat, and everything was a lot better in the first movie.  I'm just curious if Tom Cruise was asked to come back and reprise his role as Lestat.  If he was he probably laughed at the script and smartly turned the role down.   "},{"Title":"What on earth is this???","Date":"29 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Spoiler Alert This movie was not so good. At the start I thought it had promise but I was wrong.  The entire book was thrown away for some Queen of the Damned-Lestat love story. Please.  All of the exciting parts of the book were tossed. And my God, the role of the ancients was reduced to nothing. There is a deleted scene on the dvd when Maharet recruits them to fight the Queen, had this 1 scene been in the movie, it would have made a little more sense. Otherwise, she comes back, kills some punk vamps, makes out with Lestat, and is killed by a bunch of vamps we know nothing about.  Bad bad bad. "},{"Title":"Anne Rice?","Date":"29 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie doesn't even have the tone of a anne rice novel.  It has the tone of a MTV music video.  It shouldn't be called Queen of the Damned she only in it for 30 minutes.  and the effects suck.  They look hororable Interview The the Vampire was better, it's acting was better the tone was right and the specail effects blended well.  Watch that or just read the book but avoid the movie! "},{"Title":"My girlfriend is much scarier.","Date":"28 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I rented this movie and stopped at the pub on the way home. The barmaid asked what it was and I said, The Queen of the Damned. I'm not seeing my girlfriend tonight. Ha ha. It was a joke. But this movie is damned, all right--damned for not being the slightest bit scary and for having only a tepid sexuality to it. What good is an unscary, unsexy vampire movie? "},{"Title":"Horrible adaptation of a great movie","Date":"27 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I've always thought if you're going to do an adaptation of a book, you should at least *try* to keep to the original idea.This movie chopped up The Vampire Lestat and The Queen of the Damned, ran them through a washing machine, then just stuck it all together again, sawing off edges that didn't match to make it fit.The characters were horribly flat. The plot was non-existent. I regret actually sitting through this movie, but at least I didn't waste time seeing it at a theater. "},{"Title":"A very awesome book to read, but the movie did not follow it content.","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Queen of the Damned, or actually LESTAT. This movie was basically more about Lestat than Akasha. The writer that took the idea of writing this script did not read the books! This movie doesn't follow the ideas of Anne Rice. It was really sad to this movie come out without following the concept of the Vampire Chronicles. At least Interview with the Vampire was worth while to watch. Mixing The Vampire Lestat with Queen of the Damned was the worst Idea ever. The performances and make up were good, but the concepts are completly changed, Since when Marius made Lestat; I recall a vampire by the name Magnus. And one last thing, Akasha barely appeared on the movie, why was this movie called Queen of the Damned, when it was basically more about Lestat life's. "},{"Title":"Good movie, but not true to the book.","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I will attempt to rate this movie without bias.The movie itself was fairly good.  It seemed less character driven than story driven, however.  The movie attempted, and succeeded, to tell a story, however, what it failed to do was to make you really care about the characters.  It seemed to barely give many characters and their motivations a once-over, if it even did that.  Try as I might, I simply could not bring myself to actually care about the characters.  There was obviously internal struggle and drama in certain scenes, and various emotions the characters felt at certain times, however with the lack of character development in this movie, it simply didn't work as intended.This movie was a fairly decent movie in and of itself, but it simply wasn't true to the book.  The film seems a bit rushed, like they simply didn't have enough time to put everything they wanted in there. "},{"Title":"grrrrrr","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I read the book, which I absolutely loved. But when my friend and I saw the movie, we did all we could not to scream. They left out so many characters, like Louis, Gabrielle, Daniel, and the other freaking twin. Not to mention Marius did not create Lestat, Magnus did, which explains why Lestat doesn't tell Louis anything in Interview With the Vampire. Also, another thing that bothered me was the fact that Akasha is supposed to look like marble...they could have made Aaliyah look a little whiter, ya know, a little more like marble. Not to mention the fact that Lastat didn't kill Akasha, the other twin did. For me movie was like watching the Scarlet Letter, at least they said in the opening credits loosely  based on the novel... I don't know...if you haven't read the book, I'm sure you'll think its a great movie... "}{"Title":"not the best book adaption, but not as bad as I expected it to be","Date":"21 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  well, having read the book I wanted to watch the movie. While a lot has been changed, it wasn't really as bad as many people said it was. While Stuart Townshend definetly is no Tom Cruise, he is quiete good as Lestat. Aaliya was also okay. to bad she had to go and get killed...I was saddened to see almost the entire plotline with th ancients being chopped out. When they do appear in the movie, you have no idea who they are and even, there's actually introductory scenes with them on the DVD... Another really weak point is this; how come the greatest most celebrated artist in the world just happens to be in a nu-metal band? (so you could cash in on the soundtrack of course!) that was really weak. Especially when Marius talks about Elvis and says Lestat is greater than him... wow, that was believable....6* out of 10 "},{"Title":"An Anne Rice Fan who - actually - liked it.","Date":"15 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Where to begin.. I've been an Anne Rice fan for a few years, having only read the books because one of them was titled 'Pandora'. I did not know it was, in any way connected with Interview with the Vampire, which I saw. 'Pandora' was the first novel I could actually sit though, and thus I read every Anne Rice book I could find. Didn't touch the erotica though. Interview was a good flick, but not one I can watch alot. Seeing as I am partial to the female charactors, and I relate to them, I could not wait for a movie to be made based on another one of the books. So one morning I heard QotD was being made, and watched it's progress religiously. But I noticed - things were changed. Minor to major. Charactors chopped out, story slammed with another. An invented movie based on a book I loved. But, finally Feb 22nd came and I went to see it. And so the review begins.I had to seperate book from movie, but I was glad I did not completely. The film starts up with a nice instrumental type melody, showing the stone faces of Those Who Must Be Kept. We're then introduced to the charactors we'll see throughout the rest of the movie - by means of Lestat's video playing and the cast rolling up. I have to say the music was catchy, and sent shivers up my spine. I was surprised, as I am not that big on Korn.But I did find myself getting fidgety and testy at the plot line changes, while some of them I liked. For instance I hated what they did to Jesse - transforming her into a teenage goth. But I liked how they tied and wrapped up Lestat's and Akasha's backstory of how they 'met.'But as the movie progressed I found myself having to explain certain things to those who went with me. I.E. - When the Ancients first appear at the concert, those near me had no idea who they were. They came out and appeared as Maharet's posse - so I had to name them, as the movie did not. What burns me up is there were two original scenes involving the Ancients - one where they rise to Lestat's music, and another where we hear their names and whom they are.The movie progressed along - but it was choppy at certain points, and an explanation was not to be found. None that I could give, either, as the movie had changed so much from the book. But you got the drift through underlying themes.Now, the end really did burn me up. As there really was none. It left you with that Is that it? feeling, which I hate. It was sort of rushed, as if all the Vampires realized the sun'd be up any minute and they better hurry up.But the movie was visually stunning - from the background sets to the camera sweeps. Each cast member either went to two extremes. Failed miserably or came out with a parade. Aaliyah was perfection as Akasha, I must say this was her better movie, as opposed to Romeo. She conveyed the essence of evil and malice, with a childish bratiness. Vincent Perez was not a bad Marius, but could have been a little better with his accent. He sounded - odd. Stuart was not bad either, but he either looked like he did not care, or was trying too hard. The other actors who are barely featured were good, but not there enough to know. Lena OlenMaharet, Claudia BlackPandora, Matthew NewtonArmand, and Christian ManonMael looked great appearence wise, but Bruce SpenceKhayman looked..eh, not Egyptian. The supporting cast fit the book appearence better than Lestat and Marius.The action scenes were not bad, and the gore was kept at a higher pace than that of Interview. There is a scene in which Akasha shatteres a beating heart in her hand. Another which shows a man with his throat gashed open, bleeding violently. So the movie is not for the really squeamish.Overall I realized this is a movie that one either loves, hates, or is directly in the middle. Most hate it, and yet most love it. So it really does depend on the person. Ignore the bad reviews, and the good ones, and rent it when it comes out - as that would be the best thing to do. But by all means, watch it.High Points - Music, Sets, Costumes, Certain Cast, Camera, Some Plot. Low Points - Certain Cast, Most Of The Plot, Ending. Overall Rating - 7.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Like I thought! It sucked!","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  What can I say. Regret that I even saw this movie. Glad that I didnt pay for it. My friend said that is was great. I doubted him. And I was right! The movie was so boring...Zzzzz! "},{"Title":"One big commercial","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Watching this movie I couldn't help to think this is a commercial or video clip for a big record company. A sound track almost exclusively played by Korn, snappy and poppy shots. Nothing looked like a 'horror vampire' movie .The story keeps hammering that vampires might be in rock bands, rock bands are cool. Buy our records buy our records does the silent voices screams.I only missed a MTV logo and every three minutes commercial breaks. "},{"Title":"Typical","Date":"10 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  For those of you out there who are fans of Anne Rice, you will be DEEPLY disapointed with this movie. Hollywood big shots have absolutely trashed it. It doesn't follow the wicked, tempting, spectacular tale that we all loved in the chronicles. Lestat has black hair(small, yet noticable difference) The most DISGUSTING change was that lestat was created by MARIUS. When i saw that, my jaw dropped open, and I must admit that my friend had to scoop my chin up off the floor. Even after that Marius doesn't show the caves to Lestat, Lestat simply tumbles in. Not to mention Akasha simply raises her palm to let Lestat, as opposed to thrilling spectacle described in the book. Instead of Enkil turning to glass The statue has its neck slashed through, and is still made of clay. Lestat doesn't meet up with Louis or Gabrielle before the concert. I could go on and on and on into an oblivion.. which i must admit, i have already done.. but i'm going to stop now. Please Anne Rice fans, don't waste your time and money.HOWEVER, i'm sure that if i did not know of the book, or did not read the book, the movie would be rather thrilling. So those of you who don't care, feel free to waste time and money.Thank ya "},{"Title":"BAD movie","Date":"10 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The story of a depressed vampire and in search of fame.The story is poor and it doesn't hold. It gets lost in so many places and it becomes segmented. The story about the queen of the Damned is secondary to the movie. It is more important the vampire seeking life in the night, singing world.I have to admit the story is interesting, like all the Vampire movies, but it doesn't move and it is an inomplete movie. I don't suggest to waist time...if you want a good movie Interview with the Vampire.Tom "},{"Title":"Eternal damnation to the viewer.","Date":"23 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Alright. This movie... Horrible. Really. I ordered it in a hotel, while staying with my sister, both of us expecting a horrible movie but a good laugh. We got what we wanted, I suppose. I cracked up at the most cliche parts in the script. I maintain that Leviat is having some sexual misunderstandings. This movie turned out to be mostly erotic, like a poor excuse for a porn. Sadly, it didn't even make that mark. The girl had no real purpose, she could of been done away with without us really noticing. We find out randomly hey, wow, so-and-so is a vampire! or golly gee, he must be evil too! It's really quite funny. It really is the weakest excuse for a movie I have ever seen.  "},{"Title":"Was...was this a real movie...?","Date":"19 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Where to begin, where to begin...This was, simply put, THE WORST movie I have ever had the displeasuring of watching....no wait...enduring is a better word.  I consider myself quite an avid viewer of films, and I have never, ever, ever seen a movie that was so poorly made and scripted.  Ever.Let us first examine the plot.  For roughly ninety percent of the movie, I was rooted to my seat, mouth slightly ajar, eyes glued to the screen with the type of horrified awe that is normally reserved for children watching their homes burn to the ground.  The plot is non-sensical and painfully contrived.  No ten seconds passed without me muttering W...what?! to the person beside me.  The only instance where I saw even a glimmer of hope for this film was Lestat's brief meeting with a human woman, and a golden chance to expand on this aspect of his character was presented.  However, absolutely nothing happened.  Nothing.  The plot all leads up to the most pointless and boring climax I have ever seen.  I honestly do not believe that was the original climax scene, and the producers became so fed up with the script that they just decided to wrap it up.  Long story short, the plot sucked.  Badly.Character development?  Do I really need to talk about character development here?!  To this day, I still do not understand the role that the human girl (whatever her name was...) played in this film, she did absolutely nothing to my knowledge.  I have been told that she plays an integral role in the novel version, but here she is a fur coat on a hot summer day.  As was already mentioned, Lestat's character had much potential for development, but instead the producers decided to take the I don't want to make a good movie road.  Aliyah's character did nothing, and all her scenes were mere excuses to put some fireworks into this otherwise actionless movie. Simply horrid.  When the credits began to roll at the end, I sat motionless for a good 2 minutes before my friend dragged me out of the theatre, a bitter and broken shell of a man.I was going to bash this movie some more...but just talking about it has brought tears of hatred to my eyes.  I cannot go on.  This is truly the worst, worst, worst movie ever made.  It is almost as if the producers did not even WANT to make a good movie.  It honestly feels that way.  There is no other way to explain this poor excuse for a film.  I would rather beat myself with a stick than watch this movie again.  I write this, not as a review, but as a warning to future movie-goers....save yourself...my soul has already been claimed, but it is not too late for you! Run! RUN WHILE YOU STILL CAN!!! "},{"Title":"Meh, not great, but not horrendous","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I must say that I went into this movie with mediocre expectations. Having heard the rumor that the film was almost scheduled for video release only, I doubted that it would be winning any Oscars. However, while I wasn't blown away, I can't say that it wasn't enjoyable.  There was eye candy in Stuart Townsend and Aaliyah, some kick-ass music, and a middling story line.  I was disappointed and misled, because I thought Aaliyah would have a larger role, but that couldn't be avoided.  Some of the lines caught me halfway between a cringe and a laugh. I have to give some of the actors respect for being able to say them without wincing. And, of course, as any true fan of Farscape (a sci-fi TV show) I wanted to see the radiant Claudia Black on screen more often.  But overall It was a decent movie that is just something to pop in the VCR and kill 2 hours with. Switch off your brain, keep your eyes and ears open and have some mindless fun.  "},{"Title":"The Queen was not damned","Date":"11 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I have read all the reviews that I can take, stating that Queen of the Damned is horrendous and that Anne Rice fans will be disappointed, ect. I hate to say this, but the movie is NOT supposed to be exactly like the novels. And most Anne Rice fans - including the woman herself - approved. To be honest, the movie was a tad campy at times. But, this is a vampire film - and not a period piece at that, so that has come to be expected. I thought that Michael Rymer did a fantastic job. The sets were exquisite, the costume both different and goth - a nice combo. The only things I found wrong with the movie were 1) it was too short for my taste. 2) Jesse could have been more of an intrical character in the movie. 3)Aaliyah, while still portraying a great version of Akasha, was completly downplayed. The girl had potential and I did detect a bit of false adverstisement with the trailer. It hinted that Aaliyah was a key player in the film and the main focus ended up being on Lestat. It was explained why at the official site - and they had good reasons. But still, they played on Aaliyah's death and that's not cool. But, Queen of the Damned was a good movie. It wasn't something that you are supposed to oo and ah at. It's meant to be a popcorn movie, like Dean Devlin films. Not meant to be Oscar material. "}{"Title":"), accept, and enjoy","Date":"9 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I don't know much about films. I'll admit that. But I do know what I enjoy and I do know what films are aimed at me and my peers. One of these films was Queen of the Damned. This film was clearly aimed at the youth of today, hence the hot guy as the main man (Lestat) and hot girls as both Akasha and Jesse. This is about all we teenagers need to enjoy a movie cuteness in the opposite sex, and upbeat music. This movie provided that just nicely, thanks. I didn't read Queen of the Damned, I have seen Interview With the Vampire, and read the same, along with many others, including Merrick, Memnoch, Taltos and The Tale of the Body Thief. I may just be a simple teen, with simple thoughts but if we can't sit down to a movie produced by the ENTERTAINMENT commitee (especially of Australia, which barely ever creates, or is involved in ANYTHING this big) for our ENTERTAINMENT without analysing it, tearing it apart and seeing how bad it really is, then we all might as well just die now, because there is nothing left for us to just relax and have fun with. The world is a hectic place, and something where we don't have to run around and keep up with, chasing deadlines etc should just be accepted, GRATEFULLY, and enjoyed. SMILE you people who didn't enjoy this movie, it should be a nice change. It could always have been worse, boring, longer, dull... Just because it doesn't follow the book to whatever extent you may deem fit, doesn't mean that it isn't an impressive, enjoyable experience. And if you can't accept that, then think about what it would be like without the movie at all. So stop bellyaching and smell the roses or something ok? "},{"Title":"Worst film I've ever seen","Date":"25 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Queen of the damned was undoubtedly the most boring uneventful i have ever laid my eyes on. I'm ashamed to admit I spent money to watch it. All due respects to Aaliyah but she was supposed to be the star and she was in it for about 10mins. If you havent seen it don't! "},{"Title":"Queen of the Damned !?","Date":"24 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This film is NOT the queen of the damned!!! It's a good film but it feels like the writers didn't get to read the book at all! I wish I had seen a movie really based on the book instead of this one. The rock scenes really were something, I think they're the only thing that reminded me of the book! They were awesome! "},{"Title":"Its SUPPOSED to be that way!","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I was scrolling through the other reviews of this movie, people tearing it apart left and right...and thought to myself they just dont get it! this movie is NOT interview with the vampire, it is not a oh poor me I'm a vampire and I hate it vampire movie! It's a I'm a vampire and I want to have some fun! type of movie.Now mind you, I LOVED interveiw, but I also really liked dracula 2000It's exactly at the preveiws say it is scary, SEXY, and rocking! all of those things and more!so here's MY reccomendation do not go see this movie (or rent it or whatever) with 'interveiw with a vampire' in mind! It's more along the lines of 'dracula 2000' and I say its good, exactly as I expected and WANTED it to be! "},{"Title":"Based on the novel by Anne Rice..um.. no..i dont think so","Date":"4 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  i am a huge fan of the chronicles, and was stoked to hear of this thing and followed it for about a year and a half. after i began reading the script and hearing what people (who had attended the auditions) said of the script they read from, i began to get worried. by the time WB decided to get off their as....laurels and put stuff out, i was down-right scared to go to the premeire. the only thing i liked about the movie was some of the costumes (mainly, the un-identified pandora and some of lestat's), there were one or two funny lines, the concert scene (one of my friends was sixth row centre), and the music. the rest was horrible!!!! i watched it later and looked at it as a movie itself...no book...just movie. it was still horrible. though flawless, the effects were cheesy, i still dont know what kind of accent akasha was doing, and the rest of the lines were camp enough to make ed wood wince in pain.  "},{"Title":"How did they fit so much suck into one film?","Date":"2 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I'll admit, I had been warned.  I read the books, I liked them, and was told that in order to generate the script for this movie, the writers had taken a copy of The Vampire Lestat and Queen of the Damned and squeezed them together until all the good bits ran out into the gutter, and used what was left over to make this movie.I didn't realize that all of this had been horribly understated.  Most movie adaptations of books aren't true to the storyline, but this movie was atrocious, all on it's own.  Even if you discount the fact that there was a perfectly good story the could have told and ignored, this movie was terrible.  Unless you are feeling particularly masochistic, don't watch this film. "},{"Title":"Queen of the damned crappy movie.","Date":"30 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I understand that Anne Rice is a good writer, but I'm not exactly sure if she listens to Korn. But if you like Jonathan Davis, buy the soundtrack, don't see the movie. There is too much stupid stuff going on, with a young girl wanting to be bitten by Lestat, and his music somehow awakening Akasha (the late Aaliyah), and something about Lestat's chat on the roof with some guy, and Akasha killing vampires with a look, but she can't kill those other good ones the same way. Etc, all a disjointed mess.What's up with Aaliyah overdoing the sauntering around through the bar bit, and the bad Bela Lugosi accent and all that? The only thing that she really did well was look sexy in that skimpy gear, with her cut abs prominently displayed, causing my drool to be prominently displayed. But it's just wrong to sell a bad movie on her short appearance, and I fell for it. This vampire movie is pure garbage. Watch Blade II instead, an incredibly superior vampire movie. "},{"Title":"Disappointingly without humour or plot or characters or etc.","Date":"26 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Very disappointing - incomprehensible plot, no character development, cheesy vampire effects, and worst of all tedious.Only containing a shadow of the book, it gives practically no motivation for why any of the characters perform in the way they do.I didn't expect to see an Oscar winning performance, but the average episode of Angel had more style and Blade 2 more excitement.An expensive flop. "},{"Title":"Bad...yet good.","Date":"26 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The acting is shocking, the plot has drive-thru size holes and the characterisation is appalling yet I found this movie oddly entertaining.Stuart Townsend camps it up as Lestat, a 18th century French nobleman now a present day Marilyn Manson style rock star. He is very beautiful and moves like a vampire. I found him strangely alluring despite his hammy accent and near constant mugging at the camera. It amuses me greatly that Stuart Townsend left the set of smash hit LOTR TFOTR after creative differences and ended up on this disaster movie. Vincent Perez plays his maker Maurius just as camp and there are some amusing exchanges between the two vamps. I particularly enjoyed the scenes where they sit in front of the mammoth billboard of Lestat and a discussion they have about late twentieth century fashion. But this is where it unclear whether the director and writers is taking the film seriously. The actors clearly are not. This is truly demonstrated by the casting of Aliliyah. Although she looks the part as Akasha, the mother of all vampires she gives a performance that is wooden at best. It reminded me of a school play, not least because she looks like a child at a costume party. I am a fan of Anne Rice and I believe she offered to write the screenplay for this film and was turned down. That, I think is a clear statement that this was to be a departure from the original Interview with the Vampire The Vampire Chronicles, which boasts the talents of Brad Pitt and a bizarrely unrecognisable Tom Cruise as Lestat. Townsend's Lestat is different from Cruise's but no less valid. (Cruise was pretty hammy too.) But then Anne Rice did create Lestat as a mass of contradictions. Queen of the Damned's visual design is lavish but lacks the sumptuousness of Neil Jordan's production. The special effects are good although they sometimes feel out of place. Despite all these failings there is still something I liked about the film. I could easily watch it again. Credit is due to Paul McGann as David Talbot for managing to keep a straight face. I didn't. "},{"Title":"What a joke","Date":"24 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I have read most of her novels and I'm shocked that Ms. Rice allowed this to happen!  Nothing comes close to those books.  Not even the actual Queen of the Damned book was used here, it seemed.  It seems the only thing they got right were the names, but even then they didn't match up with the characters.   "}{"Title":"Eye candy","Date":"22 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This actually looked great, in a 2-hour Marylin Manson video kind of way. As a film, it sort of spent 90 minutes getting started, just in time for Aaliyah to go RAR! I will kill you all! and then time for some more vampire-fu. A real shame that the depth and complexity of Ms Rice's better early Vampire novels were lost. Characters crossed the screen for no apparent reason, and only reformed goths like me could point and say oh, that's Mael. In fact, the film bore so little resemblance to The Vampire Lestat and Queen of the Damned that they may as well have called it something completely different. So, no story, no development, poor pacing. But it's a very pretty film, and Stuart Townsend is a very pretty Lestat (better in some respects than Cruise). The stage fight is hilarious (watch out for the wires!). Paul McGann occasionally looks like he's asking himself what the hell he's doing in this film. Vincent Perez, on the other hand, gets all the best vampire lines and really made the film for me.One for genre fans, but then we knew that.  "},{"Title":"Waste of an afternoon","Date":"22 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This has to be the worst film i have seen this year. The plot was good but it went no where stuart townsend was the best thing about it but that's not saying much. Some of the effects were ok like the rock concert. But it was basically a waste of money. The trailers look great but the actual film is nothing special. I love reading Anne Rice but this was total crap. I strongly recommend that no-one ever watch it. "},{"Title":"Is not based on the Anne Rice's novel, but it's entertaining","Date":"22 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Definitively it is not based on Anne Rice's Vampire Chronicles. The story becomes such twisted that you cannot recognise it. By several moments you think the only thing that remains from Rice novels are a few names of the characters.Apart from that, and that s few of the actors/actress in the film overact too much for my taste, the film it's well made. Nice camera movements, good special effects, FANTASTIC music (not only the rock songs but also the score), good photgraphy, well balanced sound, etc... A good job, pity they missed the story...If you want to see the Vampire Chronicles this is not your movie, but if you just like the vampires films no matter which they are, this is good fun... "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Very disappointing sequel to Interview! Strayed too far from the book and casting was awful (apart from Akasha) This film had the potential of being so much more. One I won't be buying. "},{"Title":"Why all the bad reviews","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  many people might not read all 200+ reviews of this film and I can see why everyone is giving it a bad review. So hey if this goes read then wa-hey.This film works but more as an action than a horror. I must say i am not a fan of gothic-y vampirey movies I have not read any of the Anne Rice Novels and I couldn't be bothered sitting through Interview With a Vampire (mainly beacuse Tom Cruise strikes me as a jerk). So I went to watch this being a huge Aaliyah fan.I honestly did not know what to expect but hey it was a pleasant movie.First off Stuart Townsend convinced me as Lestat, a dark, mysterious and confusing character. Why, oh why was Tom cruise Lestat in the first movie, I don't know. If they ever decide to re-edit and remaster the whole of Interview and replace Cruise with Townsend, I will be willing to watch it.I wish Aaliyah was given more screen time. Akasha's story before becoming a statue would have made the film more interesting. And as i said I love Aaliyah to the bone, and I was destroyed when she died but she did her job well in the movie. She convinced me as an evil tyrant queen so much so that I felt no remorse when she was defated. Aaliyah simply looked stunning throuought the movie and was imploding with a sense of regal sexiness and sass.The story held together well, but more as an action movie. And I agree the story could have been more detailed and gone more deep. But the two lead character's Lestat and Akasha shined.The soundtrack was amazing, I am not a huge fan of rock music but I thought it worked well. I was hoping to hear some of the more trippy stuff aaliyah had done. I was hoping I Am Music a tripped out track she completed with Timbaland days before her death would make an appearance. It had a suitable atmosphere and lyrics to it.As far as I am concerned this may not be the most riveting piece of horror but it works well as action movie. Well done people.My advice is, go in don't over analayse and just enjoy.RIP Aaliyah  "},{"Title":"Unpleasantly like being drunk...","Date":"17 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" ...in the ask a glass of water kind of way.  This extended rock video actually induced nausea in me.  The most likely cause of my retching was probably the deeply cynical butchering of Anne Rice's (admitedly somewhat angst ridden and tiresome) original novels.Not much survived.  Some names.  Some plot elements cobbled together from two books, at least in as much as they involved the named characters.  A very few scenes.  Perhaps three lines of dialogue.  But the *core* of the titular novel was gutted, and most of this film is just pure lowest common denominator pulp, undemanding celluloid fantasy for the under-21 MTV audience.  It feels cheap, and it feels tacky, and that's because it *is* cheap and tacky.  I really wanted to shower after watching it, and not in a good way.Then there's Aaliyah.  I won't speak ill of the dead, so that leaves me nothing to say.  Nothing.There really are some films that it would be kinder to just send straight to cable.  This film should have been send straight to landfill. "},{"Title":"No Surprises Here!","Date":"17 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I should start with saying I have read the books & I went to this movie thinking it would be crap & I was not surprised cos it was very bad. The changes were terrible & it was like spot the bad Aussie actors.. Not mention the whole Marius made Lestat & the fact that David Talbot looked really young for an old guy in his 70's. The last scenes with all the vamps was interesting since unless you have read the books you would have no idea who they were suppose to be & that the ones that exploded really shouldn't have.  "},{"Title":"If you are a fan of the book - dont waste your time - you WILL be disappointed","Date":"16 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I suppose to all of you who have not read the vampire chronicles 'The Queen of the Damned' could be an okay movie, its got a good soundtrack, some very nice eye-candy (stuart townsend/lestat)and some excellent special effects almost living up to 'The Matrix'But I have read the book and LOVED it, i was so much looking foward to 'seeing' the Talamasca, seeing Akasha MADE, seeing the origins of Maharat & Makara and what Akasha did to them.Most of all i was looking foward to when Makara ate Akasha's heart, there by taking on the original vampire curse/infection and allowing all vampires to live on because now Makara was the Queen!BUT MAKARA WASNT EVEN IN THE MOVIE!!!!Then there were the little things like, Maharat, Makara and Jesse - in the book were all red heads with lots of curls - in the movie brunettes.Jesse was made by Lestat - but in the book she was made by her aunt Maharet.I could go on but im sure you get the point. If you liked the book, spare yourself and let your imagination play the movie for you - you will enjoy it so much more.But if you want to watch a slick movie that needs very little attention and you like a good perve and a few special fx, by all means go along and watch - but when you get the chance, read the book and see what you missed out on.Personal note for Anne Rice.You wrote such a fantastic, intriguing book. How could you let Hollywood DESTROY it, this time even MORE then 'Interview With The Vampire' "},{"Title":"Seal It in a Damp Coffin and Bury It!","Date":"16 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This ghastly low-rent travesty of Anne Rice's cult novels is doomed to disappoint Followers of the True Faith - what with its dark-haired(!) hero Lestat and other heretical departures from Holy Vampire Writ. Nor is it likely to win over any new converts. Its tone is too camp and outre for mainstream horror fans, and who - apart from the two groups mentioned above - is going to walk all the way to the local multiplex to see it?The film's central disaster is its casting of baby-faced nonentity Stuart Townsend as that immortal blood-sucking rock-and-roller the Vampire Lestat. Not only does Townsend lack even the faintest glimmer of Lestat's demonic charisma, he also has no discernible talent of any sort. Even if he did, would it make a blind bit of difference? When Anne Rice brought Lestat back from the dead and turned him into a rock star, she was inspired by such immortal rock androgynes as David Bowie, Mick Jagger and Sting. In the film, poor Lestat is lead singer of a Goth Metal band so egregiously awful that his world-wide cult success is as baffling - nay, as downright inexplicable - as anything else in this misbegotten mess.The only way to give this Lestat an illusion of charisma is to cast a lead actress even duller and less talented than he. Sure enough, this film obliges with one Marguerite Moreau. Pray tell, what amateur acting class did she escape from? And why on earth did director Michael Rymer grant her more screen time than Aaliyah, who plays the Vampire Queen herself? Aaliyah's non-performance sinks to such delicious depths of camp, you may even enjoy it if you're in a perverse mood.The only real pleasures to be had are two rather shamefaced cameos by two aging Euro-stars, Vincent Perez and Lena Olin, both criminally wasted as the senior vampires. As for the lurid costumes and sets - Lestat with a leopard-skin sofa? I think not! - they call to mind such trash 70s classics as Dr. Phibes Rides Again, only minus the wit or imagination. Queen of the Damned is one film to seal in a damp coffin, toss into a dark grave and bury for a VERY long time!David Melville "},{"Title":"Oh dear, did I fall asleep?","Date":"14 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  If you are going to this film expecting to see anything related to the book then save your money, another typical hollywood butchers job, sad really, cause the first film and the books were so good.If your going to the film without reading the books and just expect a vanmpire film, then once again save your money and go and see Blade 2 instead.......now theres a vampire film. "}{"Title":"Is this what you really want?","Date":"14 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  It is a shame that I went into this film with all the excitement of a teenager on their first big date.  I set myself up in the quiet, empty cinema (you think that that would have alerted me to something) and watched with baited breath, hanging out to see my friends and I, up there on the big screen.  I have never been so disappointed in my life.  No really, it's true.Living in Melbourne does have its advantages.  There's a big Goth scene, you get invited to filming, you drag yourself along for the 14 hrs from dusk till dawn to film, all dressed in your finery ready to mug for the camera and yes.. it's all fun and laughter.  It is a shame that the rest of the film is so poor.I am not sure whether it is the comical accents, the entire membership of the Australian Acting Union (or whatever name they go under) mugging for the camera (yes, Matthew Newton, I choose you!) or the terrible script that let this film down.  Maybe it was the cringeworthy relationships between the characters, the use of Melbourne landmarks that made me laugh out loud.  It might have been the copy cat filmclips, the mansonesque music... perhaps the fact that this film bears absolutely no relationship to the text that it alleges it comes from.That's right folks, don't bother reading the book.  If you have, it's too late, forget everything you thought you knew.  This isn't Anne Rice's Queen of the Damned.  There are major characters missing, the majority of the text is lost to that convienient poetic license thing that screen writers love to hide behind.  This is just another B-Grade Vampire film with some nice music and some very pale skinny boys and fetish girls.  There is no erotocism, sex, tension, fear... nothing.  I haven't been to a film this unengaging in a long time.A real let down, I don't think I can even bear to give it a rating.  And no, I haven't told any of my friends that you can see my elbow in a feature film, which is something I was prepared to be proud of. "},{"Title":"I give this 666 a 2","Date":"12 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I rated this movie as a 2, because it sucked SLIGHTLY LESS than I thought it would when my friends dragged me to it.The movie was very boring, much too long for the storyline, and overall seems that the only reason it was produced was as an excuse to throw together bad music, a bad plot, bad acting and badass attitudes that would only be appreciated by an audience that is too uncultured to expect more out of a cinematic experience.Thumbs down. "},{"Title":"Where's Louis","Date":"8 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Now i've read this book, and despite the fact it misses out the book The Vampire Lestat (sequel to Interview), it should at least feature Louis.. It doesn't. Lookout hollywood has buggered up another good book. It's a shame, cos Interview is a good movie, and Tom Cruise could have been fantastic in this sequel. Not enough money i guess. "},{"Title":". Lestat the vampire joins a rock and roll band and has a big battle with a very nasty vampire called Queen Akasha in Death Valley. Fairly good if you're really into vampires. Gory, a bit weird but not scary","Date":"8 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Arguably, Queen Of The Damned would probably have gone straight to video if its nominal star Aaliyah hadn't died in a plane crash a few months ago.And quite possibly I still would have watched and enjoyed it, just because it's a vampire movie. In spite of what you might have heard it's not that bad.The plot is a tad confusing. This is another adaptation from Anne Rice's Vampire Chronicles. Lestat (Stuart Townsend) creaks open his cozy coffin after 200 years rest because the music has improved. He's sensed that heavy metal/goth music is in vogue and he hungers to be a blood swilling, pale faced, satanic rock star. (There's a marketing tie in somewhere in that I'm sure.) Anyway he gets hooked up both with a particularly nasty vampire from ancient Egyptian times called Queen Akasha (Aaliyah), and an admiring human Jesse (Marguerite Morea). In keeping with the homo eroticism that is never lurking too far below the surface in vampire flicks, Marius (Vincent Perez) would also seem to be on the list if only Lestat would give poor Marius a chance.   Then there's Maharet (played surprisingly by the usually exceedingly lovely Lena Olin) who seems to be something of a mother figure to a coven of vampires. Anyway, somehow, we proceed to a big vampire battle in Death Valley at a rock concert!Queen Of The Damned will appeal to those lovers of the genre who are starved of them. It's really rubbish but with snatches of reasonably good vampire imagery. Townsend as Lestat is suitably pale and nasty and I did like the campy slithering of Aaliyah as Akasha. It's a shame she won't be back for more.2 Blood Sucking Flys  "},{"Title":"Party f color but little else.","Date":"5 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is a relatively low budget movie that was not even going to be played in the theaters. The famous R&B singer Aalyiah died in the plain crash, and this, however sad, is the best form of advertising the movie could have dreamed of. Now it has the chance to be a blockbuster hit; it is played in movie theaters and is widely advertised weeks prier to its release. So the chance to become a hit arose, but the movie failed horribly. The question is, why? No matter how nice the special affects were, no matter how sweet the movie for the eye, no matter how sexy the Irish actor playing Lestat, Stuart Townsend, is as he parades around the stage and crawls on the floor with no shirt. Still, despite all this, the movie made one dreadful mistake. But before I inform the world of it, let me first show the difference between Anne Rices The Vampire Lestat, and Queen of the Damned (both of which the movie attempted to embrace. The Vampire Lestat is a character based book. It is the story of Lestat de Lioncourt and emphasizes emotions, and character. The Vampire Armand, Interview with the Vampire, and Blood and Gold, as well as Pandora, are all such character based novels. Queen of the Damned, however, is the one novel which is NOT character based, but instead is more of a historical documentation of Vampires. There is no star; in Queen of the Damned, or, if there is, it is the history. In combining aspects of Queen of the Damned and The Vampire Lestat the movie succeeded in capturing neither fully. One never actually hears the history of Vampires, Never even is introduced to the characters, Pandora and Armand. Neither does one sense the full character of Lestat, or his history. In one word, the movie felt confused as to what it was trying to be. "},{"Title":"crap","Date":"5 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  this movie has to be one of the most pathetic movies i've ever seen. it sucks! it has no good special effects ether. when the bodies were burned they floated up into the air, what the heck was that all about. and marius is the one who made armond, not lestat. magnus is the one who made lestat.that movie is in one word, COR4!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"One of the best vampire movies out there","Date":"4 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I loved this movie, it was spectacular, I was going crazy when I saw it in the theater because I enjoyed it so much. I have read the Vampire Chronicles and I realize several key plot elements were left out, but if you look at this movie in its own right, it is very good. I am so sorry that this movie was not a great success like it intended to be. It deserves another chance and I wanted to see it again but it disappeared from theaters so quickly. I am buying the DVD the first day it comes out, no question. Stuart Townsend was a great Lestat, definitely better than Tom Cruise, Jesse was hot and actually had more to do in the movie than she did in the book, and Aaliyah was breathtaking as Queen Akasha. Every scene she was in she just captured the essence of the movie, and was very effective as an evil vampiress. This movie has a great soundtrack, I love the track Cold by Static X, and the photography and the costumes and the scenes at the concert are purely stunning, endless eye candy. I urge any people who love vampire movies and who have not seen this to buy the DVD, its worth it.  "},{"Title":"never should have made","Date":"3 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  i have read every one of the vampire books for anne rice, and i loved them, the first movie was a great movie with some upsetting but understanding parts. but what they did with queen of the damned was unforgiveable. number 1 they should not have skipped the second book. number two, by changeing lestats maker they destroied the flow of the first movie. after all magnus needs to  be placed where he belongs. then the changeing of nicky to the gypsy girl was another bad move. i could just go on but i wont.  "},{"Title":"The Best vampire flick this year","Date":"2 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  It's Interview With A Vampire meets the Matrix. It's got an awesome soundtrack, good special effects, and a good storyline however this movie wasn't perfect it had it's flaws. First of all if Lestat just awoke from centuries of sleep NOW. What's with the ending of Interview With A Vampire. He wasn't sleeping and still looked like a lizard. Not only that he was also awake to talk to Louis in that cemetary.  Obviously Tom Cruise Isn't Reprising his role as Lestat, Not that Stuart Townsend does a bad job in fact he does a great job (And for all of you fellow Crow fans he looks exactly like Brandon Lee. the resemblence is mind blowing). And What ever hapened to that rule stated in Interveiw Vampires must be Powerful and beautiful. Most of the vampires in this one look like the clientell of a Coal Chamber concert Which is far from Beautiful. But on my 1 to 10 scale I give an 8. It's Great Xspecialy in the theatres     "},{"Title":"Surely to God, Anne Rice didnt really write this did she?","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I cannot beleive this film was ever made. the story is soooo bad that its comical.I have never read any of Anne Rices books, and I'm sure the book was good. as a viewer who isnt familiar with anne rice, I can say this about the movie. The plot was so bad I didnt know if this movie was supposed to be funny or serious. I thought the whole concept of LeStat the Rock n Roll vampire holding a press conference to announce that he his a real vampire and challenging other Vampires to come out, come out where ever you are was as stupid as it sounds. and when the lady at the press conference asked him how others in the vampire community felt about him announcing that he is real vampire. and so seriously nodded her head as if it were totaly normal and vampire were some form of ethnic group--that whole sceen was an insult to the inteligence of the average movie goer.- and if the Rock n Roll vampire thing wasnt bad enough the writers added a ancient Egyptian Vampire God-Queen to the story who just worders around killing people and vampires both just because she can. (one sceen shows the beach in California and she has killed everyone on the beach looks like 200 bodies). I hated to see such a waste of good actors, great costumes and briliant soundtrack. this movie is an insults to your intelligence 15 mins after it starts and gets worst and worst as it goes along. "}{"Title":"A movie NOT for the fans of Anne Rice","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The Queen of the Damned (and the Vampire Lestat) were two of the most fabulous books I have ever READ...but put these novels squished together into an hour and a half movie...you just made spam. A lot of people eat spam...but they dont know what's in it, and that makes them happy...most of the people that do know what's in it dont eat it...and a rare few that do know, eat it, and like it...well lets just say Burger King is probably a gourmet meal. Much like this movie, The Queen of the Damned. If you've never read the books, you'll probably enjoy it. There's great special effects, beautiful actors, and good screenplay. If you have read the books, you most likely will be disgusted at how little they explained much of anything in the movie. And if you have read the books and enjoyed the movie more power to you. At least you dont feel that you wasted 2 hours of your life. "},{"Title":"disappointing","Date":"29 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  There are parts of the movie which I find quite visually beautiful, and I liked a lot of the music (though I just can't get used to Jonathan Davis's voice coming out of Stuart Townsend), but as a whole it left me pretty disappointed.  As a huge fan of the books, my main complaint is that I didn't really get a chance to care about any of the characters. First of all, there was way too much emphasis put on Jesse; I didn't care about her when I read the book, and secondly, Lestat (through no fault of Stuart Townsend), came off as possessing precious little personality. The fact that Lestat didn't have blonde hair is rather unnerving, but I am willing to forgive that blunder simply because Stuart Townsend is REALLY frickin' hot! Also, in comparison to Interview with the Vampire, which was handled with oodles of class, this one came off feeling kinda cheesy, and I found myself laughing at times I probably wasn't supposed to. I will give the writers a smattering of credit though, simply because they had a hell of a lot of characters and events to squeeze into 100 minutes. All in all, the movie wasn't a total disaster, but it left me feeling pretty let down.      "},{"Title":"Horrible Adaptation","Date":"29 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  After seeing this movie in the theatre, it took me a few minutes to actually wonder if I liked it or hated it to death.If you're looking for a movie based on Anne Rice's Queen of the Damned masterpiece, consider it non existant. This movie doesn't even come close to portraying the Chronicles' characters, and in fact doesn't even include some of the most important people, leaving you with a bunch of vampires who just happen to have some of the same names.On a light note, the soundtrack rocks, Lestat is looking delicious, and the over all scenery can be very beautiful. However, only the digital effects, makeup, and the music made this film even worth trying to satisfy one's curiosity.The movie itself is very unstable. The characters are confusing, and Lestat even has the wrong accent; he's supposed to be French, but in the movie he's Irish. The narration was retarded. I felt myself looking away a few times because I couldn't even watch, and just sitting there laughing the whole time at the movie's absurdity. Like Townsend said, it really is a cheesy film.If you've read the books, however, you're in for an inside joke with David and Marius. They've never even conversed in the books, but here they seem to really like each other- and just WHAT do those two have in common? )Don't waste your time seeing this and buy the soundtrack. 2/10 "},{"Title":"Good Actors and a Killer Soundtrack do not a Great Film Make","Date":"26 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I have been following Anne Rice's books for the better part of a decade, and if am disappointed with this adaptation of Queen of the Damned, I cannot begin to imagine the disappointment of the real purists who have been reading since the appearance of Interview With the Vampire in 1976.One could forgive the executive decision to combine and condense the books The Vampire Lestat and Queen of the Damned if certain key plot elements had been retained.  It certainly makes for a smoother plot to shift the credit for Lestat's creation onto Marius; after all, it gives the viewing audience a much more credible motive for Lestat's seeking him out, at least more credible than an insane vampire turning Lestat and immediately immolating himself.  But what is completely irreconcilable in such a compaction of two novels is the altering of the protagonist's basic character.  Lestat, in his own words, prefers to feed on evil low life types.  It is just this predilection which sets into motion the events of Memnoch the Devil.  And yet we see him preying on the innocent at least twice in this film.And what have we lost in this foul and pestilent congregation of vapours? The story of Lestat.  Allusions through wolfskin rugs just don't cut t.  -- Marius and the making of Armand; the mystique of Those Who Must be Kept and Rice's take on the true origin of vampires, a good story in itself set in ancient Egypt.  -- Lestat's friend Nikki and the origin of the Theatre des Vampires; and, integral to Lestat's character, his struggle with the concept of the world as a Savage Garden.To me, it's a terrible tragedy that movies like this make it to perhaps a much wider audience than the books they're based on.  The Vampire Chronicles have established Anne Rice as a crafter of stunning prose filled with sumptuous imagery, and horrors that are not so much visual as they are emotional and spiritual.  Those of us who know her characters long for more of her stories about them, and to us, this movie is a rude insult. "},{"Title":"Did Anne Rice like this movie?","Date":"22 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I did not really like this movie because it really roughly followed the books.  I have read all of Anne Rice's Vampire Chronicles and I really respect every thing about them.  That is why this movie got to me so much. For one thing, Marius did not make Lestat, this vampire Magnus did.  Now I know that it is just a movie but to take the books Vampire Lestat, and The Queen of the Damned, and come out with a movie this choped up, is just wrong.  I think any true Anne Rice fan would hate this movie because of how chopped it is, but if your looking for a fun will directed Vampire movie then is the Queen of the Damned.  And if you have not read the books see the movie first so you are not so mad at the end of it.  The one thing that I really like was Jonathan Davis' Lyrics and background vocals for Lestats sing.  This movie had it ups and down like all movies do but I would have to say that it was entertaining to watch because you did see Lestat come to life, Stuart Townsend was great for the part, except for his black hair, Lestat has long blonde hair, but he was good for Lestat de Lioncourt.  "},{"Title":"Disappointed? Not me!!! (possible spoilers)","Date":"21 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Despite its huge opening weekend, many people were disappointed and Queen of the Damned fell drastically after the opening. As for me, on the other hand, I loved it. Worlds apart from its predecessor Interview with a Vampire, Queen of the Damned portrays a wildly original twist on the vampire legend. Lestat wakes with a desire to walk openly as a vampire. He joins a rock band as their new singer, and markets himself as a vampire gimmick. Brilliant!!!The late Aaliyah makes the movie in every sense. The film is entertaining before her first screen appearance, but, as Queen Akasha, she pulls out all the stops. At once incredibly frightening and incredibly erotic, Queen Akasha exudes a presence unlike any other in the film. We can only speculate where her acting career would've taken her after this. Coupled with her music, her role in Romeo Must Die showed her vast talent, but it wasn't much of a stretch for an R&B star to portray that role. Queen Akasha, on the other hand, was light years away from it, and truly gave the world a glimpse of a new screen legend. And then there's Lestat. Both Tom Cruise's and Stuart Townsend's interpretations of the character were erotic, arrogant, end edgy for the timeframes of each movie, but I seriously doubt Tom Cruise would've been effective reprising his role for Queen of the Damned. Stuart Townsend, having appeared mainly in indies and lesser-known films before this, adds a unique and welcome twist to an established character. Anne Rice fans will probably be disappointed, if they aren't already, but that's mainly because her unique vision wasn't really represented here. She wrote the Interview with a Vampire script, so that vision shone throughout. That's where Queen of the Damned fails, in that it's someone else's idea of her vision. All in all, as a casual Anne Rice fan and a huge fan of the contemporary vampire lifestyle, I had a blast from credits to credits. Oh, yeah...the soundtrack was AWESOME!!! "},{"Title":"Better than the last attempt","Date":"21 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I just watched this film twice in the last 3 days. I had been eagerly looking forward to it. It is a good thing they skipped to making the third book into a movie, since the first left WAY too much out as those who actually READ the books know. Now, to the actual movie. First thing I noticed that made me happy is that they made Lestat more like the Lestat in the book. It stayed more true to the character. Tom Cruise's portrayal made Lestat into a fop. Another thing I was pleased about was that Lestat this time had a mild FRENCH accent. This time they remembered he was a FRENCH nobleman. The actor portraying Marius is not what I pictured and tended to lean more towards Armands personality in the books, but did a good job none the less. Once again though, they took many many artistic licenses in the story. (ie  as you know, Marius did NOT make Lestat )As for the Queen, I think she was underplayed. But I found it interesting. ESPECIALLY her accent. Since none of us (mortals at least...) ) KNOWS the EXACT dialect the ancient (6,000 years ago) Egyptians spoke, What I heard from her sounded a great deal like the way Yul Brenner sounded playing Ramseys. But hey good news to those other Anne Rice fans........They didn't take as many liberties with the ages of he characters as they did in the first one. Armand actually looks like he is described. He is quite young in appearance, not in his 30's, but they did make David about 25 years too young. There are several scenes that they should have kept but didn't unfortunately. Was I the only one hoping to see Jessie's experience in the New Orleans Town house? Not there. Also they left out several key characters like a twin for one. And still, with all this, I really enjoyed the film regardless of the deletions. The only part I really didn't like was that the showdown scene was too short and kind of anti climatic. I would still recommend this movie to all people ESPECIALLY fans of the book. It is nice to see what they did RIGHT this time.         "},{"Title":"What happened?","Date":"19 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  **Before I start, I want to make it clear that I am not here to bash any of the actors or director.  My only real gripe (that I talk about here anyway) is with the writers.  So, with that said, I will now proceed with the bashing.**What happened?  The writers had an excellent book with which to work, and they killed it.  No wait, they raped it, mutilated it, and then burnt it, all while obviously in a drunken stupor.  How anyone who knows anything about the original _good_ story line can rate this above a 3, I just cannot understand.  Not only was the entire story line way off base from the books (since about half of the movie was from The Vampire Lestat), and thus the entire series, but there were even parts that ruined the entire theories behind vampires themselves that Anne Rice put into all her books.  The defamation of the characters is one thing, the omission of extremely important characters is terrible also in itself, but undermining the entire vampire persona is simply inexcusable.   I truly feel sorry for all of Aaliyah's fans that had to see her for the final time in this terrible film. I don't mean to sound like some idiot who is just ranting, but after watching this film, I can't do anything else.  I would say more, but as you can see, I've said about all I can while staying as polite as possible.Please, if you know anything about the Vampire Chronicles (and not just the movie version of Interview with a Vampire), do yourself a favor, and stay sane by refusing to watch this film.  "},{"Title":"more holes then swiss cheese","Date":"18 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Ok I'm not an Anne Rice purist. Quite frankly it took a long time for me to pick up the Vampire Lestat after the absolute chore it was to read Interview. But if you are going to make a movie based off a book or a series of books at least pick a shorter book or make a longer movie! Half the plot was missing! There are more characters in the book then in the movie, or so I thought. Half of them show up in the credits, but you'd never know they were there since there was hardly any character development. And what was the deal with Maharet and Akasha? Can we possibly get some clue as to their connection before we have this big showdown???  If you haven't read the books then you'll probably like the movie. I have to say once I let go of the whole it's not at all like the book thinking it was actually rather enjoyable. Stuart Townsend,in my opinion, was a great choice for Lestat especially compared with the ham job Tom Cruise did in Interview. Stuart actually came off as mysterious, sexy, and lethal. Aaliyah was beautiful as Akasha, but I think it would have come off better if they hadn't used sound effects to give her this big spooky voice. They had some good visuals and the soundtrack was very cool. I had to laugh at the bit spot they gave to Jonathan Davis as a ticket scalper. All in all not as bad as I expected. I will probably get the DVD and definately get the soundtrack. "},{"Title":"damned from the get go","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Don't know from what book this guy was making this film from but it wasn't from The Vampire Chronicles Queen of the Damned, that's for sure. The names weren't even changed to protect the slaughter of characters in the story, in fact the names were the ONLY things that were the same. These actors, I know are good, I've seen them in other movies and they've were GREAT!!!!!! If you get bad direction, you end up with a bad movie and this was the case here. I heard Anne Rice, herself, offered to do the screen play for free (Don't know if that's true or not but if it was, I'll bet those who nixed that idea are kicking themselves, now). I have to agree with others who have called this a glorified music video. If we're looking at it in that perspective, it's pretty good but as a movie, I don't think so.  "}{"Title":"MOVIE VERSION OF THE HARD ROCK CHANNEL","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  being a heavy metal fan i was definatly moved by the soundtrack which i noticed consisted of great bands such as korn, disturbed, and marylin manson (gueses by the way) anyways im not a heavy metaller burn out on pot so i like a little deeper storyline in my movies. and whats the deal with making drinking otrhers blood from ripped flesh sexy and erotic. maybe they should have put their money into some better writers for their scripts.  "},{"Title":"The mother of all Vampire Movies","Date":"16 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I am not quite sure where to start with this movie.  It seems like this movie fills in a lot of holes as far as how one becomes a Vampire; willingly or victim.I thought the story line of 'Queen of the Damned' was pretty good.  I was really into the idea that Lestat was a rock star.  The way the concert scenes were shot from a bird's eye view really gave the feeling that he was a true rock star, and he was the star of the movie, not Aaliyah, who played her part exquisitely.  It's just a shame how she didn't live to see her work on the Big screen. Her part was very little but she played it well.  She seemed very into it.  I noticed that about Aaliyah, in her other movie.  She really gets into her parts.  The movie, in the beginning, was slow, but it picked up quickly.  The action started and the film suddenly became really exciting.I think what made it exciting for me was Lestat and the relationship he ended up having with the girl who was obsessed with him.  It was kind of romantic, because she died for him,to be with him; and she knew she would have to become immortal to be close to him.So,overall the movie really turned out to be about love and what people do for love. "},{"Title":"Would You Like a Little Cheese with that WHINE???","Date":"15 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie just plain sucked!!!!!!!! if i can sit and laugh at something that is considered to be a horror flick then it's gotta be bad. as far a vampire movies go, it was okay and i use the term loosely. i was quite amused by the overacting that is apparent in the majority of vampire flicks (showed up here in Lestat and Akasha as well as EVERY SINGLE VAMPIRE IN THE ADMIRAL'S ARMS!!) I personally have never read the book although I watched the movie with a friend who did and had to endure hours upon hours of her complaints and her NO!!! it's all wrong!!! *sniffle sniffle* five minutes into the movie I was LMAO and she was in tears because they destroyed her book, which apparently is a decent read. Where's Armand? she squealed angrily and that was just the beginning. Personally, I wanted to see Louis, as he was my favorite character in Interview, and she claims he was in the book. *sigh* they screwed up again. Leave it to hollywood to take a perfectly good vampire story and turn it into MTV's worst nightmare. yes it's sad to say that this corny excuse for a vampire movie actually entertained me sadder still is the fact that i wouldn't mind seeing it again. as for my friend, she's content with one of the two things they got right...the soundtrack...the second thing they actually did right was the wardrobe. If you're looking to me to see if you should watch this movie, ask yourself this one question Would you like a little Cheese with that Whine??? if you don't mind the cheese and you haven't read the book you might just like it.  "},{"Title":"Disappointed fan of Anne Rice's artistry","Date":"15 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  As an amateur writer what I witnessed as I watched this tragic misconception of Mrs. Rice's work was quite simply murder in the first degree, and quite brutal.  Mimicking is one of the highest forms of flattery, yes; but when you destroy the essence of that which you're trying to recreate you end up doing more harm than good.  What I saw was a man attempting to recreate a Monet (my own favorite artist) and ending up with something that resembled roughly a mangled corpse's viscera thrown at an old yellowed canvas.  I use a rather graphic example, I understand that, but it is only to appropriately present my concerns.  I think all the fans would have much rather enjoyed a movie 3 1/2 to 4 hours long giving us a whole and accurate story.  Even if the actors from the the prequel (IWTV) could not be hired to play their old positions, the least that could have been done was to match the style of makeup and mannerism that the vampires beheld.  It's an insult Mrs. Rice and to us.. the outcasts... "},{"Title":"Be prepared for something a little trippin'","Date":"14 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Queen of the Damned has an extremely neat surreal or impressionistic feel to it.  Meaning, that it starts off as a series of hazy incidences that don't seem quite to fit together.  But then at the end the movie pulls back if you will revealing the entire picture and through this the audience gets an impression of a real story.  This style of movie-making can be very effective and enjoyable but only if you like that sort of thing, which I don't.  Let me say this, if you like From Hell you would probably like Queen of the Damned. "},{"Title":"A failed attempt to fuse the 2nd and 3rd books of the Vampire Chronicles.","Date":"13 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I usually hate when a book is adapted into a movie.  I feel that Interview with the Vampire was a good movie and and very true to the book.  However, Queen of the Damned was kind of like the book, but left out waaay too much. So much that i doubt i would have understood the movie if i had not read the book first.  The biggest mistake was trying to take two really good books (The Vampire Lestat and Queen Of the Damned) and trying to squeeze then into 100 minutes of screentime.  Thats shorter than Interview.  Of course there are somethings that can be left out, but you can't leave out the plot! Besides my complaints with adaptations the film wasnt sooo bad.  The acting was mediocre.  Special effects and sound were ok.  The music was decent. Editing was average.  But what good is a movie if theres no story? "},{"Title":"could have been better, but not bad either","Date":"13 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Queen of the dammed is an okey movie. I wish aalayah could have completed filming the Matrix reloaded before she passed away (I wished she hadn't passed away at all) so she could have more (better) movie credentials under her belt. QD  was a bit cheesy. I mean, really, centuary old vampires comming back to life because of music? I was looking for something more profound than that. Plot's a little thin, some cheesy moments, but it did offer a few good visuals and some-what decent action. Grade C. "},{"Title":"All of the Above","Date":"12 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  BLOOD... DARKNESS... SEX... POWER... ANGER... and PAIN. not to mention a KICK ASS soundtrack.  Okay, the plot, frankly, um...sucked. It was choppy and unimaginative.  But there was something there. Something that stired your blood, that aroused your senses.  Something that gives you a grater appreciation for the night... "},{"Title":"This movie SUCKED...","Date":"10 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  All i can say is....wait for it to come out on video..and when it does..RENT IT!!! It didn't even mention or hint to many of the plots that were in the book...What happened to Armand and Daniel? What happened to the red haired twins???? "},{"Title":"Not the best way I would want to remember Aaliyah.","Date":"10 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  At times this feels like a sequel to Interview with a Vampire. At other times I wonder when Blade is gonna come out and kill all these vampires. Stuart Townsend seems affective has Lestat. Although it would have been nice to see Tom Cruise reprise his role has Lestat. It was on a sad note that Aaliyah did not live to see this movies realese. ############################Spoiler#################################### Aaliyah is in it for about 15 minutes. If the title was Called Queen of the Damned, I thought Aaliyah was the star. That was a disapointing part of the movie. Like I said not the best way I would want to remember Aaliyah. "}{"Title":"How...predictable.","Date":"10 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Wow.  Anne Rice pulled a Stephen King, and sold out.  Oh, well.  It was only a matter of time.  At one point I was wondering when Brittany Spears would make a cameo to complete the total lack of taste.All the special effects in the world can not save a bad movie.  Bad movie, bad acting, bad screenplay, bad editing, and the list goes on.  Another round goes to the abject lack of movie artistry. Kudos to the greedy multimedia corporate slobs that pander to the common element.  You must be so proud.  I hope your shareholders see it your way. "},{"Title":"a bit entertaining, but poor altogether","Date":"9 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I just went to the movies and saw The Queen of the Damned. I can't say many positive things about it-The makeup was incredibly corny, although simple. If I'm not wrong, the vampires even had some sort of glitter around their eyes, which was truly horrid.-The acting was the worst I've seen in ages. The lead, Stuart Townsend, although he had an interesting accent he wasn't able to make a scene look realistic (Above all the scenes in which he speaks to the reporters through a TV screen). The same I can say about the late Aaliyah, who delivers a performance equal to Keanu Reeves' in The Matrix (that is, 0 stars out of 10).-A great love is supposed to arise between Jesse and Lestat (An eternal love, as a matter of fact), but....who has seen any development of this so-called love story in the whole film???-Great part of the soundtrack was trashy nu-metal, probably there to attract crowds of teenagers to their local CD store and buy it.Now, let's pass on to the positive parts-Altough the soundtrack was horrid at parts, the opening titles song by (I believe) Korn was pretty good (And I dislike Korn to the highest degree), and it perfectly fit those titles.-Vincent Perez is magnificent in his role as Marius and stands high among the rest of this poor cast.-The special effects were well used and not abused. Truly a great goal in these days, especially in vampire movies (See Blade).-The costumes were excellent, and this field reaches its maximum when we can see the elder vampires together plotting against Akasha. Magnificent.That is all I can say about the film, in few words, decent direction (although It couldn't do much against the poor acting), good artistic direction, sufficient soundtrack, good story, but deficient acting. 6 out of 10  "},{"Title":"surprise ending!","Date":"9 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  In a surprising twist of events, the queen of the damned doesn't turn out to be who you thought, and neither the damned. Suffice to say that Lestat was pretty gay, and you'll curse yourself walking out of the theaters--no matter at what point in the movie you decide to do that. And in a typically all-American ethnocentric movie, the promises of ruling over the world sum up to flying across the sky and always landing somewhere in California. California is the world baby! At least to Hollywood it is. Watch for the same ethnocentric assumption in the Time Machine.  "},{"Title":"The more I think about it, the less I like it","Date":"7 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  When first I saw it, I did find a few things I liked.  The attitude of the producer was not one of them.  His past as a studio exec haunts this formula driven film.  The music was OK, if a bit done - I love industrial music, but would have liked something new.  The concert scene was the worst.  What was up with all the plastic props?  OK, so you found a few Goths on the street and you think that qualifies you.  I got so sick of hearing them say they were Goth  Not that I would claim the sickening title, I just like black and hang out in basement clubs.  Obviously the creative director of this movie didn't.  First, Industrial does not equal Goth.  Second, where was the dark, beauty?  And everything else about the lack of continuity is true. The only people who like this film are Aaliyah fans who get off on seeing her squirm in a bikini.  But she doesn't even do that much.  And what is with the accents?  After thousands of years you figure she could learn not to lisp through the teeth?  And wouldn't hundreds of years old vampires have some power and intelligence.  Lestat comes across poorly, but Marius is the worst.  They do show him to be an accomplished painter, but gloss over the reason why and there is no other hint than any of the characters might actually have lived for some time.  Isn't that the appeal of Vampires? Eternal life and all the benefits?  This movie was a poor Hollywood standard action flick trying to stuff in too much intelligence.  Somewhere along the line they should have made the choice between compelling drama and action. Instead the achieved neither. "},{"Title":"A Damned shame","Date":"7 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Despite superb casting of Stuart Townsend as the Vampire Lestat and Vincent Perez as his maker, Marius, The Queen of the Damned is like a lengthy music video that assaults the senses but leaves little impact. The third book in Anne Rice's Vampire Chronicles and the second to be filmed, Queen of the Damned steamrolls over plot lines taken from The Vampire Lestat and sacrifices its characters on the altar of superficially slick Hollywood imagery. Perhaps it's a matter of (pop)cultural delay. Whereas Rice's books were truly groundbreaking in the decades between Interview with the Vampire and the aforementioned Lestat, the angst-ridden vampires that are her stock and trade are unfortunately now a dime a dozen in mass media. At times, their collective lament, in this film at least, seems silly. Marry them with music by the undeniably talented Jonathan Davis (of Korn fame), and you have every thirteen-year-old Goth's wet dream. But beyond its attempts at art and artifice (including a rather good video homage to the silent classic Cabinet of Dr. Caligari), there's little substance to Damned. A damned shame, too, as many fine actors -- Perez, Lena Olin and even a promising Aaliyah (whose untimely death is responsible for much of the hype surrounding this movie) -- are wasted.  "},{"Title":"All right, fans of Anne Rice's Vampire Chronicles, hold on tight, take a deep breath, because it may be your last. and come out come out where ever you are.","Date":"7 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  THE DAMNEDHonestly, this movie is really more about the Vampire Lestat, portrayed in an enticingly dark delight by Stuart Townsend. Lestat has been lonely too long; he decided to roam the earth in light among mortals. Against all other vampires consent, he became a rock star and exposed himself as a vampire, not to mention sharing deep vampire secrets to the mortal world. If you have read the book, Lestat has exposed himself before by becoming an actor in a theatre.In the movie, Lestat was made by Marius, who left him in despair and loneliness, but not after he taught Lestat enough lessons to live in shadows amongst mortals. You might understand Lestat's loneliness and his delicious pompous b**tard attitude more if you read the book and realize that he was in fact made by Magnus, who killed himself just after he transform Lestat into a vampire. Lestat was probably one of the only vampires forced to roam the mortal world without proper introduction to vampirism.So, what is the movie got to do with the Queen of the Damned? Basically, Lestat awakens Akasha who wants to rule the earth with demonic powers again as she did in the old days. Akasha, or She Who must be Kept is well portrayed by Aaliyah, although I must say, she does not have to be in this movie. I mean, she's only appearing in probably 15 minutes of the whole movie! I think they should just call this movie The Vampire Lestat and dedicate another separate movie to Queen of the Damned. Anyway, salute to Aaliyah who is very beautiful and graceful as well as demonic as Akasha. even though she could try a more Egyptian accent instead of the usual Vlad Dracul's Romanian/Hungarian accent...And finally, the rest of the characters. hmm. what can I say about the rest? Why oh why do you have to portray Marius to be so gay? I thought that Vincent Perez would be a good choice to play Marius, but Marius is not gay. I don't have any problems with gay community, but again Marius is not gay. And please tell me that the blond Leonardo DiCaprio look alike is not Armand, he who has been perfectly portrayed by Antonio Banderas in 'Interview'.THE FORSAKENA tribute to Goths all over the world, this movie is more of a Goth MTV celebration than an adaptation of Anne Rice's Queen of the Damned. First of all, this movie, which is far too short than its predecessor, Interview with the Vampire, is trying to capture both essence from The Vampire Lestat and Queen of the Damned. I mean, if it takes more than two hours to describe one book in 'Interview' how could they thought to achieve 2 books in a less than two hours movie.Nevertheless, it is, like I said, a tribute to Goths and as a Goth, I truly appreciate the music, the depiction of the band, Davis' cool voice and Stuart's wonderful stage performance. Stuart, you should really try forming a Goth band!!I truly despised the depiction of Lestat's tenderness towards Jesse by the end of the movie. This is not the Lestat I know, this is not the Lestat that was portrayed earlier in the movie. The Lestat that was afraid to bite when he sees blood. hello? What's going on here? And the Lestat that fly with too many sequences, especially the scene where he took Jesse for a flight. it made me think of Superman!Oh, and the ending, where he walks hand in hand with Jesse, saying hello to David Talbot. what can I say. this movie is really just worth to watch to hear great music and see beautiful people like Stuart and Aaliyah. Think of it as a video clip with a story... "},{"Title":"A sad day for Anne Rice fans (Possible Spoilers Incl.)","Date":"6 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  When I first heard they were making this movie, I knew right away, with the absence of Neil Jordan, that it was most likely not going to be up to the same par as IWTV. However, I still held on to that thread of hope that I was wrong.I was so right.Casting While Stuart Townshend *almost* looked the part of Lestat (at least closer to the right age than Cruise), he was too inhuman, so to speak. He lacked any of the quasi-sensitivity that Lestat himself battles with. He seemed more like Mr. Lee in the Crow than a Vampire. as far as Aaliyah is concerned, I was at first slightly put off at the choice, but she wasn't all that bad...for the 10 minutes of screen time they gave her. How generous that the title character shows up at the end, only to die just as the plot is beginning. Vincent Perez as Marius, albeit not a mirror of the book, was charming and I really felt he stole the show...Margeurite Moreau as Jesse was cute but miscast in the part. Armand looked like a crackhead, and Mael (or was that Khayman????) looked like Lurch. Pandora was perfectly cast, but for some odd reason the writers decided to kill her off...without ever giving her a line. Funny thing is, she filmed quite a few scenes with Marius, but they all hit the cutting room floor.As for the inconsitencies between the book and the movie? Sorry, I don't have all day. "},{"Title":"Thank you Aaliyah","Date":"6 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Dear Aaliyah, I am so sorry I wished you off the Matrix 2. I am so sorry I judged you from a single cropped picture from Romeo Must Die without ever seeing you act. My jaw dropped at your beauty and your fine performance with the little you were given. I read that you are the first black Egyptian queen on film, and you more than excelled at it. There are many comments on your Bela Lugosi accent, and I don't know if that has to do with the post-production re-creating of your voice, or if it was in the director's image and yours. Whatever it maybe, I think it is a minute detail, and doesn't change the fact that your acting was eerie as it needed to be. It reminded me of Tim Burton's girlfriend on Mars Attacks! As it turned out, your performance was a guest appearance on a soap as ethnically diverse as Friends. Although it was titled after your role, the story really was about the ugly duckling who wanted to become a bat, and the magic of cinema turned her into a fanged goth duck. Once a duck, always a duck, what can I say? Unfortunately that show never took off, which is understandable because the only feeling of suspense I got was whether or not Vincent Perez would lose his head again or not--he lost it for the French, then the Russians put it in a jar, so I was wondering if his Transylvanian fate would be any different. But somehow the pilot ended up hitting the silver screen, and around the world people will enjoy your presence. Thank you for your talent.  "},{"Title":"Sound track  Yes, Movie  No","Date":"6 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Saw this movie in the States and it was a real waste of time. Loved the sound track. That fitted the style of the movie perfectly. As soon as I left the cinema I found the shop and bought the sound track. The actors and actresses played their parts well. Trouble was the story just didn't go well. The movie jumped around, then dragged, then jumped again. It just spoilt what could've been a great movie. Glad Tom Cruise wasn't in it. That would've been even worse. At least Stuart Townsend can act. "},{"Title":"the festering scent of this film still burns","Date":"5 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The festering scent of this movie still burns in my sinuses. Someone should stake the screen writer and the producers for releasing such a worthless, inept film upon this world. By the first hour I was wishing someone would put me out of what seemed to be the eternal misery cursed on me by the filmmakers.As a writer myself, and a fan of Anne Rice; I expected much more. I at least hoped for an adaption even worthy of the other misguided Vampire flick based on her ever worthy series. Unfortunately I did not even get that. Instead we are presented with a rambling, pointless showcase of Jonathan davis's Music, which is not even up to par of his past forayes into the subject. We were given a descent performance by the late great Allyah who only had a total of 19 minutes screen time, that is unless you count the time she was a statue in the film. Even then her acting job was much better than the rest of the cast.being a published writer in this genre, I believe i know a little about the subject. Therefor I must say it is most unfortunate such a excellent novel could be misconstrued to the point that the very essence of the story is lost in the process. I dread seeing what they can do to ruin the best book of the series Minock THe Devil in its rumored upcoming production, I suggest the movie company look into hiring the screenwriter used for the flm adaption of Red Violin, another of Anne Rices great books, and the director of The Kindred series, that was based on the game Vampire of The Masquerade. At least both of these were worth 7.50 admission and the 2hrs of your life you will never get back. Because unlike the protagonist in this film, we do not live forever and therefor our time has value.My final review Put a stake in it. it's done. Now bury it where it will never have to be endured by another unfortunate soul. "}{"Title":"Disappointment...","Date":"5 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I'm glad I paid only matinee prices for this big disappointment.  It is so far off the mark they should call it Queen of the Duped.  While Aaliyah made a great Queen, and Stuart Townsend made a much better Lestat than Tom Cruise, the plot was a huge disappointment.  This one will not see the light of my video library.   "},{"Title":"Bleh.","Date":"5 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I could go on and on with a book vs movie comparison. But I won't. We all know what things were missing from the movie and what things were incorrect about the movie. Instead heres some random thoughts. Lestat was a miscast, yet again. Akasha was a miscast as well.I always imagined the vampire chronicles to be some awesome series of films that will transcend time and present fads and music.  Not so.In two years this will be a long forgotten film existing only for some bitter underpaid smuck to dust every month off a shelf of some major video store. This movie could have at least aspired to be campy. A gothic melee of old school cheese music and *notable*, *noticeable* cast and appearences of high class gothic celebrities would prove entertaining and interesting. Not so. Making a well known hip hop icon the focus of the movie assured that.One quick thing about the books; Its true, the vampire chronicles weren't about being vampires. They were about being human beings. "},{"Title":"Not horrible, but I can't recommend it","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I went to see this film expecting the worst. It wasn't, but it sure wasn't good. The vampires were so un-scary, I laughed out loud several times. And this movie betrays vampire legend by showing Lestat on a large TV screen, when everybody knows that you can't photograph a vampire! Thankfully, after one big weekend at the box office, word got around that this film is a colossal waste of time. The actors were pretty decent, I thought, but that's about it. "},{"Title":"Not sure if the title was appropriate...","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  There is a lot I could say about this film, but I think the main thing  I thought was that the title wasn't really the best idea. From what I viewed, it was more a film of the book The Vampire Lestat more than anything, it just excluded details from that book. While she was on screen, she played the part well, but I don't see naming the movie after a character who's only seen a few times in the film, and half of it was as a statue. "},{"Title":"Truly awful!","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I can't really say I actually saw this movie. I left 20 minutes into it. It was that bad. The only similarity between this movie and the book is the title. If I were Anne Rice, I think I'd be looking for someone to sue over the making of this movie.  "},{"Title":"Incredibly bad, but AWESOME soundtrack","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Unfortunately that's about all I have to say about this one.  The movie wasn't that great, of course Hollywood had to go ruin it by clashing two Anne Rice novels into one crap movie.And on the good side, Jonathan Davis is an excellent composer.  I can't stop listening to the soundtrack.  I like it more and more and more and.... "},{"Title":"Queen of the Damned.Enjoyable at times but could've been better.* *1/2","Date":"3 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The Vampire Lestat is now a rock star in Queen of the Damned.The sequel to the 1994 film Interview with a VampireThe Vampire Chronicles.I myself thought this film was alright and the film kept me involved,yet at the same time,the filmmakers idea on turning the character of Lestat into a rock star seemed a bit to corny for me.I looked at this film as the kind of film that I would probably enjoy as a late night popcorn movie that is usually shown on syndicated stations that show lame horror films during the midnight hours.Lestat is now played by Stuart Townsend,replacing Tom Cruise from the first film.Lestat who has just risen has dreams of sharing himself to the world by getting his own rock group.Alright,I don't see how that would have made the film interesting to watch but it was in some sections.The film might as well be best remembered as Aaliyah's last screen performance.Aaliyah is Queen Akasha.A vampiress that has more power than any other power and wants Lestar to be her king.Queen of the Damned disappointed me just a little and yes I also liked the film but Interview with a VampireThe Vampire Chronicles was a much better film in comparison.I enjoyed the performances of Stuart townsend and Aaliyah and i especially thought Aaliyah was great as Akasha but as the rest of the film,I was kind of let down. "},{"Title":"see it at a matinee","Date":"3 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Eh..it was so-so..it has nothing to do with the books what-so-ever with the exception of the character names.. and it's nothing we haven't seen in any other vampire movie.. i guess catch it at a matinee. and don't believe what you her about the vampire hunter )  "},{"Title":"For the hard-cores","Date":"3 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  *spoiler*I've read some of the comments others have posted about the movie, as well as having read all of the Vampire Chronicles.  Although I would say off-hand that the movie SUCKED!, it had enough good elements to bring me back a second time...and possibly a third.  The reason is not the story, which is a weak handling of an impossibly thick plot, but for the MUSIC!  All honors go to Jonathon Davis for his work, and for the artists who performed these songs.  I didn't take to the idea of a vampire, even Lestat, becoming a rock star when I first read the books, but the musical element in the movie won me over to Lestat more than anything else could have.I must also agree with the contention that Stuart Townsend pulls off a VERY good Lestat, and totally creates the rock star persona that Tom Cruise never would have.  Also, Vincent Perez brings the old-world style of Marius quite well, although trying to mesh his character with Rice's written Marius is near impossible.As for the rest of the characters, I was utterly disappointed that they remain unnamed and unexplained, as does Akasha's real purpose in awakening. If you haven't read the book, you will wonder why you should care what's going on.  And if you have read it...you will be sorely disappointed that most elements in the movie are a result of production decisions.  As for the Jesse character, that storyline in the movie does not work one iota, and leaves Lestat lovers with a bad taste in their mouth.  Lestat would not have fallen for her- or at least, not bothered to make her a fledgling.On a positive note, Rymer gave this movie both a look and a feel that work beautifully, with punk characters, and interesting imagery.  All in all, this movie looks pretty good, sounds FANTASTIC, but has about the content of 1 chapter of one of the Chronicles. "},{"Title":"Very Bad","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  If you like Anne Rice or the Movie  'Interview With a Vampire' you will hate this movie.It's like a 2-hour trailer or music video.  If you have not read the book I don't think you will be able to make any sense of it, but that is typical of a music video.  "}{"Title":"This movie bites...","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Let's not beat around the bush, this movie sucked more than the vampires in it.  Ignore for the moment the awful translation of Anne Rice's work into this celluloid mess.  You can still make a great movie based loosely on a novel and take liberties.  But this movie didn't even achieve that.  The characters & their performances were bad.  Perhaps that's just the extension of poor direction and a worse script.  There were very few moments when Townsend could connect with the Lestat character and even less for the other characters/actors.  If I were Cruise, I'd have turned down the offer too. There was so much more life to the performances in Interview.  I hope that someday, someone with more talent can deliver a better movie translation of these novels than the direct-to-video quality of QOTD.Take this coffin and put it in the sunlight where it belongs.Jaeson K. "},{"Title":"Fun schlock for a Friday night...","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I remember when Rice's book, INTERVIEW..., was released the FIRST time in the 70s.  I was in junior high school at the time, read half of it, and tossed it in the bin to take its place with the rest of the trash.  For the life of me, I never dreamed the book, one of the most poorly written I'd ever picked up, would be resurrected years later AND find an audience. So, all that said and bitchy as I am, I thought the film version of INTERVIEW... was abominable.I was particularly disappointed in this film because it was directed by Neil Jordan who, having worked with Angela Carter on THE COMPANY OF WOLVES, should have known better how to convey the eroticism and arcana of vampirism.  Sadly, none of Carter's insight into vampire lore seemed to have rubbed off on him or Rice.  As I mentioned, I never finished reading INTERVIEW; but, judging the film version on its own merits, it was as bad as the book; ultimately, a film of wasted opportunities and too much posturing; an exercise in pretentious presentation of a subject as if it is new and undiscovered; an assumption that its audience is too dumb to know more or better.But QUEEN...is another story altogether.  When I first saw the film's trailer, I groaned audibly, but, a few days later, I began to rethink it. Why was I taking it so seriously?  Why didn't I just go see the film for fun, for fantasy, for Friday night and leave it at that?  So I went to see it this evening, and I enjoyed it!I must admit, I'm not entirely sure why I enjoyed it. The opening credits sequence with its homage to DAS KABINETT... is, at this point, cliched. Townsend's accent is dodgy and his posing and sneering tiresome.  Frankly, posturing, by a number of the film's actors, is a major flaw of this film. And there was just too much MAC and talcum powder all around and not particularly well applied, I might add. And was so much money spent on make-up that there was none left to pay a script editor or language coach with even a basic knowledge of French?  Between all the different pronounciations of the name Lestat and such glaring mistakes as Je suis Lestat... I have to wonder.But, on the plus side, there is a real heady dose of artful, decadent, old, and older, world arcana on display particularly when the narrative shifted, early on, to the vampirizing of Lestat and his first encounter with the gorgonized Akasha.  Also, Akasha's later presentation is splendid, bizarre, beautiful, and grotesque all at once, and, as far as I'm concerned, worth the price of admission. Also, it was interesting to see a heroine who is hairier than the hero--adds a certain earthy frisson to the proceedings.Having seen so many horror films and vampire films, in particular, I have to say that QUEEN's plot holds its own.  Frankly, in terms of plot, I've never seen a thoroughly satisfying vampire motion picture; and, to make it easier on my willing suspension of disbelief, I find it best to approach them completely on their own terms.  Sometimes it works--the enchanting vampire film VALERIE AND HER WEEK OF WONDERS comes to mind--sometimes it doesn't (see INTERVIEW...).  QUEEN falls squarely in between, and it's just right for a Friday night. "},{"Title":"Anne Rice fans beware and people who haven't read Anne Rice beware as well.","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I am a huge fan of the Vampire Chronicles but this, and what they did to these great books, is horrifying. I thought we had left the times behind where horrible directors threw a cast of talentless wannabes together and stole the idea from a popular book but completely changed the story. I guess not. Watching this movie was nothing but hilarious for my girlfriend and I. We were offended for a few minutes but then just decided to laugh at it.Where this movie went wrong...well, it was made. But I can point out a few specific reasons. First, it was targeted towards the teenagers and well, they were the ones who walked out of the theater. Aalyiah should have never been in movies. Didn't Romeo Must Die teach us that? Jet Lei fans refused to watch that movie...that's a clue. And choosing Korn as the voice over for the band. Now, I love Korn but...can anyone else picture that voice coming out of a vampire. C'mon. Insane.Second, the acting was poor at best. I have a feeling we aren't going to see anyone from this movie in the future. Except for bit parts on Soaps. I didn't pay attention to who did the casting but, whoever you were, don't expect to be asked to help them pick for anything again. In all fairness I have to say Lestat looked the part more than Tom Cruise but, and this pains me to say it, did a worse job. He bounced around from being convincing to being a no talent hack.Third, what the heck happened to the plot? How can you sum up any novel in 25 minutes? (Being as that was about all that was from the book) See, if the teenagers walked out and the Anne Rice fans walk out...what do you have? I can't believe this movie is making money.Now, in it's defense. Some scenes were very well done. Only the ones with little dialogue but well done none the less. IF you can take this movie at face value it may be worth renting. If you want a laughable night at the theater, I recommend it. But if you are looking for entertainment...stay home and rent Interview again. "},{"Title":"Movie To Be Damned","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Horrible movie. Save your money. Did no justice to the book, to vampire lore, to movies in general...Saving graces to the movie (but still not enough to allow me to rate this movie higher than awful) (a) Stuart Townsend -- when he did not speak. His physical portrayal of Lestat was dead on, but the way he said his lines just irritated me. Made me feel as if someone had seen one too many Bela Lugosi movies. Or perhaps he's seen Bram Stoker's Dracula one too many times; (b) the soundtrack. Music always makes a movie better. This was the best aspect of the movie; (c) Aaliyah as Akasha. She portrayed Akasha as you would want her portrayed -- vulnerable yet powerful, seductive yet coy, independent yet dependent (esp. dependent on Lestat's love, the love of her brood, etc. -- of course had they followed the book a little better this would have been more prevalent in the movie).My advice -- buy the soundtrack (even though Jonathan Davis does not appear on it) SKIP THE MOVIE.  "},{"Title":"Surely disappointed","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie is a waste of time, for any one who is a fan of the Vampire Chronicles. This novel to film adaptation is weak. The screenplay reeks of Hollywood executives, playing puppet masters, chopping production costs ,ignoring crucial plot lines and characters. People save your money! "},{"Title":"If you liked the book don't go see the movie","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie was awful! The only bright spot in it was the performance by Aaliyah. She was mesmerizing. Unfortunately the movie wasn't. Queen of the Damned has very little in common with the book. They changed Lestat's back story. Some of the major characters are missing and their main interest in creating this film seems to be to sell the sound track. This movie was so bad that for me it almost tied with Knights Tale & Evolution for being the worst film I've ever seen.    "},{"Title":"this movie was a disapointment","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie has to be one of hollywoods greatest flops of all time.First off they should have stuck with the book the fact that the only part that was followed was the first scene.I have read every book by anne and I can't imagine why warnner bros. didn't see fit to keep with the ideas that anne incorperated into her characters.here is a list of what was wrong with the way this movie was filmed.1.Marius DID NOT CREATE LESTAT!!!!!2.Anne's vampires DID NOT leave the bodies of their victims any where with out concealing the puncture wounds.3.there WAS NO ROMANCE between jesse and lestat.4.Anne's vamps DID NOT tear huge holes in the necks of their victims.5.Where the heck was maharet's sister?6.Why was it that akasha was not pale like she was in the book and further more she was not a marble statue in the litteral since of the word.7.Marius did not pay a visit to david talbot in that book or any other time before he was turned by lestat.8.David talbot was not that young either.9.They tried to make it more like blade instead of leaving a perfectly good story the way it was.10.They made the entire audiance feel they were a bunch of stupid idiots who knew nothing about the book so they would not be offended.11.There was a complete lack of respect for the author and the person that wrote the screen play should be sent to see anne and appoligize face to face for ruining her story.12.They should have NEVER taken anne out of the picture.With that said I will now start to think that my money would have been better spent on a cheap rental than to see this movie.They should have stuck with the events as they happened in the book just like they did in interview,and those that say that a movie does not have to follow the book it was made affter need to realise that they are mistaken when they say such a thing.My own oppinion is that if you see this movie and liked it even affter reading the books you need a psyc. evaluation.to others that have not read the books and saw the movie because they thought it would be better were soarly mistaken and missled.Like so many others I didn't leave cause I had paid to see this thing they attempted to call a movie and or sequal to interview.I'm going to leave you with this remark.DO NOT GO AND SEE THIS MOVIE if that is what you want to call it. "},{"Title":"Not up to snuff when compared to the prequel, but it's still cool!","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I am a huge fan of the original film, 'Interview With the Vampire', and upon hearing of a this sequel being put into production I got very excited. Disappointment first hit when I learned that none of the original cast would be returning.  I was struck again when Aaliyah was announced as the title character.  Yet again when I heard the plot (I have never read any of the books)... Lestat becomes a rock star. The trailer changed my opinion almost instantly.  It seemed to be a little too action oriented when compared to the original, but it looked really f'n cool!  You bet I was there opening night with $9 in my hand, regardless of the horrible reviews I had read, hoping that it wouldn't be a complete piece of crap. When all was said and done, I have to say I was pleasantly surprised.  Sure it was cheesy, Stuart Townsend isn't very good as Lestat, it dragged a little bit and it has more than it's fair share of bad dialogue.  But the FX, interesting backstory of Lestat, a great performance by Vincent Perez as the vamp who turned him, some hot chicks (Marge Moreau is delish!) and a decent turn for the late Aaliyah were highs.  Not to mention the kick a$$ songs Lestat sings over the course of the film (buy the soundtrack RIGHT NOW!) It's entertaining, but nothing spectacular.  The first film wins hands down... although I wouldn't mind seeing another sequel. "},{"Title":"It sucks","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Okay, so I know that my expectations shouldn't be that high walking in - it's never a good sign when the star of the picture describes his movie as being good for 'camp value' but jeez, this movie was awful.  The story is basically Vampire wants to be a rock star, vampire becomes a rock star, vampire kills the 5 other vampires on earth, queen of vampires comes back and has a thing for rock star vampires, on he likes two vampires and so on and so on...Yes Stuart Townsend is good looking, the music wasn't bad and the girl who played Jessie wasn't awful, but with horrible edits, laughable sound editing, and cheesy effects on-top-of paying $13 Canadian Pesos for a movie, well it really makes you wonder.  "},{"Title":"Wanted to leave but I paid for it","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"    The only reason why I didnt leave the theater before the end was because I'm cheap and I paid some bucks to see this flick.    Not having read the books this is boring as hell from beginning to end, and particularly Marguerite Moreau is just annoying in her role of Jeese Reeves.    Amazingly this thing made it to number one in the box office.  If you want to follow my advice stay away from this either on theater or on video. "}{"Title":"Visual Guide for Those who have Read them All","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Aaliyah's delightful as the Queen Akasha.  They cast the vampires young, as Anne does in her books.  But they change too much story to satisfy the faithful, and leave out too much story for the uninitiated.  However, for those who have read the books, this will be a delightful visual companion to the series.  They capture much of what we have all read about (the blood-swoon drunkedness, the marble-like appearance of Enkil and Akasha, the speed at which the vampires move, etc.) with technical achievement - but David Talbot seems to have already lived through Body Thief - it's story items like this that make it difficult to figure out how they will deal with any of the other novels, and further confuse those who haven't read Ms. Rice's work.  Will they treat all of them as a separate story?  Who knows, but if you are a fan of Anne Rice, you will enjoy yourself.  If you haven't, bring someone who has, at least to explain the ending! "},{"Title":"Great Movie Making a not so great movie","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Perfect movie making! The sets must've taken forever to build. The  stunts and special effects were great. Cinematography was there, BUT too bad great camera angles can't make the scene they're filming any better than what the writers set out. It's been proven time and time again great stories can captivate much more than pyrotechnics and million dollar computer graphics. I watched it for Aaliyah and that's probably the only reason you're going to see it also. By the way she did just fine.  "},{"Title":"Great affects won't cut it for this poor excuse for a novel turned movie.","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  ****THIS REVIEW INCLUDES SPOILERS - DO NOT READ UNLESS YOU UNDERSTAND THIS**** I went into this movie ignoring all reviews I had read online. I am a big fan of Anne Rice and have read every book in the Vampire Chronicles and the New Tales. The movie starts out pretty decent, with great affects and music, but not far into the movie the story changes from the original quickly. The first noticeable difference being that Marius was Lestat's creator and teacher. WRONG. The movie continues along a path fairly scewed from the actual story line and finally comes to a not so climactic ending involving many of our well known vampires being in a room without their name ever being spoken. Characters who are in stories far after this one are killed by Akasha and others are never even brought into the story. The entire climactic death of Akasha is created from the mind of someone who obviously has no idea what the story is about and ends extremely quickly. I believe it would be safe to say that no more than 30% of this movie stays true to the novel.For those who have never read the book this movie will also keep you wondering. As I stated, vampires are thrown into the storyline without any information about who they are and why they are there. The story moves slowly at the beginning which is nice, and some of the story is explained, but then suddenly you are thrown into a scene where nothing is explained and the movie is suddenly over. You sit and wonder what was the point?The visual affects are great, and were extremely well done, but story wise... I'm surprised Anne allowed such a movie to be created. If the producers/writers felt the need to create a new story they should have done just that rather than ruin a work of art. "},{"Title":"Wait for bargain bin at rental store","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I have read the books, and my wife did not.  We equally feel this was a waste of money.  It won't be a long trip to video and then you can pick it up once it hits the bargain rack, any effort to see it earlier would be wasted energy.  Like many have said Akasha is about 10 minutes of the 100 and the rest is like some 15 year old dork's (who plays Vampire RPG) idea of a story.  Anne Rice only supplied names for as much as they follow her writing.  Lots of money lead to some high cost scenes but that is hardly a movie.If you are mostly numb above the neck level, and into the other braindead work out there, then by all means this is your movie.  Anyone who tests above Gump-level in IQ should save the time. "},{"Title":"I`ll be damned!","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The movie is a crude attempt to continue the great success achieved with Interview with the Vampire. They have combined the novels The Vampire Lestat and Queen of the Damned--a catastrophe in and of itself, since The Vampire Lestat itself could hardly be told in on very long movie and would be better suited by two.The storyline has changed emphasis from Akasha's love affair with Lestat to a non-existant romance between Jesse and Lestat. As those who have read the books remember, Lestat's only interaction with Jesse was on the stage at his concert for a mere moment. Nothing there to indicate even the slightest hint of a romance.The characters have been poorly chosen I've seen. They have dropped several of the key characters in the story as well.The cruelest thing they have done, however, lies in the fact that the script writers have attempted to combine two highly detailed novels into a single movie. For some this act might be understandable. For myself, it has brought about a full boycott upon the movie. "},{"Title":"WORST MOVIE I HAVE EVER SEEN IN MY NINETEEN YEARS OF LIFE","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I'm a film major at drexel university in philadelphia.  I saw queen of the damned with a few friends and my expectations were not very high considering all the garbage that has come out of hollywood in the last few years. However i was not prepared for how bad a movie could be.  I felt that myself and everyone in the theater with me was made a little less intelligent by having seen this movie. After the first 5 minutes and the music video that awakened Lestat was over I had enough.  His hilarious and absurb press conference was confusing and stupifying.  No character in this movie acted as if the writers had even created characters for them.  No one's actions were explained, no part of the plot made me want to find out what was going to happen, there was nothing more annoying than having every action sequence act as if i turned on mouse delay in windows (macs are better anyway).  As an audience it's like i'm being talked down to like i'm a small child with this movie.  Not only were the voiceovers poorly written and sounded very metallic, but they provided no incite other than that the director and his crew didn't feel like making a movie, but merely a series of shots that could be easily tied together with the characters explaining it to me.  I have not read any or Anne Rice's books nor have i seen interview with a vampire, but i fail to see how this is even relevent.  Every movie should be able to stand on it's own without prior readings or viewings.  The editing was atroscious.  The violin dubbed sequences were way off and the violin's were not even well tuned.  The well placed product labels also became quite annoying as did the stupid way the vampires always flew at something.  Nothing was more embarrassing than the laughable family reunion/fight Akasha part (not to mention that her vampire caps were visible quite often during this sequence). What i wanted to know most was why Akasha didn't just burn up all these vampires the same way she did in the Vampire Club.  I guess she forgot she had those powers, and she must have forgot that she shouldn't show up to the vampire meeting as soon as they decide they need to kill her, that seemed to be a bad idea too.  If i was the director i would have fired the entire cast and just hired Korn to make a 90 minute music video concerning the themes of the songs that Jonathan Davis wrote.  I guess the only redeeming value to this movie was how well it taught me that hollywood pumps out bad movie after bad movie and people pay to see them. "},{"Title":"I enjoyed it! Also, a question about Pia Miranda","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I had a fun time watching this film--loved the wonderful cast and their performances, and the beautiful work the crew did was quite stunning. Stirring music, camera, editing and sound work, too. Quite well produced and directed, I thought. I noticed this film was shot in both Australia and the USA, and have a question for those who may have seen another Australian film called Looking for Alibrandi. To the best of my knowledge, two performers from Looking for Alibrandi are also credited in Queen of the Damned--Pia Miranda and Matthew Newton. In Alibrandi, Matthew Newton played 'John Barton,' and I was able to spot him again in Queen as the vampire 'Armand.' Meanwhile, Pia Miranda, who played 'Josie Alibrandi' in Alibrandi, is credited as 'Jesse's Roommate' in Queen of the Damned. I thought I might have spotted her in a quick shot in which various images were rapidly flashing through (as I remember) Lestat's mind, but that was a scene in which Jesse was not onscreen. Does anyone know the background story of Jesse's roommate? Does Lestat meet her at some point? Perhaps there are additional scenes we can look forward to when the DVD comes out. Anyway, congratulations to all involved on this fun, sexy and entertaining vampire film. Good show!     "},{"Title":"A disappointment in almost every aspect","Date":"26 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie was basically a let down and a disappointment.  First off, I'm a fan of Anne Rice and her books.  I'm also a believer in Interview with the Vampire(the movie).  As such, I thought Queen was an alright movie if it wasn't based off of a book and if there was no Interview.  As it was, because of these things, it sucked.  The story strayed from the path of the book, Stuart Townsend, while making a very awesome, intimidating, and intense vampire who was very convincingly a rock singer, did not make a good Lestat.  Tom Cruise had Lestat down to a T.  The melodramatic self pitying whining know it all who thinks they should run everything.  Townsend and the concert scene were the only two redeeming qualities of the movie.  I'm a heavy metal and rock fan, and I found myself ready to mosh in the theater at that time.  Kudos for getting my attention with good music written and produced by a great guy, Jonathon Davis.  He also made a good Scalper in the movie.  Another disappointment, the ending.  It was nothing like the book. And all the vampires at the end, if you hadn't read the book or looked at this site you wouldn't have an idea of who they were.  Since I'd read the books I deduced who they were, much to my disappointment.  Such is life, live and learn, vamp-movie producers. "},{"Title":"Anne Rice Fans beware..","Date":"26 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I tried to give this film a break, I took my wife with me (she has never read a book from Rice) to give me her opinion on the movie.  Her exact words I can't even put here, they are really that bad. The plot line changes from the book didn't work in the movie, they made no sense to anyone.  From the changes in how Lestat was made a vampire to the ending (while visually stunning) left the viewer with too many disjointed fragments that never make any sense.   Akasha (Aaliyah) did a great job, but it is sorry to note that is about all I can say of the cast (maybe the cast members should have read the book instead of watching a few vampire movies for their inspiration). An `A' for effort to the writers and producers in not fearing the ` Rice Wrath ` in making changes to the story line, but sorry you Flunked out because they didn't work. Lestat (Stuart Townsend) ends up looking like a rip off of Jim Morrison of the doors.  The Talamasca looks like some sort of thrown together club for a `Hidden Camera' show.  I kept waiting for Marius (Vincent Perez) to start rapping and putting on the `Colors', or at least steal a car throughout the entire thing.  As for the rest of the cast, well, who was the rest of the cast?  While the other members in the book are an integral part of the ending, they are no more than cheerleaders that could have been completely skipped in the movie and no one but a Rice fan would know.If you are a dedicated Anne Rice fan, wait for the Bargain Shows to have it, or the video store.If you know nothing of the Vampire Chronicles by Anne Rice, then you may B rate the movie at best, although much mind altering drugs may help that rating.  "},{"Title":"what happened?","Date":"26 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I read the book first which is always a bad idea because you get your hopes high and get them dashed. I actually was excited about the movie because the book was awesome, but then I saw the movie and It was just wrong. The graphics were okay, the people couldn't act, the plot was all off and the characters just weren't themselves.   "}{"Title":"badly miscast and bad adaptation","Date":"26 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Queen of the Damned....  Simply an effort on the part of the moviemakers to make money.  From the viewpoint of someone who has read and enjoyed the books, and knows the storyline, and Anne Rice's descriptions of the various characters, this was a truly bad movie.  Essentially, it was a strange melding of the two books (The Vampire Lestat and Queen of the Damned), which neglected many of the elements that made the stories enjoyable and interesting in the first place.  In the case of Queen of the Damned, massive parts of the storyline were left out even though they were main portions of the plot of the book.  It was badly miscast, with most of the actors nothing like the descriptions of their characters in the books.  They even had the vampires' fangs on the wrong teeth!  The main thing that leaves me puzzled about this movie though, is how they could call it Queen of the Damned, when, in actuality, the storyline centered around the main plot of The Vampire Lestat.Despite the many, many faults, it could be enjoyable, provided one had not been an avid fan of the books.  Stuart Townsend, despite his physical differences from Lestat, was excellent in his portrayal of the vampire. But other than that, I have nothing good to say about this movie, except that it would be fun to go see it again, just to yell at the screen whenever something strayed from the books.  Unfortunately, that would leave me quite hoarse. "},{"Title":"Damned, Forsaken, and Irredeemable...","Date":"26 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  So it's not all that bad...If you have never read the books. Being a long-time Anne Rice fan, I found it hard to sit through this movie without laughing into my hand and the absurdity of many of the situations.  My friends were constantly smacking me in the shoulder and telling me to shut up.The story the writers came up with was quite good, but nothing like the original story.  For instance, we don't have Lestat...we've got a Louis/Lestat combination.  And what is Marius doing telling Lestat you must be dead to the world when he himself was an artist and art dealer, the majority of his interactions with THE LIVING??? Did they just not read the books? Where's Mekare?  Um, last time I checked, she was the one that did away with Akasha, not Maharet... Lestat's just a little too straight for my taste in these movies...I mean, everyone knows that Lestat prefers the company of men, not Jessie...how else would you explain Marius, Armand, Nicki, Louis and David? and what's all this about Armand looking like a Def Leppard reject? Come on, people!!! This is nuts!But Stuart Townsend makes a good Rock Star Lestat.  The story, like I said, was good. I didn't think it was as bad as I had originally planned on...though I did have a few good laughs.And the music was good.  I personally think Jonathan Davis did a great job creating music worthy of our Brat Prince, though it's a bit depressing that he doesn't sing on the soundtrack.I also liked the makeup. The post-drink blood was a little...um...FAKE! but that's beside the point.  The overly-white, reflective skin on Lestat was pretty good.The special effects were too much like The Matrix.There's my two cents...sorry if I make anyone mad here, but it could have been done much better...  "},{"Title":"Good, but a little off from the book.","Date":"26 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I really liked this movie a lot and was impressed with Stuart Townsend's work.  At first, i was really iffy about Tom Cruise not being Lestat de Lioncourt but now, it's different.  I just wanted to say that it's really good, BUT, a lot of the movie was completely off from the book.  Like Lestat's creator was not Marius, it was Magnus.  Him and Marius met years after he was made.  Also, the hair colors and lengths were way off.  But i did love the movie, yes. "},{"Title":"Nothing like the book","Date":"26 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie was nothing like the book.  If you are interested in seeing Aaliyah's last movie then go see it.  If you are interested in seeing how well the screen play is adapted to the actual book forget it and leave it alone. "},{"Title":"Waste of time","Date":"26 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Where do you begin when you talk about a movie this bad?  First of  all if you are an Anne Rice fan avoid this movie at all costs.  They not only destroyed Queen of the Dammed but also many other of her novels through misinformation and poor casting.  Lestat is cast a brown haired dark eyed man.  This is hard to accept for a vain vampire who constantly brags about his blonde hair and blue eyes.  Many of the scenes in the movie never occur in the book and vice versa many of the scenes in the book never make it into the film.  The action of the film actually combines part of another Anne Rice novel The Vampire Lestat.  The movie's only saving grace was an abundance of stunning visual effects,  however, a multimillion dollar effects budget can't save a film this bad. Anne Rice I'm sorry your work was destroyed by Hollywood.  "},{"Title":"Damned Be The Viewer...","Date":"26 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I went to see `Queen of the Damned'  on its opening night with a simple expectation to be entertained.  Yes, I have read the books (all the way up to `Memnoch the Devil'), but I was fully aware that, unlike the film version of `Interview With A Vampire', `Queen's screenplay was not written by Anne Rice nor did any of the stars from that project appeared in this cinematic installment.  But I am not going to get into how much the film diverted from the book (which is expected with  adapting one format to the other) but on the film alone.  Rest assured, other Anne Rice fans have already nit-picked by now, already. ;)First off, the acting was not bad.  Aalyah was the PERFECT Akasha and deserves any awards she is nominated for this role, her last performance.Stewart Townsend was, visually, a superb Lestat, however, his excessive posing and blank `Bono-like' stares were just a little annoying and got in the way of his performance in some scenes.  The rest of the cast did workmen-like performances.However, I fault mostly the script, which was, in of itself, hard to follow. For a movie titled `Queen of the Damned'  we know far more about Lestat than we do Akasha.  So much is left out that even HOW she became a vampire (the Mother of ALL Vampires, at that)  is missing!  Plus, there's the attempted forced love interest between Lestat and the mortal Talamascan Jesse, the rather rushed flash-backs of Lestat's past, and other undeveloped characters (did anyone even KNOW that the other three vampires were Pandora, Armand, and Mael?).  Add to the confusing focus of the direction of the film (is this a Vampire flick, a Alternative/Goth Video, or a kung-fu/Buffy the Vampire flick?) with its  nausiating, overused crane and helicopter shots for most of the scene changes, you have a patch-worked film that just feels as though it was rushed to be released and tried to compensate (and failed, CGI and all) substance with style.  "},{"Title":"I Cannot believe you criticized this film","Date":"26 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I personally believe that this was an AWESOME movie. So what if some of these small details have been done before? It is still unique in it's own way. In EVERY movie there are story lines and ideas that have been used before, so what makes this any different? Of course if you have read the book before you see the movie then the movie will be a let down. That will happen with any book you read prior to seeing the movie! I believe they casted this movie very well and developed the plot very well too. Yes, some details will be used that have already been used over and over again but that is to be expected. Not every vampire movie can be completely different from other ones. Everyone pretty much has the same view on vampires so you can't expect someone to describe them as something totally off the wall. I'd like to see what you all would have done in this movie. Your so quick to criticize a great movie without realizing these actors did extremely well. It's not often that I sit down to watch a movie and by the end of it, completely forget it even was a movie. It's definitely one of my favorites. I've always been a huge fan of anything to do with vampires. "},{"Title":"Book?  Vampire Chronicles?","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I knew after Interview with the Vampire that I couldn't expect much from Warner Brothers for the movie, but there is such a thing as accuracy. Some things are irreparably wrong with the way the characters were portrayed, and guesswork as to who's who in the vampires isn't amusing.  It was mildly entertaining watching Stewart Townsend 1/2 naked, but that is as far as it goes. "},{"Title":"Wait!  Those five seconds were from the book!","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  If you liked Showgirls, you just may like this film.  If you have read any of the Vampire Chronicles, this will make you cringe.  Myself, I was laughing so hard tears were streaming down my face.  The vampires speak.... so.... slowly...with....such.......fake....emotion.  Egad.  As  literary adaptation....well, i don't think they referred to the book much, so I won't either.  The dialogue was so vampire cliche, and the plot was so nearly non-existent that it played like fan fiction.  Bad fan fiction.  As for the cast, Stuart Townshend is unbearably sexy, but I can't help feeling that all of the actors were directed to exhibit no feelings and to walk around in i'm a vampire mode.  I was disappointed that such a vital, sexual actor was misused.  Overall, if you go into this knowing you're about to witness a train wreck, it can be an enjoyable experience.   "},{"Title":"The movie that could have been great.","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This could have been one of the best movies of 2002. But it was not, it could pass for one of the worst.I understand that making the vampire lestat and queen of the damned into a movie would make a VERY long movie, but that does not mean cut the plot out of the script.  We learn nothing about Lestat's past in this movie, we learn nothing about vampire history at all.  Well we learn that Akasha was a statue, and that there are some really old vampires, but thats it.Stuart Townsend did a great job of playing a brat prince, and aalyiah was a good queen of the damned for the 5 minutes she was on screen, the title role, and she gets no screen time...I loved the tortured looks that many of the characters wore for the movie, but now that I think about it, maybe they were tortured because they had no script to work with.If there was more to the movie it would have been great, It seemed that the movie was missing...the movie.  The plot might be on the cutting room floor, so hopefully the DVD will have the plot hidden in it somewhere... "}{"Title":"Book?  Vampire Chronicles?","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I knew after Interview with the Vampire that I couldn't expect much from Warner Brothers for the movie, but there is such a thing as accuracy. Some things are irreparably wrong with the way the characters were portrayed, and guesswork as to who's who in the vampires isn't amusing.  It was mildly entertaining watching Stewart Townsend 1/2 naked, but that is as far as it goes. "},{"Title":"You must be joking!","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  WARNING SPOILERSThis movie should be billed as based on the characters from the book. Everything and everyone was changed.  They deleted characters like Mekare, who becomes the mother of the vampires and Magnus, who is Lestat's maker. These are not unimportant characters, they are pivotal to the story line. By making Marius Lestat's maker they completely changed the character of Marius and they contradict Interview With A Vampire, because Lestat tells Louis that his maker didn't teach him anything.  And please tell me how Akasha and Lestat can walk in the sun when the last time Akasha was put in the sun she killed half the vampire race and burnt the rest.  Which by the way is why Marius went looking for her and how he became her keeper.  The death of Akasha was completely changed in the movie and it didn't hold a candle to the way she truly died or the scene they could have made from it.The movie Interview with a Vampire at least stayed fairly true to the book. Queen of the Damned was an insult to the book and I would be surprised if the script writer even read the book.The bottom line...If you haven't read the book, you will be lost and if you have read the book you'll be angry.On the positive side, Stuart was an excellent Lestat, who really cares what color his hair is?  (I care what color Jesse, Maharet and Mekare's hair is, which is supposed to be red and wasn't in the movie.)  The filming was excellent.  The costumes were terrific (minus the glowing eyes).  And Aaliyah was very good.  With a better more honest script this good have been a truly awesome movie. "},{"Title":"Decent Vampire Flick","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Let me first say, I am not an Anne Rice fan.  I saw Interview with the Vampire and, well, hated it.  Having read a bunch of the negative reviews about this movie I expected it to be terrible, but I went with some friends anyways.  After seeing the film, I actually kind of enjoyed it.  It was much better than watching a bunch of Fabio vampires prance around in frilly costumes and whine about having to kill people (Interview).  My wife, who enjoys Anne Rice's work, also really enjoyed this one.  If you're expecting high society dressed in Victorian costumes, you will not enjoy this movie.  But if you liked the gothic atmosphere created in The Crow, you may enjoy this one as well.  7/10. "},{"Title":"What a terrible movie","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I don't know whether to be sad that I saw the movie, or happy that I will never have to see it again.It appears they spent a lot of money on special effects and really wanted you to know it. The climax was reminiscent of the quickening in Highlander, where you could take a nap waiting for them to get tired of flaunting their visual effects.And where did they find all those losers to cast as extras?! I was hoping that goth was on its way out, but this movie shows that there are still some strongholds of dorks trying to be dark.The major characters seem to have been cast from the same lot, nothing but self-important, cooler-than-thou, Calvin Klein model wannabes. Was one of those ancients a clone of Rosie O'Donnell?I don't even know why I would spend this much time reviewing this dung-heap of a movie. I guess the only way to work through the trauma from seeing it is to talk it out.At least it had a good soundtrack. "},{"Title":"Good if you didn't read the books","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The movie was not bad independently.  Hoever, if you have read the book series, you will be disappointed and somewhat lost.  If you have not read the book series, there will be some minor things that you have to just give in on such as Akaska's ability to summon fire at will (explained in the book). Overall, the movie is not a waste of $5 and 100 minutes.  You probably won't walk away feeling robbed.  Just don't look for the meaning of life in it. "},{"Title":"A movies so bad...it's just plain bad","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  My current plan is to stick around Anne Rice fan site bulletin boards to read the rants about this film.  (And there WILL be rants.)This film wasn't just a brutalization of Anne Rice's novel, it was an all out massacre.  Did the writers even really read the book?  Ordinarily, I like to give a little leeway to screenwriters trying to convert a novel into a film, but in this case, far too many liberties were taken--combine that with the ridiculous characterizations of these vampires (all shallow glammers), and you have a total waste of $8.It seems they never figured out that Anne Rice's novels aren't really about vampires--they are really about human beings. "},{"Title":"Lestat's lament","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I love Anne Rice and what's more important, I love The Vampire Lestat. Anne Rice created the perfect anti hero ... child like, living life (or death) to the fullest, sexy, seductive and of course evil.... but not always evil, just when he feels like it. Interview with the Vampire (the movie) had the mood of the first book, had the darkness and the sensuality and it had the pain of Louis.  It also included a bit of the homoerotic theme that is so prevalent in Anne Rice's books. Queen of the Damned is lighter more full of fun, and that was perfect because Lestat had none of the pain and deep internal struggle of Louis from the first book/movie. Did it capture the mood of the book? Well, no. It was sexy and the actor who played Lestat was PERFECT!(Stuart Townsend) He was lithe and sexy and smoldering and devilish in short the brat prince himself.... Basically Tom Cruise's performance as Lestat is rendered lackluster after seeing this guy.... Now the rest of the movie <sigh> Well, if you love the characters and the story of The Queen of the Damned (the book) then you will be disappointed, because this does not follow the story at all.... no Daniel, no Louis, Lestat is Marius's fledgling and they basically take Armand's story of becoming a vampire and turn it into Lestat's re- birth... Only one ancient red head instead of the twins of the book, and she is played by Lena Olin (who does not have red hair....) I'm not sure which one of the Vampire Coven was Armand.... but in the credits he is listed so apparently he was there... and finally Aaliya, she was not good and that breaks my heart since she is no longer with us, she was so beautiful, much like all the Anne Rice characters are supposed to be, sweet, pure and lovely.... Very disappointing performance as Akasha. So see the film for the sexiness, see it for the Stuart Townsend, the man who plays Lestat, or for the fun music ( sounds like Korn) but if you are a fan of the book, don't expect the story you loved, it is not there.For horror fans it is great fun, violent but over the top violence, for anyone else I would give this a pass, I'm sure the story is even more confusing if you haven't read the book. "},{"Title":"Was this a movie...or a Music Video?","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  So I'm sitting there in a packed theater opening night of this movie thinking to myself is this just another episode of MTV's TRL (Total Request Live) or a movie?  I was just waiting for the plain faced tool known as Carson Daly to pop out and start interviewing Lestat.  You know Interview With a Vampire...shoot i think that was done already.  Honestly I had low expectations going into this movie and i was not let down.  This movie really left me asking a bunch of questions, it left so many loose strands that probably someone not familiar with Anne Rice novels (like myself) do not understand.  The premise was pretty interesting I thought...Lestat coming back into the public eye through a Goth Rock band.  A very smart and modern type of way to go, and you would figure in your head if an immortal vampire did exist in our time it stands to reason that he would probably be a member of a Goth rock band.  Unfortunately the union of Lestat and a band seems really rushed.  We get introduced to an even older vampire Marius, whose past seems very interesting but you feel cheated because they do not even develop this character at all.  Its all about the good looking/modern vampire Lestat and any other vampires in this movie are secondary because they are not as good looking as Stuart Townsend.  The late Aaliyah was beautiful in this movie, she really did look  goddess like but her role was a bit short and underdeveloped too i felt, more Aaliyah would have been a good thing.  This movie really felt like it was targeted to the TRL audience ages 13-18 so if you fall below or above that or are not a HUGE Ann Rice fan skip this damned movie.       "},{"Title":"Glitzy, superficial and formulaic","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  So... vampires fit perfectly into today's MTV world, hmmm? Well, this is what this movie is - a superficial piece of flashy nonsense with all the depth of a music video aimed at satisfying an audience with next to no attention span. Now I'm no great fan of Ms. Rice's books - all she's ever done is plug gallantly away at churning out that age-old and yawn-inspiring vampire blood/sex/death/submission/domination theme that some people sadly mistake for deeply sophisticated and oooh so wicked neo-Gothic eroticism (get a grip, gang. That stuff is older than Time itself) - but at least the books are written with some cohesion and a little style. Not so this movie. There is no depth, no plot and little to no characterisation - it's all about providing a series of quick visual and/or aural fixes.I suppose if I'm to say one nice thing about QOTD, it's that it succeeds in this one extremely limited ambition - as with any accomplished rock video, it both looks and sounds good. But that's all it does do - it doesn't engage a thinking audience at all.Comparisons with Interview With The Vampire are almost obligatory, and so here's mine. QOTD makes its predecessor look good. Despite such ridiculous scenes as the one featuring Tom Cruise flitting around on a wire like some tuberculous Tinkerbell (I laughed till I almost cried), at least Interview had both style and atmosphere - you could sense the feeling of malaise and decay and world-weariness building throughout the earlier movie. Not so with QOTD, I am afraid.It's a shame that Aaliyah's last movie will be this one. She was a beautiful and talented young woman who showed signs of good things to come in Romeo Must Die. This vehicle does not do her justice.I'm sure that there'll be enough Goth teens doing the rebel thing and die-hard middle-aged vamp fans who still fall for the shiver of decadence routine to make this movie a minor success. Me? I need more to a movie than glamrock packaging, I'm afraid. Though I'll admit one thing. After about 20 minutes of this movie, just like Lestat, I truly came to identify with the feeling that eternity was likely to be a very long and boring time indeed. You want a stylish vampire movie? Go rent Near Dark instead, or maybe The Forsaken. You'll be better off, trust me. "},{"Title":"Terrible, terrible","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  What an unfortunate way for Aaliyah to go out!  She's about the only good thing in the movie.  It's bad in so many ways that I can't even think of what to mention here.  The worst thing, I think, is that it is totally unclear why most of the characters do any of the things that they do. This is the worst vampire movie I've ever seen, and that says a lot, considering how many bad ones there are. "}{"Title":"Rymer enlists Townsend, Aaliyah, Moreau and Perez to create an Excellent Vampire Movie","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  It's a great Vampire movie, despite what irritated Anne Rice fans are saying.  Leave them with their noses buried in their books, but by all means, form your own opinion on the movie.  I think it was very good piece all around.  Townsend and Aaliyah communicate sexy characters very effectively, and the director avoids the pointless nudity that is found in many Vampire movies.  Furthermore, there is plenty of biting, bleeding and burning, but it's not a gory bloodfest that many other Vamp. films become. These elements lend a certain credibility and class to the film.  Clearly the Rice fans wanted another Interview..., but Michael Rymer weaves his own film, a hard rock vampire venture that is more in the vein of The Crow.Townsend is great as Lestat (he plays Lestat himself, not Lestat through the eyes of Louis, as Cruise did in Interview) Seeing Vincent Perez (The Crow City of Angels) in American film again was fun. Marguerite Moreau plays Jesse, a mortal woman who takes and interest in Lestat, in a subplot that some complain of as underdeveloped. Complaints about the subplot are unfounded, as simply paying attention will allow you to fill any small gaps or confusing elements in the story.  Apparently some need to be spoon-fed everything and are unable to handle any little bumps in a film.  Check out the official movie web site, where you can find very informative notes from the producer, addressing the decisions they made in the film making process. With Blade 2 soon to be released, fans should catch Queen of the Damned now, since it offers a modern Vampire story, that doesn't have what I call the Post-Matrix feel to it- that is to say all around black vinyl and unrealistic fight scenes.  It's a great Vampire movie. Enjoy it. "},{"Title":"If you've read the books, wait for the rental on this one.","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  On its own, a beautifully done film - nice effects, great atmosphere and killer soundtrack. Stuart Townsend is much better as Lestat, even though he looks nothing like him. In fact, few of the characters look even *close* to the way they do in the book. And most of them aren't even introduced to us by name.Having read the books many times, I was very disappointed with the barely-present book storyline, and the superficial skimming of what little remained in the screenplay. When they say this film is *based* on the vampire Chronicles, read that as *loosely* based. "},{"Title":"A Review from Someone who hasn't read the Book!","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Okay, I have never read any of Anne Rice's novels.  Which, in some senses I felt was good in the case of Queen of the Damned.  I went into the film with no preconceived notions, or expectations.  With that said, I really did like the film.  Personally I feel the studio should have taken her (Rice) up on her offer to write the screenplay for free.  I do feel that the movie completely raped the book (though I never read it).  I feel the people behind the film wanted to make a rock -n- roll film about vampires, and left the actual story of QOTD out of the picture.S. Townsend is by no stretch of the imagination a better Lestat than Tom Cruise.  His delivery is slow and predictable.  Cruise was vicious one minute and suave and gentle the next.  He was Lestat!  Aaliyah was beautiful as Akasha, Queen of the Damned.  Though her movements were almost robotic, she still protrayed a graceful, diabolical and beautiful killer.  Her scene at the Admirals Arms was superb, and she really did well making the other vampires...Ash!Okay, my big gripe!  I am not sure about the book, of course.  But I would think that if a 4000 year old egyptian Vampire/Goddess were ressurected in modern times, she would not be so worried about finding a new king, and then ruling the world, but instead just taking the world by the throat (Pun intended).  I mean this chick can toast other vampires, and destroy any mortal.  I would think she would be able to rule the world within a matter of hours.  A 4000 year old Egytian vampire/goddess arises from her stoney prison, with the power to rule mortal and immortal alike, with the thurst and ablity to rule the world.  Now that is your movie right there.Overall, knowing nothing of the book, I did like the film.  Though, diluted with eye candy, and Matrix-like speical effects (which I wasn't too impressed with), the film was good.  I would have liked to have seen Aalyiah much more of screen, and much more evil.  I just though Akasa would have been a total kick ass bitch, but she was much more sophisticated and wicked.  Some favorite scenes  The Concert in Death Valley (Especially Akasha's entrance) Akasha's walk thru the Admiral Arms Flashbacks to when Lestat was created Akasha's chamber The dual at the endI know fans will hate this film, espeically if all the reviews I have read are heartfelt.  But for those who haven't read the books, or don't feel they need to devote their lives to trying to be like the characters in Rice's books.  To me Goth and Vampires need not be mixed, unless it can be done well.  7 out of 10  "},{"Title":"One big vampire cliche.","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Queen of the Damned is made up of mediocre, overzealous acting, poor directing (Neil Jordan where are you when we need you?), plot inconsistencies, vampire cliches, and one of the worst soundtracks heard in recent memory.  Is there anything more tiresome than the whole goth-vampire cliche?  We've seen it all before, folks, and there's nothing new here. Aaliyah manages to light up the screen for a very short time, but is given very little to do... a sad note for her career to end on.  There is no atmosphere, no real tension, and none of the sensuality that made Interview with a Vampire such a pleasure.  This isn't even a sequel, having one inconsistency after the next from the first film, but rather a cheesy, midnight-movie knock-off.  Catch it on video if you must, but then only after a few glasses of merlot. "},{"Title":"Worst adaption of a film ever","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I am a huge fan of Anne Rice and her books, especially the Vampire Chronicles. However I was extremelly dissapointed with this film.  The only good thing about it was the soundtrack.  I could barely follow the plot with my knowledge of the books and have no idea how a non-fan of the book could understand any of it.  The plot that was there had no mention of the twins, and they are extremmelly relevant in the books.   "},{"Title":"Anne Rice must be furious!","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  If you havent seen this movie yet and you havent read the book go see it. If you have read the book dont even bother. You will leave the theater mad a hornet. It vaguely resembles the book. All the parts youlove in the book are not even in the movie. This is just another case of Hollywood destroying a fabulously written book by turning it in to a ho-hum movie. Save your money, buy the book!  "},{"Title":"Save Your Money","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Plot? What plot? Who needs a plot? Screenplay? Was there one or did they just wing it? Because this doesn't resemble anything written by Anne Rice. When your lead actor is already apologizing for the movie, there is a problem. Save your money. There are other things you can do with 100 minutes of your time. This movie isn't one of them.Melody "},{"Title":"What a disappointment","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  There was alot of hype leading up to this movie because of the death of the lead lady.  This movie was so bad that I regret I wasted my money on it. It did have a few redeeming qualities. The effects, the costumes, and Stewart Townsend(but not for the role of Lestat.)  "},{"Title":"Yay vampires, yay Stuart Townsend, yay humans in the movie!","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  As always, making a movie about vampires is risky. With the vast myths on vampires' strengths, weaknesses, and other aspects of their existence, or lack there of, someone in the theater is bound to disagree with the movie's choice of portrayal. When it comes to vampire movies, no one gets it perfect.As for the acting, Aaliyah is way too hyped up with her role. Sure she's the movie's title character, but I really think they used all the footage they had of her in the movie to make the preview. Stuart Townsend successfully portrays the vampire Lestat with his brooding tendencies and pale skin. And yes, there are actually humans in this movie! Unseen in the previews is the character Jesse Reeves, who has a major role and gets my vote for the person whose identity I would want to replace had the movie been real life.Maybe I'm just a shmuck for vampires, or just movies in general, but I found it to be a moving thriller with a few unexpected, yet appreciated, twists. "},{"Title":"So bad that I was compelled to come back!","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Let's just pause for a moment to appreciate the shear awfulness of this movie. Good. Now, let's take a moment to go over how much I thoroughly enjoyed this.Why? Because, just as 'Rocky Horror Picture Show' was good, unclean, campy fun, 'The Queen of the Damned' is a Vampire Chronicles blessing. You can just see the filmmakers giggling as they went through the dailies and shaking their heads Man, we are going to p*** of *so* many Anne Rice fans.To be fair, Stuart Townsend was *excellent*. Bloody brilliant. He was younger and prettier and more charismatic than Tom Cruise ever could have been in his part as Lestat (though Cruise's rendition was also uniquely commendable). The costumes were superb (the same designer from 'Moulin Rouge' pulled this delightful set of vampire garb) and I would go back just to sketch the clothes. Aaliyah was wonderfully camp, playing her motions as if in pantomime and echoing a Dracula-esque tone.Jesse was miscast, but who cares! This movie produced more pure laughs than Hollywood's most recent comedies.All of this doesn't make a good movie, however, just an entertaining one. Laugh at the deadpan one-liners and oogle the yummy silk and velvets. It's a fun little ride. "}{"Title":"Queen of pure crap!","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Wow! That one stunk! I could write a full page of comments, but whats the point? This one just was the most purest of crap I have ever laid eyes on. DO NOT and i repeat DO NOT go see this movie if you value an hour and half of your life. If you really have to see a vampire flick then check out BLADE.3/10 STINKARONI "},{"Title":"Aaliyah's performance is the only bright side to this film","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The only reason why I saw Queen of the Damned was because of Aaliyah's role in the film.  Having no knowledge on the Ann Rice series, I thought this would be a good film--was I let down.--By far Aaliyah's presence in the film is what saves QotD from becoming much worse.  She is very beautiful, and truly stands out in the film with her vampire ways.   --I was rather disappointed that it took nearly 45mins. just to see Aaliyah as Queen Akasha and the limited screen time thereafter.  Yet the scenes she was in were truly captivating and I'm glad she choose a versatile role.--I'm not commenting on the rest of the film because there's no need.  Aaliyah is the best part in Queen of the Damned and she is ONE IN A MILLION! "},{"Title":"A Bite of good taste!","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I just watched this movie. Although I never read one of her books I was taken in by Interview so I was compelled to see this one too. I appreciated the coming of age format in which it was set. ~~Spoiler~~ The scenes in the caves where Akasha is awoken and Lastat is introduced to his creator were some of the best scenes. I would of loved for the movie to be set in those times. It is nothing like the Interview.  Cruise definately was a better  vampire. Here Lastat has feelings of mortal concerns which differs totally from the previous character. However nothing is left unturned. Aaliyah shines as Akasha. There realy is not much to say if you appreciate a good vampire movie then you must go see this.It is only two hours long so you are not bored. Those who didn't know Aaliyah as a musician will leave the theater wishing they did. I am not into rock and roll but the music in this movie helped it along. All in all not bad. I am glad they opted to put it on screen instead of a MTV movie as it was originally intended to be. "},{"Title":"Horrible.","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Fans of Anne Rice's novel will be mortified at the script's blatant lack of regard for the vampire mythology and history established in her books. Fans of Aaliyah will be mortified that this schlock performance will be her one and only starring film role.  Fans of good cinema will be mortified by too many things to mention here.  I do give good marks to some pretty impressive special effects and a rockin' soundtrack and score.  Otherwise, forget it. "},{"Title":"Well... *sigh*","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Now, I come at this review completely biased by the death of Pandora in the movie.  Pandora marks my favorite book and my favorite vampire just by the way she carries herself and by the way she has lived both her mortal and immortal life.  Killing her off in the movie first had me go... okay, since they never named her, I could lie to myself and believe that Claudia wasn't playing her role, however, since Claudia Black, however coincidentally, remains to this day my favorite actress, I knew going in who she would be. My next step was pure anger; although I realize it would be next to never if Pandora's story would ever be told on the big screen since all the world is enamoured of Lestat and his stories, it just thoroughly disapoints me that we will never get the chance to see her life.  She was the great love of Marius's life, co-guardian of the King and Queen during the days when Rome and Greece rose and crumbled around them, she was at the beginning of the vampirical world Anne Rice created, and it's just disheartening to see the three minutes of what they made of her.  They took a two thousand year old being, full of stories that fill in the blank spots in the lives of the other vampires, and with one swipe of a pen, woosh, she's gone.  But yeah, I guess I shouldn't dwell on Pandora.The movie itself did rather bite; was an excuse for metal music and gore really, losing the sense of the story that Anne Rice tried to tell.  There was so much missed, and so much changed that virtually everything she had originally written was lost in amongst the special effects and deafening beat.I guess it's just easiest to say that I went in hoping for something closer to what had been written, and came away with the loss of my favorite character burning in the back of my throat, and the wrongness of it all swimming through my brain.  But, hey, at least now I know why it was supposed to go straight to video.  **sigh** "},{"Title":"Finally--a really good bad movie!","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  While thankfully never tongue-in-cheek, QUEEN OF THE DAMNEDsuggests that if its makers knew you were giggling, they wouldn'tbe insulted. It jumps off from one premise of Anne Rice's VampireChronicles--the undead as rock star--and riffs off in it into abansheelike frenzy that suggests the commingling of BEYONDTHE VALLEY OF THE DOLLS, the godawful DRACULA 2000, andone of Joel Silver's VH1-looking William Castle retreads.The coolest moment comes when Aaliyah, as a vampire goddessdressed like a Nubian priest but talking like Bela Lugosi, sauntersinto a bar filled with morose, gray-faced vampires, and turns theseedy dive into a human ashtray. The notion of a sneering,perpetually bored, CK1-style rocker as covert bloodsucker is givena thorough going-over. Critics spanked this baby as if they wantedevery fright picture to be a sobersided David Fincher number. Well,I don't. "},{"Title":"Um...Didn't Anne Rice Write a book by this name?","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Some spoilersGuess what people...This movie is supposed to be based on the Anne Rice novel by the same name, but I really think the guy who wrote the screen play thought he could have written it better.  The movie was loosely based on the characters from the book, the plot dragged at points, events that never happened in the book were in the movie and major characters and events from the book weren't even mentioned in the movie.  Also, Marius (the gaurdian of those who must be kept), was credited as being the creator of Lestat. Right...Lestat was a friend of Marius, but was created by some psychotic vamp who committed suicide soon after he created Lestat.  Marius was the father of Armand (who was in the credits but never mentioned in the movie). I guess what I am trying to say is...it could have been much better (why, oh why didn't Anne do the screenplay for this one too) and if you've read the book...wait for the movie to come out on HBO.  It's not worth the $10 to see it in the theatre. "},{"Title":"If you're an Anne Rice Fan DO NOT see this movie","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Thirteen years ago when I was a freshman in college I read Queen of the Damned and couldn't put it down.  Along with The Vampire Lestat and Interview with the Vampire they were three of the best books I had ever read. In 1994 when the movie for Interview came out I was afraid to see it.  I couldn't imagine Tom Cruise as my beloved Lestat.  But to my surprise he, along with Brad Pitt and Kirsten Dunst embodied the Lestat, Louis and Claudia I loved.  The movie was so well done that I could forgive the casting of Antonio Banderas as Armand. When I heard that they were making a Queen of the Damned I was very excited.  Especially upon learning that Aaliyah was to play Akasha, she looked EXACTLY how I had always pictured her. Tonight I saw the movie.  I cannot express in words how horrible it was. The casting was terrible,..   David Talbot was an old man, not a young one! Vincent Perez as Marius?  Huge differences in the relationships and plots of the book.  Marius DID NOT make Lestat!  Who were the random vampires at the end?,.. Pandora, Armand and Khayman?  Once again, casting.  Where was the other twin?  The only thing it got right were the character names.And as for Akasha, they could have done so much more.  They had an awesome actress to play her and all they had her do was strut across the set reminding me of Lisa Marie's cameo in Mars Attacks.  What a sad note to end such a promising career with. Bottom line  Made for the illiterate MTV generation who probably haven't got a clue who Anne Rice even is.  Do yourself a favor and read the book instead. "},{"Title":"Insult to the author","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I can't believe a director would make a film that is such a glowing insult to the book it apparently derives from.  In what seems like a two-hour Calvin Klein Advertisement, Queen of the Damned changes just about everything it uses from the two Anne Rice novels it uses for its basis. With Wide ranging changes from character involvement, the WRONG creator of Lestat, to the wrong vampires defeating Akasha at the end, this film is more full of holes then a Troma films screenplay.  This movie was an insult to any fan of Anne Rice's novels and needs to be lead out to pasture before it encourages other mis-guided directors to do the same. With its plethora of changes, the above mentioned are only skimming the top, this movie is an abomination and should be left alone.  "},{"Title":"Loved It!","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I don't understand why everyone dislikes this film so much! I read the book and sure it was different than the film, but that doesn't make the film bad! I definately like Townsend better than Cruise. Even though I didn't particularly like Aaliyah's over-exaggerations (accent, body movements), I thought the movie was very unique. The storyline was good, the acting was excellent, and I loved the cameo by Jon Davis. The movie also has a killer soundtrack! Overall I really enjoyed this film and look forward to seeing it again very soon! A+ "}{"Title":"Chalk up one for Movie translations!","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Of course not! I enjoyed reading Anne Rice's book QOTD, and now I'm wondering what she thinks of the movie. Hope she had nothing to do with it (except selling the rights). I'm not gonna say my money wasn't well spent. I had my laughs there. Okay so to the point Marius didn't make Lestat a vampire; some sucker named Magnus did. What happened to Maharet's sister Mekare? Been a while since I read the book but I remember she had a pivotal role. 'Khayman, my Khayman', anyone? Okay so given limited time and all that... but still this wasn't good enough, and readers would be disappointed. What's with Aaliyah (eh, Akasha) dancing around like that? All those 'dancing' scenes could probably be enough to make a music video. I enjoyed this while it lasted, although a bit disappointing... I'm gonna forget I ever saw it. 7/10. "},{"Title":"OK its NOT the book but its really GOOD","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I'd read that if you take everything you know about Queen as a book  and chuck that then it would be an enjoyable movie and i think that holds true. It was a visually stunning movie with a whole goth Vampire scene vibe to it. Jesse was awesome as was Stuart as Lestat, Aaliyah she played Queen Akasha as written in the novel was as scary as i thought which was a great thing. They did not stick to the book but it still had its mystical power and eroticism, love that tub scene.. But people should understand that Queen is not a movie for small children who were frightened nor is it a light movie for fans who came to see Aaliyah's last film and were very verbally disappointed cause she doesnt have many scenes at the beginning of it- all this i heard in my theater. The sets were awesome and the costumes were so cool exactly as i had imagined. Stuart was so much better than a previous actor as Lestat.. he had the whole sex appeal thing nailed, i understood why Jesse wanted to be a vampire. I so wish they wouldnt had wound it up so fast at the end when such pains were taken to explain everything in the beginning. My biggest peeve was it really needed to at least call the Vampires by name who were with Maharet in the final scene but as a Anne Rice fan who got to see some of what she wished on screen I will see it again and again ..  "},{"Title":"Lord, Have Mercy On Me!!!  (Spoilers Within)","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I'm sorry, but I was sorely disappointed by this movie.  Interview With the Vampire was so much better.  I hated the way they cut Aaliyah's appearances.  It should have been called Lestat instead of Queen of the Damned.  If you're going to hype the movie up by saying that Aaliyah is in it, then please, for the love of God, show her more than 20 minutes!! Also, this movie didn't follow Interview With the Vampire very well.  First of all, in Interview With the Vampire, Lestat was up and around from the 1700's to circa 1994.  In this film, he has been asleep from the early 1800's to circa 2002, which equals to about 200 years.  What happened to the entire century he spent with Louie?  By the way, that brings me to my second point  in this film, Lestat whines about how alone being a vampire is, and how horrible it can be feeding off people and living for all eternity.  In Interview With the Vampire, he had Louie and loved being a vampire and feeding off people.  When did Lestat develop a conscience for humans?? Lastly, In Interview With the Vampire, Armand (Antonio Banderas) was the oldest living vampire.  In Queen of the Damned, Marius is the oldest living vampire.  How did that happen??  How can this movie be a sequel when it's so different from the last film??  Besides the inconsistencies from the last film, Queen of the Damned was boring.  I was squirming in my seat the entire time.  I actually felt like walking out of the movie theatre early, but the thought of the $4.75 I paid (it would have been $7.00 if I didn't get the student discount) caused me to stay.  The movie was like a paradox a lot of things happened, but yet nothing was happening.  In other words, lots of things were going on, but they were not interesting at all.  The action scenes were few and far between, and when they did come, they were horribly boring.  The only nice action sequence was when Aaliyah set the other vampires on fire, and even that becomes overdone (no pun intended). Now I know what people mean when they say a movie is so bad it's laughable, because I left the movie theatre cracking up at at how retarded this film was.  I was also laughing because I had wasted the last bit of change I had and the 1 hr. 45 min. of my life that just went down the drain. It's a shame that this is the last film is Aaliyah is going to be remembered for. "},{"Title":"Did anyone even read the book ..?","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I went to see this movie only because I had to know how they were going adapt this book. After visiting the movies' website and finding several key characters missing, or horribly miscast I wanted to know just how bad the film was going to be. And it was worse then a nightmare.In adapting a book to a screenplay I understand that creative liberties are taken and important to telling the story in a purely visual format. But this movie was so changed I didn't even recognize the story!The pace of the story seemed to be forced and twisted off from the books plot unnecessarily. The personalities or histories of the characters, such as LeStat, Jesse and Marius are so altered that they are Anne Rices' characters only by name. And missing characters so important, like Mekare - put huge holes in the storyline. The vampires seemed to fall to the stero typical Hungarian sort, even Queen Akashas' Egyptian heritage was replaced by a poor accent and over the top dialogue. Although with one exciting development (warning SPOILER) the Queen was strong enough to walk in the daylight and was even able to share her gift with LeStat! The visions of Akashas' perfect world and her steps to make it were abandoned in favor of a blood hungry vampire who fed in extreme. Also cut from the story is HOW Akasha became Queen of the Damned - which seemed to miss the point of the story completely. It seemed that the rich story was cut in favor of some fancy visual effects, catch phrases and pretty posing. Along with some crazy casting choices the acting was for the most part weak.It was by far the worst movie I've seen in a very long time.  "},{"Title":"Makes Interview look like an old Boris Karloff black and white movie","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Its was very well done, Makes Interview with a Vampire look like and old Boris Karloff movie..Bravo, very well adapted for the screen !! "},{"Title":"thoughts on movie","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The movie was pretty good, but the book was excellent.  If the screen writer had stuck to the book it would have been much better.  Some of the things in the movie were wrong according to the book.  Such as Marius did NOT make Lestat.  Maharet had a twin sister who became the new queen and she did not turn to stone.  Pandora did not die.  Lestat had already been a vampire for 10 years when he met Marius.  Lestat had been in the ground for years when he rose for this book.  Marius made Pandora and Armand.  In the book Marius did not dress in the old style, he always dressed according to the way the people did in whatever century he was currently in.  These are just a few of the things that could have been changed and also Marius had blonde hair and blue eyes.  Jesse had red hair, Maharet had red hair, Lestat had blonde hair and violet eyes. "},{"Title":"slick but doesn't live up to the trailer","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Visually this movie is good but it doesn't live up to its potential nor its trailer.  I expected more excitement, more horror, just more, I guess and it never happened.  I left the theater unfulfilled.  Must say that I did love the soundtrack -- great mix of contemporary hard music lent itself well to the feel of the movie. "},{"Title":"Could have been way better","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I wish it would have been better. It was no where near as good as the book. I would have to say the book was 100 times better then the movie. It barely stayed even close to the book. The acting was generally bad. Important people, events and stories were left out. The story in general was messed up.I shook my head a lot when I was watching it. And swore under my breath. I imagine I will not be the only fan of the Vampire Chronicles series that will think and feel the same way.There were some good parts, like the on-stage fight. But for the most part it was a thumbs down.I only wish that the people that made Interview With a Vampire made this movie and that Brad Pitt and Tom Cruise had signed on with the movie. "},{"Title":"10 pounds of suck in a 5 pound bag","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Well, it started out like it was gonna be a great movie.. and after like 5 minutes i was saying WHAT is this Crap!!! even my son had a hard time finding one good thing to say about this movie.. Armand was WHO?? Marius was not spanish.. where the hell is the other twin.. I was thinking the only good thing i can say is Lestat was Hot.. but where were the other old ones?? Gabrielle, Kaymen.. HUA??? and since when do vampires hang out in sunlight...and what about the corpses out by the pool, it looked like the after math of a swinging party not a feast of Lestat and Akasha.. Man.. and was it just me or did the supposive vampires in the concert crowd look more then a little like the South Park kids we know and love??? Man,, well as Forest Gump says thats all i have to say bout that.. saddened and sickened Lestat65* "},{"Title":"Townsend's acting was the film's only saving grace.","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  As an Ann Rice fan, I was sorely disappointed by the flick. It's as bad as a poor student cut & paste from The Old Man and the Sea for a book report. As a friend aptly put it, this movie was closer to the Cliff Notes version. They left so much out! By making the movie just 30 min longer (it was about 1hr 40 min) it could have been fuller, more complete.For me, the only saving grace of the movie was Stuart Townsend's portrayal of Lestat. It was just as I had envisioned Lestat. Putting the book aside, the movie worth watching. Maybe as rental or be sure to pay just matinee. But if you've read the book, see the movie and just tell yourself that it was re-imagined.Perhaps it would have been smarter to have Ann Rice write the screenplay. "}{"Title":"Chalk up one for Movie translations!","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Of course not! I enjoyed reading Anne Rice's book QOTD, and now I'm wondering what she thinks of the movie. Hope she had nothing to do with it (except selling the rights). I'm not gonna say my money wasn't well spent. I had my laughs there. Okay so to the point Marius didn't make Lestat a vampire; some sucker named Magnus did. What happened to Maharet's sister Mekare? Been a while since I read the book but I remember she had a pivotal role. 'Khayman, my Khayman', anyone? Okay so given limited time and all that... but still this wasn't good enough, and readers would be disappointed. What's with Aaliyah (eh, Akasha) dancing around like that? All those 'dancing' scenes could probably be enough to make a music video. I enjoyed this while it lasted, although a bit disappointing... I'm fonna forget I ever saw it. 7/10. "},{"Title":"One-Line Review","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  One of the best music videos and worst porn movies I've ever seen.Depending on your tastes, you may or may not enjoy this one.  This movie- Has goth-like music.- Was shot more as a music video than a feature film.- Features beautiful people wearing black.- Is very predictable.- Isn't scary or suspenseful, but has some action.- Informs us a bit about Rice's vampires.- Is not very erotic.  "},{"Title":"Buffy is better","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  What happened here?  I mean this wasn't the best of the books but it didn't deserve this movie.  Not camp, not serious, not anything.  I mean is a film a film if a Tv show is better.  This could have been at least worth watching.  Don't waste your money, it's   not. "},{"Title":"once again, dont read the book first...","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  For anyone like myself who loves Anne Rice's Vampire Chronicles and have read them all from cover to cover, Queen of the Damned is not a must-see. Like Interview With a Vampire, the story was chopped into bits, spit on and layed out in disney sub-realistic mode. I was confused most of the movie as it was contrary to most of her books, and even the movie Interview (where they drain people, but here they aren't allowed to). What dissapointed me more than anything else was the fact that they left out her entire theory on the origins of vampires and the story of the ancients (they didn't even name most of them, but they were all there at the end) I, personally, was very dissapointed. Although I am glad that my friends did enjoy it...none of them have read the books. "},{"Title":"In defense of a good movie...","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Okay, first things first I just read some of the reviews posted here... and I think most of you forgot one of the most important goals of cinema to entertain. (and this movie does entertain)I'm all for art and mystery sometimes... but do you think that all vampire movies HAVE to be the same? The joy of vampire lore is that anybody can join in and expand on it. As a writer, I have, and I will. (And about Stuart's accent - it's a FRENCH accent! And I should know, I'm french.)Yes, this movie is flashy. And yes, Lestat wants to be a rockstar. Why not? I think it's a beautiful, sexual, erotic motion picture, with a loud, pulsating soundtrack. I also think Mr. Rymer did a very good job, and I hope that Aaliyah would be proud. I'm proud of her, and of Mr. Townsend as well.Vincent Perez was awesome as Marius, as in most of his other movies (especially Cyrano de Bergerac and La Reine Margot).I found this movie very modern - depicting ancient creatures in a modern world, our world, and we may find it alienating to see them on MTV, but... (again, I say) WHY NOT?In defense of this movie Everyone in the theater seemed to enjoy it, and I certainly did. It entertained me. It wasn't the holy grail, or the bible, or some great mystical revelation - but I never thought it would be. I thought I'd catch a movie, and I have to admit that it was well worth every penny - and that everybody SHOULD see it and judge for themselves.It's not an art film. It's a movie. A big budget, very sexy movie. "},{"Title":"Stuart Townsend IS Lestat","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  While not a perfect recreation of the books I did find that they did a great job with what they did bring to the screen.Stuart Townsend captured Lestat perfectly!  He simply oozed sexuality and danger.All and all I found it a fun and enjoyable watch to see some of my favorite vampires brought to the screen finally in a way that I had imagined them when reading the novels. "},{"Title":"Lacks substance","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie starts out ok but the longer it goes on the it seems to drag. Not much (if any plot).  Very little story, just various scenes of violence, bad music, and special effects.  Not really worth seeing.  What is especially disappointing is the queen is only in about 5 minutes of the whole move even though the previews seem to indicate the move is about her. Save your money - wait for the video.  This movie is a dud.  5 stars out of 10. "},{"Title":"Ummm...Errr..Huh?","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  First off... isn't The Vampire Lestat supposed to come out before this? This is part 3 is it not? Well... i kinda only saw it because of aaliyah,, as did everyone in the theater... but i tried to understand the film... and it was a very odd film. Bad screenplay, bad acting, good speical effects, good setting... it was like errrr?? And i think the story is kinda childish,... wake a vampire from music? Oh please.. yes even to Anne Rice... Im going to read the book now.  Aaliyah was in it for 15 minutes.. but the whole story surrounded her which was cool. But they shouldnt have had her as the star "},{"Title":"Horrible - Do not expect much from this movie.","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This has to be one of the worst movies that I have ever seen.  I hope that Anne Rice had no part in the making of the screenplay.  She shouldn't have, it did not follow the book at all.  They had about four characters that were in the book, and about two scenes that were correct.  I don't see how anyone who has even scanned over the book could accept this movie as remotely accurate.  They could not get the hair color of the vampires right. How could someone read this book and then make that movie with the same name. He should have just made up his own movie and given it a different name. That is basically what he did anyway.  Had he not used the characters names, it would have been his own movie.    "},{"Title":"Not quite happy with the finished product","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  To be honest, I'm an Anne Rice fan, and other than the title of the movie and the names of the characters, that's all that is similar to the book. This poor little movie is very campy in parts, to the point that instead of being scary, it's funny.Stuart Townsend is beautiful to look at, but his performance is a cross between Jim Morrison of the Doors and Beef from Phantom of the Paradise. Instead of fearing him, you feel sorry for him -- NOT the way the Vampire LeStat should be portrayed.  I hate to say it, but Tom Cruise actually nailed the persona much better.Vincent Perez as Marius was also miscast.  He looks nothing, sounds nothing like the Marius of the books, who is a tall, blond philosopher.It's such a shame that Aaliyah will be remembered only for this role. Someone older would've been much better than this child.  She just didn't pull off the sophistication that should've been required for the part. She was very pretty, but had no depth. "}{"Title":"absolutely horrid","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  First let me say a few things,  I love horror movies, from the cheesy ones(Slumber Party Massacre) to the good ones.  But there is no place for this movie.  The acting was terrible.  Stuart Townsend had to be the worst possible choice for Lestat.  I spent the whole movie hoping he, and all the other characters would just die.  The best part of the movie was in the preview when I saw Harlan Williams doing his Wookie impression.  Townsend ruined what Tom Cruise portrayed in Interview.  The songs in the movie were decent, although from what I have been told are nothing like what they were supposed to be in the book(which I have not read).  Apparently this was a complete mockery of the book. But let's forget about the book and look at it by itself, and it is a horrible, uneventful ride.  I would say just go and buy a Korn album and forget about the movie, you will have the music and saved yourself the pain of sitting thru this crap. "},{"Title":"I don't know what to think","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  There are lots of good things to say about this film, but there are also bad. Let me start with the bad can we feed off of pop culture anymore? So Goth is evil now and I suppose it will be the new in thing. It also really didn't follow the books at all, but what can you expect when they cram two novels together. The Good? Well, it was well acted and visually beautifull. Lots of great special effects too. It's up and down, and as the title implies I don't know what to think. But decide for yourself...you were going to anyway weren't you? "},{"Title":"Different","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Queen of the Damned has gotten a lot of damnation from critics, but I stand up to disagree. It simply took a completely different twist than its predecessor Interview with the Vampire, and is thought much less of as a result. I believe that they are too different to compare. I find it quite valuable to have Tom Cruise's take on Lestat, then Stuart Townsend's. They are very different, and they shine where the other's lack, and vice versa. Stuart Townsend is better at the modernized Lestat and Tom Cruise is slightly more archaic. As for Aaliyah, she made quite a presence for herself. She succeeded at being a real bad-ass with sex appeal. Who wouldn't want her to suck his/her blood? It was indeed a shame that this was her last movie, for she was convincing of her evil role despite her perfect popstar image.People in my opinion were afraid to appreciate a pop culture vampire story. Think about it, modern pop culture and a classic myth like vampires? I guess some mixes don't stand much of a chance in society these days...  "},{"Title":"What book was this movie based on?","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I thought this was called 'Queen of the Damned', wasn't the plot about 60-70% 'The Vampire Lestat'?Not a great film, and certainly not true to the spirit of ANY Anne Rice work, but a mindless, mildly entertaining film. Half-price matinee, anyone? "},{"Title":"Thank God for Stuart!!!","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I ran to see Queen of the Damned today, the first show of the day, like a child insane.  I've awaited a sequel to Interview since it came out, and perhaps I had high expectations for this film.  Honestly, the filmmakers had a difficult challenge ahead of them, they had two books to cover in an hour and a half film (too short if you ask me), and they didn't have Anne Rice writing the script.  Still, whoever decided to replace Tom Cruise with Stuart Townsend as the one and only Lestat made a great decision.  He captured the tremendous sexuality needed for this character after the terrible picture painted in Interveiw's storyline.  Sadly, taht was all that saved this movie from being a terrible endeavor not worth the price of the Early Bird ticket special I got for the first show.At any rate, if you've read the book, you will notice the obvious screw-ups in the plot line and you will catch the obvious characters that weren't introduced as they should have been (aka Maharet, Mekare, and Khayman). Still, the movie could have been a LOT worse and the soundtrack with Stuart's look and Margurite Moreau (in a role that's a far cry from her Mighty Ducks appearences)as Jesse make the movie enjoyable to an extent. Still, I wish Anne had been a part of this film because it could have been a comperable sequel with her influence.  All in all, I say go see this movie, but I wouldn't recommend paying full night time prices for it.  "},{"Title":"This is a very good movie.","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Was it entertaining?  Yes, it was.  Was it believable?  No, but I did leave the lights on that night.  Was it predictable?  No, not really.  But, it is a very good movie.  A little scary with just a touch of humor, this movie proved to me that the good guys do not always have to win.  Conversely, the bad guys do not always have to win either.  This blood sucking spin on reality (Whatever that is?) seems to blur the concept of good versus evil by pitting 'popular' evil against a more 'meat eating' version of evil.  Or in todays parlance we have the non-vegetarian evil up against the pork eatin' type evil.  Okay, so in summary we have Anne Rice depicting a rather bad group of the living-dead as having some type of a soul or conscience or who knows what. So I give it a 9 out of 10.  And, I thought it a better movie than INTERVIEW WITH THE VAMPIRE which I gave a 7. "},{"Title":"Such a disapointment","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  As an avid Anne Rice fan, I went to the first showing of this film that I possibly could get too. Yet 20 minutes into the movie, I was utterly disappointed and disgusted. Not only did these people butcher an amazing novel by rearranging the plot, the actors were pathetic in attempting to fulfill their roles. Aaliyah's accent was fake, and she just seemed to be reading lines off the script. Her counterpart Stuart Townsend, although a very good piece of eye candy, tries way too hard to be serious and vampy. He just seems to try way too hard at just about everything. The actor who played Marius made him come across as a screaming queen inside of the active and sexy bisexual Roman god that he is. (can you tell I adore Marius?) All in all, it was a pathetic attempt to bring a genius's story to life. I just hope they don't try to make a movie of any of the Chronicles for a long long time. This film is an embarrassment to them, to Anne Rice and her fans. "},{"Title":"Scream Blacula Scream","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  As we all know, sometimes sequels are better than the firsts and sometimes they are horrible. Queen of the Damned is definitely the latter.Tom Cruise and Brad Pitt first showed audiences what it must be like to be tortured vampires in 1994's Interview with the Vampire. It was the first time we had ever been exposed to the emotional side of a vampire. Tom Cruise's Lestat de Lioncourt created one of those characters that will go down in film history for his uniqueness and effervescent charm.   The sequel had a major casting change Tom Cruise is out, and Stuart Townsend is in. Did it make a difference? Yes and no. Townsend is no Cruise, but his portrayal of a modern day Lestat was more than satisfactory.  However, the storyline left much to be desired. Too much.Lestat, made a vampire in the 18th century decides to take a long rest and sleeps for over 200 years. Rock and roll music breaks his slumber and he realizes that in the 21st century he can be the person he could never be before, accepted, admired, a star. He becomes a successful rock and roll icon. His newfound popularity gets the attention of other vampires who want to kill him and one vampire in particular who wants to love him. Enter Aaliyah.Contrary to what movie marquis and commercials would like you to think, Aaliyah is not the star of this movie.  She had about 16 - 20 minutes of footage. It's difficult to separate Aaliyah the talented entertainer whose premature death is still a source of mourning in the hip hop community, and Aaliyah the budding young actress whose sophomore film project was terribly disappointing. It seems like an act of betrayal to laugh at her performance because she can't defend herself. Not to mention that in an interview her brother Rashad related how happy she was during the filming. Makes the UC feel kind of bad. But I have to be true to myself. Aaliyah plays Queen Akasha the mother of all vampires.  She falls in love with Lestat and wants to rule the world. Although she is Egyptian, her accent is reminiscent of Count Chocula. I don't blame her. That is clearly a directorial blunder. Her movements are over dramatized, over rehearsed and her character lacks depth. With the exception of the title being 'Queen of the Damned', you really need never know she had anything to do with the film at all. If you are an Aaliyah fan you will probably enjoy seeing her and consequently love the film because she's in it. However, if you are an Anne Rice fan, or a vampire film fan, or even just a lover of film, you may be very dissatisfied with the adaptation of what was an excellent book. Sometimes that just happens.In the movie's favor, the music was awesome.  The UC is hip hop for life but I must give props to the real rock and roll. In addition, Vincent Perez and Marguerite Moreau made up part of a fine supporting cast as the paternal vampire and vampire chaser.  "},{"Title":"The book is always better than the movie,","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  however, with this movie, it is quite different.  I rushed to screen this movie with the excitement of a kid...and well, it wasn't quite what I thought.  First of all, there are MAJOR differences in the movie, like how Maurius supposedly fathered Lestat (a flashback) which, in the book he was friends with Maurius..he was fathered by someone else.  The ending happens in a different way, and the characters have much different qualities than those of the book.  Basically, the plot is KIND-OF the same...but as far as the characters, they should have changed the name of the movie along with the name of the characters and it might have a chance in the movie theaters.  The way it is, however, is going to upset quite a few Anne Rice fans, me included.  The visual effects are exciting, but in a few places, it gets really grainy.  I feel that the character Lestat needed more background..which is WHY there was a book in between Interview with the Vampire and The Queen of the Damned.  There was much too much emphasis on on making the bad guys seem somewhat scary and not enough on development of characters and actual plot.  I have to say that Stewart Townsend tried, however, in his failure, I hope he realized that he tried TOO hard to seem cold hearted.  The frequent head movements reminded me of junior high girl fights...with the chicken neck and everything.  Marguerite Moreau however, was wonderful here.  I think she portrayed her character very well and was, to me, quite convincing until the end.  The settings were VERY well done, just like something out of a dream, and it was beautiful.  Alliyah's last performance was ground shaking.  She was most convincing and actually seemed to become the queen, Akasha.  However, there are some questions I have about the movie's vampire rules.  I mean, every movie has to have them...just what are their limits?  And their clothes seem to have a physical connection to their bodies...I would love that to be explained.  All in all...don't go in with much expectation...and you'll love it...that, or see the movie, THEN read the book.  I think you will enjoy it more.  The camera angles were interesting...some different techniques.However, the rotating room/box is boring and they could have done better.  I mean, does a vampire's hair flow down his back when he's upside down?  Just curious.Don't take kids to see this movie, please.  I know, I'm one of those parents who take my kid to movies that are not meant for his age, and even though he is much more mature than most, I refused to take him, and I'm glad I did.  It was gory at times, and unnecessarily bloody most of the time.  It's been done before, but I wanted to go home with more than I did.  Oh well.  I WOULD recommend going to see it, to judge for yourself, but don't expect much and you will walk out happy. "},{"Title":"It's got *some* bite","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  If the 1994 adaptation of Anne Rice's Vampire Chronicles, Interview With the Vampire (IWTV) was Gothic, then the 2001 adaptation, Queen of the Damned (QOTD), is goth. I read all the books years ago and I am a fan of the 1994 film, so I'm writing this review from that perspective. If you have no prior experience with The Chronicles, you might well be confused by QOTD. If you do have experience with The Chronicles, you might well be disappointed. I wasn't confused, nor was I entirely disappointed... so there's hope.Here's a rundown on the movie's plot, in case you haven't read the books Lestat de Lioncourt is a vampire who, after decades of hibernating, is awoken by modern rock music. It speaks to him, and makes him want to add his voice to humanity's song. He joins a rock band and leads them to super-stardom, which makes the vampires of the world very nervous. What if their secret gets out? Jessie Reeves, the youngest member of The Talamasca (an ancient academic order of scholars of the supernatural) and her mentor, David Talbot, read Lestat's journal from the 1700's, which explains (and shows us in a flashback), how the vampire Marius made Lestat. Lestat's journal also introduces us to Akasha, The Mother of All Vampires, and tells of how she sleeps, frozen in time. Jessie's aunt, Maharet, is (unbeknownst to Jessie) a vampire who is among those who wish to stop Lestat from telling the mortals about their kind. Jessie is drawn to Lestat and seeks him out. As it turns out, Lestat isn't the only music-lover... Akasha, hearing his song, wakes up and decides to make a hell on earth.I think both movies pretty well capture the spirits of their respective books -- IWTV, seen through Louis's melancholy eyes, is introspective, pensive and darkly beautiful. QOTD, seen (mostly) through Lestat's hungry eyes, is rock 'n roll, rebellion, and destruction. The books are from different perspectives and are quite different from each other, so it's reasonable to expect that the movies will also diverge.Much has been made of how many liberties director Michael Rymer and the screenwriters have taken. There are indeed quite a few the story of The Twins is completely gone; Lestat is no longer the leonine blond golden boy; Louis is excised; Marius, not Magnus, creates Lestat, and so on. But remember, the director of the first film also took several liberties Louis's younger brother is changed to a wife and child; Claudia is made about five years older; the wonderful Gabrielle character is gone; Lestat is not at the vampire trial that condemned Claudia, and so on. It is simply not possible to recreate such richly detailed books page by page, and each director must choose to focus on what about the story appeals to them and then bring that to life on the screen.As a major fan of the first movie, I have to remind myself that the, er, stakes were really lowered for this version. There isn't an all-star cast, Anne Rice didn't write the screenplay, Michael Rymer isn't Neil Jordan, and Stan Winston didn't do the vampire makeup. Once you can look at it on that level, it's not bad. And certainly not as bad as it could have been... I heard Josh Hartnett was up for the role of Lestat. Thank goodness he was unable to accept it! He is so not Lestat.Lestat, who comes second only to Count Dracula in the vampire popularity contest, is an extremely important role. A few years back, I heard that Wes Bentley had been cast. This was shortly after I saw American Beauty, and I thought, Yes! But then he dropped out, asserting that he was too tired to take on such a challenging role. He went on to make such tired, forgettable films as White River Kid, The Claim, and Soul Survivors. QOTD may not be a masterpiece, but it sure looks like one alongside any of those stinkers.Heath Ledger was also taken into account as a possible Lestat, but he too had other projects lined up. The producer, Jorge Saralegui, has stated, We considered just about every young actor, as you might imagine. What about Ryan Phillipe? He has the French-blonde-aristocratic physicality of Lestat, the sadistic playfulness (as seen in Cruel Intentions), and he's very handsome. While he has an interesting look, Townsend is not that handsome and while he does sometimes capture flashes of The Brat Prince persona, he does only a passable job. (He's probably better as Lestat than he would have been as Strider in Lord of the Rings -- his firing from that show freed him up to do QOTD.) Much better is the casting of Aaliyah as the title character, and Marguerite Moreau as Jessie, the Talamascan mortal who falls for Lestat.Contrary to what the TV spots might lead you to believe, Aaliyah only has a minor role in the film. It's a pivotal role, but quite small. She was only given one dimension to work with (ancient evil), but boy, did she work it. She plays it up with heart-eating relish, flashing her preternaturally green eyes, smiling with bloody fangs, and undulating in a skimpy costume topped by an elaborate Egyptian-style headdress. I wasn't especially impressed with Aaliyah in her first film (Romeo Must Die), and I always thought she looked too sweet in her music videos to be able to play the mother of all vampires. But she does it, and she does it well. I liked the effects used for her voice (and her brother's voice -- he did some posthumous looping for her), and I thought the ancient Egyptian accent was cool. (Was it accurate? I don't know... it's no worse than the characters in Stephen Sommers' Mummy films. I bought it.) Akasha is gorgeous, regal and a royal pain just like she was in the book, and Aaliyah, with great screen presence, obviously had a lot of fun playing her.People who have not read the book will have lots of questions about Akasha. Where did she come from? How did she become the first vampire? Why does she start out as a marble statue? Why was Marius taking care of her? Why does she want to destroy the world?The other characters, richly realized in the book, now relegated to minor roles, will also beg more questions than they answer. In QOTD, there is no dark gift lovingly bestowed by Lestat, no savage garden world of vampires. Lena Olin, who plays Maharet (her twin, Mekare, is not mentioned in the movie) is a vampire who had a daughter before she was transformed. Maharet has spent her eternity looking after her ancestors, especially her granddaughters (Jessie is really not her niece, but a direct descendent). Armand, Mael, Pandora, and Khayman are all in the movie but they serve as nothing more than window-dressing. They have no dialog even, but at least they're better off than Louis -- he was completely cut from the story. The Marius and Talbot characters are greatly altered, but that didn't bother me too much. Paul McGann as a younged-down Talbot is as good as he can be given what he had to work with, and Vincent Perez made for a believable enough creature of the night. He's a bit of a fuddy-duddy, but he was like that in the book too (remember, this is from Lestat's perspective; Marius is trying to keep him from his fun).Some of the dialog, and some of the humor, from the books is retained. Lestat, remarking on Marius's centuries-old taste in clothing, remarks, How did you ever get through the 50s in red velvet? And there's a part where Lestat says something to Jessie about not being very good at staying alive, and she shoots back, We have that in common, don't we?The real star in QOTD is Marguerite Moreau as Jessie Reeves. Her beauty is, unfortunately, not treated with the same care as Aaliyah's was -- the DP, Ian Baker (The Chamber, Fierce Creatures) uses very flat, unflattering lighting most of the time. In fact, a skin color for the vampires could not seem to be decidedupon -- Lestat alone alternates between white, blue, tan and ruddy. His gothy makeup (lots of eyeshadow and lipstick) may rankle some, but I was okay with it. The person whose makeup and lighting was too neglected was certainly Moreau's -- she's a beautiful woman, but you don't see just how attractive she really is in the movie. She has some good costumes, though (I think we may be seeing her tight, push-up plaid school-girl inspired jumper on the racks this spring).The music (written and performed by Jonathan Davis of KoRn) is pretty good and it does rock, but if Lestat has gone goth, I imagine his music would have been more Smashing Pumpkins like. The Pumpkins' music was very hard (Bullet with Butterfly Wings The world is a vampire...), but lushly beautiful and melancholy (By Starlight) at the same time. The overall score doesn't have the same haunting quality as it did in IWTV, but the violin parts are quite good (that's another character I miss... Nicolas!).The rock star worship bits are good fun, and Townsend mugs and prances with aplomb. The jaded journalists take it all in stride when Lestat announces at a press conference that he's the real deal (he looks less freakish than Alice Cooper, Kiss, or Marilyn Manson, after all). At the big Death Valley concert (a great location change from the original setting), gothy fans scream and stomp enthusiastically, unaware that they're watching not a theatrical concert but a battle to the death among the undead. Budgetary constraints probably came into play here, but I preferred how in the book, Lestat incorporated effigies of Akasha and totems of Ancient Egypt into his act. He's just a straight-ahead rocker with smoke machines in the movie.The showdown at the end of the film takes pure artistic license, and is too pat. But, the filmmakers tried to pack too much into a too-short movie while at the same time taking out great chunks of the core story. Lestat the rock star, the vengeful Queen, the inquisitive Talamascans, the guardian Maharet, or any of the bits and pieces touched upon could have been beefed up. I think that once the rights drift back into the market, it should be made into a mini-series. It could even be a regular series, ala Dark Shadows. The Vampire Chronicles are very episodic anyway -- it's the perfect medium if you ask me.And while you're asking me, don't ask why the film got an R-rating. I sure can't figure it out. There's no nudity, no overly repulsive gore (except when Akasha noshes on the heart of a vampire -- wet and bloody at first, it turns to dust as its owner perishes), and no profane language. Queen of the Darned would be more like it.Unfortunately, there isn't any heat, R-rated or otherwise, between the characters. I still get tingles when I think of certain quietly erotic moments in IWTV, or the chemistry between Winona Ryder and Gary Oldman in Dracula, but there is none of that in QOTD. Not even when there should have been -- the stage is set for a really sizzling love scene when Lestat and Akasha share a rose-petal soak (nose-thumb to Wes Bentley here?) together, but it's as tepid as their bathwater. Lestat also doesn't have much chemistry with Jessie, and the homoerotic subtext between him and Marius is left entirely to the imagination.As vampire movies go, how does it stack up? Well, they don't make them like they used to, says this nostalgic fan of Dracula (1931 and 1992), The Hunger, and Interview With the Vampire. But is it better than some of these recent offerings? From Dusk Till Dawn (yes), In the Shadow of the Vampire (maybe), John Carpenter's Vampires (yes), The Forsaken (yes), Wes Craven's Dracula 2000 (yes), and Blade (no). As a vampire flick for us thirsty fans, at least it's based on Anne Rice and at least it's a cut above what we've been given lately. That's not saying it's a great film, but it works on some of levels and is certainly worth seeing at least once.  "}{"Title":"Just too pretty and predictable. And no surprises lead to a mediocre movie.","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Queen of the Damned started out slick, but as most vampire movies go, it became too predictable. There was a comment on how to kill the queen, and in the end, that's how the movie ended, which was another slick moment. It was just too predictable with the foreshadowing handed over. No surprises, at all, which is the key for this type of movie. However, the cast was impressive, but that just is not enough for a higher mark. "},{"Title":"Sorrow for all Anne Rice fans, and for Aaliyah","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Obviously the writers and director of this movie couldn't have known it would be one of Aaliyah's last, but it is sad that her final effort had to be so poorly written. If you're a big Anne Rice fan, or even if you have only read this book, don't bother to see the movie, it will only make you angry.  I can't say too much without spoilers - so here's a quick one and I'll get off my soapbox.Vampires in the sun??  I think not.And that wasn't even the worst of the changes.  I wanted to cry when I left the theatre, not because the movie was moving, but because they took a wonderful book and made a movie that was crap based on it.Remember Lost World and how different it was from the book?   Magnify that and you have Queen of the Damned.Absolutely horrible. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I just got back from the movie and I highly recommend it. In my opinion the movie was really well done. I am not a fan of any of Anne's books so I have not read any. I went to see the movie without any knowledge of the worlds Anne has in her books. It was worth the money and time.  "},{"Title":"Don't waste your money!","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Queen of the Damned was a beautiful film visually.  The sets, costumes, and visual effects were a feast for the eyes.  But this wasn't enough to make it worth seeing again, especially if you're an Anne Rice fan.  The first turn-off was the over-simplification of the plot and a total lack of character development.  And then came the Queen.  If Aaliyah's excessive undulations weren't enough to drive me to fits of laughter her transylvanian ebonics accent certainly did the job.  My advice - buy the books and forget the film ever existed. "},{"Title":"Lestat come out come out where ever you are...","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Hahaha!  If you watch this film and pay close attention, Lestat's humor is right on target.  Its a good thing Louis didn't show up, he would have been a downer for the movie.  Sure there are things I missed that were in the books but I think Stuart Townsend's take on Lestat made up for it.  Whew, he can suck on my neck any night.  Remember this film is Lestat's story and don't expect Akasha (the late Aaliyah) to be in the majority of scenes and you'll come out feeling better about it.On Aaliyah's performance let me just say she did very well with what she had to work with.  She looked luscious and acted with regal abandon.I also enjoyed Vincent Perez as the ancient, Marius.  He seemed to be a combo of Marius and Armand as I envisioned them.  He certainly had Armand's playfulness and persistence.The script was weak in parts and some of the special effects were a bit cheesy (think of that scene in Interview with the Vampire where Louis is pissed off and chops Santiago in half and burns the Theatre des Vampires down) nothing monumental and a bit low end.  Oh well...My advice is, if you like vampires go see it, give it a chance.  Remember it is not Louis romantising via Anne Rice's pen and you'll enjoy it much more. Focus on Lestat and you'll be ready to surrender your mortality for a few sensuous minutes of life as an immortal rock star.Denise vv "},{"Title":"Charming Aaliyah","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Queen of the Damned is an MTV horror film in the tradition of the Hammer Films of the 60's, VERY loosely based on the Anne Rice novel.  It is also a vehicle for the displaying the charms of Aaliyah.  Her performance reminds one of the following stars  Ursula Andress in She  Claudette Colbert in Cleopatra  Rhonda Fleming in Queen of Babylon  Gina Lollobrigida in Solomon & Sheba.  She's the best part of the film and has too little screen time.  "},{"Title":"A disgrace to Anne Rice and her entire series...","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Upon watching this atrocity just moments ago, I can only say that in the grand scope of things nothing really matters to hollywood anymore, just pimping out something with a name. The characterizations were utter garbage, Aaliya was AWFUL as the queen of the damned and Stewart Townsend? Well, he at least tried... The music was a joke, but what would you expect from a film that Korn's lead singer put the music together for? Sadly the feel of the two books this movie has bastardized is almost completely washed away, keeping very little of the feel Anne Rice portrayed in print. The only redeeming thing about it would be the appearance of Bruce Spence, but even this reclusive genre actor cant save this pile of crap... avoid. "},{"Title":"Worth the price of the ticket...","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The special effects were great, I loved the way the vampires would fly through the air.  Costuming was done very well.  And the soundtrack is just fantastic.  As far as the cast goes, overall good casting.  Stuart Townsend made a much better Lestat than Tom Cruise, despite the changing accent. Townsend doesn't match the physical description of Lestat but he definitely had the attitude.  I really enjoyed Townsend's performance.  All in all, it was a good show. "},{"Title":"I was expecting a dud, but I really dug it!","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I had read several reviews on this film, all of them trashing it, but I loved Anne Rice, so I gave it a shot. Right away I knew I should have NOT doubted this movie. Of course it's not amazing..but I did enjoy it, and I would go see it again..right now if I wasn't sitting here at home writing this. Stuart Townsend is excellent as Lestat. Not exactly as the book, but of course what movie is. No Louis..flashy Matrix-ish cgi, but MUCH better than alot the more recent Vampire movies that have been out in the past couple of years.  "},{"Title":"More erotic, than a scare... a nice flick!","Date":"21 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  MINOR SPOILERS...It's not so horror horrific as I'd expected it to be! I should say it's pretty much a sophisticated supernatural fang-adventure, capturing the menace of vampires, but not exhibiting too much of the classically grotesque and visual gore to numb the viewers. And there are sufficient storytelling elements to highlight the historical aspects of the `ancient' characters for the non-Anne Rice readers! The flash-back effects also nicely point to Lestat's origin to make this film enjoyable. It has been a compelling and intriquing experience for me. Yep, I'm willing and able to forget how well Tom cruise portrayed Lestat in Interview With A Vampire!The actors &#150; unknown, perhaps, but definitely a fine cast! Townsend is perfect for his raucous rock-star Lestat role&#133; his darkening scowls, his blasphemous laughter, his irrepressible optimism, his faulty impulsiveness&#133; everything about him is strangely appealing! And Vincent Perez, as the vampiric guardian, Marius, certainly moves around with an air of mystery. Aaliyah's Akasha is a welcoming sight! Dressed in Egyptian finery, and with her gyrating performances, whoa, this elegant actor is erotically stunning! Just watch her perform her psychic powers! Astounding! OK, she loves eating human organs! That doesn't necessarily distort her flamboyant beauty. Do examine all the characters' flashes of white fang teeth! Can't say they don't summon up their blood-thirsty spirits and flesh eating customs! Marguerite Moreau is a credible Jesse, a member of the Talamasca fellowship, hunting for vampirical phenomena! Strong-minded, yet simple and sweet in nature, she culminates no surprises with her ability to woo Lestat into her confidence. The Matrix-like CGI effects are quite impressive, considering this movie is produced under a low budget! Lestat's introduction in the film is phenomenal! He enters the ground, only to re-emerge, to the sounds of `Satan's Night Out', into the present punky era! Yikes, that is something worth watching! The scenes and the punky characters of the Death Valley Concert are intriguing! Also, observe the scenes at the Vampire Bar&#133; brutal and yet sort of surreal and cool! And the great music scores and lyrics &#150; dark and energizing, adding soul to the events!  Awesome! This is definitely a nice-straight faced vampire fantasy that is fascinating to watch! Was I scared? Hey, it's a vampire movie, but it definitely didn't give me nightmares!  And I do love the Gothic settings!  "}{"Title":"Decent yet superficial.","Date":"21 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  While it's no where near as good as Interview with a Vampire, Queen of the Dammed is pretty decent. Thanks in part of Steward  Townsend performance as the Vampire Lestat He is actually better than Tom Cruse in the role because he at least plays the part with The charming flare Ann Rice intended it to have, unlike the spoiled brat Tom Cruse played in Interview with the Vampire. While his and the Late Aaliyah performance are good, the movie unfortunately is not.  It feels more like a Music video than a film, and Aaliyah does not even come into the film int'l the last forty five minutes of the movieIt's decent but it could have been a lot more.  "},{"Title":"The WORST movie I've seen in over a year.","Date":"21 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  QUEEN OF THE DAMNED  0___   Stuart Townsend, Marguerite Moreau, AaliyahA 2400 year-old Vampire returns to earth and starts a heavy-metal rock band. Then things get strange. Lots of special effects. Lots of noise. Lots of explosions. No car chases. It could definitely have used a good car chase. This is the WORST movie I've seen in over a year.  "},{"Title":"'The Lost Boys' it ain't, but it will surprise...","Date":"20 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"     The gullible movie fan can always count on the Hollywood Sophists to mislead us all with a trailer. Upon viewing the trailer for &#145;Queen of the Damned', one would assume that since it boasted the late singer Aaliyah's final film debut, she would have quite the predominant role. Yet how presumptuous would be to assume that. For it is not the case, the singer's scenes in the film have been unevenly slashed since her death and she appears mostly in the final stages of the film. Yet, that is not to say that the film revolves around her character, for she is the titular character, but actor Stuart Townsend owns the film     In this apparent sequel to &#145;Interview With the Vampire', Townsend portrays the character Tom Cruise made famous in the former film. In this Gen-X film, Lestat returns after a century of sleep only to find himself bored with immortality. Thus making way for Akasha, a 6000-year-old Queen Vampire who promises him much more than he could ever imagine.      I must admit, expectations were low coming into this film. I am not an avid horror fan and do not find myself caring much for films of this caliber, yet many surprises were in hand upon the viewing of the film. Released by Warner Brothers, the film was certainly modestly budgeted but contained some great production values. The settings were elegant and the film captured a seemingly eerie yet graceful aura that did not make this film seem something it was not. Perhaps a borderline thriller, the film rarely makes an attempt to terrify. Yet tells a story of a vampire who awakens an ancient evil in order to search for more.      The film opens in an interesting manner and makes us realize that we should take this film a little more seriously than at first glance. Lestat returns only to find himself in a rock Band and while the public thinks his Vampire gimmick is a front; Lestat has other plans that are conveyed by Townsend decadently immersing himself in the role of the lustful and bloodthirsty vampire.       Director Michael Rymer (Perfume, In Too Deep) is at the helm of what appears to be his first mainstream film and certainly surprises. Though the script may be quite weak, and the visual effects may also be characterized as ordinary, the discerning viewer will notice a solid attempt at creating a haunting and at times enchanting tale about a vampire's quest for something that just might be unable to achieve.       The film certainly has its' flaws, if dissected; the objective viewer will note the pacing will be a tad bland at times and many things seem to be too convenient. Yet the film does have an interesting cast including a surprisingly elegant and masterful French actor Vincent Perez as Lestat's mentor Marias. Lena Olin also joins the cast as the watchful aunt of Jessie (Marguerite Moreau), a fanatical Vampire Scholar who will stop at nothing at discovering the secrets of the nocturnal.       As aforementioned, I was quite surprised at the outcome of the film.  Based on Anne Rice's follow up Novel to &#145;Interview With the Vampire', the same sensual and erotic themes are contained within the film yet are handed gracefully.  The film does not turn itself into a soft porn romp, but neither does it connect the sensuality to the cause. This in my view is one of the main conflicts within the film. The sensual undertones seem to be overshadowed by the film's explicit attempts to woo us with its' style and appeal.       Furthermore, the film seems to be gearing itself towards a Gen-X audience. How can one tell? Listen to the soundtrack, heavy metal tracks bombard the viewer in the film and makes an attempt to connect to the grunge attitude encompassing the present day world. Yet, in relation to poorer films that have the same target audience, this film escapes the trap without the slightest pretense.  Instead of overflowing itself with stupidity that it could have easily engulfed itself in, the film is embedded with an ambitious, admirable and tender eye that Rymer brings to the film. Is it the best film out there? No. Is it the best Vampire film? Leave that to &#145;The Lost Boys'. Just enjoy this film for what it is; a matinee-like thriller that looks great and that may surprise many.Giancarlo's Rating **  "},{"Title":"Not that bad, but not that great either.","Date":"20 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I saw this film last night at a free sneak preview. I have to say that while I was entertained, there were some things about the film I did not like.1) The acting is sub-par all around. Aaliya may have been a gifted musician (I'm not familiar with her music, so I don't know), but she was a horrible actress. Townsend was not much better. Considering that these two are the top-billed cast members should prepare you for the lackluster performances from the rest of the cast.2) I have never read any of Anne Rice's Vampire Chronicles so I don't know what specifically was cut out for the screenplay. What I do know is that they obviously cut out too much. There is too much that is not explained adequately on screen. It was plainly apparent that many sub-plots had been deleted, and therefore, a lot of potential was wasted.3) The score, in several places, became an annoyance as the music dramatically elevated to a piercing screech that only made me wince in pain.4) The eye makeup of the vampires in the movie made me wonder how they have managed to stay secret for so long, being that they all look alike. They all had the exact same discoloration at the corners of their eyes (near the nose). Visually, it was very distracting and failed at making the vampires look otherworldly - it looked more like that crud that forms in the corners of your eyes while you're sleeping.Now, all that being said I feel the movie is not a complete waste of time. Aaliya, while not a great actress, is certainly pleasing to the eye. And there is enough action and special effects to keep the lukewarm plot going until the end. See it at an early matinee and save a little cash.I gave it a 5 (out of 10). "},{"Title":"Don't be sucked in this movie is bloody awful!","Date":"20 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Much-hyped vampire film fails to live up to to the bill. Entire movie feels like a MTV video, as we watch Lestat (Townsend) lead Marilyn Manson look-a-likes as the ridiculous pretext for the vampire story. Director Michael Rymer brought us such other flops as Perfume (2001) and In Too Deep (1999). Aaliyah's last screen appearance is wasted in what amounts to little more than a few words in 10 minutes screen time. The only scary thing about this film is how it managed to be made. "},{"Title":"A very disappointing sequel and all around bad movie. Skip it!","Date":"20 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  What a shame! Aaliyah's last movie unfortunately is a bomb. Another in a long line of bad sequels, this cheesy vampire flick is so badly done that audible groans can be heard throughout the audience during the movie. Very loosely based on the Vampire Chronicles by Anne Rice, this is another example of how a good book can go bad on screen (see Stephen King). Stuart Townsend (About Adam) plays Lestat, the same character that Tom Cruise played in Interview with the Vampire, except with nowhere near as well of a performance. His Crow-like appearance and silly Bela Lugosi-esque accent come off as humorous. Marguerite Moreau (Wet Hot American Summer) isn't bad as Lestat's love interest/obsessive fan. Aaliyah gives a strong performance, but is only in about less than a third of the movie. Apparently, this is not due to her untimely death. The redubs on her vocals were actually done by her brother in post-production.  This film was supposed to go straight to video and really should have. It probably won't do well as soon as the bad word spreads. Anne Rice fans will be very disappointed and most horror film buffs will have a hard time getting into this one. Director Michael Rymer (In Too Deep) went for the MTV-esque all flash and no substance approach to match the Jonathan Davis (Korn) penned soundtrack.   Skip this one at the theater. This is a rental at best for those still curious. If you go, you're setting yourself up for disappointment. Don't say we didn't warn you!  "},{"Title":"More music-video cinema, in this case eye-candy Korn.","Date":"19 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I can do without Anne Rice's purple prose, meself, so whether this follows the book or not ain't my big concern. The real problem here is that Queen just doesn't build the sense of grandiose vampire mythology that the filmed Interview did, nor does it work much as a straight-up horror film--a boo! jump-cut or two aside, there are no real scares here. Which leaves the nicely shot and designed film as just another CGI pretty-picture fest sans any great narrative momentum, let alone character development. Stuart Townsend has a nice insolent-sexy vibe as Lestat, and Vincent Perez seems to be enjoying himself as Marius. Aaliyah mostly acts with her hips--you'll know what I mean when you see the film--though in her defense it should be said she's not required to do much more than be an FX-assisted slinky image. It's nice to see Paul McGann and Lena Olin in a mainstream film, undistinguished though their roles are. A major minus, however, is Marguerite Moreau as mortal ingenue Jesse--she's so lacking in charisma and personality you might suspect she was cast through some sort of behind-the-scenes nepotism. (Presumably it wasn't because her work in all three Mighty Ducks films was so memorable...not that I'd know, anyway.) By not taking itself too seriously (while on the other hand resisting outright camp), the movie does get away with the potentially hypersilly vampire-as-rock-star conceit; at a first listen, the Jonathan Davis-penned/sung songs are serviceable. But in the end this is just another good-looking piecing together of music-video-like setpieces that are amusing enough in themselves yet never add up to potent storytelling or a cogent atmosphere. It'd give it a 5--not bad, not good. "},{"Title":"A Bit Of Everything","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  what is the point of this movie?, sure Aaliyah plays an extremely honourable role as Queen Akasha but the storyline seems a tad un-original. For some reason i love the awesome charisma it imposes in my mind. The most disappointing aspect of the feature film is that it borrows many ideas from other famous flicks (such as Rock Star, The Cell & concept of Buffy The Vampire Slayer). "},{"Title":"look sharp and act vaguely menacing, life for a vampire is a is not much more than a snappy editing and effects, a change of wardrobe, and usually an irksome accent","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  the mystery of the spoken language of the egyptians has been SOLVED, rejoice! they sounded as ALL vamps since Bela Lugosi, HUNGARIAN! it's in the blood, one must assume.early in the film, we were treated to a bit of a video, shot in a style reminiscent of the expressionistic german film, Das Kabinett des Doktor Caligari which gave me high hopes for a visually stimulating night out. eh. you can only go so far with flashy MTV type editing, flash, and racket, if you saw the preview, that's as deep as it gets here.many of the scenes were awkward enough for the audience to laugh out loud, and this wasn't the effect in most cases.  Aaliyah Haughton succeeded in her role, which consisted of keeping her wig on and softly undulating in bronze bodypaint. there was little more required of the actors, looking good visually and possessing a vaguely badass attitude was enough in most cases, as it is in most music videos. life for a vamp is burdened by a never ending change of wardrobe and usually an irksome accent.  not a lot of introspection here, which you would think a 400+ yr vampire would have had some opportunity for.the other plot possibility was the meddling kid talamasca, a bit thin on the characterization, and somewhat unbelievable. one character followed her obsession to request full knowledge of the experience of a vamp. this woman, who we are to believe is DRIVEN for knowledge, rapidly backpedaled when offered the opportunity to become a vamp after a demonstration of a light snack in the park after dark. this woman was an EXPERT, having studied lestat from his own DIARY, did she think he drank slim fast to stay looking so thin and chic?  the fans of the Anne Rice books will be disappointed, as the story is further diluted by the direction and the choice to make this as flash as possible.roland s. howard and hugo race were featured in the film. look QUICKLY, as their role in the BAR band consists of a quick tracking shot in the admiral's arms and one fleeting close up reaction shot before he and the rest of the barflies buy the farm. go rent der Himmel ber Berlin one more time if you want more than this. (which i DO!) "},{"Title":"The music is pretty good, but that is about it.","Date":"29 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie is actually based on the next two books of the Vampire Chronicles, The Vampire Lestat and Queen of the Damned. It seems as if quite a lot of people didn't really like this movie and I suspect one of the reasons that this was the case was because they changed the lead actor, but then again I did find Townsend preferable to Cruise. Plotwise, well I doubt that it could be much of an improvement on the first one, which did not seem to have a plot either, but also this movie is basically compressing two books into one so the plot was always going to suffer.Basically Lestat has been asleep for about a hundred years (since the end of the last movie) and has recently awakened to discover a new world, however he is still alone, so he decides to join a rock band and openly display the fact that he is a vampire, not that he would be considered a freak considering that he is moving about in the Gothic world of the 1990s.Then there is a young woman whose auntie turns out to be a vampire as well, and she has some special telekinetic powers that enables her to, well, I'm not exactly sure what, but she seems to be torn between becoming a vampire and not becoming a vampire. She is also a part of a secret society that monitors and records the paranormal activities, which includes vampires.We learn about Lestat's past, and that he stumbled across the statue (but is it really a statue) of the prime vampire known as the Queen of the Damned, and he also discovers that music has a tendency to awaken her, which is probably why he started a rock band (or at least joined one) because he did know that music awakens her, and what better way to summon her than through Gothic rock music.To me this was an okay movie, but the thing that I did really like about it was the sound track. One does wonder if a sound track really does make the movie. I guess it can make a bad movie bearable, but then again so does a short length. In the end though, I have seen this movie once and am unlikely to watch it again. "}{"Title":"Lestat, the Queen of the Damned!","Date":"14 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" To understand that this film was intended as a direct-to-video one but was released into cinemas seemingly to capitalise on Aaliyah's tragic death makes me hold it in even higher contempt; the fact that they essentially eliminated any homoerotic content from it is contemptible enough (especially as plenty was present in Interview), but trying to invent an artificial female character who is barely even a part of the story, then asking the audience to assume some kind of bond that does not exist is far too much. Was Akasha not enough for our apparently homophobic screenwriter? Thankfully, at the very least, she is a more compelling villainess than in the books, where she was nothing more than a maniacal feminazi, and Aaliyah does give a compelling performance...for the twenty or so minutes of screen time she has.Pacing is probably the largest problem with this film, as too much time is taken with attempting to showcase the frankly awful music that Lestat and his band make. One imagines they desperately needed the gimmick of him claiming to be a vampire, as otherwise few would have even paid attention to the melodically bereft noise they generated. This time would have been much better spent developing the character of Akasha, trying to make Lestat even remotely likable or sympathetic, or adding some form of coherency to Jesse's bare-bones backstory. Viewers may complain about Akasha being too over-the-top, but what else could she do when the script refused to give her any development whatsoever? All she could do was present herself as a would-be conqueror. And at the very least, she had more screen presence than any of the rest of the unfortunate cast.Lestat came off as a poseur, a douchebag, and a completely unsympathetic, unlikable character. The audience were supposed to be concerned, several times, when it seemed he would be destroyed by 'evil vampires', yet the film failed to make him anything but annoying, selfish, and pedestrian. This was not helped by Stuart Townsend's weak performance and inconstant accent, nor was it helped by the fact that the makeup department dropped the ball on several shots where he was clearly supposed to be powdered and made up to be deathly pale, yet was not. Visual appeal was all he had, and several times that failed.Jesse was nothing but a cipher, as transparent an audience insertion character as could be. Her story could have been made interesting, but the audience was asked to make too many leaps of logic that would have been better developed by the film itself.In fact, that in many ways is the greatest problem with the film it makes no sense at all, leaps around constantly, and never ends up with any logical coherency. I find it problematic that Rice's vampires always kill their prey (but inexplicably not the last drop) because that would be like taking an apple from a huge apple tree and then cutting the tree down and throwing the rest away. I don't have a problem with vampires out during the daylight because even the original fictional vampire, Carmilla, could do this. Akasha being out in the day wasn't a problem I had. It was the rest of the story that constantly failed.I repeatedly found myself asking 'what?' and 'how does that even work?' in this film. People turning to statues for no reason...people suddenly being in one place or another without any explanation...some clandestine organisation of extremely bored presumed researchers who never do anything...a temple in the middle of the desert that has no real reason for existing...what does it all mean? Wouldn't the vampires attacking Lestat right when he calls them out call more attention to them than his divulging of supposed secrets? More likely it would seem they'd just ignore him and everyone would assume he's just another second-rate goth demagogue looking for attention. Why would Marius try to hide something behind an easily-uncovered passage from his sensory-enhanced scion, then blithely leave him alone, presuming he wouldn't uncover it? Why would Jesse be chosen as one of the fans to see Lestat, not even remotely looking the part? How is it possible that Lestat managed to cover up the dead bodies of the people he ate, especially after telling everyone he's a vampire? Wouldn't the police kind of find it suspicious that dead, blood-drained bodies had been showing up wherever he went? Wasn't he supposed to feed only from killers and the morally bereft, instead of just any and every tart brought to him? Everything on the story hinges on tremendous coincidence, with inadequate plausible premise presented.Along with the problematic title -- which seems to indicate more that Lestat himself is the queen of the damned, and quite a queen he is -- the whole thing is just a huge mess.And you can't expect me to believe that they couldn't afford to get someone to walk on for five minutes at the end as Louis, for some small modicum of continuity. Maybe if they had used, I don't know, 500 less extras, they could've afforded at least a decent actor to give it something of a satisfactory conclusion.But no, they didn't even do that. At the end of it all, it was a big ho-hum where nothing much happened and what did happen was completely confusing and incoherent. It's annoying enough that Anne Rice is regarded as such a go-to person for vampires (though perhaps not anymore as she's become a tad bonkers), even more annoying when people use her work as so much window-dressing and actually manage to make a much worse story. "},{"Title":"Entertaining, nothing more....","Date":"24 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" First of all, I found Queen of The Damned to be extremely different from Interview with The Vampire probably because of all the special effects and difference in actors. As I watched the movie the plot was quite simple and easy to understand, as well, there was not much suspense at all or the creation of curiosity. In no way was the film as powerful or emotional compared to the last film (Interview with The Vampire). I had expected more from it by seeing the trailer. The acting was okay, but the last film had some of the best and most well-known actors so once again if I compare it, it would not be as good. The ending was quite predictable. It seemed to me it was one of those movies you watch just to be entertained and not to make you think what so ever really. I didn't quite like it being at some points a dark movie, it was done in my opinion to make the viewer uncomfortable (not sure if that makes sense). Overall it wasn't that much a waste of time. "},{"Title":"Surprising and a bit vexing, but still worth a look-see","Date":"9 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Queen of the Damned surprised me. It's got a lot of flaws - it's never a good sign when the deleted scenes and DVD commentary are more enjoyable than the stand-alone film - but it's not at all a horrible movie. It messed with and compressed/redid the Anne Rice novels so much that few people seem to like it - but I think if you go into without expecting it to be Anne Rice's Lestat, but rather a story loosely inspired by her books, it's a decent little goth movie.Particularly Queen/Damned's music, by guys from Korn, Static X and even Marilyn Manson (who has one great album, Mechanical Animals, his Ziggy Stardust glam tribute/ripoff), and Stuart Townsend as Lestat. While no Tom Cruise, he's a lot better than you'd expect, and certainly believable as a rock star.As surprisingly dynamic as Cruise was in Interview/Vampire, there's no WAY he could have done the rock star turn without making everyone laugh while remembering the tightie whitey dance from Risky Business! "},{"Title":"Terrible, terrible, terrible!!!","Date":"28 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is definitely the worst vampire flicks of all times. I started to watch this right after Interview With the vampire and I was thoroughly disappointed. Not only did this movie's script have craters as big as the grand canyon, the movie seemed to jump from one scene to another leaving the viewers thoroughly puzzled. The vampire Lestat played by Stuart Townsend was terrible-having a good body does not make you an actor! The end of the queen was too easy and sudden, insulting the viewers intelligence. I'll give this one star because Aaliyah actually tried her best in this movie and the soundtrack is pretty good. Other than that I would advice Anne Rice to take an ax and start hacking those who destroyed her brilliant story. "},{"Title":"Awful","Date":"21 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Even if I had not read Anne Rice's Queen of the Damned from the Vampire Chronicles, I probably would still have thought this movie was just awful.It was tasteless, plot-less, it made absolutely no sense at all. I sat for a while pondering the plot disassociated from the book, and the longer I thought of it, the worse it was. To associate it in any way with the prior Chronicles film is ridiculous as it is ridiculously inconsistent with that movie, let alone the book. The bare few ideas taken from Rice's genius in The Vampire Chronicles were butchered and ridiculed.It is an absolute insult to Anne Rice fans everywhere and such a pathetic excuse for a legacy in being Aaliyah's last film. Truly, it's an insult to Aaliyah fans as well.Possibly the only compliment can be paid to the sound effects as well as some of the graphics. Good as they may be, it is still not at all enough to make me regret the time spent watching this movie. As a matter of fact, I signed up for this membership for the sole reason of communicating to people bothering to look at this film (7 years after the release, as it may be) to not waste their time or expect much beyond disappointment. "},{"Title":"For sensitive Anne Rice fans, it might be a pain to watch","Date":"8 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Even though the story is not entirely consistent with the original, written by Anne Rice, small example is Lestat himself and the story of his rebirth. However if you're not to bothered to by that, or to sensitive to such mistakes, it still has some strange appeal. It sort of draws you in, could be said there is some strange magic to it, or at least to the characters in the movie, especially that of Akasha. Aaliyah seems to have really lived into her character, which adds the plus points to the movie. The special effects are also pretty decent. If you're into vampires then you'll love it just for the sake of the vampiric romance the movie tries to portray. "},{"Title":"Just seen the Movie, some thoughts","Date":"15 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" As an avid reader of the Vampire Chronicles, I was optimistic of another adaptation of the series. I enjoyed Interview with the Vampire, and was hoping for a film on the same level. However I was let down. The storyline of the movie was completely skewered from the novel, and failed to adequately touch up on the book's main themes. The acting wasn't the worst, as there were some good performances out there, particularly those by the actors portraying Marius and Lestat. However the failures of the film were the lack of character development and skimming of important details of the book which translated into a jumbled mess. For example there was no mention of the Legend of the Red Headed twins and no insight into the history of the Queen Akasha. If you are going to make a movie of the Queen of the Damned, then you better put her on the screen more and develop her history or her motives. While interweaving a whole novel's content into a 90 minute film is challenging, it's like the producers/directors didn't read the book but settled for the Cliff Notes version. In the end, the film is merely entertainment for those who have NOT read the book and pure folly for those who are avid readers of the Vampire Chronicles. I will see this movie only once but will read the book many, many times. "},{"Title":"The funniest film I've seen in a long time.","Date":"21 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I was laughing so hard that I only managed to watch ten minutes. Yes, I've read the books too. The thing is that the directors' other films look good, so what went wrong here? Townsends accent (trying to be french, yet sounding like Dracula)? Or the SH*T script?There's no other way to describe the turd like dialogue that flows like a river of diarrhoea from the characters mouths. It's worse then Star Wars. The bit with Townsend perch seductively on the amplifiers at the beginning of the film made me laugh so hard I almost fell off my chair. The whole sexy goth vampire thing is getting really old. It would be really cool if someone came up with a really fresh take for a horror movie. And, no, not like 30 Days of Night, either. "},{"Title":"Not for those who've read the books...but enjoyable","Date":"19 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I'll be honest, I do admit to actually watching this film and enjoying it even after reading the books, mainly because I saw the film first and was glad that it didn't spoil the books. It is a big guilty pleasure of mine, but I will grant that now reading most of Anne Rice's Vampire Chronicles and I also will grant that it about as faithful to them as 300 was to history, but once you put the books aside and forget all about them, it's a decent film to say the least.Many fans have despised this film for butchering the books and some actually enjoy it because it had introduced them to the books in the first place (as it did to me), but personally I think it would have done a good job as a film if it was just in chronological order and faithful to the book. For example, Stuart Townsend has been criticized for is performance as he wasn't playing the character of Lestat from the books. Frankly, I think Townsend could have played a good Lestat if he wanted to, seeing him in other films where he had done a good job, but clearly the writers had different ideas. Needless to say, the film would have been good if it had either a different title and different names or was at least faithful to the book. But apparently, the writers had only looked up a fair few pages of the books and thought that was a good idea.But there are some good points to the film The soundtrack is brilliant, Vincent Perez (Marius) appears to be the only one in character, Lena Olin is wonderful as Maharet (despite her lack of blindness, let alone a twin sister) and although Townsend does not play the twisted and humorous side of Lestat, he does add the seduction, arrogance and edginess that Tom Cruise did not have. After all, it might be hard to take Tom Cruise seriously as a rock star lip- syncing to Korn, though he did do a brilliant job in the original first installment of the chronicles on film. And to my astonishment, I watched the film in French for practice not too long ago and Lestat was a lot more in character when dubbed in French...very strange.Anyhow, yes, on a whole the film does little to no justice to the books, but it is enjoyable if you're bored and in need of something semi-dark or if you're in need of an introduction to the books to get a taste of what they're like. Although, the books, to me, are almost unfilmable since they are filled with rather heavy metaphysical matters. "},{"Title":"Worth a watch","Date":"11 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I've got to admit, after hearing nothing but bad reviews about this movie, i was hesitant to hire it out, but the other day, i dropped by the video store, and got this out along with Interview. After the first twenty minutes, i realized that i had to see this movie as a stand-alone and not compare it with Interview with the Vampire. I was kept attached to the TV screen almost the entire way, except i started to fidget in my seat towards the end. My mate and i talked through it and we agreed that the movie would have been a whole lot better if the actors were different. Steve made a great Lestat, as he has the vampire look about him, however we came to the decision that Criss Angel would have made the movie complete hands down.All-in-all, i was overly satisfied and the soundtrack put a smile on my face "}{"Title":"Offers Something New for Audiences","Date":"11 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Long on lore but short on gore, director Michael Rymer's new horror chiller Queen of the Damned, starring Stuart Townsend as the Vampire Lestat and late R&B crooner Aaliyah as the diabolical dame, qualifies as a campy, vampy transfusion of fun. Unlike its pretentious predecessor, director Neil Jordan's uneven but atmospheric Interview With A Vampire (1994), Queen doesn't meander around with morbid melodramatics. Instead, this lightweight but entertaining epic about immortal bloodsuckers on the prowl isn't so much a straight-line sequel as an autonomous adaptation of Anne Rice's The Vampire Chronicles. Actually, Queen shares more in common with Stephen Norrington's bloodthirsty Blade (1998) with its accent on heretical hemoglobin hunters who refuse to abide by Dracula's discretionary daylight dictates. Like the nefarious Nosferatus in Blade, the creepiest of the cryptmeisters in Queen not only wants to come out of the coffin forever but also dine on humans until doomsday. Anybody who saw Interview knows Lestat (Tom Cruise) emerged as the world's fiercest fangster. Thoroughly evil, he lacked a single redeeming feature. In Queen, Australian director Michael Rymer and scenarists Scott Abbott & Michael Petroni have reimagined the lecherous Lestat, so he appears comparably saintly, more like Brad Pitt's bloodsucker in Interview. As the action unfolds, Lestat has been mildewing in his mausoleum for 200 years, because he found immortality by himself a colossal bore. We learn in Queen, for instance, that a 400-year-old vampire called Marius (Vincent Perez of The Crow 2 City of Angels) kidnapped Lestat and turned the 18th century French nobleman into a vampire. Vampires amount to a gregarious group in this big screen incarnation. Like the rebellious young Kirsten Dunst character in Interview, Lestat ventures where he shouldn't have and takes a forbidden bite out of Akasha, the Queen of all vampires. Marius had Akasha's petrified corpse locked up for all eternity in the cellar of his magnificent castle. Anyway, Marius vanishes with Akasha, leaving poor Lestat to fend for himself. Depressed, Lestat retires to his crypt, until the melodic strains of rock'n roll serenade him back to the 'live' side. Exposing himself to the world-at-large as a real-life vampire, Lestat forms his own heavy metal band and gets his picture on the cover of Rolling Stone magazine. Principally, his fellow fangsters hate him, because he revealed their secret existence. Meanwhile, a British babe named Jesse (Marguerite Moreau) who serves as an apprentice for a cloistered clique called the Talamascans, paranormal people who keep tabs on vampires but refuse to interfere with them, wants to meet Lestat. She heard one of his hit tunes, and it turned her on! Jesse's mentor David Talbot (Paul McGann, a one-time Dr. Who) warns her to leave well enough alone, as does her distant vampire auntie Maharet (Lena Olin). Of course, Jesse listens to neither and runs afoul of the evil Akasha.Like the best vampire outings, Queen of the Damned never takes itself seriously, offers something new for audiences, and climaxes with an exciting, slam-bang, action-packed finale. "},{"Title":"surprisingly entertaining","Date":"13 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I have not read the books, the only I read was Taltos and I think that is all I ever read from Rice. I like the Interview with the Vampire , the acting the story and everything, so I was surprised I liked this movie. I know they must have butchered the story because it seems the story it was made from was very complex and long and all that but I you haven't read the book you feel this is a long video clip, the music for the movie is very good and the flow of the movie is entertaining. I particularly enjoy the last scene when they leave the human world behind. I love Aaliyah portrayal of Akasha even if she was not an actress.The overall I recommend this movie to people who liked Interview with the Vampire,but who have not read the books because while entertaining is not book quality. "},{"Title":"This movie is one of the my favorite film","Date":"27 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I watched the movie Interview with the vampire before I watch the Queen of the damned. I though Interview with the vampire was great. and I still think like that. But queen of the damned is my favorite! Can you imaging that Tom Cruz is rock star? Umm...;-( ;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;; I think Stuart Townsend was perfectly fit the role of the vampire Lestat. Stuart was so sexy and gloomy....T^T Every scene of the 'Queen of the damned' was so wonderful. So fierce,gloomy,beautiful and sexy. I am totally fall in love with this movie. So I bought the set(include 4 book)of vampire chronicles in the Amazon. Even I am a Korean,and my poor English. 5days ago, The books was arrived. And now, I am reading 'the Vampire lestat'. Sooooo wonderful and awesome. Anyway, I recommend this awesome movie The vampire lestat. "},{"Title":"not according to the book","Date":"19 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" What I recommend is that you read the book, it's probably the best one in Anne Rice's Vampire Chronicles. The movie is not very faithful to the book, it's more like a joint a story of The Vapire Lestat and Queen of the Damned. Actually I would say it is BASED on The Vapire Lestat rather than Queen of the Damned. Watch the movie, and THEN read the book, it's really better if you do it in this order read the book first and you will not appreciate the movie. I know I didn't. I've grown to love Anne Rice and her Vampire Chronicles and I hated the dark-hair Lestat, whose hair should have been blond and long, and I also hated the fact that the movie presented Marius as the maker of Lestat, instead of Magnus. I also can't imagine why the movie did not include Maharet's sister, Mekare, who played a huge role in the book. The movie is good, I would say even great, but don't compare it to the book too much.. "},{"Title":"Vampire rock-stardom at it's very best!","Date":"19 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie, while poorly received by fans of the book(Whose taste we should question anyway, simply because they ARE fans of Anne Rice's poorly constructed work), was supremely entertaining, and has long-since earned a permanent spot on my top shelf. The casting was rather good, even though it doesn't compare to 1994's 'Interview with the Vampire' (I mean, it IS hard to compete with Brad Pitt). But, most of all, the...SOUNDTRACK. The music for this movie is a amazing, and was produced/performed by very talented and well-known individuals. (Including THE Jonathan Davis). All in all, it was vampire rock-stardom at it's very best! "},{"Title":"Seriously lacking and lacking in seriousness","Date":"18 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I haven't read the books so I was watching this as a stand alone product. The main thing lacking here is the atmosphere and tone that made Interview with The Vampire work. The acting here is, in a word, inelegant. These characters move and talk like drunken teenagers showing off while their buddy records a clip on his cellphone. Visual effects look amateurish in some scenes and too much too out of place too unnecessary in others. The dialogue (and its delivery) is uninteresting. Come on... these creatures are supposed to be hundred of years old, where is the whimsy? In the end I movie didn't sell me. It comes off as comical instead vampire "},{"Title":"Much Better Then I Though It Was Going To Be.","Date":"14 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" When I saw previews for this I was thinking lame so I put off watching it for a while then I saw it on HBO and I'm not going to lie it is a good Vampire flick. On scale with other movies I mean yeah it is bad, but you really not need to get mad and fired up about it, just take it for what it is; a movie made for a certain group of people. Stuart Townsend is freaking brilliant as Lestat he really seemed like a vampire unlike Mr. Cruise who just played Lesat as himself...like he does in most of his movies. Aaliyah did a pretty good job, I think she got the feel of the character, but at the same time there was something missing. Keep in mind though Aaliyah was a singer trying out acting not a professional actress. Some of the lines where a little too predictable and stupid which over all just made the movie way too corny at parts when it really didn't need to be at all. I loved the movie soundtrack, I am a big fan of Korn, Deftones, and Static-X, Jonathan Davis did a good job composing the songs they had a believable feel that this is what a vampire who was bored with immortality and didn't care anymore would write about. They probably should not of had Davis sing for Lesat though his voice is just too recognizable it made way to obvious that Townsend wasn't singing. I'm sure they could of just had Townsend sing and messed around with it in post to make him sound good, and it would of seemed believable. If you like vampire movies like me and you like nu-metal/goth rock like me you will probably like Queen of the Damned. "},{"Title":"The Martyr Principle in effect","Date":"3 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" There's a really bad trend going on where, if someone tries to cross over from music to movies and then dies, their movies become better. Actors and singers seem to love to try to jump the line and we'd all be better off if someone stood up to them and said No. There may be the odd exception now and then, but the majority start with one career for a very good reason they lack the talent in the other arena.As much as I hate to speak ill of the dead, Aaliyah's acting is abysmal. I've never really listened to her music but I'm guessing she stretched herself too thin, artistically.This movie was gawdawful; the fault largely resting with the paper-thin acting talents of the title character. Watching Aaliyah act was like watching the Spice Girls act. "},{"Title":"It's OK...","Date":"19 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Actually, despite what other people may think about this movie, I like it! The storyline is a bit thin, and the vampires aren't that good looking. But when should vampires look good?! The actors performance is... OK. Not good, but not lousy either. And I, as a fan of vampire books etc, I like the unlikely story, Ayliahs acting, and most of all, the feeling when I watch it.It is not a scary movie. Nor is it a drama... it is just a movie about some insane vampires... killing some people... and a young girl finding pieces of her strange past! "},{"Title":"Total waste of time","Date":"9 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Unfortunately caught this movie on TV last night. I haven't read any of the books so I'm not quite sure who's to blame but it would rank in my bottom 5 movies of all time, and i've seen some crappers. The acting was par at best, the storyline was a mess as was the CGI work. For some insane reason I watched the whole thing, waiting for a good plot twist or a bit of excitement, it never came. A good, albeit totally predictable soundtrack (plenty of nu-metal, goth, and hard rock tracks), was the only shining light in this mess.In summary, if you are a huge goth/vampire fan/vampire you may find this mildly entertaining. Sadly I am none of the above and all it did for me was cut into my valuable sleeping time. "}{"Title":"It sucked (no pun intended)","Date":"28 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie was horrible. Any true fan of Anne Rice would agree with me. It seemed as though whoever wrote the screen play had only read a tiny summary of the book and then just wrote it based on that only. They got many of the facts about the book wrong. For example, who made Lestat. Marius didn't! Magnus did and then just left him on his own. Also, even if I wasn't a huge fan of Anne Rice and didn't read any of her books, I still wouldn't have liked it. It lacked a plot. It was very sugar coated. It barely went into detail in anything. As an Anne Rice fan, I know that all of Anne Rice's work is very detailed and precise, which is one thing that I really enjoy about her books. Over all, unless you are just wanting to see a movie with not a good plot and some OK music, DO NOT SEE IT, especially if you are an Anne Rice fan. I was very disappointed when I saw this movie. "},{"Title":"Certainly the worst vampire movie I've ever seen...","Date":"24 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Two words describe the best this scrap-eating movie IT SUCKS !!! I had an indigestion while watching it some years ago, cause it was too horrible to see. I haven't still read the book, but I bet it's far more better than this mud-sucking film.Everything is execrable in this movie actors, scenario, dialogs and all the company. What a waste of talent, resources, time and not the least MONEY.I have one ultimate suggestion for all vampire movies's lovers go to your nearest library and buy the book.Steve Baillargeon "},{"Title":"Laughable","Date":"22 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I managed to catch this on TV the other day, and wow...I don't think I can effectively describe how bad this movie sucks. Even most of the loser goth kids who it was targeted for don't seem to like it.The whole concept is just utterly ridiculous...A vampire who is the lead singer of a nu-metal band. Thats what it's about. Just think about that for a few seconds. Take some time to process the thought. A vampire...singing...in a (crappy) rock band...What the HELL were the people who made this movie thinking? I've never read the books so I don't know how similar the 2 are, but if the premises were the same, I officially hate Anne Rice.I was actually laughing at how awful this movie was. The action scenes were so over-the-top-matrix-wannabe that it was just too pathetic for words. Worse than that were Lestat's lame attempts for a shrouded in mystery pretense.It's not good in a bad way either if you were maybe thinking it might be. I can't understand how people rip on Uwe Boll so much (not that he doesn't deserve it, because he does) but I don't hear this atrocity mocked nearly as much as it should be.Don't even watch out of curiosity. 1/10 (I wish it could be 0) "},{"Title":"terrible","Date":"6 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This was the worst movie I have ever seen. Expecting a continuation to the wonderful Interview? Then stop at the opening title. The plot was incoherent, the dialog was no more than blubbering, and the actors were jokes. The books were wonderful. This movie definitely does not follow Anne Rice's writings. Set this aside and you still have one monstrous disaster of a movie.This movie was an example in how to milk more dollars out of an unassuming public by leaching off the name of a hit.This movie was so bad that I haven't paid for another movie in a theater since... and this has been several years. I know it's not fair to the other multi-million dollar movies out there, but it left a sour taste in my mouth.Ignore all advice to Just Have Fun with it, this is what robs us of our intelligence. If you choose to see this film, be critical. I'm sure you'll agree that it was a disaster and a waste of our monies. "},{"Title":"Not worthy of the name Anne Rice","Date":"13 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Queen of the Damned is the third book in Anne Rice's series about the undead, that began with Interview with the Vampire. So, what on earth possessed Warner Brothers to just skip the second and most interesting part? That is just one of many things that is wrong with this movie. Whereas the big screen adaptation of Interview with the Vampire stayed true to the original written work, the Queen of the Damned does nothing of the sort the story is completely wrong and the vampires are nothing like the ones portrayed in the books. In fact, the only good thing about this film is its soundtrack. If you liked the books, please don't watch this film and just stick to its predecessor. It's not even worth getting worked up over. "},{"Title":"This movie is a disappointment","Date":"9 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The whole story in this movie was a complete fabrication. The story is just a bunch of falsified information.They did not follow the book at all. Lestat's maker was not Marius. If the directors would've read the Vampire Chronicles, they would know it was Magnus who created him in Paris.Also, it was in Vampire Lestat that Lestat is brought to the point of infatuation with the violin because of his friend/ lover Nicholas.The movie does no justice to the story. Some other company needs to reproduce ALL the books to get the story straight. Avid readers would surely pay to watch a movie that actually follows the book. "},{"Title":"If it was a movie alone....","Date":"18 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I have to give it points, cause if it was a movie alone, it would be pretty good. I liked it... that is, until I read the novel. These guys couldn't get ANYthing right. example one Lestat was sired by Magnus, NOT Marius. Marius sired Armand, who also didn't fit this role at ALL (Armand was the short, blond guy). And as opposed to IwtV (Where Lestat is played by Tom Cruise) Stuart Townsend didn't make a good Lestat. The only thing about him that really fit was his height (Which, incidentally, was the only thing the Cruise's performance DIDN'T have to make the perfect Lestat). All in all, it was decent, but after you read the book, then it looks more and more like crap. "},{"Title":"The Genre cannot be called Horror.","Date":"14 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The movie is an average movie. You can really see it and enjoy it. If you have read the books by Ann Rice and liked it, then you will be disappointed. But, if you haven't read the books then you might enjoy it. The setting is Gothic and it has all the trappings of Gothic setting with gray stone walls and stone gargoyles and Egyptian dresses etc. You can compare it to movies like 'UnderWorld', though the stories of both the movies are totally different from each other. But the idea that the world is shared by both mortals and immortals and the way they roam about freely amongst us is very similar.Stuart Townsend, after the initial shock of seeing him milky white with dark circles around his eyes dressed in weird clothes, grows on you. He acts well as a dark brooding lonely figure with macabre sense of humor. Aaliya as queen Akasha looks very pretty, but was really too young to play a powerful negative character. Besides she looks too young to be the mother of all vampires. The actress who played Jesse looks older than Townsend, but she seems to act well. Vincent as Marius is very good. "},{"Title":"Nothing like the book","Date":"4 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Sorry but this movie does not represent anything from the Anne Rice books The Vampire Lestat and Queen of the Damned. After Interview with the Vampire (great except Antonio playing Armand), I had expected The Queen of the Damned to be amazing. Tom Cruise did a fantastic job of being Lestat, so much so that many of us could not imagine any other face on Lestat. Tom Cruise has that fun, smiling devilish presence, which like the character would appeal to everyone and make everyone forgive him. Brad Pitt was the perfect Louis and the Claudia actress did the best job of all. Just too bad about Antonio with his 35+ yr old face trying to play a 16 yr old. Someone like Antonio Sabato Jr would have made a perfect Armand. The actor who played Lestat, Stuart Townsend, did not do Lestat any justice at all. Lestat is a golden haired, sexy, laughing and smiling monster, not a brooding, dark and sombre person. Magnus made Lestat not Marius. Marius has long white blond hair, with a large friendly face, not short dark hair a thin mean face.Where was Gabrielle, Mekare, Khayman, Eric...????? Maharet was just as powerful as Akasha! Same as Khayman and Mekare. The dramatic ending was horrible and not realistic at all. After looking forward to the movie, I was extremely disappointed as were many Vamp. Chronicle fans.I hope someone remakes the VAMPIRE LESTAT and QUEEN OF THE DAMNED as 2 separate movies that are more related to the book. "},{"Title":"fans of the books i advise you not to even go near this movie","Date":"24 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie has the promise of a great film and a fantastic soundtrack which in truth is the only good thing to come out of this film, but thats about it.the acting was reasonable expect for Maurius, the acting was as dead as the character.nothing in this movie stays true to the books from to the color of Lestats hair and ever onwards, I don't care if Stuart doesn't look good with blonde hair, he is not Lestat unless he's blonde it is a strong part of the character.Nothing makes any sense in this movie for example five characters appearing without any explanation of who they are, even avid fans of the novels like me could only speculate. the idea that sunlight would be ineffective after drinking Akasha's blood was ridiculous and over the top stupid.I have heard from a friend that in the extras the director has given his excuses for these faults but that doesn't make up for the stupid film, if you can't make it right don't make it at all.interview with a vampire managed to interpret the novel brilliantly. "}{"Title":"Not very much what i expected, though, i was hoping to be better?","Date":"16 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" even in the trying of bringing two of the Anne Rice's Vampire Chronicles novels Vampire Lestat and Queen of the Damned into one movie, first it was too short for two long stories.... second it did not capture the essence of the novels in part. although Stuart Townsend was good in the role of the Vampire Lestat and Alliyah in the excellent role of Queen Akasha the mother of all Vampires. the only things interesting were the melodies and the recopy of the environments and characters but nothing more. one Thumb up!!! ? the adaptation of Interview with the Vampire to the screen was better, though. the Gothic melodies are excellent for this type of movies. the Cast and Crew did a nice job in making the movie, but trying to capture two long story novels into one movie was not meant. "},{"Title":"Useless","Date":"4 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I had read the book before i watched the movie, and as they say, the movie is never as good as the book. So i didn't go in expecting much, yet i was still very disappointed. First Marius didn't create Lestat. It seems that Lestat is only living with Marius for a day or two, when it was much longer. Tons of characters are missing. Maharet seems to have no power, even though she is one of the oldest vampires. Akasha whisks Lestat away from the concert. wtf!! All the hair colors and styles are wrong, except the red-heads. Nothing about the history of anyone. What happened to the temple in the mountains where she killed whoever that vampire was and all his followers? What happened to Daniel? And WHAT HAPPENED TO THEIR MIND-READINGPOWERS??? all in all a lame, lame movie. granted, if you haven't read the book then it may entertain you, but knowing what really 'happened',i felt so cheated. I wouldn't recommend this movie to anyone who's read the book, unless they are hardcore vampire fans, and even then only to say they have seen it. "},{"Title":"Not at all true to the novels, run away from this one","Date":"24 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" first things first, if you are a fan of the books, stay away from this piece of trash!!!!!! Now that thats out of the way, i am a huge fan of Anne Rice's Vampire Chronicles, i own everything she has ever written,so i might be a little bias, but, i love vampire lore in general but this film was not true to the book queen of the damned at all first off, lestat is 6' with blonde shoulder length hair, i feel that Stuart Townsend would have played him excellently if they would have gotten the make-up right, and trust me this isn't the only thing wrong with the story, well if anyone has read the books then they also know that lestat de lioncourt was not given the dark gift by Marius, but he was forced into it by magnus, all in all this movie has nothing in common with the book(S) it is trying to bring to life. the only things that are true to form are the names of the characters and certain scenes, like i said you will know what I'm talking about if you have read the books. all in all the effects were pretty good but as i have stated this movie is a huge let down to the AR fans out there. "},{"Title":"Entertaining","Date":"21 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Some special effects were a little dodge but, once put together it was a very entertaining movie. People complained that Townsend didn't have the right coloured hair and was too short. He's no shorter than Tom Cruise. When you watch this movie, try not to view it as you would Interview with the Vampire. It's a completely different story. Try to watch and enjoy a film for once. It isn't one of the books. Books and movies are completely different mediums. This movie was created with the audience in mind and it successfully engaged most viewers. I know no one will read this but I have nothing better to do other than comment on movies on the IMDb. "},{"Title":"bit of a disappointment","Date":"17 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The only reason I bought the movie was because the late Aaliyah was in it. I decided not to watch the movie because of the many critics I had heard about the movie. And I did not want to remember Aaliyah in that way. I have had the movie for over 2 years now. And yesterday I decided to watch it. Of course I was disappointed because the role of Aaliyah, Akasha did not seem to make much sense to me. She only appeared in the last part of the movie and did some flashy stuff there was no depth in the story. The movie seemed rushed. I guess this is because it was two books in one. Which I thought was a real pity. I have seen Interview with a vampire and I liked it because the movie seemed to have many complete stories in one. Also it worked my emotions. I especially can remember how angry i was at a certain point of that movie. This movie on the other hand seemed to lack any kind of storyline at all. There was no suspense in the movie. If the last scene had played directly after the first scene it would not have made any difference. Because for me the movie left so many questions unanswered. "},{"Title":"Pretty good but could be better","Date":"3 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Firstly i have to say i love this movie just because I'm a Lestat addict. Considering the film is only 97 minutes long i'd say they did quite well with the plot but it could have been soooo much better. My main suggestion for improvement is to stick more closely to the books because they are excellent. The description and dialogue in the books is so much more detailed than in the movie. in the movie its cut so much if you haven't read the books you barely know whats happening. in the film the character of Jesse has too big a part and too little a point, she actually has a point in the book. they should have either included more of Lestats history or made 2 separate films, The Vampire Lestat and Queen of the Damned because there is simply too much story to be told in 97 minutes. Lestat should not be made by Marius and the legend of the twins should be included and most importantly Mekare, Maharets twin sister. the demise of Akasha was so much better when Mekare killed her and became the new queen of the damned. the merging of characters in this part was the worst mistake the film makers could make in my opinion. i really hope someone does this again in the near future but hopefully a new one would be more accurate. on a positive note Aaliyahs portrayal of Akasha was great because of her i don't care what you want approach to the other vampires. overall good viewing but don't take it too seriously or you will just get confused. "},{"Title":"Beautiful but Camp Horror","Date":"10 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Personally I found nothing in this movie that was scary. But it was a beautiful movie, with the most amazing soundtrack I have heard. This movie is about a vampire called Lestat with a desire to be known in the living world. He then becomes a rock star. His music then awakens the Ancient Queen of the Damned whose name is Akasha who wants to rule the world again and wants Lestat to rule by her side. This is only undermined by Lestat falling in love with a human girl called Jesse, who wants to be a vampire herself. Her curiosity leads her to have several meetings with the elusive vampire Lestat. Well i am not going to tell you the end. I encourage you to see this entrancing and strangely romantic movie. "},{"Title":"Fatal script errors","Date":"4 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" If anyone hasn't read any of the Vampire Chronicles this film seems fine enough but if you have then you will notice that half of the film is wrong! Lestat wasn't made my Marius, he was made by a vampire called Magnus who then went into the fire! Seriously its as if the writers just glanced through the book, saw Marius's name mentioned and made up their own minds. This annoys me very much when people don't follow details in the book! Having said that, i enjoyed the film a great deal (though i had to ignore all the huge mistakes). The soundtrack is awesome and really adds to the overall feeling of the film. It has to be said that Stuart Townsend doesn't look anything like the Lestat described by Anne Rice but he does however pull it off very well. I think a performance by Tom Cruise would have not had the same effect. He's more of an 'old school' vampire whilst Townsend suits the rock and roll vampire very well. "},{"Title":"Truly enjoyed the movie....","Date":"22 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" As a fan of some of the authors who made the Original Soundtrack, and myself in a state of mind dangerously 'dark', I truly enjoyed the movie and its spirit. The camera positions/movements are quite professional ; I don't see the acting itself to be very bad, all of the actors have charm and they hide efficiently the understandable discomfort during some somewhat complicated performances. I find the special effects to be good for the time of the release of the movie.At first, I expected to be watching a random supernatural movie, with goofs, etc... but I hardly found any. Music is great, color is great, camera-action is great and, of course, the story is very well told ; we don't get lost and every scene is logically linked to another at a time during the movie, which means everything has an explanation. And what not might be properly explained is what IS supposed to be left to one's imagination.I encourage every one who has , at least once in their lifetime, thought of Darkness in general, to take the time to watch this movie  you might get sucked into deeper, meaningful thoughts of yourself and whatever scares you. "},{"Title":"I understand what you're saying...RE Queen of the Damned...","Date":"7 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" It was a mistake. If you are a fan of the books please stay as far away as possible from this movie. Anne Rice has created and incredible and intricate world of seductive Un-life, and this movie destroys it's soul. I give it a 2 out of ten only out of pity I wish the series did not die when Tom Cruise refused his role as Lestat. This is a movie to watch at your own peril. It combines too many of her books in the same, short, skinny movie. It is tragic, however, that the main character, a beautiful and talented woman, died in the making. I think that this only compounds the issue. If you've ever read any of Anne Rices' Vampire novels, or any of her work for that matter, you know that this oversimplifies her created world. If you've got a movie that explores only one book of an author, The Interview with a Vampire, and it lasts just a bit over 2 hours, how can you justify a movie that summarizes 4 books in a little over 1 hour? "}{"Title":"AALIYAH'S FINAL","Date":"15 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Though it was Aaliyah's final film, it won't be the last time we'll see her.Ann Rice really put the bite on this film, and it's quite fascinating. The band who were inspiring the vampires really got more than they bargained for. And it's really a good place where Interview with a Vampire left off.Aaliyah looked really sultry, and of course she was very sinister in the process. All the other casts in the movie looked great. Lena Olin was great, Stuart Townsend was great as well, especially when he had to get the blood from the dreaded queen Akasha. That's what I called a bloody rebellion. Other than that, this movie really closes the chapter of the Chronicles. Or shaw they say... Rating 3 out of 5 stars. 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"On Lestat","Date":"26 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I am a fan of Anne Rice and although, yes, the movie could have been better, Stuart Townsend played the most convincing Lestat yet.Tom Cruise played the role all wrong, If you've read the books you know that Lestat is Suave and cocky with all the knowledge of his over 200 years, not this snotty little brat that Cruise represented.The movie also included the second book wholely about Lestat being a singer and the third ,more about Akasha ,Enkil and Maharet than Lestat. I think the reason for the movie not being up to par is because the director wanted a movie with a soundtrack that would sell rather than a movie for the fans that would delight. "},{"Title":"On Lestat","Date":"26 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I am a fan of Anne Rice and although, yes, the movie could have been better, Stuart Townsend played the most convincing Lestat yet.Tom Cruise played the role all wrong, If you've read the books you know that Lestat is Suave and cocky with all the knowledge of his over 200 years, not this snotty little brat that Cruise represented.The movie also included the second book wholely about Lestat being a singer and the third ,more about Akasha ,Enkil and Maharet than Lestat. I think the reason for the movie not being up to par is because the director wanted a movie with a soundtrack that would sell rather than a movie for the fans that would delight. "},{"Title":"horrors!(a spoiler here or there, watch out)","Date":"14 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Simply as a movie, it's pretty bad. On the whole, I like vampire movies, & I even like bad vampire movies, the guilty pleasure thing.However, as an adaptation of a marvelously imaginative book -- well, then this movie is a piece of crap. The creative liberties taken to condense 500 pages of intense fantasy slaughtered the story like Rice's old vampires thoughtlessly slaughtered innocents. As I watched it I could only see a movie that had the same title & some characters with the same names as in the novel I so loved, but only here & there did I see hints of the same story.To change Lestat's maker to Marius from Magnus dishonored Magnus, it dishonored Lestat, & it truly dishonored Marius. To make Akasha into a sociopathic killer rather than someone self-deluded enough to see herself as a redeemer dishonored the whole story. Jesse's death altered to a flimsy horror show convention dishonored a powerful & poetic thread in the story&#133;all of which leads to the greatest dishonor of all, Maharet without her twin, Mekare. This movie was so hideously miscast I stared in slack-jawed amazement at the screen, wondering if anyone at all involved in its production had read the book. Except for Claudia Black, who is a perfect Pandora; but then look at how crazily she was outfitted & made up, what a shame. What a waste.If you like campy vampire films & have no intention of EVER reading any of Anne Rice's Vampire Chronicles, then what's not to like? But, if, like me, you were transported by her book The Queen of the Damned, then you will hate this movie. It's a pitiful hint at what could have been. "},{"Title":"better than expected","Date":"10 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I'm not into vampire movies, per se, but I saw Vincent Perez in this and I am into Vincent! What kept me watching, however, was Stuart's performance. I thought he was great (and in fact, reminded me of Vincent's work). He was captivating and intriguing! I also thought Aaliyah's performance was impressive. She was very convincing and also captivating. She can be proud of the work she has left behind and for living life as it should be while she was here. All in all, this film was better than expected and even though I do no particularly like the gross parts, I have had it on TV several times while I work on other things. I didn't bother to compare bodies of work by other people on the same subject matter. I like each for what they offered. "},{"Title":"better than expected","Date":"10 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I'm not into vampire movies, per se, but I saw Vincent Perez in this and I am into Vincent! What kept me watching, however, was Stewart's performance.I thought he was great (and in fact, reminded me of Vincent's work). He was captivating and intriguing! I also thought Aaliyah's performance was impressive. She was very convincing and also captivating. She can be proud of the work she has left behind and for living life as it should be while she was here. All in all, this film was better than expected and even though I do no particularly like the gross parts, I have had it on TV several times while I work on other things. I didn't bother to compare bodies of work by other people on the same subject matter. I like each for what they offered. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly, much better than Interview","Date":"15 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" First, I should point out that I read Anne Rice's vampire chronicles many years ago, long before they were adapted for film. In fact, I avoided the movie treatment of Interview With the Vampire for a number of years, first--because I was doubtful that it would translate well from page to screen, and second--because I thought that the cast they chose were absolutely wrong. After recently watching Interview for the first time, my suspicions were confirmed--it was simply an abomination. For some reason, I wasn't as concerned about Queen of the Damned being made into a movie, even though it happened to be my favorite book in the series. Knowing that it was going to suffer in translation made me less apprehensive about it, and I was able to enjoy it for what it is--a spirited vampire romp. Inaccurate, but quite enjoyable.Before I watched it, I had no idea that the filmmakers decided to combine The Vampire Lestat with Queen of the Damned, Therein lay its primary structural problem. Condensing hundreds of pages of a single book's text--action, dialogue, inner monologues and descriptive prose--into a 100 minute movie is limiting enough, but to attempt it with TWO books was a serious mistake. It made Akasha into a relatively minor character, with very little background, little humanity and unclear motivation. Aaliyah was physically very good in the role (she could move very well, and her face is quite expressive), even if her acting performance was rather broad. But the good news is that--as Lestat--Stuart Townsend is light years better than Tom Cruise (but then, so would be any one of 100 other actors). Not only is his acting range much wider than Cruise, and his skill and subtlety much deeper, he is also much closer to the Lestat that was in my head as I read the books. Sure, he's narcissistic and tragic and conflicted, but he doesn't need to chew up the scenery (a la Cruise) to get that across to the audience. Townsend manages something that Tom Cruise never could an appealing enigma. An inspired choice! Vincent Perez turned in a good, understated performance as Marius, but I thought that Marguerite Moreau's acting was skilled, if a little TOO understated; at times, she seemed ennervated. Most of the rest of the cast members had too little time on-screen to really connect with the audience, but I must say that Paul McGann as David Talbot--the leader of the Talamasca--was flawless! When I first saw him, I thought he was Gabriel Byrne (who is surely one of the most gifted actors around). But McGann steals every scene he's in--not by acting up a storm, but by being fascinating to watch. A great actor to keep an eye on. I have to mention the special effects of Queen of the Damned; they are SPECTACULAR. I have a low tolerance for heavy-handed computerized effects, and thankfully, QotD avoids that trap, for effects that LOOK analogue (even if they are digital). There are at least 3 events in the film that left my jaw somewhere on the floor with how astoundingly good the effects were. I wish the special effects of all recent horror films were so good!I do wish there had been more sexy scenes in Queen of the Damned. Rice's books are teeming with sensuality, so I was rather surprised to find only two scenes even remotely sexy (Lestat and Akasha in the flowerpetal-strewn tub, and Lestat and Jessie at the Mt. Palomar Observatory). Due to the pacing, there was little chance for any other really sensuous moments, which was a shame, really. And the fact that they decided to try to pack so much of two books into a single movie simultaneously thwarted the expectations of many Anne Rice fans, while probably leaving those unfamiliar with the books scratching their heads about background, motivation and character development. Nevertheless, for those willing to approach the film with the right mindset, Queen of the Damned is a damned good vampire movie. "},{"Title":"Tom Cruise VS Stuart Townsend","Date":"1 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I love this movie, it goes on my top three list of vampire movies... But I watch Stuart Townsend and I think that he is a better Lestat than Tom Cruise, he has that Cocky Arragance that Tom just did not quite achieve. I think Tom is a brilliant actor, but Stuart was far better at that particular character, we all like Tom cruise because he was the original Lestat.The movie itself was well put together, you saw a lot more into Lestat and Aaliyah was amazing, but then she is... I must admit though it keeps me wanting more, But otherwise I could watch this movie a million times over  "},{"Title":"Intoxicating Vampirism!","Date":"6 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Stuart Townsend as Lestat is the sexiest vampire ever! He truly saved this obscured story of the original.Although the movie itself was not so great, Stuart's role as Lestat kept my eyes hypnotically focused on the film. Everything he added to his version of the character exceeded my expectations of what a Vampire should be.The movie soundtrack has a great line up of artists/songs and the DVD includes 3 hot full length Lestat music videos.If there ever be another movie of the Anne Rice books, please let it be Stuart Townsend returning as Lestat!  "},{"Title":"Aaliyah & Townsend - A Terrific Pair","Date":"8 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" We are brought back to the miseries of the lonely Lestat (Townsend) as he roams the earth undead, yet in the shadows and otherwise dead to those around him.  For a vampire it must be quite a frustrating experience to live forever.  Exactly how many different things can you do with eternity before you begin to get sick and tired of the enigmatic life?  This in a nutshell is what drives the vampire Lestat out of hiding and into the limelight.  In a complete bipolar opposite move and as a cathartic release for his rebellious emotions, Lestat joins a band and becomes an international rock star.  He does not attempt to hide his identity, rather he shouts it out to all the public in an attempt to rouse and anger other members of the vampire clan to come out of hiding.  But exactly who he wakes up in particular is of grave importance - Akasha (Aaliyah), queen of all vampires (hence the title).What make her different (spoiler!) is that as the most pure of vampires, she can walk in the daylight and can set her enemies bursting into flames at will.  Her evil is as limitless as her hunger for blood.  What more perfect a match than Akasha and Lestat?But the joining of the two morbid souls leaves Lestat looking like a altarboy by comparison.  Akasha's darkness threatens to destroy all the world, humans and vampires.  Meanwhile, Jesse, a member of the Telamusque (vampire observation group), has become fascinated with Lestat and the mysterious of vampires.  She pursues Lestat in an attempt to become one of the undead.The battle for vampires and humans remains in jeopardy under Akasha's rule.  Aaliyah's acting abilities are remarkable in one of her final performances and Stuart Townsend's portrayal as the new-celebrity Lestat is exceptional.  The film carries well amid a macabre metal soundtrack appropriate to the plot (similar to The Crow soundtrack's theme).  The Queen of the Damned chronicles the vampire ancestry, proving it's not one big happy family.   "}{"Title":"Nah.","Date":"18 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The movie is good enough but the book is much better, as with most book-to-movie adaptations. Anne Rice's Queen of the Damned is difficult to make into a movie because of the complicated plot. The fans will be disappointed with the movie since the story has been changed a lot and only the Lestat-rockstar, Akasha-QotD factors remained. The personalities of the characters were also different. Lestat (Stuart Townsend) is a bit too slutty for my taste but Aaliyah's Akasha is credible. Marius and Jesse were miscast and the other immortals did mostly nothing. Also, the soundtrack sucks. The songs are redundant and idiotic. "},{"Title":"Less good than it's predecessor, but it has the spirit of it's time.","Date":"24 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  In itself, Queen of the damned (QOTD) is not a bad movie; the problem is that it follows Interview with a vampire from Neil Jordan. If we make a difference game between the two movies, QOTD end with a lost.The actors Tom Cruise will always be the perfect visualisation of Lestat, he had a good comprehension of the evil inside Lestat. Stuart Towsend, even if he has the intelligence to not act as a 'Tom Cruise clone', is fader and he doesn't seem to be an old vicious and experienced vampire.The directors Neil Jordan has made a romantic  story (in the litterature sense of the word), due to his intense collaboration with Ann Rice. Michael Rymer has made a good video clip for Lestat Rock Band, it's the MTV style, certainly a consequence of the absence of Ann Rice for the supervision of the script.The Music Elliot Goldenthal has made a partition that brought the visual style of the movie to another level. Just listening the music makes you feel the vampiric emotions. In QOTD, close tour eyes and you feel nothing exept that you want to break something.The visual effects They seems to be better in QOTD but, if you look at the first movie,  you'll notice that they're just visual effects, not supernatural effects. They try to representent supernatural, but they are just fake ones.BUT, even if QOTD seems to be a less better movie than his predecessor, I think it isn't right to say it's a bad movie. Making an adaptation is making choices, and QOTD is an harder book to adapt that the rest of the Vampire Chronicles, because it's story is more complicated. The principal argument of Interview with the Vampire was that the vampire has to live with the current time, not with past. The adaptation choice results from that Lestat is no longer a romantic character, he now live in another time, where all is fake and superficial. That's the essence of QOTD, and it's not as stupid as it seems. SEE IT, it's no waste of time, if you like gothic atmosphere... "},{"Title":"Shockingly good, considering...","Date":"23 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Considering that the screenplay manages to cram not one but TWO long, dense, complicated novels (THE VAMPIRE LESTAT and  THE QUEEN OF THE DAMNED) into ONE feature-length film, THIS MOVIE IS SHOCKINGLY GOOD. Face it, Rice fans. The project had SO many things working against it, mainly because QUEEN starts in the middle of a complicated story. The clever screenwriters managed to condense Lestat's history, blend in the Queen story, and (thankfully) reduce the unnecessary complexities of Jesse's psychic links to Ancient Egypt.  (Reality check INTERVIEW didn't profit enough for Hollywood to gamble on a two-part film; this was before the RINGS trilogy and KILL BILL). But hey, this film has a pair of KILLER PERFORMANCES by Townsend and Aliyah, stylish direction, a cool score, and a fast pace that THIS Rice fan, at least found VERY satisfying. Frankly, I'm shocked how much I enjoyed it, even though I have A WARNING FOR NON-READERS OF ANNE  RICE You probably won't understand half of what's going on. "},{"Title":"Original story","Date":"12 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Vampire Lestat joins rock band. Band becomes famous. Pretty girl working at the British Center for Paranormal Studies gets interested. Reads Lestats journal. Finds out that he once made a statue come to life by playing violin to it, and also drank some blood from it. Girl meets Lestat at the traditional vampire hangout in London. Girl and Lestat become friends. Girl goes to concert. More vampires show up. Other vampires don't like that Lestat has a band. Some fighting.As bad as it sounds? Definitely. 2 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Good movie","Date":"14 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  i just watched the movie and i have to say that i liked it.  Well done, good actors. one of the best vampire movies i've seen. The music in the movie is especially good IMO, and the whole idea is pretty much interesting. yea, i wouldn't say that it's the BEST movie ever, but it's worth seeing! "},{"Title":"Did the scriptwriter even read the book???","Date":"11 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I was shocked beyond belief at the mockery they made of this film, I have come to the conclusion that the scriptwriters didn't take the time to read, Anne Rice's fine novel 'Queen of the Damned', and instead pulled together what they could from the back cover. There is not one scene that has remained fateful to the book, and even the characters have been horribly concocted. What shocked me further was the fact that Lestat (Stuart Townsend) didn't look remotely like how Anne Rice describes him. They didn't even bother to give him blond hair! Which has always been one of his most defining features. Though the most tragic part would have to be, how they completely butchered out 'the twins' story, especially as this was the backbone to the whole storyline! *sigh* All in all, I wish they had brought back Tom and Brad, as the original 'Interview with the Vampire' was a considerably better film, and I'm sure Tom Cruise could have pulled off being a vampire rock star with out making it a tribute to the MTV generation.  "},{"Title":"Drink...and live.","Date":"10 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  ~Spoiler~Queen of the Damned left a lot to be desired.  It's not half as classy as Interview with the Vampire nor does it have its style.  It has too many strikes against it before you even get into the movie.  Principle actors have been changed, pop stars are present, Vincent Perez's name leaves a bad taste in my mouth (if you've seen the sequel to The Crow you'll know why), and Neil Jordan is not the director.  I guess it's best to forget all about Interview when watching Queen because it could never live up to anyone's expectations.  There were too many underdeveloped ideas and themes and characters disappear for long lengths at a time.  Not to mention that the titular character is absent for a large portion of the film.  The movie should have been titled The Vampire Lestat; it would have been more appropriate.  I'm also sick of the tortured soul quality in vampire flicks.  They turned Lestat into Louie from the first film because he hates his existence.  Why then does he not just walk out into the sunlight?  To quote Tom Cruise I'm sick of this incessant whining.  Queen of the Damned is just another corny vampire melodrama. "},{"Title":"Awfull","Date":"2 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie is really poor! The history is far from the original book... the special effects are poor... the actors do not give the emotions that are discribed in the book. One of the worst adaptation ever, read the book and forget about this film! Just avoid it! This film is awfull and should have never been done!!! "},{"Title":"Sad.","Date":"29 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I recently re-watched The Unbearable Lightness of Being (1988) and was somewhat saddened to watch Lena Olin, who's sublime performance in that film was soul shaking, in this piece of cardboard Hammer pictures throw-off trash. What on earth is someone who trained under Ingmar Bergman doing in this saaaad excuse for entertainment (playing second banana to the voluminously vapid Aliyah no less)?? Abysmal.  "},{"Title":"this movie was really bad","Date":"7 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I saw this movie before i ever started to read the Vampire Chronicles and i thought it was a bad movie. The story was to simple and well stupid to have it be the part of the movie that grabbed and held you. The characters (the ones that were actually introduced) were never explained enough for you to have more than a superficial interest or empathy toward them. On a side note i would like to ask who and why would anybody ever think that chest plate thing would look good on Aaliyah? Rather than being seductive and beautiful like the character was supposed to be akasha (Aaliyah) looked kind of odd and retarded. Not qualities one would usually associate with the supposed vampire queen. The special effects were both bad and good depending on the scene. Most any use of vampiric power looked more cheesy than supernatural. The one saving grace of the movie effects wise was the really well done CG of Akasha turning into ash and slowly blowing away. I wont even mention how horrible the movie is after you read the books. If the characters did not share names you would never think it was the same story or characters. "}{"Title":"Neither a decent adaptation, nor a decent film","Date":"3 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Good vampire movies are few and far between these days, and Queen of the Damned does not help their cause.  As a film, it is weak with only a few snippets of real effort; the actors, as good as some of them are, were given so little to work with that their efforts are fruitless.  As an adaptation, it is sloppy and self-serving, unfaithful and derivative of the earlier, much better Interview with the Vampire.The movie has mere moments of potential. It updates the story a little, of course, from the early-mid eighties to present-day, which works in terms of music. Lestat would fit in well with the goth-rock scene. Townsend isn't abominable as Lestat, though he's certainly not got the grip on the character that Tom Cruise had. There's no evidence that he read the novels beyond the way he holds his violin.The Jesse character is badly, horribly done in the movie. She comes off as much less philosophical and obsessed, and more like she's simply attracted to Lestat. On the contrary, she was fascinated by his world, because it echoed something more important to her. Her relationship with her aunt Maharet is done an injustice because the movie can't decide if it is about Lestat or about Jesse.Or about Akasha.Aaliyah had potential as an actress, but this was miscasting if it ever happens.  First, Akasha and Maharet would have been about the same age when turned, so having Aaliyah and Lena Olin (who does a good job with what little, very little, she's given) is just sloppy. Second, Akasha isn't a power-drunk whore, she's a demented vampire goddess. She was a crafty and wicked queen of Egypt.  Aaliyah seems to be lost, acting more as if she's in a music video than in a film, and her most convincing moments in character are when she does not speak or move.Don't get me started on Marius.  Vincent Perez isn't a terrible choice, but he can't quite decide if his character is cruel or fatherly.  In reality he was neither, but again, there is no evidence that he read the novels, and less evidence that the writers did.Like I said, the film had moments. Jesse's first encounter with Lestat is well-done. And this movie got the blood tears right. The music and the frenzy that Lestat causes was also well-done. His love-hate relationship with Marius was there, though it was weak, and it was bastardized (Marius did not make Lestat, for instance).Overall, I was left with a bad taste in my mouth, not only for the book-to-movie reasons, but also because there were sloppy filmmaking elements as well. Choppy plot, chiefly. Introduction of important characters too late in the film, and some bad directing to boot. Bad acting? Eh, not really, but it was sometimes hard to tell.I can't say I'd recommend this to anyone, ever. It doesn't even stand up as a decent *vampire* movie separate from the books (like Interview does in Neil Jordan's capable hands).  "},{"Title":"Queen of the Darned","Date":"5 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Why try and condense two thick books into one slim motion picture? Queen of the Damned is based on Anne Rice's novel of the same name, and The Vampire Lestat a 481 page behemoth of a book. Either story would have provided more than enough material for a film, instead we're given only a taste of each, and a pretty bland one at that. In the title role is late R&B singer Aailyah in her final film performance. Too pretty to be truly evil, she undulates her way through her scant scenes, (she's only in the movie for about 12 minutes) looking more like The Queen of the Darned, the sovereign of pesky.  "},{"Title":"100% Bona fide Cr*p","Date":"24 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie is easy to sum up! AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL AWFULOne highlight from this film is the sound track and that ain't even all that!What makes this such a shame though was the rising talent that was Aaliyah died just after shooting ended.Oh and picture the scene, you've just landed a role in what is being built up to be one of the finest films in recent history, best thing is you've landed one of the main parts, you go out there to start filming but days into the production you're told you're not what they are looking for... You go back and do this film instead!It's a hard life isn't it Stuart Townsend!1/10 "},{"Title":"Frighteningly Poor","Date":"22 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  If you haven't read Anne Rice's vampire chronicles, the worst affront you can expect from this movie is very poor acting. However, if - like me - you had read the series...you likely knew what you were getting into when you let your curiosity override your better judgement and watched this monstrosity.The casting was so poor it was actually amusing. Lestat, whose blonde hair and ironically good-natured personality have been reduced to a sullen, uninspired and dark-haired Stuart Townsend. Akasha, a queen of the old-world nile...arrogant, and self-righteous, played by a R&B star whose take on the role seems to be her best (bad) Bela Lugosi impression. (Nile Hungarians?) The ever-pale and very red-headed Maharet represented by raven-haired Lena Olin?The writers of this schlock also apparently didn't pay very close attention to the Cliff Notes they used for reference. Glaring omissions can be understood given the (ridiculous) challenge of combining two of the novels, however wholesale changes to the story abound...so much so I can't imagine how Rice let this horror into theatres without massive protest.Toss in extremely poor acting, cheeseball atmosphere that would have Corman wincing, and enough Mtv trendy styling to host a Spring Break party...and I felt more than sufficiently punished for ignoring my instincts. I'm just thankful I didn't shell out any money for this.  "},{"Title":"Aaliyah couldnt save it !","Date":"11 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Well I didnt read the book nor did I see 'Interview with a vampire', maybe thats why I didnt understand a damn thing about this movie.  I used to like vampire movies but it seems they just become worse every year.  Maybe its becos I have seen it all about vampires and sucking blood doesnt surprise or shock me anymore that I didnt like this movie.  The acting wasnt very convincing either, the best actor was the guy who played 'Lestat' although I didnt think he would be a cool vampire.  Aaliyah's first appearance was quite stunning but after that she didnt add anything exciting to the movie. A vampire who reveals his past and comes back after a long time, sounds a good idea indeed but it got me so sleepy, so lil action sigh.  And the end was pretty pathetic too. I wonder why Lestat and Jessie get together in the end cos they dont care for each other, my opinion is Jessie just wanted to be a vampire herself.  But if thats wrong dont blame me cos I dont know what this movie should have learned us.    "},{"Title":"A homophobic mess...","Date":"12 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie sucked on many levels (screenplay, casting, direction, etc. -- just keep reading the other IMDb reviews) but what I personally found most galling was how the filmmakers went out of their way to eliminate the homo-eroticism that permeates the original story lines, i.e., Lestat's relationships with Marius, Louis and Nicky the violinist (who BTW was Lestat's first and biggest love) just to name a few.Hello - it's a f**k'g vampire film. The BEST vampires films have always featured renegade sexuality, dark desires and secret longings. That's why we watch them -- for their underlying notions of forbidden sexuality. I'm guessing the filmmakers thought they had to pander to middle America and delete the gay subtext, cuz it might be too offensive (and thus less marketable?). Who the 'bleep' cares...They should have kept the exquisite gay eroticism in and let middle America be shocked. "},{"Title":"A disjointed mess","Date":"10 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie was pretty bad.  It had a bunch of heavy metal loud music that just plain sucked.  The plot made no sense. I am not sure what the big deal with Aaliyah was since she is hardly in the movie.  Most of her screen time is spent swiggling her hips and talking with this machine sounding voice.  And the special effects of the vampires turning into flames was so lame.  What was the point of making this movie?  It was not entertaining and had no point. What a waste of money!Some scenes I really didn't get were The scene when Lestat, as a vampire, couldn't break those metal chains Marius used.  I also didn't get the first time Lestat goes into the secret basement and sees the stone stature of Akasha. He bites it?  WTF? Since when do vampires bite stone.  Also, the whole concert scene in the desert was so ridiculous. Was this supposed to be taking seriously because if people saw other people flying through the air and being turned into flames, even if they were stoned out of their mind, they would still run and scream.  And the whole idea the media acting like someone was a real vampire was so ludicrous.FINAL VERDICT  Terrible. Nothing but a jumbled-up mess. Don't watch this. "},{"Title":"BOMB out of 5","Date":"27 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  With Interview with the Vampire being one of the best vampire movies out there I guess I knew this film would be bad but I just had to make sure. After viewing it there were so many questions running through my mind that it was almost impossible to write this. How could Interview with the Vampire be followed up like this? How could such disgrace be brought to the name of Anne Rice? And what exactly was the motive behind making this film? Being based on the third book in Rice's ever so popular Vampire Chronicles (Interview with the Vampire being the first) it is one big mess from start to finish. The film opens with the awakening or resurrection of the now world famous vampire Lestate. It is never explained why he wakes but we are told that he felt that something in the world had changed and now everything was better. Putting this scene into context one would realize that this makes no sense at all since the last time we saw Lestate in 1994 he was awake and well. Upon he entry back into humanity he decides to join a rock band, defying the vampire code by taking himself public. Now we meet Jesse, a girl who studies the supernatural. She becomes drawn to Lestate due to a reoccurring childhood memory/nightmare or something like that, details on this are sketchy as well. Within the first hour of the film we have a division. In one corner we have the whole rock star, fall in love with Jesse story. That is than intercepted and the second half of the first half begins (confused yet?). This takes place in a flashback that runs for about half an hour and lasts about 15 minutes to long. Here we see Lestate being turned into a vampire by another vampire named Morius. It is here that we also get our first glimpse of the title character (Queen Akasha). Finally after an hour that seems like an eternity (vampire pun intended) we finally get to see Queen Akasha in the flesh, get a good look at her now folks because she is only on screen for a total of around fifteen minutes in the entire film. I guess the death of Aaliyah really effect the outcome of this film because she is given the smallest amount of time that I have ever seen a lead role given. Akasha is the queen of everything damned and her mission is to make Lestate one of her own, for all you non-vampire readers the simple way of putting it would be to have sex with him. Of course this causes trouble to break out because we have Jesse wanting Lestate, Marius wanting Lestate, Akasha wanting Lestate, a crowd full of gothic teens wanting Lestate and some other vampires wanting Lestate dead for giving away their vampire secrets. During this period of time we encounter another spilt (I can see everyone clenching their forehead in pain already). This time though it doesn't occur in story but rather in character. Here anything human is dismissed and all remaining characters are divided into good vampires and bad vampires. This story is almost impossible to follow and upon closer inspection makes not the least bit of sense. Stuart Townsend plays Lestate, and I must say he must have had a friend in a high place because he is not fit for his role at all, especially since his feet are filling the enormous shoes of Tom Cruise who gave such an accurate performance in Interview with the Vampire it was almost scary. Although the late Aaliyah was a talented young lady and even though it seems like she is having loads of fun, she is also all wrong for her role due to the fact that for a queen of everything damned she is not all that threatening. Director Michael Rhymer seems like he would rather give the audience a headache than a thrill and that is just what he does. The camera is all over the place and he also threw in some horrible computer generated effects to symbolize the movement of a vampire. The script however is a very interesting one because never once does it have any idea where it wants to be, what it wants to do or how it's going to do it. It starts off like a bit of social commentary about what fame will do to a man (or vampire) and what kind of of impact the media and image have on the youth of today. The only problem with that is I don't find anything believable about a vampire waking from his long sleep and becoming one of the biggest names in music over night. The film then skyrockets into a downward spiral of complete trash. In a world where vampire films are supposed to be thrilling, erotic and oozing with sexuality this is nothing more than a trashy version of Interview with the Vampire (which was all those things). It has been made for teens with pierced eyebrows and Marilyn Manson t-shirts. I firmly believe that somewhere in the world, as we speak, someone is hailing this as a masterpiece of modern vampire erotica. I'll even bet it is somewhere in France. The soundtrack to this film sees Korn front man Jonathan Davis providing the vocals for Lestate's onstage presence. There are several problems with this. For one thing Townsend is not good at acting like a rock star, he prances around the stage and never once is able to mimic Davis' voice. The next problem is that Davis' voice fits Townsend about as well as the glove fit O.J., it just doesn't work at all. The third, and final problem is that being a vampire Lestate is a dark, sexual figure so you would think he would sing creepy yet erotic songs. I think this is what Davis was going for but the thing is Davis' voice is neither creepy or erotic, it is whiney and annoying, Marilyn Manson would have been a better choice for the voice work. It has been a long time since I have seen a horror film (a vampire one especially) that has nothing to be desired. The acting is bad, the direction is bad, the script is bad and it doesn't even remotely resemble anything scary or sexy. There has been so many films based on vampires that they have almost started their own genre, and although most of them are not worth the price of admission even the really bad ones have some redeeming qualities. Blade 2 started off with a pulse-racing action sequence, Bram Stoker's Dracula was beautiful to look at and John Carpenter's Vampires has James Woods perfectly cast in the lead role. This films ha absolutely nothing going for it, it is ugly, it is dark, it is dirty, it is confusing and it is boring. After watching this film see how much you can remember about it after waking up the next day, my bet will be placed on very little. In a genre that needs a strong A+ this one is a D- at best, do yourself a favour and stick with Interview with the Vampire, you will thank yourself.   "},{"Title":"Disappointed...","Date":"21 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Aaliyah's passing was sudden and tragic, leaving us to wonder what she was capable of doing had things been different.  Trailers and TV spots for QUEEN OF THE DAMNED spotlight Aaliyah's performance, and give us the impression that the movie is all about her.  Truth be told, it's not.  The beautiful singer takes up a mere 20 minutes or so of footage, in a film that focuses primarily on Lestat, played by Stuart Townsend.  Now that you know not to expect too much from Aaliyah, let's discuss what we're given.  Townsend's Lestat character, as we learn in a series of flashbacks, was once a noble Englishman.  He met a man named Marius, played by Vincent Perez, who turned out to be a vampire.  Marius chose Lestat as a pupil, hoping to train him as a proper vampire.  But Lestat's curiosity and rebellious nature get him into trouble, and Marius soon realizes that his protg may not be properly prepared for what lies ahead.  After discovering a mysterious Egyptian statue, hidden away beneath Marius' castle, Lestat goes through a series of events that leave him passed out.  I'm being vague to keep from spoiling it all.  Upon waking he finds the statue gone, along with Marius.  Thus begins a mystery that will stay with Lestat for hundreds of years, until he wakes from a long sleep, and is now in the present.  This is actually where the film opens, and let the silliness begin!  Of all the things that could wake Lestat, rock music wins the prize.  He comes out of his slumber, quickly meets a Goth garage band, and makes them his children.  Lestat becomes their master, and the lead singer of the band, propelling it to superstar status.  Ironically he uses his vampire persona as a character for promotional sake.  The public eats it up, assuming it's all an act.  Through his music and press conferences, Lestat calls out all vampires by divulging secrets, and challenging others to fight him.  I'm not making any of this up by the way.  Marguerite Moreau plays a humble vampire observer named Jesse, who comes from her own troubled past, and becomes intrigued with Lestat.  Her fascination leads her toward him, and conveniently allows her to get close to this seemingly untouchable rock star.  As the other vampires of the world grow angry, Queen Akasha (the mysterious statue from Marius' castle) returns to earth, letting all know she's a force to be reckoned with.QUEEN OF THE DAMNED is a disjointed stylish mess.  It's pretty enough to appreciate on some level, but silly enough to make you laugh at it's mediocrity. The biggest problem lies in it's all too serious tone.  The heavy handed dialogue and over-dramatic posturing ultimately lead to it's defeat.  Even Aaliyah, who shines with her sexy performance, can't hope to save this.  Stewart Townsend plays Lestat gracefully enough, but doesn't seen to have the kind of emotion we would expect from someone with his past.  Moreau's Jesse character is just plain boring, and makes me wonder why her fellow vampire observers don't seem to do anything aside from observing.  The other actors here don't really seem to know quite what to do, not that they're given much to work with.  FARSCAPE fans may notice Claudia Black as a background vampire, who has no character development whatsoever. This film is obviously a vampire flick for the MTV generation, which makes me wonder even more why there's so few laughs and so little action.  Their target audience doesn't want this, though it's a small step in the right direction.  What QUEEN needs most is a sense of humor.  Horror films these days can't take themselves too serious without the chance of becoming a joke.  Aaliyah's limited screen time is very disappointing, and it's a shame this had to be her final performance.  Vampire fans and Goth folk will find a few perks here, but can ultimately expect to be let down by the overall result.  In this day of high expectations from filmgoers, it's surprising that studios won't put more thought into what works and why.  QUEEN OF THE DAMNED falls very short of it's potential.  The more I think about it, the less I like it.  To each his own I guess. On a scale of ONE to TEN, 10 being the best, I give QUEEN OF THE DAMNED a 5. "},{"Title":"Watch The Shadow of the Vampire instead!","Date":"3 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  `Queen of the damned' was not what I was looking for.  I thought this movie would be entertaining and somewhat scary, but it wasn't. The movie is farfetched and nothing interesting or really scary happens during the whole movie. The story is about a vampire named Lestat (Stuart Townsend) who awakens after some long decades, willing to discover light. It doesn't satisfy him to be in darkness. Then he becomes a rock star. He becomes very famous and his music is heard by queen Akasha (Aaliya). She's the mother of all vampires. Akasha has been resting for centuries, waiting for the right moment to awaken again and dominate the world.  Lestat's music is the revelation she was waiting for and Akasha wants Lestat to be with her to dominate the world. Akasha's evil power is great. She was the one who created all vampires. Vampires wouldn't exist if it weren't for her. After all, Akasha is used to having everything she wants to, and all that she wants is to frighten the whole earth. Some of the supposedly scary scenes are just laughable and unbelievably trite. Overall the movie is a disappointment and I hope vampire movies will be improved in the future. If you are looking for a good vampire movie, watch `The Shadow of Vampire'. It seems to be the only worthwhile vampire movie I've ever seen. 3/10 "}{"Title":"if you read the book, don't expect much from the movie","Date":"1 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  *SPOILERS WITHIN*I am a big fan of Anne Rice. I've read all the books, but i haven't seen 'Interview with a Vampire' simply because i had no will after reading the book. But something drove me down to my local Blockbuster to rent Queen of the DamnedAnd after about an hour through i wanted to throw something at the t.v. The movie, standing alone, would've been great. But saying that this movie is based off the book is laughable. The only thing they did was take some names, and slapped the title on it. There are numerous differences between the two. More importantly, they left out the story of the twins, which is basically half the story. Sure, they had Maharet, but even she didn't play a significant role other than take the last drop of Akasha's blood, to which she turned into stone. Even so, Akasha didn't even die like that in the book!Marius made Lestat??? That got me confused because i know for a fact that it didn't quite happen that way. What about the ancients?? They were on screen for about 3 minutes. And some of them died. That's funny, because in the book, none of the Ancients ( or Daniel and Jessie ) died after Mekare ( Maharet's twin in the book ) killed Akasha.I do realise that this is supposed to be 2 books in one. But i don't quite see how The Vampire Lestat is there at all, except for his arising and being made ( But even that was different ). They should have just made each book into a movie.This movie would have been great if it wasn't 'supposidly' based off the book. But it is, so i have come to the conclusion that if you have read the book, don't expect much of the story line to be in the movie.**/ out of 5 "},{"Title":"All in all not to bad","Date":"23 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Being a big vampire fan, I too had high hopes.  But it was not a total let down.  Not knowing too much about Aaliyah, she played the part very well, she was very believable.  She moved like water and was very sleek.  I was slightly impressed, it was not as bad as it could have been.  I am thankful Tom Cruise was not Lastat again!  To see him singing KoRn would have just been an insult!!!But never a movie yet has done it's book justice. "},{"Title":"Queen of the Calvin Kleinites (still queen of the damned)","Date":"29 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The movie is more about style (if you can call it that) than substance. It frequently has contemporary hip mtv soundtrack tunes blaring in the background while showing pretty boy Stuart Townsend prancing around half-naked as Lestat. I can guarantee you, if you liked Interview with the Vampire, you will HATE this movie. They are total opposites in every facet. Interview was a serious attempt while this movie is nothing more than an attempt to draw in the under 25 crowd. The movie has no redeeming artistic contributions. It's a glorified Calvin Klein ad, plain and simple. Avoid. "},{"Title":"Hmmmmm","Date":"16 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  ok, I saw this movie, but first I must say I'm a BIG Ann Rice fan and have read all the Vampire books (and I'm a BIG fan of Vampire movies...seen'em all)....I did like Queen of the Damned as long as I kept telling myself this is not Ann Rice...I think they did a good job of putting 2 books into a less than 2 hour movie. BUT what I didn't like is the simple stuff they left in..the messed it all up,like Marius as Lestat's maker? C'mon, give is AR fans a break. and they left out the every thing about the story of the twins (which could be a movie on it's own)I thought Stuart Townsend did a pretty good job playing Lestat...but Tom did it MUCH better. and you have to remember that Lestat IS the hero in the books. as for the Ancient ones I thought they were pretty good..it p**sed me off some got killed. but Matthew Newton as Armond was perfect..in the book he is described  as being about 19 with long curly hair..and he fit that roll perfect. not like Antonio Banderas Armond. and they left out why Jesse said her Aunt Maharet eyes were bleeding (if they did the story of the twins people would have known) Maharet's eyes bled because before she got turned into a vampire (by Khayman I must add) the Queen ordered her eyes be ripped out (along with her sisters tongue) now she takes the eyes of her victims and her vampire blood tries to keep the eyes alive...so they bleed. the music was great..that is the strongest point of the movie. I do hope they make a movie of the next book (Tale of the Body Theif) but PLEASE let Ann do the screenplay. on a scale of 5 skulls...I give this 3 Ann Rice fans...watch this movie...but tell yourselves this is not Ann Rice over and over and you will enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Queen of the Mediocre","Date":"4 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I've been a big fan of Aaliyah's since her single from Dr. Dolittle, Are You That Somebody? In fact, Try Again is one of my favorite songs. Romeo Must Die was a really good movie. However, releasing this movie after Aaliyah's death does not do her justice.This movie wasn't bad, but it wasn't good. There were so many things in it that I simply didn't find too amusing, and let's face it, they didn't put much effort into the effects. Technology is pretty advanced now, people. You can stop living in the 80s.What I did find to be... pretty good... mostly... was the acting. Aaliyah was pretty good, and Stuart Townsend was... ok. His acting went flat a few times.I believe that if you see that this movie's on HBO or Cinemax, by all means knock yourselves out. I don't believe it's worth a rental, but if you see it on TV, at least there won't be any complaints. I just hope we remember Aaliyah for either her beautiful voice or her performance on Romeo Must Die. "},{"Title":"Disappointing but still worth seeing","Date":"25 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie may have been difficult to follow if the viewer had not read the two Anne Rice books, The Vampire LeStat and Queen of the Dammed, on which it was based. At the end of the tape are two scenes that were left out of the movie; inclusion of these two scenes would have improved the movie considerably. It certaining wasn't in the class of the great Interview With A Vampire. Viewers who have not read the books should do so. In spite of these flaws the movie was interesting and worth seeing for anyone who likes vampire or other supernatural horror movies. "},{"Title":"LET THE BOOK GO!!!!","Date":"8 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  People, please, never compare a movie to the book (or books) that it is based from, as they are two DIFFERENT forms of entertainment.  Authors are able to expand on things, and keep certain plot points going that a movie cannot do, because movie audiences have NO patience with the films that they watch.  Disney changes EVERYTHING that they get their greedy little hands on, yet there are few complaints where they come in.  A case in point is the Three Musketeers move they made.  So many liberties were taken, the only thing the movie got right was the names of the characters.  Yet, the movie is still enjoyable.Now folks, let me say that I am an avid reader myself, and I have all of Anne Rice's novel.  But I am also a big movie watcher, and I have realized that to compare books to film is unfair to both the author and the crew that make the film.  You see, Hollywood constantly takes stories from books, and is always forced to delete certain things from the book, to make a story short enough to fit into a certain length of time.  It always happens, and if you continually hold it to the book, then you won't see the forest for the trees.And yes, this movie is based from both books The Vampire Lestat and the Queen of the Damned.  Well, what did you expect?  They had only made Interview With the Vampire, and the Lestat novel was the sequel to that, so they had to bridge that gap somehow.After watching this movie, I happen to think that it is one of the better vampire movies ever made, most certainly in the top 5.  The characters were well acted, and the essence of the characterization that you fell in the books IS present.  And this is how Lestat was meant to be portrayed, not the less than scary Tom Cruise performance.  If you can let go of the book, you'll see a great movie, despite the liberties that they took.  It's a visual masterpiece on the same wavelength of the Crow, it's wonderfully acted, and it had a great soundtrack to boot.  If you hate it, it's cause you're stuck in the library. "},{"Title":"An excellent music video","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The old masters used to take stories that everybody knew, Greek myths, bible stories, and paint scenes based on those stories. The result was a pleasing picture that had a lot of symbolism that allowed you to associate it with the appropriate story. By no means was a single picture meant to tell the story in an intelligible way. That's pretty much what they've done with this movie. It is a series of music videos featuring some of the same characters, themes and symbolism from Anne Rice's Vampire chronicles. But it does not even attempt to tell the story in some kind of intelligible way.Overall, I think it succeeds in looking cool, sounding great and conveying flashes of the much deeper storyline from the books. Could it have been done better? Perhaps, but in my opinion, you could have made a 2 hour movie about David Talbot. Trying to cram even a fraction of the story from the books into a movie would be folly. Maybe they were better off not even trying. That said, I can't imagine how anyone who has not read the books could follow the movie at all. It must seem incredibly jumbled and disjointed.By the way, I loved Stuart Townsend as Lestat. I saw Interview before reading any of the books. At that time I thought that Tom Cruise was just fine as Lestat. After reading the books, I hated Cruise's portrayal. Townsend shows just the right amount of detachment, glee and remorse over the mayhem that he is a part of. He is alternatively, a stalking cat, an unblinking viper and a wounded and bleeding little boy, sometimes all three in the same scene. "},{"Title":"Super Cool!","Date":"19 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie was Da bomb! I had never heard of Anne Rice, The vampire Lestat, Or Akasha. One day I sat down to my tv and saw the preview. It looked so cool!So one day when it finally came out, I went to watch it. It was great. In the beginning, when the music plays, the film gives you a spine tingle.If you are a vampire fan and love vampire movies, watch Queen of the Damned.4 ut of 5 stars because even though it was cool, I didn't like that Queen Akasha came out until the movie was half over but it was still cool. "},{"Title":"Only for Vampire fans...","Date":"9 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The film really does what it promises vampires, cool visuals and hard music.If you're a fan of Vampire stories, hard rock music and gothic environments, then you should see it. Of course it's not a masterpiece but it's cool and entertaining enough to spend 100 min. There is a really good work in the production of the film and well accomplished character and scenario visuals. Vampire Lestat is really good. Shame for a not so good Queen Aqasha.You must see the Woodstock-like concert with an epic Vampire battle!!! Cool!!! "}{"Title":"guilty pleasure","Date":"7 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Ah, yes, I was adamant that I would never see this movie, being a huge fan of Anne Rice, and knowing the back story with the script and rights to the story - knowing that Mrs. Rice had taken her name off of it.  I knew it was going to be nothing like the book, and I didn't want to have any part of it. Then all of a sudden Anne's name was on it again?  Could it be that she sold out?  So at a particularly desperate moment in life I decided, well, why not, and went to see the movie. ...and I fell in love. Saw it even a few more times after that.  Can't wait for the DVD.  Explain yourself!!  you shout at me.  Well okay...I went to see it with no expectations, knowing that it would be nothing like the book - and that the actors were going to have no physical resemblance to the characters and that there would be a gratuitous love story thrown in for the kiddies - and that's what I got - I got a totally enjoyable VAMPIRE flick.  With a totally intriguing lead character.  With perfect music, and beautiful and unique fight sequences.I will be the first to tell you that this movie should not have been called Queen of the Damned, and Anne Rice should have signed off on it and stayed that way - but I will also admit that it was fun.  A simple fun movie for those of us out there who can handle a movie with little meaning and can allow ourselves to dumb down for a little just to enjoy some beautiful people and sights, without needing great dialogue or intricate plot. (don't get me wrong, I will very rarely allow myself to do that...yes I'm pretentious when it comes to film, I'll also admit that)But overall, if you're having a slumber party, rent it.  If you're having a few friends over, rent it.  And definitely, if you've had a crap day at work, and want nothing more than to settle into the couch with a Frangelico and cream, rent it, and allow yourself some escapism for an evening. It'll make you feel better. "},{"Title":"Why God... Why??","Date":"11 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I manage a movie theatre in a small town, and as such am privileged to screen the films before we release them.  When we received Queen, I was so excited I just had to screen it (normally I don't screen the movies... afterall, who wants to spend more time at work than they have to?).  And though I saw it for free, I wanted my money back.  It was so bad, I would discourage my own customers from watching this filth.I love Anne Rice.  I've read nearly everything she has wrote.  I was even honored to meet the woman 6 years ago.  She is very talented, and Queen of the Damned was by far my favorite of the Chronicles.  Now, when the deal to make the movie FINALLY went through, Anne volunteered to write the screenplay... FOR FREE!  You'd think any studio would jump at the chance to have the creator of their film subject write the script at no charge. What did these pillars of genius do?  They turned her down!  THEY TURNED ANNE RICE DOWN!  And the film suffered for it.In no way is this a Vampire Chronicles movie.  In no way is this a good movie.  In no way is this even a mediocre movie.  The plot was hollow, as where the characters (who in no way resembled those from the books). Townsend is no Lestat.  Aaliyah was definitly NOT Akasha.  From what I saw, the only ones who liked this movie were those fans of the late singer. People would get up and cheer when she came on the screen.  But fans of Anne Rice would groan and complain.  That's who this movie should've been made for.  Instead it came off as an Aaliyah-vehicle.  And not a very good one, at that.In my opinion, this film should be destroyed, the DVD never released, and all memory of seeing it wiped from the public's conscience.  I feel deeply for all of you that had to pay to see it. "},{"Title":"Rather average.","Date":"4 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  There pretty much isn't any plot to this movie untill Alayah arrives on screen. First half tells how Lestat came to be and a brief encounter with The Queen that lead to centuries of longing and lusting after her. Second half has Lestat going public as a vampire and The Queen reawakening to claim him as her king and her eventual killing spree.Stuart Townsend turns in a wooden performance and the first half is pretty boring. It takes off when Alayah arrives on screen. She has a very commanding pressence in this film, she pretty much saves this film. And what the film lacks in substance it makes up in style and fast paced editing. * * out of 4. "},{"Title":"Stylish & Impressive but short on Aaliyah's appearance!","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I watched this last week not expecting anything in the least, but was stylish and cool I might add.It was an interesting to see that this made it to cinema considering Aaliyah's unfortunate and untimely death as this was being slated more for a straight-to-video release.Although I'm not really an Anne Rice reader, I'm glad to see another follow-up from the star studded Interview with the Vampire. I Still can't understand why so many over rate that garbage?Stuart Townsend was pretty slick as the vampire Lestat, so much that he resembles Brandon Lee's look from The Crow. It's not surprising to learn as to why this movie was given a lukewarm response from the critics as to a rather weak story and thin plot. However it was also nice to see that many took notice of Aaliyah's performance as this not doubt helped provide more publicity and success received. Though I'm a fan of vampires I was annoyed that it was only granted a 15 rating in the U.K. as I'm sure it would've been more gorier.It was also nice to see French actor Vincent Perez playing another dark Gothic role as Lestat's vampire maker since his role in The Crow City of Angels (no way better than the original). And the beautiful Swedish actress Lena Olin and newcomer Marguerite Moreau for their supportive performances. One of the most beautifully crafted scenes that really deserves a thumbs up is the concert confrontation involving Stuart Townsend and Vincent Perez and a large group of angry vampires battling it out on center stage in front of a large crowd of fans. That rocks.Not a bad movie at all. I just hope the DVD comes out with extras, outtakes, deleted scenes and maybe something special for any Aaliyah fans out there? (I know I'm one).  "},{"Title":"Don't waste your money on this disrespectful waste of time.","Date":"14 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This film is a con. Aaliyah is only in it for literally 3 minutes. When I got up at the end I heard someone saying, That was the worst film I've ever seen. It is just being marketed to make money from Aaliyah's death. It's very disrespectful, especially the ending. Don't waste your money, it's boring, badly acted, and shouldn't have been allowed by her family. The book is MUCH better. "},{"Title":"Wasn't expecting much at all, but was still violently let down","Date":"9 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I did the opposite of what people usually recommend doing. I decided to read the book then watch the movie and try to spot the differences. I read the Vampire Lestat about a year ago and loved it and I was fully prepared to watch the movie by finishing Anne Rice's Queen of the Damned the day before I watched it.I found myself getting more and more furious as the show progressed. None of Anne Rice's characters were recognisable except that maybe they shared the same name. Lestat was obnoxious, cruel and totally unlikable in the movie, which seemed very surprising considering that millions of readers love him in the book. Marius was nothing like the wise, cultured and kind Vampire in the book(he wasn't even the one who made Lestat in the book) The makers of the film had such fun twisting the whole story upside down, I reckon. There are so many things I could say about how the movie does not do the books justice, but I would have to write an essay then. The story of the Legend of the twins was very essential to the story, but they left it out totally which leaves for so many questions.I read their official website where the producer explains why this was done, that they had no time to fit a lot of what the book is about into the movie, but I just don't buy it, Interview with the Vampire managed to do so, so why couldn't they. They should probably have cut down the long draggy shots in general, or not add additional cheesy scenes that did not exist in the book, THEN they could have got some content in. They just had to turn it into a stupid, cheesy, trashy Vampire flick, sigh. They shouldn't have called it the 'Queen of the Damned' if it wasn't really even safely based on the book, I bet Anne Rice had sleepless nights over this horrible movie.Okay, let's just put aside the books for a while and try to imagine that this movie wasn't based on one of the greatest Vampire characters and stories of all time.The effects were low budget, and the actors in general were bad not to mention the over excited and amateur actors in the backgrounds, obviously goths they pulled off the Melbourne streets. None of the exquisite detailing of Interview with the Vampire. The vampires in general were a scruffy bunch especially the group of Vampires that sucked Akasha dry at the end. And the ending was oh so convenient.And what's with the love story element anyway? I hate this movie and how it has taken away the chance for some other worthier director and production team to do Anne Rice's books justice  "},{"Title":"New Wave and stylish.","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This film reminds me of the early 80's New Wave infusion.  One can see how Punk evolved into 2 high breds of Heavy Metal and New Wave.  This film reminds me of the '83 film The Hunger with David Bowie.  It has the grainy, blue light film quality with most of it being filmed in the dark. The synthesizer music and the character Marius looks like the singer of Human league; dresses simular to the guy in the video.  The cool Lt Cosello (Miami vice) acting style is done in true 80's fashion.  The concert, with the flames in it, reminded me of Blade Runner.  A lot of style, but all vampire films become redundant. I give it an 8 for style, and originality a 4.  If I was younger, say 14, I would give this an 8, but as I march into my 30's I give it a 4 or 5 because second time around I seen this before. "},{"Title":"Entertaining but dumb","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This film, based on the Anne Rice novel, is about a rock star vampire (Stuart Townsend, playing the part that Tom Cruise played in Interview with a Vampire) who alienates other vampires, and sortof becomes the lover of the Queen of the vampires... the story doesnt really make any sense, including a subtitle about this girl who works for a group of vampire researchers (?) and for some reason wants to BECOME a vampire??? Marguerite Moreau (who was in all THREE Mighty Ducks movies) plays that part with such conviction she looks like she's auditioning for a role on Buffy. The film has it's requisite blood baths and violent unleashings.. none of which makes much sense but it's all done with a stylish flair and is strangely watchable.. this actualy is an entertaining movie, though it doesnt really make me want to read the book.. I did enjoy it more than I did the Interview movie. GRADE B- "},{"Title":"Definitely below par vampire fodder","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Queen of the Damned, the new vampire movie based on Anne Rice's novel (and part of her partially homosexual Vampire Chronicals), is a mess of movie, and a shame considering one of the few people who has talent in the movie (Aalyiah, who proved her talent in Romeo Must Die and from her record career) won't be able to make another.Here, the vampire Lestat (played last time by Tom Cruise, now by Stewart Townsend) arises from the grave and becomes a lead singer of a goth band which infuriates many of the secretive vampires of the night, but also arouses and also arises the queen vampire Akasha (Aalyiah, who by the way isn't in the film nearly as much as you'd think which is another shame and waste) who wants to make him the king of vampires.  This plot-line isn't helped much by a sub-plot involving a mortal who is entranced by a diary written by Lestat 200 years earlier and who now wants to know everything, at any cost.Not worth watching, even for die-hard KoRn and Jonathan Davis fans who want to hear his innovative and incredible score and songs (sense the sarcasm folks).  D "},{"Title":"It is a sad sad thing, not a movie","Date":"18 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Marguerite Moreau is the worst thing in this movie. The very good second is the plot, or lack of it more precisely. Third are the totally terrible characters in general. I love great vampire movies like Dracula and Interview with the Vampire, but this is unbelievable, unremarkable, Hollywood at it's worst!If there is anything worth watching you must be a true Goth and a childish one, as this movie leaves you feeling embarrassed for it's makers, unless you have a naive way of sucking even bad drama and cult influences in your veins.If you absolutely must see all vampire movies, rent it. For the love of cute kittens, do not buy it as I did! "}{"Title":"Barely better sequel to a rather decent original","Date":"14 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Queen of the Damned is a decent sequel in it's own right to a decent original.**SPOILERS**Arriving in London, Lestat de Lioncourt, (Stuart Townsend) uses his musical group to force out long-dead vampires from their resting place. Due to the occasion, paranormal researcher Jessica Reeves, (Marguerite Moreau) begins to see that his lyrics on based on occult history about vampires, indicating he really is a vampire. Going into his past, she learns of the connection he had with Marius de Romanus, (Vincent Perez) the vampire who created him, and with Queen Akasha, (Aaliyah) a vampire queen who rules over the breed. Realizing that his music has forced her resurrection and unleashed a torrent of death and destruction, she races to make him understand what's going on before she gets to him.The Good News This was a lot better than expected. In general practice, the last half of this one is it's best scenes, since it's got all the action scenes in the film. All of them are quite enjoyable as well, which makes for just as much fun. The concert scene here is the absolute best part here, taking up a rather significant portion of time to a fun concept, as there is specific songs that go through and once the vampires get involved up on-stage, it turns into a great action scene where, using the surroundings and wire-fu, manages to defeat the in front of the crowd who feels that they're merely putting on an act. Once the fire reigns down, it just cements the fun. The bar sequence, immediately after the resurrection is also really good since the fire gag makes it incredibly entertaining and just fun, as is the initial resurrection sequence. In the beautifully Gothic basement, complete with stone statues in a great setting, the musical keys for the resurrection are great and the clues that it's happened, in the form of a great series of really nice shock images in rapid-fire sequences, allowing for some wonderful moments and making it feel really creepy. The finale is excellent as well, as there's also the nicely erotic, but non-nudity bath sequence also make this fun. That it also does a nice job with the back-story of the lead vampire, especially in the montage throughout art history coming off the best, make it effective and nicely done. These here are the film's good points.The Bad News There wasn't a whole lot really wrong with this. One of the biggest issues is really just the fact that the vampire isn't very threatening. Remove the vampire aspect from any of these creatures and they become whiny Goth people who do nothing but mourn and whine all film long, either about the betrayal of vampire lore, lost loves or about finding out the past. It really makers them seem like complete weaklings rather than creatures which command fear. The fact that it's the major leads in this who do that are all the more reason to be apprehensive about it, as they're the ones spending the most amount of time and are just completely not that exciting or interesting. The brooding Goth doesn't make for good threatening vampires, and this one proves it. The other real flaw to this is the lack of blood and gore. This one has a rather healthy body count, gets a couple of really brutal deaths and some wonderful set-ups for gore, but nothing else about this really stands out because of the fact that it's just not bloody. The opportunity is there, but we get nothing more than neck bites for the majority of the kills, which isn't all that gory. A little more variety for these would've helped out tremendously. Overall, these are the film's problems.The Final Verdict Not nearly as terrible as imagined but with a couple of incredibly damaging flaws, this one barely manages to become watchable at worst. Give it a shot if you're a fan of the first one or the book series, in the mood for a mainstream vampire take or plain interested, otherwise heed caution on it.Rated R Graphic Violence and Language "},{"Title":"Why do people who read the books then dump on the flicks","Date":"1 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" People, writing a novel and composing a film are not, repeat, NOT the same or even the same art form.I saw this 2002, flick last night as a discounted DVD. Quite frankly I wasexpecting lots of laughs and of grade C cinema. I was surprised.See this flick if for no other reason than seeing how an exciting and well crafted cinema is spun. The special effects, camera work was breath taking. The story paled with the wonderful video.Even if you hate Punk Rock and I do, watch this anyway. You will soon see that its strength is in great scenes, special effects and not bad actors. Only a few scenes I felt were very poorly done and campy.The actors are all skin pleasing, but I never rate a film by skin standards. "},{"Title":"Take it easy its just a MOVIE","Date":"27 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" OK let's get one thing straight out here........IT IS JUST A MOVIE. There is no need to go insane no matter how much you enjoyed the books(knowing I did) its just a movie. What did you expect anyway? Interview With a Vampire was said and done, Tom Cruise, his teeth, his creepy ass nose its over and done forget about it. Now Stuart was not that bad, in fact he was pretty good, I mean he was no different than your first god Lestat, no seriously point out one difference between Tom and Stuarts acting.....U CANT. They were both great actors, both very convincing and both really attractive. You Poor suckers are just annoyed at the fact that What happened in the movie was a little different than the book, but thats what a movie is! Oh and for all you bookworms out there there is a direct quote on Stuart Townsend's fansite stating how Anne was THRILLED to have Stuart as Lestat. Meet your makerP Oh and the whole rebellious vampire seeking danger and excitement thing.......yea give it a rest, he may be an amazing character in a great set of books(Who was my favorite character by the way) but let's keep our heads grounded OK? The movie wasn't that bad you lived thats its over and done, it was aimed to target teenagers who liked the idea of a vampire in leather. "},{"Title":"It's a MOVIE ADAPTION, people.","Date":"11 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I loved this movie. Yes, I have read The Vampire Lestat and Queen of the Damned. The movie wasn't consistent to the book, but what do you expect? Is the Harry Potter franchise identical to its literary counterpart? Exactly. This film is not aimed to please Anne Rice fans we have books for that. This movie is sending the TVL/QOTD story to a wider audience. Onto the comment Queen of the Damned is about the Vampire Lestat (Stuart Townsend), who has just risen from a century-long sleep, drawn to the power of ... heavy metal music. He finds a band, and sets himself up as a 'new god', a rock star. I can see parallels to real life already. The Queen of the Damned, Akasha (Aaliyah, god bless her soul), is likewise drawn to heavy metal, and, as explained before in the film, Lestat has some history with her, drank her blood and got off on it, yadda yadda yadda. As a twist, Jesse(Marguerite Moreau), a young Talmasca, is drawn to Lestat for diversity. She reads his journal, is touched, falls in love with him, has some rather romanticized ideas about being vamped, and eventually gets turned by Lestat. Oh, and there is some b******t about the Ancients, but really, you don't pay to much attention to the storyline and end up just listening and watching Stuart Townsend. And little else.Biggest beef with the movie? Jesse. In the book, liked her. Played by Marguerite Moreau, she is boring as all get out, boring enough to speak in a near monotone. Also, Jesse and Lestat do not get all romantic. Sorry, folks. In my opinion, Stuart Townsend IS Lestat. He has the charm and sex appeal of the book Lestat, even without the correct physical features. Oh plus, he's a HOTTIE. Unlike Tom Cruise, who was plain creepy as Lestat in Interview with a Vampire. And Aaliyah. I wasn't an Aaliyah fan, and yet I find myself converted. While not really the Akasha in the book, and having a grand total of I think four scenes, she does her best with what she got. And considering she died, then some. The Ancients supporting cast, all good. Save Matthew Newton as Armand, and if you live in Australia, you know it's not his acting ability I'm talking about. He's creepy too. Lena Olin as Marharet is fantastic, although to old, and leaves me question who would play the phantom (filmwise) twin, Mekare. Marius, Vincent Perez. Oh, where to start. He was... confused. And factually incorrect. Not a great Marius. Fantastic soundtrack, alright special effects (the flying? Beg your pardon?), hot Stuart Townsend, above par costuming, boring Jesse, surprisingly good make up for a vampire movie, and no overcompensating nude scenes make for a good vamp film.So, unless you're a stickler-for-facts, whiny, anal Anne Rice fan, watch this film with an open mind, and you shall love it. Especially the concert scene, and not just for Stuart's see through shirt. "},{"Title":"Possibly the only Queen of the Damned fan left? XD","Date":"9 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I know this movie came out like years ago but it still remains one of my fave movies. I also adored it's prequel Interview with a Vampire. This was probably more of a success then Queen of the Damned but still... I like it lol?! Some of the SFX weren't very impressive and their is the occasional cheesy line eg. Come out come out wherever you are, yet I suppose the lifestyle of a vampire turned superstar still amazes me. I haven't read the books yet but when I do I'm sure they'll be even better. I supposed it's one of those films that do not appeal to many people, I guess I might be one of the only fan that likes it? I think the main characteristics of this film is probably 1. It's vampirish/ Gothic music 2. Stuart Townsend and his incredibly sexy voice and body, his acting also impressed me in league of extraordinary gentlemen, another film worth watching! And 3. Aaliyah who sadly died after the making of this film RIP Aaliyah I loved your music too. XxXxX "},{"Title":"Pretty average stuff that feels cheap in many areas","Date":"13 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Centuries ago, Lestat grew weary of eternity alone and decided to go to sleep and hope that it would serve as a sort of death. The years turn to centuries and something changes to the point where Lestat decides to get up (well, after five more minutes maybe). The sound that awakens him is not the industrial revolution, not the invention of the engine nor world wars but a rather bland collection of heavy metal music. Seeing how their fans worship the musicians, Lestat becomes one, however his fame brings the attention of a group of paranormal investigators &#150; in particular the curious Jesse. However Lestat's problems are not them but the other vampires who do not appreciate the publicity he has brought to their kind, not to mention the original Queen of the vampires, Akasha, who wishes to make Lestat her new king.This film struggles because it opens with a silly idea (that Lestat only returns because of formulaic heavy metal music) that it cannot get over for the majority of the time because it just doesn't scan at all. With this as its main narrative thrust (it never gets away from it) it is no surprise to find that the film fails to engage on more than a trashy movie level. It provides enough in the way of entertainment to be watchable but only if you're in an undemanding mood because it doesn't have anything that interesting in it and is consistently just quite bland. It doesn't help that the film feels cheap in many areas. The special effects consist of a blurring effect whenever anyone moves and this gets old very, very quickly. The use of rather basic metal music also makes it feel cheap &#150; I'm not sure why but it just doesn't work.Not meaning to be unkind but you can't help feel the film is smaller when you compare this cast with the cast that were originally in Interview. Townsend cannot help but send out low-rent vibes; he was enjoyable in League of Extraordinary Gentlemen but here he cannot carry the depth of the character (not that the script helps him out much) and he just does OK but nothing more. Aaliyah's death was a loss to the world of r'n'b but, on the basis of this film, she was no loss to the world of acting as she is terrible throughout. Behind a horrid accent, she seems to think that all she has to do is slink around the screen and, while that works in music videos, it is nowhere near enough for a film. In contrast Moreau is at least interesting even if her character makes no sense &#150; she is sexy when she has to be but is also vulnerable at the same time. Perez is dull, Olin is underused and McGann just floats around the edges of the film.Overall this is a pretty average film. If it is Saturday night and you are just looking for something brief and noisy to pass the time then this might do but there isn't really that much to it. A basic story based on an absurd idea is delivered with poor direction, low-rent actors and a lack of anything special in any aspect &#150; very few viewers will be satisfied with this. "},{"Title":"horrible horrible movie","Date":"21 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This has to be one of the worst movies I have ever seen, and I have seen a lot of movies. I am a great fan of Anne Rice. In fact Queen of the Damned is my favorite of the Vampire chronicles. This movie in no way even resemble the book. In fact, I don't even think the script was written using the book. Hardly anything that happens in this movie actually happen in any of the vampire chronicles. Putting that aside, did this movie even have a plot? Or a story line at all? It was so hard to follow, nothing made sense. someone needs to give the writer a copy of the book and teach him the definition of a vampire, If anyone is interested in the story of the queen of the damned, I highly recommend reading the book. Burn this movie. "},{"Title":"The Horror................","Date":"19 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" One thing that separated Anne Rice's Vampire Chronicles from the hundreds of vampire drivel out there was her ability to develop deeply-layered characters that we could immediately identify with. Each one from Lestat to Pandora to Marius, had their own inner battles that served as an umbilical cord to their humanity. That along with the rich historic origins of vampirism exquisitely detailed from vampire to vampire, lent an aura of romanticism that few other writers could develop. The book, Queen of the Damned, connected the past with the present and introduced us to the group of immortals who hold the survival of fellow vampires in their hands. Queen of the Damned the movie, on the other hand, is just plain bad. From acting, writing, casting, directing, all facets of this exercise, which in essence is just a music video, utterly and miserably fail. After years of hibernation, Lestat awakes in the 20th century and decides to come clean and cause a ruckus as he usually does. This he does by writing an autobiography (the Vampire Lestat) and joining a rock band and thereby announcing to the world the secret of the cabal. This, as you can imagine is not taken lightly by the other bloodsuckers who revel in their nonexistence, living on the fringes of society. The vampire nation decides it's time that Lestat shuts up forever. At the same time, Akasha, literally the mother of all vampires, is also awakened and decides to enforce her vision of utopia on the suspecting world. Never have I seen such a bland, untalented, and unmotivated group of actors. Stuart Townsend plays a wooden and stiff Lestat who seems bored except when on stage. Aaliyah is truly miscast as Akasha. The scene where she enters a vampire bar is pure comedy. The few actors of substance like Lena Olin, are barely given any screen time. The dialogue is reminiscent of a cartoon. There are far too many vampire bar scenes where fashion attire is the only reason the scenes were shot. Black leather and heavy makeup, this is a good advert for the goth-look but nothing more. It&#129;fs image and style over content and substance. It's no wonder that Anne Rice disassociated herself from it. There seems to be a slew of directors from the MTV music video school of film making and though some learn enough to eventually make a decent film, the majority are better suited for commercials or even better yet, music videos. As long as it looks good, then it's fine. Eye candy works for a 5 minute music video but not for a 2.0hrs film. I didn't expect them to follow the storyline which is fine but it's clear that they chose this route only to appeal to the younger audiences in the same way they cast Townsend and Aaliyah. Demographically, I don't think the majority of Anne Rice's readers are teenagers. The only positive reviews I read, extol the beauty and looks of Townsend and Aailyah as reasons for liking the movie. Sorry but that's not enough for me and many others. I have made a note of those involved in this fiasco from the director to producers and will avoid anything they are involved in like the bubonic plague. "},{"Title":"Thoroughly enjoyable - really!","Date":"19 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" All right - let's go through the issues. The first movie, Interview With The Vampire, wasn't bad. It wasn't a masterpiece, but it was slick, well-produced, highly dramatic - in parts even unsettling -, and featured what in my opinion is Tom Cruise's only truly charismatic role ever (as you can gather, I'm no fan of his). Kirsten Dunst's child vampire was very cool, possibly her best role ever (generally, I'm not a terribly big fan of her, either). All in all, an effectively entertaining movie. I rated it a 7 out of 10.Next I should mention that I'm not a fan, or reader, of Anne Rice, or of vampires generally. I just see the movies. But I hear things, and it was quite plain in the first movie that a number of rather significant liberties had been taken with the original story. The problem with that wasn't that it was done, but that it showed. While very well-produced, Interview With The Vampire was an obviously glossed-over version of the book, with many of the basic ideas and situations changed from the kind of clever ideas you see in a decently-written book and into the kind of rather less clever ideas you see in a typical mainstream Hollywood movie. The first movie, put simply, tried too hard to be mainstream. In my judgment, the second movie - Queen of the Damned - didn't make that mistake. Sure, there are changes in the story, but the thing is, it doesn't show. If you haven't read the books, Queen of the Damned works very well as an independent entity. And what's more, it preserves the feel of the books' ideas and situations extremely well. There's so much in this movie that is obviously taken directly from the books, because it's just that kind of clever scenes. This is not just fancypants Hollywood producers taking an original story and warping it into some soulless commercial sludge. This movie, despite the changes, shows respect to the original work, retaining much of its mood and atmosphere. How can I say this without having read the books? I dunno. It just feels that way, very strongly, when I watch it. I'm certain it's the case. The whole feel of the movie came across as thoroughly literary.I had heard, of course, that this movie was going to be bad, but the fact is that, quite surprisingly, I was thoroughly entertained by Queen of the Damned. Good story, cool acting, fun vampire action. It captivated me all the way through, and I even liked the ending. I'm not an Aaliyah fan, and while her acting in this movie technically wasn't very good, her character was still megacool, and she made a great supervillain. Maguerite Moreau also needs special mention. She is indeed stunningly attractive, and one thirsts for more material with her after having seen this.Ultimately, Queen of the Damned was a good movie. Not a great masterpiece, but an honest, coherent romp of an adventure, with some great ideas and generally good performances. As with the previous movie, I rate it a 7 out of 10, but it is a bigger 7 (which I have since raised to an 8). The first movie was melodramatic and too Hollywoodized; two shortcomings that the sequel did not have, which makes it more watchable. Furthermore, Queen of the Damned managed to use the entire goth subculture, and its stylistic similarities to the vampire concepts, so well that I became engrossed in a kind of culture - and music! - that I've never had any interest in before. That's quite an achievement!!I salute the producers of Queen of the Damned.Finally, I have to mention another cool vampire movie I watched recently The Twins Effect. It's a Hong Kong produced vampire comedy, superbly well-produced and uproariously enjoyable. Better than either of these Rice products. See it. "},{"Title":"Entertaining vampire entry","Date":"16 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I understand how people can get upset if one of their favorite books is not accurately translated, but the quality of a film and the faithfulness of its adaptation are two different issues. Most of the negative comments for this film are from people who were annoyed that the plot did not follow Anne Rice's book.  I enjoyed many of her earlier novels, but eventually tired of her style.  I don't even remember if I finished Queen of the Damned, so I wasn't carrying that baggage.  The plot of the movie, however much it does or does not follow the novel, is perfectly coherent.  The acting is good for the most part.  I did not care for the part of Jesse, but LeStat, Akasha, Maharet (Lena Olin)and especially Marius were all good.  A little too much pyrotechnics, but that's a minor complaint.  The interplay between LeStat and Marius was my favorite part.  I liked how Marius looked after LeStat even though he was against his plans for exposing the vampires.  Not great, but a decent addition to the genre.  "}{"Title":"Wow...umm crap much?","Date":"22 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Yea, I saw this movie back around the time Aaliyah had died. I really wish they hadn't dedicated this nonsense in her memory. We know she didn't finish the movie people, so why put it out there? To capitalize on the fact that she died? That's sick. The movie was ill put together and you could see it. Besides the fact that it didn't make any sense chronologically, it was just bad. I love Aaliyah, but she didn't do much by gyrate across the screen to bad 1980's MTV music. Her acting seemed overly done and cheesy. I hear she worked on having an authentic Egyptian accent, and that's all well and good, but it was just a bad part for her. Many fans of the book already have their issues with this movie and I don't blame them. Gotta remember though, Hollywood and books don't equal the same stuff. Anyways, it was just cheesy. It was a sick publicity stunt to sell this movie after the main character dies. Stuart was ok as Lestat, but I'm not into overdramatic vampires. And really, he entrances the world through his kind of music? Ok, and how much of the population doesn't listen to heavy metal/rock? It just seemed rather silly. I didn't mind the other sets of vamps around, but he annoyed and bored me. The girl who kept having the vamp dreams and wanted oh-so-desperately to be one was irritating beyond belief. Are we actually supposed to take her seriously? Um, yea ok...I mean really, we've given up on taking anything seriously at this point. Characterizations are moot. Not worth the time or the vision.  "},{"Title":"Stinks, Read the Book instead","Date":"16 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie is really bad. I LOVE Anne Rice's Vampire Chronicles book series. The Interview with the Vampire is one of my favorite movies. But this is the worst movie I have ever seen! Since they were making Queen of the Damned they SHOULD have had Anne Rice do the screen play and not some 2 other dudes. Anne Rice did the screen play for Interview with the Vampire and it was great, even though some parts were changed they wernt drastic changes and it didnt make a difference because the story was still the same as the book.  It seems as if they only got a summary of the movie and never actually read the book. They changed WAY TOO MUCH for it to be acceptable. They changed important things, like who made Lestat. They were way too vague of how the Queen was made a vampire and how it all started and why they wanted to kill the Queen. They didnt fully introduce all the characters. Like near the end the have , some might I add, of the vampires that are there when they kill the Queen and they were never introduced of who the heck they were! Seriously, if you wanna KNOW the REAL story of the Queen of the Damned, READ THE BOOK, it is a VERY GOOD BOOK. SO dont waste your money in buying or renting this movie unless you enjoy watching very very bad movies. And even if I never read the book i still wouldnt have liked it, it lacked a plot, unlike the book. "},{"Title":"how upsetting this is....","Date":"3 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I have an intense hatred for the Movie the Queen of the Damned. I hate it.. I dont just hate it though, I dispise it, I look on it as blasphemy from heretical mind, words that profane the Goddess who is Anne Rice.Now the movie itself, is not bad. the acting is well done, for the most part, and on its own it was a fine feature. but it wasnt just a movie, it was a repersentation of the Unholy Word,  it was supposed to be the fine film adaption of the Amazing Book, The Queen of the Damned, by the Goddess who is Anne Rice. Instead it was nothing short than a mockery.The problems I have with the movie stem from the details. Lestat is blonde, in the movie he is brunette, yes a minor point, but how can anyone picture lestat without his angelic mane?, he does NOT have a love affair of any type with Jesse, and the Mekare, my self chosen namesake (Who IS THE QUEEN OF THE DAMNED) is not even in the MOVIE!?? Obsurd!I also have problems with the complete portrayal of Lestat. The actor playing him did not seem to understand that you cant just go on stage and say words that lestat would say and then BE lestat.. Lestat is not words, he is a state of mind. he is a force of nature.. He is the brat prince for god's sake! He deserved more respect. Even Tom Cruise, actor in such pop cultured flicks as Mission Impossible and Top Gun, was better at Lestat. In fact he even seemed to even understand the nuances of character latent within Lestat's preternatural mind. Lestat... is hard for any actor to portray, and even at the best of his abilities Townsend falls miserably short. The great romance will always be Louis and Lestat, was it even present in the film, no. In fact the movie makers did what I truly hate, they took a beautiful work that transcended boundaries, such as Horror, Romance, Gothic, and made it a work of Gothic Cliche.The beatiful story, a mythic tale, lyrical on the page!... trashed upon the silver screen. Can I anything but hate it? "},{"Title":"What have they done?","Date":"30 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I have read all the vampire books by Anne Rice. I read the novel Queen of the Damned. And I have to say that this movie is a terrible adaptation of a great novel. Queen of the Damned is one of those films that seems to have been made to bore the hell out of you. A few scenes are extremely slow. Take for example the scene at the end, it is slow. So is the scene where Jesse gets into trouble with three vampires after she goes to a bar frequented by these creatures of the night to find Lestat. The action seems dull, fake. Unlike Interview with the vampire, everything in this film has a B-movie atmosphere. Even the logic of the film seems to have been scooped out from what seemed like a very, very tight budget. A vampire becomes a famous musician and asks all vampires to please come out of hiding. Why should they? Does Lestat want all vampires to get killed? Then the music of Lestat resurrects Akasha-or should we say that Korn and Static-X resurrected Akasha? Despite being the mother of all vampires, she seems a little pissed at her children; she walks into a bar populated by them and sets them all on fire. She is a vampire serial killer, but why is she doing this? Spoilers The vampires don't want Lestat to tell the world that vampires are real. So what's their idea of stopping him? During one of his concerts, while thousands of people are watching, they attack Lestat. Yeah, no one will see these vampires killing another vampire, just a couple of metalheads, no one will believe these people anyway. I thought Sphere had been the worst adaptation of a famous novel there had ever been. Queen of the Damned changed that.  "},{"Title":"Great Soundtrack, Lame Movie","Date":"10 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  With Queen of the Damned, as with many adaptations and sequels, there is the question of whether it should be judged on its own merits or relative to the original.  As this movie is an adaptation and a sequel, this applies double. The answer I suppose, depends on how familiar you are with the original works.This project showed problems from the beginning.  Though it was a sequel to a critical and financial success , the budget was 30% lower and Anne Rice, who adapted her own novel the first time around, was denied the chance to do so again.In fact, forget what I said about this being a sequel.  None of the cast and crew from Interview with the Vampire return, the events of the previous movie are never mentioned, the style is quite different and only one character returns in any identifiable way.  What you're left with is two movies with a vampire named Lestat who seems to be full of himself.  If it weren't for the novels and Anne Rice's credit, people would probably regard this as a coincidence.Queen of the Damned inadvisably combines Anne Rice's novels Queen of the Damned and The Vampire Lestat into a single feature.  Fans of the books will be upset by the nearly eliminated back-story and the numerous changes, many of them significant and without apparent reason.  People who aren't familiar with the books will probably be a little more receptive, but even on its own merits, the movie isn't very good.Its main problem is that the script is full of ideas that aren't developed very well.  We're left with characters that are doing things, but why and why we should care are barely touched upon because the sections explaining that were removed or altered.  For instance, the ancients, who played a major part in the book, are in the movie, but we aren't told why they're here or who they are.  They're  just some vampires who show up for some reason.A slightly more serious problem is we aren't given any characters to like or identify with.  Unlike the book, the vampire characters kill indiscriminately, making them come across as much more villainous. Jesse, the only major mortal character comes across as dumb.  If we don't like anyone or understand what's going on, how are we supposed to care how it all turns out?The acting is serviceable, but not great.  Vincent Perez is quite good as Marius, and Aaliyah has a strong  screen presence, but her dubbed dialogue doesn't really work.  Everyone else is one notch above bad. Accents are a particularly notable problem.  Lead Stuart Townsend's attempt at a French accent is unfortunately one of the worst.The special effects are a mixed bag.  The vampire deaths are very impressive, but the speed and flying effects are laughable.  The sad part is that the DVD shows a documentary about the special effects and several of the other ideas they considered for this effect looked much better.The only real saving grace of the movie is the soundtrack.  Richard Gibbs and Jonathan Davis collaborated on an excellent score and also several original songs Lestat's  band performs.  While I know a few people disagree with me, I feel these are very fitting .  It's perfectly believable these songs could become hits and they seem just like what Lestat would come up with.I'm giving this movie a 3/10.  The music and a few good effects and production design decisions are all that keep it from being a one.  It isn't campy enough to be fun, isn't scary at all, so doesn't work as horror and has no apparent point or themes so it doesn't make for good drama either. Recommended for the morbidly curious only.  Watch at your own risk. "},{"Title":"Review and SPOILERS!","Date":"18 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie worked and didn't work for me.First off, the movie was visually stunning. I liked the dark and brooding quality of the backdrops and the scenery. I thought that the locations and sets used for Lestat's various residences fit his character really well. The costumes were beautifully done and really modernized the story (remember the book was written about 15 years ago and fashion/media trends change quickly).I thought the acting was - for the most part - pretty good. The screenplay, on the other hand, was tragic.First off, I've seen arguments for and against movies following the plot of the books they've been adapted from. I'm one of the people who believes that the storyline in a movie should follow that of the book. Otherwise, why not just write a whole new story? That said, there are certainly times when cutting corners works and others when it doesnt.In my opinion, Queen of the Damned is one of those screenplays where the cutting of corners clearly doesn't work. It's an amalgam of one of the story archs connecting The VAmpire Lestat and Queen of the Damned, rather than just the story of QOTD in itself. That said, it appears the movie makers were assuming people had either read the books, or at least seen the first movie. However, the tone of this movie was so severely different from the first that it can't be said to be a true sequel.While Townsend played a passable Lestat in some ways, the other characters were atrocious. Aaliyah seemed to be directed to convey extreme age and power by walking slowly and talking in a vaguely eastern european accent. Transylvanian is what it sounded like to me... straight from the Lugosi school of vampiric arts. Cheesy, though I think Aaliyah still managed to carry off a decent portrayal of the ruthless egoist that was Akasha.The story was mangled beyond belief. Some of the central points of both books carried through, but the real beauty of Anne Rice's works are in the detail. Rice is a better story teller than she is a writer (in my opinion, of course), and so I read her books for the tapestry of settings, character traits and observations more than for her word choice or phrasing. Most of this was simply lost in QOTD.Talamasca? What's that? No explanation of how Jesse came to be involved that was clear to me (in the movie, of course). Why did Lestat rise? What happened to Luis? Remember, it wasn't just Lestat all the other vampires were after, it was Luis as well. Then again, this was QOTD, not TVL, in name at least.There was no way to fit the entire story of QOTD in one film without cutting in large pieces of The Vampire Lestat, so almost everything but the extremely central plot points were completely omitted. So, no depth, no exquisite tapestry.The whole Jesse/Lestat thing was just annoying. Jesse was a strong character in the books, and just a vampire groupie in the movie. Please, do it. I want you to. Ick.What they did to the character of Marius was a horror. Again, the only way I can account for any screenwriter seeing this digression from Rice's story as excusable was that they were simply trying to bridge the gap between Interview and Queen with as little effort as possible.Why pull in a bunch of characters from the novel and give absolutely NO explanation as to their presence? I read a post where someone said that the extras on the DVD explained who the people were. Feh. When I saw the movie originally, I saw it in the theater. I sat there wondering who they were and when Mekare was going to arrive. It must have been a minimal nod to Anne Rice fans who the writers assumed would be in the theater trying to pick out the details. Sadly, they forgot the actual details. A cameo by a woman in a sari hardly qualifies as intelligent character development.We won't even mention one of the main themes of the book the story of the twins. The movie certainly doesn't.All the complaining aside, if one tries to divorce the movie from Anne Rice's characters and stories, one is left with a passable view of vampires as seen by MTV. It's a 90 minute music video that is, in places, breathtakingly beautiful.If you want to see a movie with some really hot actors and actresses, you like a gothic edge to your music and favor the incredibly young and thin, you will probably like QOTD. If, on the other hand, you want to see the third book of The Vampire Chronicles brought to life, you'll have to wait for Anne Rice to write the screenplay herself, it seems. "},{"Title":"Movie of the damned","Date":"13 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I was very much in anticipation of this movie, as I am sure many fans of Interview With The Vampire and fans of Anne Rices Vampire Chronicles where alike. But it was a big disapointment to me. First of all when I heard Stu Townsend was playing the role of Lestat, I was thrilled, I have seen him in a few movie's and knew he was a great actor, sure I was disapointed that Tom Cruise didn't return to reprise his role as Lestat, but now I have seen the movie I'm glad he didn't. Because this movie sucked, literally!The Queen Of The Damned and The Vampire Lestat were both amazing books, giving so much insight to the background of the vampires, the character of Lestat, the Talmasca and of course of Akasha. The movie just makes it all seem so trivial. Here is what is wrong with the movie in my view...Number One - The film contradicts the first movie, and the book where it states that Lestat isn't sleeping long before he is woken by the band, the book clearing states that Lestat slept for years, Interview With The Vampire tells us that Lestat took over where Louis left off with Daniel, the Interviewer, what happened after that, in respect to the second movie? It's anybodys guess! My best guess is that they never planned on a sequel.Number Two - In QOTD Lestat was made by Marius, lestats maker was Magnus, who killed himself in flames straight after making him.Number Three - What makes Lestat so damn conscious of his behaviours? The Lestat we know and love is cruel, the lestat we know, gives Louis a hard time, he is a cold blooded kills who steals even the innocence of children. On the beach in QOTD he is told by Marius he has a few lingering human emotions and that is why he feels bad for killing the girl, are they still lingering at the end of the movie, hundreds of years later when he takes pity on Jesse?Queen Of The Damned could have been such a good movie, if they had stuck to the lines of the book more, and made it a longer movie with more detail, not just 1 Hour and 40 Minutes of a spoilt child trying to get his own back on his brothers and sisters. "},{"Title":"Using Aaliyah's memory for the wrong thing","Date":"27 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  ** some spoilers**   Queen of the Damned was a disappointing film. I saw it in anticipation to see Aaliyah's last appearance in a film. I also thought the story of a vampire becoming a rock star was interesting. Aaliyah's character, Akasha, had a few appearances as a cold marble statue. But to see Aaliyah in action, you would have to wait until most of the movie unfolds. When Aaliyah actually appears, she gets only 2 minutes in the friggin' movie.    The scene where she goes into the vampire hang out spot and kills every vampire in the joint was pure entertainment. It actually gave the movie a boost but before you know it the movie is ending and Aaliyah's character is killed off. Here's some advice, if you are naming a movie after the alias of the character, give her some time in the film.    Lestat (Stuart Townsend) gets much more time. They are busy showing how he became a vampire and his success has a rock star. Aaliyah is a good actress, she actually had high hopes after her appearance in Romeo Must Die. In Queen of the Damned, Aaliyah's name is basically used to bring in the dollars and her acting is wasted. This was a poor choice by Warner Brothers and the Village Roadshow production company. "},{"Title":"mtv vampires","Date":"21 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  well, at least you know what you're getting when you rent a film like this. i would never i say never rent 'queen of the damned'-type of film if i was to see one in the rental. lucky me though. i have some friends who like to wallow in this kind of nonsense. so, friday night i got to see not only this, but ali g and road trip as well. qotd actually seemed quite good that night.aaliyah's performance is so undescribable, i couldn't believe what i was seeing. the rest of the cast is decent though, but still they're nothing more than mass-teen all-looks no-skills. except for lena olin, but her role is pointless and irrelevant. the forced grafting of mass-teen music to the film, even adding it to 'fit the plot' is an outstandingly moronic idea. i wonder what kind of jokers made this film. 'cause you have just gotta to be kidding me.1/10 "},{"Title":"Not half bad","Date":"10 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I'm a big fan of both the book and movie Interview with the Vampire. As far as the book goes, the tale was epic. The movie brought the book to life even more wonderful than I'd imagined. This film had a lot to live up to as a sequel. and as a sequel, it failed completely.To enjoy this movie, don't think of it as a sequel. Think of it as a movie all of its own, loosely based on familiar characters. Lestat is no longer himself, but instead rock star vampire with a completely different look and accent. If you can ignore that, and enjoy the loosely fitting perhaps alternate story, you can probably enjoy this movie.Lestat's musical talents are interesting and enjoyable, though I wish they'd done more special effects to his voice. I just didn't find it superhuman enough. On the first note he sings in the movie, his voice is like a dark choir of sound, it's powerful and far beyond human. Later however, his voice seems to turn standard punk rock, nothing special but not bad. Another fault to overlook, then, is what could have been.The movie's rather fast paced, so you won't get bored. It's got good rock sound, vampires crawling everywhere, a decent story so long as you don't expect it to have anything to do with the book. Top it all off with some cool effects. As a movie, it's average, but still good. If you like vampire movies and/or the series, don't hesitate to at least rent it. It's not half bad.- Rirath_com "}{"Title":"Bela Lugosi is dead.... *SPOILERS*","Date":"1 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Too bad the accent has survived. Ugh... two hours of I vant to suck your blood did not heighten either my fear, or my opinion of this film. But it's not only the cheap special effects and the questionable acting that taints this film for me - it's the terrible incongruncies that spoilt what could have been a reasonable film.Queen of the Damned is loosely - very much so - based on the two sequels to Anne Rice's novel Interview With the Vampire The Vampire Lestat and The Queen of the Damned. The difference between the two films is immeasurable. Neil Jordan's taut and spine-tingling story of 'the damned' suited Rice's prose; the characters of Louis, Lestat and Claudia were made not only fearful, but sympathetic. And, no, I am not about to bash Stuart Townsend when compared to Tom Cruise - he had the ability to make it work as Lestat. I'm blaming Queen of the Damned on someone not letting Anne Rice script the film (something which made Interview so great).So, obviously, Scott Abbott and Michael Petroni chose a different path. Good for them. But it doesn't make for a good film. After reading the book I was surprised at all the strange decisions they made such as the scene in which Akasha(Aaliyah) ate the still-beating heart... when you consider that Akasha, 6000 years earlier as Queen of Kemet(Egypt), killed cannibals mercilessly, even those who consumed the flesh of their relatives religiously, its rather an unusual choice to make. Marius as Lestat's maker COULD work but it simply doesn't fit. This is the only fleeting reference to The Vampire Lestat(the book, not Lestat's band); along with the Stradivarius violin - please, if Nicki could just rise out of his vampire grave! (Performances were weak as could be. The finale was incredibly disappointing, with the absence not only of Mekare, Maharet's sister - but also LOUIS and GABRIELLE(the former of whom is never mentioned in the film, although obviously when viewing Interview he appears quite important to Lestat; the latter a character from Lestat and therefore has a reason to be excluded). And, if I remember correctly, wasn't KHAYMAN destroyed? Laughable.Apart from the fun side of things - giggling at the accents, the strange appearances of Australian television and film icons(heh... John Barton...), and the off-chance you might spot someone you actually KNOW(people from my hometown were in the 'Death Valley' scene) - Queen of the Damned makes for fairly ridiculous viewing.Anne Rice endorsed Interview with a full page advertisement. I doubt she'd give Queen of the Damned a one-liner. "},{"Title":"Horrible","Date":"25 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  If you have any interest in Ann Rice I suggest the books.  Its one thing for a book to be made into a movie, its another thing when this happens.  The acting was atrocious, directing worse, wont even bother with the screenplay.  The only thing somewhat good was the special effects, but they are the same as any episode of Buffy. Must say again, acting was the worst that I have seen since... well ever! Dont rent, dont PPV, cancel HBO when its on.  Horrible movie! "},{"Title":"Truly a shame","Date":"25 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  (Contains really minor spoilers)There are two vampire movies that I would describe as masterpieces.  The first one is Bram Stoker's Dracula, from Coppola, and the second one is The Vampire Chronicles, from Neil Jordan.  But I'd like you to pay a particular attention to the second title I mentioned...It is written by a woman named Anne Rice.Now, the point I'm trying to make is the following Knowing that Queen of The Damned is an adaptation of an Anne Rice novel, just like Vampire Chronicles was, there was some kind of...how could I say that...very high expectations around this film.  Well, let's simply say I was deceived in every way.Now, if I was such an evil and mean guy, I would compare both films based on Anne Rice's novels....but Queen of The Damned is so awful, if I compared it to a masterpiece like Vampire Chronicles, it would be like comparing Stanley Kubrick and Ed Wood...But, when I think about it, I'm not such a nice guy, and this film really deserves a bash!Where do I start, because every point of the film is a flaw?  But, I'll have to start with something, so let's go with the acting.  With a protagonist that is as spooky as a stupid eleven year-old kid with a vampire costume on Halloween night.  He really sucks.  Trying to look like a goth with his leather pants and transparent shirt...wow!  You only look like a fashion show robot!  That's the image of American goths...wannabes!  And thanks for keeping it alive, you idiot!  I just can't believe this guy and Tom Cruise are supposed to play the same role!  What a shame!  And there's Aaliyah...who plays the least sensual and scary vampire I've seen in a long time.  She also has a very limited talent in this film.  There is Vincent Perez, who has a very cheap role, and whose performance is consequently ruined.The directing has nothing impressive, it is very basic, it doesn't create any mood (now I'd like SOOOOO much to compare it to Neil Jordan's film!!!!!), and it is the most simple thing you can see, it still shows how lazy some Hollywood directors get for summer or blockbuster movies.  As much as Neil Jordan's film is moody, intense, beautiful, well shot, well acted, interesting, somptuous, and great, as much Queen of The Damned is a pure piece of scum!And, even though that may sound bizarre, there's the vampires.  You know, in movies, there are several kinds of vampires there are primitive, aggressive, black-blooded vampires (see John Carpenter's Vampires), there's classy vampires (Bram Stoker's Dracula and Vampire Chronicles), funny vampires (Fearless Vampire Killers, and the parody with Leslie Nielsen), classic vampires (Nosferatu, earlier versions of Dracula), and high-tech and criminal vampires (see Blade and Blade 2), disgusting vampires (From Dusk Till Dawn trilogy)...and, now, I'd like to add a new breed in the list, especially designed to describe the blood thirsty creatures in this movie cheap vampires!  They don't have the charm of classy vampires, they don't have the jokes of funny vampires, they don't have the make up of the disgusting vampires, they don't have the velocity and ferocity of aggressive and strong vampires....they simply got nothing!  NOTHING!Another element that some might find meaningless, but that I think is important in this kind of film, especially when everything else is bad...the gore!  NONE!!!  NONE NONE NONE!  No gore!  One brief decapitation, and that's it!  That's it!  Really deceiving.  Even the bestThe scenario is not that bad, but it is served on a plate that would completely ruin any good script.So, I know my review is pretty short, but there is not much to say about an empty film.  Again, this is today's version of vampire flicks...and it smells a lot like MTV crap.  Now, I simply imagine the director crying because he got a big R rating for his movie...I'm sure this was meant to be rated PG-13...but now Michael Rymer can go cry with his friends Paul Anderson (Another kick in the face of your Resident Evil!) and Renny Harlin (the arm being ripped out in Deep Blue Sea was too much...Renny!) who live in the desperate world of harder selling main stream scum, because of the very mean MPAA who refused to give them a PG-13 rating when they truly deserved one.  The only thing I can do is laugh at these guys...ha ha ha!Awful film...I give it 2/10. "},{"Title":"The Queen of all Vampire Films!","Date":"10 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I had never seen Interview With The Vampire the whole way through, but the snippets that I had seen of this looked cool. So when I finally got around to seeing it, I didn't really know what to expect. But by the time the movie had finished, I was very happy.The acting is great, especially from Stuart Townsend & the late Aaliyah. You can tell that if she were still alive, she would have had a successful acting career.The special effects aren't breath taking, but trhey aren't suppost to be.They are there not to add to the story, but to help the story on its way. They don't do much. But at the end scene, you thank yourself that thespecial effects team (Who were from Adelaide, Australia) did what they did.The costumes are great. You really feel in the time periods that they show.The soundtrack is pumping and fit right for a vampire film.And finally, I get to the script. The dialogue is great. Not to much speaking in Aaliyah's role. But definetly Stuart Townsend has the best dialogue & is the most talented actor in the whole film.This film is great! A must see for everyone who likes vampires, and heavy metal music.9.5/10!IF YOU LIKED THIS, YOU SHOULD SEE...* Children Of The Corn* Dawn Of The Dead* The Crow* The Shining "},{"Title":"This is a bad, bad film","Date":"11 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I'm usually not inclined to write reviews about films I don't think deserve a mention.  But, in the quest to grow as a writer and film critic, I feel it is important to express my thoughts when I DON'T like a film.  Queen of the Damned is one of those films.Anne Rice's popular horror stories of Lestat, a bisexual Vampire, first took to the screen in 1994 in the successful An Interview With A Vampire. Starring two of Hollywood's biggest heavyweights in Tom Cruise and Brad Pitt, the film's stylish aesthetic and gothic mise en scene captured the audience.  While it may have been a case of style way over substance, there was something about it that worked, despite its chessiness (I have never been that enamoured with the Vampire genre in general).Since that time Brad Pitt and Tom Cruise have gone on to much bigger things. It's likely both would have roared with laughter when asked to appear in a sequel.  They would have been laughing even harder when they saw the final outcome.  Queen of the Damned typifies the type of cr*p Hollywood is content to put out at a low cost with the hope of earning a quick buck thanks to an average soundtrack and big marketing campaign aimed at 13 to 17 year olds.Needless to say this film is terrible from the start.  Lestat, now played by Brit Stuart Townsend of Shooting Fish fame, awakens from his dark grave to the sound of... you guessed it, Nu-Metal.  He freaks out some confused punkish musicians and joins their band, under the proviso that he only appear at night, what with the sun burning his skin and all during the day...Jesse (Marguerite Moreau), a student studying the paranormal (Vampire Studies 101 perhaps?), tries to find out if Lestat really is who he says he is.  Along the way she falls for him (something to do with her odd past), but has a little competition in Queen Akasha (Aaliyah), a Vampire demon queen who is returning from the underworld to acquire Lestat as her chosen King.The film is shamefully self-indulgant, yet its campy tone leaves some room for its depreciating humour.  Anybody who sees this film for anything but a good laugh needs to see more films in general!  Watching Townsend is enjoyable.  He knows the role is utterly over the top and does his best to walk the tightrope between utter hamming and serious acting.  The late Aaliyah is, unfortunately, terrible in the title role.  She has minimal screentime, and what she does have she does not use to the fullest.  The poor makeup and special effects do not help; at times she sounds like she's talking through a voicebox.It is rumoured that this film was heading straight to video until Aaliyah's untimely death last year.  With the possibility for people to see her final film, Warner Bros put this out to a general release.  Otherwise this would have been one of those movies you see on the shelf at video shops but avoid because you can tell it is going to be simply terrible.No doubt films like this will continue to be made.  Look at the spate of teen rom-com rip offs around or the spoofing of that genre itself with films like Not Another Teen Movie.  If there is a market to exploit Hollywood will do so.The biggest issue I have with this film is not the film itself.  Hollywood is about making money, so if there is a market for this film then they will pursue it.  That's business.  But what concerns me the most is that people will actively go out to the cinema and pay money to watch it!  I guess that's the biggest argument in the world of cinema is film art first and entertainment second, or is it the other way around?  The only people who can decide that is the audience.  If you like and are intrigued by good films, stay clear of this turkey.       "},{"Title":"Where the film basically went wrong is where they tried to MAKE it in the first place!","Date":"4 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Although probably not quite as bad as it has been generally slated to be...its not far off! INTERVIEW WITH THE VAMPIRE was a mini-masterpiece although Anne Rice had earlier expressed doubts about that scrawny little dude making a mockery of her vampiric creation, the elegant Lestat! As it turned out, Cruise turned in a blinder of a role and Ms Rice conceded as much, saying she had been a tad hasty in her earlier condemnation of Tommy boy. The film was a gothic revelation, big on style and STILL the best thing Kirsten Dunst has yet come up with.This travesty however bears as much similarity to Anne Rice's Vampire Chronicles as Batman! For attention-deficient surface viewing only - PLEASE, no thinkers! An absurd compilation of plot contrivances from the two books The Vampire Lestat and Queen of the Damned, all that's left is a kick-ass rock soundtrack!  To have pre-read Anne Rice's works is a two-edged sword. Sure it will give you the sound back-up knowledge you need, to see where this tale fits-in in the grand scheme of things (It might even help fabricate an explanation of the absurdly edited and disjointed events up there on the screen). It will also show you how appalling a transition this is from the printed word to the K-Mart script!Its not Aaliyah's fault. Her untimely death may well even generate an interest in the flick that otherwise would not be there. She has little to do anyway but a vague GOLDFINGER impersonation and to glare people to death, notably on a beach when she dispatches several hundred in one hit. Other than that she merely gives her metal bra a workout and shimmies now and then for the benefit of every young male in the audience.The film has no soul (perhaps in acknowledgement of the vampires themselves), no real cohesion and absolutely no intelligence. A major disappointment.Anne Rice is alleged to have had creative differences with the production team. If I were her I'd be thinking of suing, on grounds of defamation or creative negligence!  'Nuf said! "},{"Title":"5/10 well it could be worse...","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The nicest thing I can say about this film is this it's surprisingly not awful.  It's not particuarly good, but there is 'some' entertainment to be found here.  The film is visually attractive, the film has a lovely shine to it, and Aaliyah manages to make the majority of her scenes work.It's too bad this horror film doesn't have much horror in it.  Goths might like the film, others wait till video if you must.  Lousy action; no thrills; bad acting.  Pretty though. "},{"Title":"Gay!","Date":"12 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie was pretty good, but, the characters didn't match the descriptions, and neither did the settings. Akasha and Enkil are portrayed as pale. I am reading The Vampire Lestat at the moment because the Queen of the Damned book seemed too far into the story for me to understand the full meanings of what is going on. But every thing is different from the movie and I feel that the name of the movie does not suit the movie. It only suited half of the movie. Because for the most part, it is of The Vampire Lestat. The tub scenes are really hot, but I don't know if they are really of importance to the story. I guess, all in all, it was a hella tight movie and I love the music. "},{"Title":"Entertaining but disappointing.","Date":"15 December 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Was this even about the book? If they had been more true to the story than too the public it would have been great. Where's Luis and Gabrielle? Marius did not make Lestat and Lestat did not make Jesse. They could have at least gotten that right. It just shows how easily a great story can be chopped up by Hollywood. Interview With A Vampire was closer to the truth than this. Although the casting of Lestat was much better in this than IWAV. Staurt Townsend is much more believable than Tom Cruise. Not that Tom wasn't good in IWAV but I always felt someone else would have played him better. Antonio Banderas was a bit old to betray Armand in IWAV, but this one dosen't do him justice either. Nevertheless I own this movie mainly because its entertaining and was Aaliya's last film. No one could have been a better Akasha thats for sure. "},{"Title":"Awful.  Just awful","Date":"12 July 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  **SPOILERS**Does Stuart Townsend have no shame?  I quite liked him in Shooting Fish, playing a cheeky chappie.  The next film I saw him in was League of Extraordinary Gentlemen.  And not content with mincing his way through that, he does the same in Queen of the Damned.  Admittedly, the poor guy is having a hard time of it at the moment, given that he will forever be 'the man that was sent home from LOTR - the greatest film of our time'.  Although that may be some of karmic force repaying him for his performance in Queen of the Damned.In his defence, Townsend is fighting a losing battle.  The script appears to have been written by someone who read the book 10 years ago and is trying to write a script based on what they can remember.  'There was  really cool character called Mael, who was a Druid, but I can't remember who he was or what he did . . . never mind, I'll put him in anyway.'  Townsend also has the disadvantage of having to follow Cruise's sterling performance in Interview with the Vampire.  He's obviously trying to go down a completely different route and make the character his own - unfortunately, he doesn't quite get there.  He looks the part of a vampire goth rock star, but that's as far as it goes.  Aaliyah was a magnificent Aakasha - however the script seemed to demand little more from her than the ability to wear a very sexy costume and hiss a lot - although her tragic death may have meant that lots of wonderfully written exposition could not be filmed.  Yeah, right.As a sexy vampire horror movie, Queen of the Damned is okay.  As an adaptation of hugely passionate novel it fails in so many ways.  The characters have been butchered, the stories and histories irreparably damaged.  It's only saving grace is it's soundtrack. "}{"Title":"Legendarily bad","Date":"6 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I liked Interview With The Vampire. A film like that can so easily go wrong, but Pitt, Cruise and Neil Jordan steered it through a minefield and produced an interesting interpretation of long-lived loneliness. Its sequel Queen of the Damned, on the other hand, is a dreadful mess. Where to start?The acting uniformly appalling. Aaliyah was almost fun to watch being so over the top, but there was no mystery or fear. She wasn't alluring or scary, as you'd expect from such a character... she was just ridiculous. Townsend as Lestat was limp and dull. The accents Akasha is Egyptian -- so why does she have an East European accent? Cheesy dialogue, ludicrous plot-holes and poor special effects all contribute to a comic book-style superhero/supervillian battle between vampires.It is dreadful. They should've played it for laughs.... it might have worked. They didn't even have the good sense to throw in lots of eroticism (which I would've thought is an essential part of any vampire story), or even just lashings of gratuitous nudity to save it. "},{"Title":"Gothic Bloodfest Lacking in Plot (Spoilers)","Date":"20 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Queen of the Damned is a bitter-sweet ending to Aaliyah's career.  She shows potential and, along with Stuart Townsend, is the best thing about this movie.  However, neither of the two principal actors are given enough to work with, and the movie comes off as messy and confusing.The movie begins with a narration by Lestat, who awakes after many years asleep in a cemetery, and begins his life as a punk rocker.  He becomes an international sensation, much to the chagrin of the Ancients, a kind of pantheon of very old vampires.  It seems that by revealing himself, Lestat has broken the ancient vampire code of secrecy.  Lestat, however, is ambitious, as well as lonely.  His biggest regret as a vampire is that he cannot know mortals (particularly women) without killing them.  However, he definitely has a dark side, and does sometimes enjoy killing.We are introduced to Marius, the Ancient who made Lestat a vampire.  For reasons that somewhat elude me, Marius keeps Akasha and her consort preserved in his basement.  Akasha is only asleep and is awaken when she hears Lestat playing the violin.  Akasha is apparently the mother of all vampires, and incredibly evil (even by vampire standards).  A former Egyptian queen, she slithers seductively around Los Angeles (or was it London?-locations change with little notice) destroying vampires at her whim.  Into this mix of interesting characters comes Jesse, whose identity is not really explained.  Apparently she is the only mortal in a family of vampires.  She works for an organization which apparently hunts vampires, but quickly decides she wants to become one when she meets Lestat.  And who can blame her---Stuart Townsend plays Lestat with seductive perfection.  Unfortunately, his talents are not put to good use, and he becomes little more than eye candy.  We spend much too much time with the love-struck Jesse, and not enough time developing Lestat and Akasha's story.  I for one would liked to have seen Lestat and Akasha's background stories as well as have seen their relationship better developed.  In the end, the Ancients and Lestat turn of Akasha and destroy her.  According to them, they do it to preserve their mortal heritage (one of the Ancients is related to Jesse), although Marius seems to take as much pleasure in killing mortals as Akasha, so I am not sure what the Ancients really intend on preserving.On a positive note, the costumes and music are great.  I am not a big Gothic or punk rock fan, but I liked the tone that the movie took. Furthermore, although the world of vampires is filled with blood and violence, the movie does not go overboard in this regard.Fans of Interview with the Vampire will probably want to see this movie to learn a little bit about where Lestat came from and who made him. "},{"Title":"Disaster!!!","Date":"23 March 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I must say that this movie shouldn't even been released. Trash in the words true meaning. I saw Interview with the vampire some years ago. I thought it was a great movie. Then I heard of the books written by Anne Rice. But it was not until I had seen Queen of the damned I really took interest in the whole vampire chronicle thing. I felt so confused after seeing Qotd. And even more after have read Anne Rices books. The story in Qotd doesn't seem to have anything incommon with the real story, that's very disturbing. Interview with the vampire held itself within the frames of the storyline of the book it was based on. Like Qotd mixes two books in the chronicle series, skipped parts for example who made Lestat a vampire etc. I looked trough some comments before writing my own. I can't believe why people have to defend Aliyas (spelling?) performance. OK she is dead, but hell!! Does her life's work become a splendid masterpiece because of that? Her acting in the movie sucks. So does everything else in the movie. Not even descent effects. Like the scene were she walks out of the burning nightclub. Damn good job, NOT!!I could go on about how awful movie this is. It should not have seen the day of light (haha).  "},{"Title":"I loved it","Date":"14 March 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  First thing is first, all I hear from people is that Aaliyah wasn't in it enough, well you have to remember that she died during the making of it, so there could be parts that they couldn't do cause she wasn't there. I love the movie my self. I thought Aaliyah was great and so was Stuart Townsend,(he is a awesome actor). I loved everything about this movie.All you people who didn't like and didn't get the plot,well then you need to watch it again,cause the plot was easy to follow, and the movie was great "},{"Title":"Seductive & without the usual gore of vampire flicks.","Date":"6 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This has been one of the best vampire movies that I have seen in a long time.  It was very seductive and alluring, I liked that it did not have the usual gore and carnage that comes along with most vampire movies.  The music was excellent.  It would be great if there was a sequel.  "},{"Title":"dont be so hard on the movie!","Date":"14 September 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  ok the first thing i have to say is, yes, ive read ALL of the Vampire Chronicles, and Queen of the Damned is by FAR my favorite of them all. that DOESNT mean that i hate this movie though!! it's true that when i saw it in theaters i was VERY p***ed in the beginning of the movie.  i thought this is so wrong so many times.  but then i just said to myself u know what, pretend u never even read the book. and it became an AWESOME movie. true, the story is completely different from the one in the book, but who cares? its a good story in its own right, just think of it separately from the book.my one BIG complaint is that they took out the story of the Twins.  that is one of the reasons QOTD is my favorite book.  However, I do understand how much time that would have taken, and how much time they already had to devote to Lestat's past.  I also COMPLETELY understand why they made Marius out to be Lestat's maker, instead of Magnus...come on u guys, Mangus would have been in the movie for about TWO minutes! y add another character to confuse ppl who havent read the book when he would just be there for a couple of minutes. another thing i really hated was the whole de-emphasizing of the Ancients.  I LOVE the Ancients, and i was so sad that they weren't in the movie at all.  Along with Louis and Gabrielle, who are a big part of the novel.  Like someone else said, they shouldn't have done that, because it created a lot of confusion. I had NO idea who Armand was! i thought he might be Eric or Mael, one of Maharet's friends in the novel.  When i found out he was Armand i was like what?!  they needed to introduce the Ancients better. All of the sudden, they just show up at the concert with Maharet.  Those are really my only complaints.All in all, its an AWESOME movie.  most vampire movies end up being completely campy and stupid, and this movie DEFINITELY is NOT one of those. It portrays vampires, and Anne Rice's vampires especially, in a way no other movie has. Lovers or haters of this movie have to admit that. I give it a 9/10, as long as the book is not taken into account.  "},{"Title":"queen of the crap","Date":"14 September 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I'm glad someone out there can enjoy this film because I truly didn't. I wouldnt' have minded had they blurred some things out of the books, but they wrote a terrible screenplay. And anyone who likes Aalyiah should be heavily offended. She's seen as nothing more than a sex object in the movie, and I think she could have done much better things with her talent. They sold her beautiful looks and captilized on her death. For those who hated the obvious backlash that the Anne fans gave, it's only to be expected. Look at how pleased everyone was with Lord of the Rings, a well adapted movie, and then look at this. They have every right to be sick. Anne Rice books are intelligent, combining all cultures.I'm sorry that some people who were told they were racist because in the books, the queen is white. One of her titles in the book was The White Queen. No one was being racist in that. Read the book. Vampirism is a northern european concept. It was nothing like the books-even though I could have looked past that had it been smart, intelligent...something. It was not. It wasn't even funny. And I don't blame any fan who cried or laughed in the audience. I don't blame anyone who liked it. But it could have been so much better that it was. And what it was, was crap.  "},{"Title":"Suck it up, baby!","Date":"2 September 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Well, I start by saying it's nowhere near the book.  But then again  most movies aren't.  It's also not as good as Anne Rice's first goulish masterpiece, Interview with a Vampire. This time around Lestat is played by Stuart Townsend, who, with some serious help of the make-up department, makes a  believable vampire.  As a rock star Townsend's Lestat exudes a nonchalant Gen-X attitude while giving in to his vampire urges once feeding time draws close. The late Aaliyah is marvelous as the queen of all vampires.  With her bronzed body and undulating movements the R&B singer is sexy yet lethal, vulnerable yet strong. The story is good (as are all of Anne Rice's), but the flashback scenes don't translate too well on-screen.  However, the present tense action is fast paced and suspenseful. People who enjoy vampires will like this movie. Followers of Anne Rice's work won't be disappointed either.  And Aaliyah fans will certainly have a great time watching the late singer's definite talent. For those of you not too fond of pale bloodsuckers or a modern day vampire setting, forget it.  If you're looking for an action movie, skip this one. But if you *do* watch it, I recommend lighting candles and sipping red wine along with the movie.  It kind of makes you feel like one of them. "},{"Title":"Entertaining and captivating.  Period.","Date":"4 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I thought that this was a wonderful film.  Mainly, it was entertaining, and it was high energy.  The actors also did a good job of staying in charactor as well as developing their character through out the film.  It could have been better and lost some of the special effects, but all movies could have done at least a few things better.  I haven't read any Anne Rice books yet, but I intend to.  I firmly believe that, even if I had read the book first, I would have still liked the movie.  The reason for this is that it is hard, what with time constraints and such, to make a movie of a book.  It is harder yet to reflect each individual's images and thoughts of the book. It is also good to keep in mind that Interview with the Vampire was made a long time before this.  Thus it is not fair to compare it to this film.  They are two separate films with two separate themes.All in all, this film was entrancing and fresh.    "},{"Title":"Queen of the Damned is alternately an aggressive film and then tame, but it never finds equilibrium.","Date":"24 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The soundtrack is blaring with punk rock through the entire movie, during some of its music-free moments there is filler sounds of screaming and thunder that seem to be coming from hell and beyond. What is ultimately the most notable is deciding whether the special effects or the dialogue is cheesier in this B-grade vampire movie.  Allegedly based on Anne Rice's The Vampire's Chronicles, the movie certainly raises the question on whether director Michael Rymer has ever read the source material. There is some kind of plot here, but the reckless visual style never is able to distinguish anything of storytelling clarity, especially in the final third of the movie. Stuart Townsend plays the multi-centuries old vampire Lestat (there's a reason why Tom Cruise didn't come back), whom in the present day has become a punk rocker in effort to capture a legion of fans. This movie however is showcasing it as the feature film debut of the 22-year old singer Aaliyah, who died tragically earlier this year.  By the way, it's not her feature debut, it's not even her first `starring' role either; Romeo Must Die has those honors. Some of her fans will be disappointed that she doesn't arrive with her first speaking scene until the first hour into the movie.There is an adrenaline of excitement when Aaliyah does make her arrival which sends the screen blazing. As the 6,000-year old vampire Akaska, the late singer has an electrifying introduction, but it is too bad however that the movie's thrills are few and far between. Townsend has a few amusing scenes where he invites a couple of groupies into his private sanctuary. The groupies are hot for this punk rocker, but Lestat is hot for their blood which is fortunate because some of the nastiness does generate some chuckles. Blood is a welcome palette of color in this movie because it is photographed in dreary, dark gray-blue tones. The scenery is often very bland, and so after awhile it becomes easy to welcome bad dialogue in order to spark some kind of amusement. Cheesy sample dialogue `There's nothing left but the cold, dark wasteland of eternity,' Lestat bemuses, bored with his immortality. He thankfully has a publicist and fanfare that will encourage him with compliments like, `You're bold like your music!' A vampire scholar played by Marguerite Moreau (in need of some of Mariah Carey's acting tips) tracks down Lestat in order to learn from him, and then becomes seduced by his black charms. Unsurprisingly, there is little interest between them.The real heat in the film exists between Lestat and Akaska, whom together momentarily resuscitate a movie in danger of flat-lining. The scenes between them, especially the ones that involve them drinking from each other's blood, are morbid but teasingly erotic. Also in this movie exists scenes of underground night clubs that patronize the vampire culture, and surprise, they are all into grunge rock. What is worse however is that much of the movie's sensationalistic scenes are filmed and edited like a bad grunge rock music video. Also, once you get past the thin and unrealized potential of the plot, there isn't much left here that will make you give a damn. "}{"Title":"You haven't seen a vampire movie quite like this one","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  In the many years that I have been an avid movie fan I have always pictured the Vampire genre to be something, which frightened small children and made girlfriends or aspirant ones at that hang on to their menfolk in the cinema or on the couch. That was the notion I enternained until I saw Queen of the Damned.The idea of painting a picture of a modern day vampire is to me inspired genius and may recreate the way the world looks at this genre in the future. The backdrop of the gothic/heavy metal music industry brings an extra facet into this movie and in a way modernises the whole way I look at these blood guzzling brutes.A convincing performance by many of the cast members adds to the alure of the film and hopefully (although not being a huge fan of gothic music myself), will lead to this style of music coming to the fore in future soundtracks of this sort. I would encourage all moviegoers to give this one a watch, if not for the storyline then certainly for the moving and inspiring musical content, and the thought provoking backtones to this film. "},{"Title":"B-movie with delusions of grandeur. But what grandeur!!","Date":"10 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" QUEEN OF THE DAMNED Aspect ratio 2.391 (Panavision)Sound formats Dolby Digital / DTS / SDDSAt the end of the 20th century, the vampire Lestat (Stuart Townsend) rises from his undead slumber and adopts the guise of a rock star, which draws the attention of a beautiful vampiress (Aaliyah) who wants to conquer the world...Forsaking the introspective melancholy of its highbrow predecessor (INTERVIEW WITH THE VAMPIRE THE VAMPIRE CHRONICLES), this ill-conceived sequel plays like a Gothic MTV fantasy with delusions of grandeur. But what grandeur! Combining elements from two of Anne Rice's celebrated 'Vampire Chronicles' ('The Vampire Lestat' and 'Queen of the Damned'), the narrative is anchored by Townsend's ultra-sexy turn as anti-hero Lestat. Flamboyant without ever seeming camp, he strikes a more dynamic figure than Tom Cruise's foppish blade in the previous film, and it's all too appropriate that he should locate himself within the modern music industry, with its outlandish characters and overzealous visual style (several of Lestat's music videos - inspired by German expressionist cinema of the 1920's - are convincing down to the last detail). However, while most of the songs - co-written by Richard Gibbs and KoRn vocalist Jonathan Davis - encapsulate the spirit of Lestat's heartbroken worldview, their aggressive fatalism will alienate some viewers and date the movie pretty quickly.As in the original, director Michael Rymer (IN TOO DEEP) downplays the homoerotic undercurrent which forms a significant aspect of Rice's literary style. Nevertheless, the script - written by Scott Abbott (INTRODUCING DOROTHY DANDRIDGE) and Michael Petroni (THE DANGEROUS LIVES OF ALTAR BOYS) - actively celebrates the 'outsider' lifestyle (vampires, Goths, rock fans, members of secret societies, etc.) and tips a knowing wink to the initiated when Lestat exhorts his fellow vampires to Come out, come out, wherever you are! Aaliyah makes the most of her extended cameo as the Queen of the Damned - she even manages to steal some of Townsend's erotic thunder! - and her final sequence includes one of the most visually stunning vampire disintegrations ever captured on film. Sadly, the singer-actress died in a plane crash shortly after completion of principal photography. Also starring Vincent Perez (THE CROW CITY OF ANGELS) and Lena Olin (ROMEO IS BLEEDING) in secondary roles. "},{"Title":"Nowhere near as good as the books","Date":"24 June 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  For those of you who have not read the chronicles, you might like this film.I on the other hand have read them and this movie does not even begin to follow the plot of the books. First of all, Lestat was not made a vampire by Marius, he was made one by a vampire called Magnus. Second of all, Jessi was not made a vampire by Lestat. She was made by Maharet. Not to mention the fact that Jessi hardly knew Lestat. Also even though they had to do this so viewers would understand the movie they incorporated a lot of storyline from The Vampire Lestat into the movie. I would have to say that it would have been better if the plot had actually followed the books and had been broken up into two movies kind of like Lord of the ring trilogy was. All in all though I would give this movie 5 stars.  "},{"Title":"Yes, it has flaws...but on the whole, I found Queen of the Damned an enjoyable vamp-camp flick.","Date":"1 January 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  QUEEN OF THE DAMNED (2002)THE GOOD--Aaliyah's performance in the film is one worth mentioning. She is very credible as Akasha. I loved her movements and speech, her facial expressions, her body language&#133;they all brought across the character very well. It makes her death all the more sad, knowing that Hollywood could've had a terrific actress on their hands had she not been in that tragic plane accident.--This film won't disappoint horror gurus. I totally dug the beheading, the heart ripped out (juicy goodness!) and truckloads of blood all over the show.--The exchange between Jesse and Lestat during the scene at the park where she asked to be turned into a vampire was very well written and somewhat moving. It regained some of the material worked on in Interview with the Vampire The Vampire Chronicles with the pros and cons of being a vampire expanded on.--Queen of the Damned was not made to be the next Psycho - it was made for younger audiences to enjoy a good, chilling time out at the movies. In general, this flick entertained me. I was interested in the story and found it very entertaining and fun. The movie has flaws, but if you're a fairly laid-back viewer looking for some fun, you just might like Queen of the Damned.THE BAD--Interview with the Vampire The Vampire Chronicles taught us about Lestat, so shouldn't Queen of the Damned teach us about Akasha? We learnt all about Lestat in the predecessor to this film, and all we learn about Akasha during this instalment is that she's one fine vampire who's pretty damn gruesome. You don't always have to have the actor acting to learn about the character - interesting conversations, perhaps even flashbacks could've told us more about this gorgeous vampire queen. Her character suffered because of it.--The romance story between Lestat and Akasha is steamy but nothing more. It is lazily thrown into the film with little chemistry or development.--The ending sucks! It just looked ridiculous with all the vampires flying around eating Akasha. Ugh. Perhaps this wasn't what the screenwriter and director had planned but Aaliyah's untimely death may've had to cause changes in the script.--The rock concert sequence was pretty neat, but it was annoying that the humans had no reaction whatsoever to seeing vampires flying around fighting on-stage. Wouldn't you like&#133;run and try to get the hell out of there?RATING7/10 - Though with numerous flaws, I still found this movie to be solid entertainment. Think of it as a rock music video&#133;extremely loud, slick looking, flashy, cheesy, silly, yet just so much fun you can't help but sing along.IF YOU LIKED THIS MOVIE I RECOMMENDBlade (7/10) Blade 2 (8/10) Interview with the Vampire The Vampire Chronicles (9/10) Resident Evil (8/10) Urban Legends Final Cut (2/10) "},{"Title":"If you loved the book... I advise you not to see this movie...","Date":"16 October 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** When I first saw this movie in the theaters, pre reading the or any of Anne Rice's books though I had seen and loved Interview with the Vampire, I adored it. I mean, you've got a hottie like Stuart Townsend (Lestat), you've got ancient vampires, and you've got the wonderfully evil and fairly attractive Akasha (Aaliyah).Nice deal, right?No, not if you know the book as well as I do now.If you want to be really picky, you could point out how Lestat is supposed to have blonde hair and blue eyes, or that Marius was not his maker. Yeah, those are some bad things. But what really got me was some of the actors in general. When looking closer from Tom Cruise Lestat in Interview to Townsend, you've got to admit, though Townsend is nice eye candy, Cruise pulls off the role so much better. As a past reviewer said, when it comes to love scenes, or scenes with Moreau Jesse in general. All ancient vampires, with the exception of Aaliyah Akasha herself, and possibly Claudia Black Pandora, are terrible actors. Vincent Perez plays Marius, supposebly Lestat's maker, though in the book this was the Vampire Magnus. Perez wouldn't be so bad if he wouldn't try and act SO MUCH like a vampire that his very voice is annoying. The very character of Marius, who in the books I absolutely loved, is terrible. It's so... out of character for him to do and act the way he does in this film. I suppose Lena Olin Maharet isn't too bad, but her character was also put way out of proportion, excluding a big part of her story-line. The other ancients, Armand, Mael, and Khayman? Terrible. No skills whatsoever. Matthew Newton's portrayal of Armand makes me want to beg and scream for Antonio Banderas to reprise his role from Interview.*sigh* So many things wrong with this film. To think, Rice actually approved. Was she drugged? Drunk? Bribed? Possibly. The soundtrack is good, Moreau isn't actually so bad, though Jesse's character was also twisted and turned far too much. The Lestat falling in love with Jesse storyline wasn't too bad, but it's completely wrong if you've read the books. And where were dear Louis and Gabrielle? One does wonder. It also p***es me off that Pandora was killed, which never happened in the book. And don't get me started on how Akasha was messed with...Perhaps I am too critical. It's been said. The SpecialFX really were amazing, Aaliyah was brilliant, but... it ended to quickly. It ended WRONG. The book is a god, this is a devil.In conclusion, unless you've never read the books, I suggest you keep away from this movie. Even if not, be wary. "},{"Title":"Vampire Packed, action packed everything!","Date":"10 May 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Queen of the damned was just as fantastic as interview with a vampire both brilliant films!thanx to Anne Rice! Once again we meet the dramatic characters and learn more about them! I adored this movie and the last one and most likely the others from the chronicles she hopefully might consider doin as films!!!! "},{"Title":"A treat for Rice fans, for everyone else...a chance to ruminate on how low Hollywood can sink to.","Date":"16 April 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie should satisfy the thirsts of all Rice fans who have been waiting for a sequel to Interview... It is not the book per se but rather a mixture of Vampire Lestat and Queen of the Damned. Also, not as stylishly shot as Interview,but still to any fan of the Vampire Chronicles, the movie is so much more intimate and personal. I gave this a ten just because it was made and because It felt wonderful to see Lestat on screen again, not because this movie is one of the best I have seen. And I think it deserves a lot more credit than people have given it, true, the accents are annoying but, whatever... it's still cool, plus the music rather kicks ass. So to all Rice fans and hard rockers, don't miss this one. And Stuart Townsend does a better Lestat than Cruise, much more vampirish and with more charm.  "},{"Title":"Punk meets the Gothfather.","Date":"2 December 2006","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Classic vampire myth meets the MTV generation in the Michael Rymer movie version of the Anne Rice novels. This passed Gothic tale now becomes the modern punk for today's generation, that brings Lestat de Lioncourt (Stuart Townsend) from his slumber and bored with his existence has now become this generations new Rock God. While in the course of time, another has arisen, Akasha (Aaliyah, 1979 - 2001), the Queen of the Vampires, the Queen of the Dammed.The action here is on par with the great cinematography of landscapes and of both classic and modern buildings, mixed together with the right colours and shade have given a feeling of classic menace meets new age horror. With its hard rock soundtrack have produced a vampire movie that is both individual and surprisingly well made. The sets are truly magnificent along with the work of Ian Baker, having worked on The Devil's Playground (1976), Plenty (1985), The Punisher (1989) and Six Degrees of Separation (1993). Visually stunning and with great edits from Dany Cooper that quicken both pace and blight even the darkest of any vampires sleepy wake.With a minor but important role from British actor Paul McGann, there is a cast here, and background staff, that holds this together with charisma and professionalism. The Queen of the Damned is worthy of reprisal, dig your teeth in and take a bite, this will fill your appetite. "},{"Title":"Great Vampire Movie...I Loved It","Date":"14 July 2005","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I loved this movie. Not only is Aaliyah's performance as Akasha absolutely amazing, but Stuart Townsend is HOT as Lestat. Although they didn't follow the storyline of the book, they did the best they could considering the circumstances of Aaliyah's death would not allow further scenes with Akasha. Vampires are portrayed in this movie with a human sensitivity as seen in Lestat with the violin and his care for Jesse. Again I say that I loved this movie and watch it over and over again. The music is also amazing and I bought the soundtrack after I saw the movie. Vampire attuned songs and great melodies that accommodate the mood of the movie itself. All in all, I love vampires and I loved this movie about them. "},{"Title":"Brilliant!","Date":"18 May 2005","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I prepared myself for this movie in case I got confused by attempting to read the book - but at seeing the length of the book, I quickly thought it better watching Interview With A Vampire - but it seems I didn't need to, because Queen Of The Damned was so captivating in itself, all other movies could be forgotten.Being honest, I watched it and bought it because of Aaliyah, but I loved her, and every other person in the movie. It's also turned me into a Marguerite Moreau fan, because she was excellent in it as well.It has been criticised by saying it doesn't stay true to the book - but I challenge anyone to try and fit the entire length of the book into one movie, without needing to miss parts of it out.The only thing I didn't like and that I wished I was warned about was the bit with Akasha first in the club - I'm not giving anything away, but it made me feel pretty ill.A perfect movie to watch with friends late at night. "}{"Title":"Innovative new horror style","Date":"23 March 2003","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Having always enjoyed the writings of Anne Rice, the movie was visually entertaining. Stimulation of the eyes and ears with a horror base is the only way to describe this well orchestrated movie. I liked the way introduction of the characters were presented and defined. I also have to admit that I love the story behind the vampire myth.  "},{"Title":"WoW!","Date":"5 November 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Wow! Stuart Townsend as Lestat Vampire rocker! Wow! The music matched to each scene in the movie. Wow! The actors, their makeup, wardrobe, the script they worked with, the lighting, the effects, the everything. Everybody played their roles so well.  Even the brief scene with the ticket scalper. Wow!  Even though this movie contradicts itself throughout and if you are fan of Anne Rice's Lestat and her books going there you could probably find mistakes throughout this flick.  I mean I even noticed small non important things such as nail polish there on minute gone the next in the same scene, but hey I've watched this film like 113 times now.)  So who wouldn't notice little stuff like that? If you watch the movie for fun, don't take it seriously, it is fantastic.  The music, the story, and every actress and actor plays her part so well that I can't take my eyes off this film.  What can I say? Wow!!!!!!!!!!!!  And the Lestat character in this movie; his accent, his ways, his cocky attitude.  What a trip.  Wow! "},{"Title":"A good film!","Date":"21 November 2005","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" i really enjoyed watching queen of the damed it is a really great film which transcends its less than perfect special effects. this is one of my very favourite vampire movies. The story ,written by Anne rice, is truly brilliant in its new and interesting take on the vampire genre. This is one of those films which every goth who has ever seen it loves it because of the Gothic darkness of the story and characters. i love the dark humour that runs though out the film and the brilliant music that sets the mood and makes that rock goth feeling complete.queen of the damed out does its predecessor interview with a vampire in every way and really brings the world created in Anne rice's books come to life. If you love that sort of Gothic dark feel then you'll love this film. "},{"Title":"I thought it was fantastic.","Date":"18 May 2004","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I think that the movie was fantastic. They had terrific effects, like when the vampire sped up when they were running and flying, then the flying, and when the go up in fire, and when Akasha (Aaliyah) took that guys heart out... And I thought the acting was terrific. Really sad to watch Aaliyah in her last film for the fans, but all of her fans are proud of her, I'm sure... My opinion, it was the best movie I've ever seen, and my favorite. I am sure that their are some people that thought that the special f/x sucked and that they could have done better, and some people that didn't like the acting or the actors and are big tom cruise fans that thought he should have been in it, but get over it. And some people that liked some of the stuff, but not enough to vote good numbers for it....  "},{"Title":"Good movie, bad adaptation","Date":"29 November 2003","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I am a huge fan of Anne Rice, and particularly Queen of the Damned so I really looked forward to this movie. I left with mixed feelings about it. On one hand, the movie was a terrible adaptation of the book with more plot coming from The Vampire Lestat than Queen and most of those were distorted or completely changed. However, I really did like the movie. I LOVED Stuart Townsend as Lestat! I think he captured the brat prince so much better than Tom Cruise. Just the right mix of arrogance and vulnerability. Not so great was Aaliyah's Queen. Sorry, but I think she was WAY over the top and her accent was really annoying.I do wish that the twins story of the book had been covered. I thought it was the best thing about the book. Since there is no mention in the movie, it is hard to figure out the plot. It leaves too many holes.Overall, I enjoyed the movie for what it was and I will probably buy it if only for Stuart Townsend's performance. "},{"Title":"Don't believe all the negative comments","Date":"17 July 2003","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I first saw this movie when it came out in the theatres and liked it well enough although I had just read the books so the differences were on my mind. Well, it has been a couple of years and I couldn't really remember all the details of the books so I watched the movie again. And again, and again and well, I'm still watching it. I LOVE this movie. Yes, I love the books and I have just reread all of them, but I still think this movie is great. Stuart Townsend really captures the attitude and essence of Lestat. I don't care that he doesn't exactly match the description in the book. He is beautiful. Yes, they left out a lot of parts of the books and if you watch the commentary on the dvd the director actually talks a lot about the differences and why they made the choices they did. I really think they did an excellent job with this movie. My second favorite character is Marius (yes, even though he doesn't match his description in the book and even if he truly was not Lestat's  maker.) I've read all the negative comments and I just do not agree. I love the books but I love this  movie for what it is. My favorite parts of the movie are the ones with Lestat and Jesse and they weren't even in the books!!!! but I don't care. They are some of the most seductive and witty parts of the movie. Hats off to the writers and director. If you can just take the movie for what it is and not worry about how it differs from the books, then you should check it out. I think you will enjoy it. I sure do. "},{"Title":"The worst book to movie script EVER!!!","Date":"18 September 2002","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie used Anne Rice's name for the express reason of sucking fans of the book in to go see this pathetic movie. This is the worst adaptation of a book to a movie that I have ever seen and I will be thankful never to watch it again. Why they even bothered to use the names of Anne Rice's vampires at all is beyond me. A blonde Armand (I had to read the credits to see who that vampire was). Pandora and Mael bursting into flame, are you serious?  The movie was so far from the book that they should have named it something else like. Vampire Woman Arises for all of 10 minutes.I tried to watch it as a stand alone movie but Stuart Townsend was the most unconvincing vampire I have seen on screen, he didn't look like the uncaring, emotionally void Lestat at all he looked like he couldn't wait for his scenes to be over and his voice for the character was worse than his acting.OMG, they turned it into a LOVE story. How pathetic trying to appeal to a teenage romance audience. The biggest farce after watching this on a borrowed friends DVD was listening to the comments of the directors/cast/whoever,  trying to justify why there were so many changes (I borrowed it to specifically to listen what the director had to say for himself).There just wasn't enough time to show this or that, was the biggest excuse. They dumped the TWINS!!! Why bother to do it at all if the story is completely different?I know I won't be wasting anytime going to see another Michael Rymer movie after this debacle. "},{"Title":"I love the movie!","Date":"26 May 2006","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I thought Queen of the Damned was one of the best movies I have ever seen. Not only did it cater to my vampire interests I got my Stuart Townsend fix as well. The music is spectacular & I love Lestat! The plot line was a little all over the place but if you've read the Vampire Chronicles it should be fairly easy to follow. Personally I thought the special effects suited the film. The make-up and costume of the various vampires in the movie were outstanding and really makes you believe that there could be vampires out there. Once again, the music is amazing, Jonathan Davis is a genius! Stuart performed so well in the concert scenes making it very realistic and I could almost feel like I was there watching. All the supporting actors did a wonderful job and I think Marguerite Moreau is a great Jesse. Aaliyah makes for an intriguing and beautiful Akasha, as well as Marius & Maharet being played exceptionally. I could just think about Lestat all day...... "},{"Title":"It's no Interview, but still a good vampire flick","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I honestly did like Queen of the Damned, despite it going on more of a MTV twist and not being faithful to the novels, come on. It was just a good movie for horror fans. I felt that it had good ideas and worked pretty well. With some new coming actors and a sexy performance of Aaliyah, the film really couldn't go wrong.We have a new Lestat, Stewart Townsend, who is just now starting to be more noticed from his last film with Kate Hudsen About Adam. A lot of people were disappointed that Tom Cruise did not reprise his role, but to be honest as much as Tom did a great job, he couldn't have fit this time into the Rock -N- Roll Lestat. Stewart captured that sexiness and that sleek look of cockiness that was just perfect. All though yes, I didn't really like the romantic side the director took on him, he's still one of our favorite vampires.Aaliyah, no, she didn't have the look of Akasha, Queen of all that is damned. But she did a good job and was so incredibly beautiful. Her tragic death had just happened before they released Queen of the Damend into theaters, RIP! This movie captured her beauty and talent very well. She was so sleek and just sexy during her dancing scene in the pub with the other vamps before her massacre.There was one very bothersome actress, the one who played Jesse. She did so badly! Her lines, were, she just... gah! She was horrible, you'll have to trust me on that. Otherwise, I think you'll enjoy it, please! Don't compare the book, I like to say to people that if you want the book, read the book. This is a movie and it's not always going to be faithful, it just wanted a hipper look for a younger audience. Yes, of course the books are better, but if you're just looking for a fun horror flick, I'd recommend.8/10 "},{"Title":"beautiful","Date":"17 September 2002","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I had 3 hours to kill so I went to the nearest movie theatre and saw this movie.  i was blown away by the beautiful (music video-like) artistry. I really hate scary movies, but this was focused more on the actual characters, rather then effects.  the story played out like poetry, taking emotions of love, hate, and hope, and peace, to a whole new level, with characters that pull you in to their world.   "}{"Title":"Beautiful, loved it","Date":"30 August 2002","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I disagree with most people's opinions about this movie who try to knock it as bad.  I love(d) it!  I am mesmerized by it every time I watch it.  I find it to be one of the most beautiful movies I've seen besides Forrest Gump and Pearl Harbor.So what if it has a lot of special effects and isn't based totally on the books.  The effects are wonderful, and it's hard to tell that there effects except for the fact that you know they have to be.  As for being based totally on the books, that would have taken forever and they did a good job with what they had.  The cast and soundtrack were great as well, I'd like to see more from the cast.Bottom line... Don't hate things because they're beautiful.  "},{"Title":"pretty interesting","Date":"28 July 2002","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  It has very little to do with the books half of the characters have been eliminated, the plot has been greatly altered, people's parents are changed for different characters . . .However, if you watch it as an independent piece (try and forget you ever read the books) the movie is very well put together, everyone is very good looking, and there is even a sweet ending... "},{"Title":"More like Lestat","Date":"3 July 2005","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I read all the books after seeing Interview with a Vampire and still to this day go on tangents about how poorly they cast Lestat in that film. I was a little scared of seeing this because of that but my fears went away after one look at Stuart Townsend. This man was born to play a vampire and played Lestat like he knew him intimately. I put aside the small differences in appearance and fell in love with the sharp wit that I have learned to embrace from this, unfortunately fictional, character. The movie was not named right and I was surprised that Anne Rice let the screenwriter change so much of the background story. Anyone who loves the chronicles will be able to sit and make a list starting with Lestat's real sire and the non-existent twins never mind the choice for Akasha, which WAS well performed. The movie is mostly Lestat (the book) but turns into a summarized version of The Queen of the Damned. If you are not a big fan of the chronicles of have not read them it won't matter to you. The story is good and the cinematography is top notch and Best part of all...Stuart Townsend is shirtless through most of it (which in my opinion could make a lesbian straight.) In short one of the best vampire movies but the novels are still better. "},{"Title":"The longest MTV video ever","Date":"22 November 2003","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I have to admit something right up front.  I did not read the book Queen of the Damned.  I read the first two (well, skimmed through them, anyway) before discovering that I would never be an Ann Rice fan.  Therefore, I saw the film version of Queen of the Damned free of expectations and book-purist prejudices...and I wasn't impressed.I love Vampire movies.  I'm always looking for really GOOD vampire movies, and, believe it or not, they are very hard to find.  I can't stand pretty-boy vampires who spend two hours of screen time whining about their endless, lonely lives and the agony of being Damned by God, all the while fluffing their hair and adjusting their lace collars.  But although Lestat is by no means whiny, he also isn't very likable.  He is arrogant and smarmy, badly in need of a good hard slap.  Even in scenes where he's supposed to be portraying compassion, he looks like he's admiring his own reflection and trying not to smear his lip gloss too much.  It's a mystery to me why any woman, mortal or otherwise, would fall in love with such a JERK.  But yet, young Jessie does.  Jessie, who seemingly spends more time on her hip, cool wardrobe than on her education, falls in love with Lestat after reading his diary and proceeds to stalk him through several time zones.  Oh yeah, and the Queen of the Damned (the late Aaliyah) arises from her slumber, goes clubbing and kills the bartender, or something.  From there on out, it's a battle between the Queen and the Mortal for the attention of the pasty, leather clad Lestat.  There are other vampires here too, reduced to mere wallpaper in favor of artsy rose-petal bathtub seductions, steamy dance clubs and a gothed out concert where Type O Negative would have been a more appropriate headlining act.  This is a shame, because the other vampires seemed a lot more interesting and I would have liked to have heard their stories instead of Lestat's.  Vincent Perez in particular was wasted, which is a shame because he was the only good actor in the film, making Marius a funny, likable Vampire. I can't say this movie was totally terrible.  Parts of it were good, and the music was well done, but it had no heart, no soul and just seemed like an overlong rock video.  It could have been so much better, but it's ultimately flat and lifeless.  Worth watching once, just to say you did.  "},{"Title":"this is real simple","Date":"11 August 2003","Score":"12 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  It works like thisIf you've read the books, don't watch the movie.  You'll hate it for more reasons than I can mentionIf you haven't read the books, and are just looking for some entertainment and not a great movie, check it out. "},{"Title":"Much better than I'd been led to believe.","Date":"25 November 2002","Score":"12 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Despite the pans of reviewers, I liked this movie.  In fact, I liked it better than Interview With a Vampire and I liked this Lestat (Stuart Townsend) better than Cruise's attempt. All the major players from the series were present Talbot, Lestat, Armand, Maharet, Khayman, Pandora, Mael, Marius and a half-dozen more (albeit most of them in cameo). Marius, Lestat and Akasha were the main players (and Jesse of the Talamasca). Also, despite other reviews, I think this movie and the music was faithful to Anne Rice's portrayal and ethos, at least as I perceive it. Aailiyah was pretty good as Akasha, in places compelling (her first entrance and mini dance scene). The movie didn't capture the breadth of the books series but I thought it was a nice supplement.I'm a big fan of this series mostly due to Anne Rice's style, sensitivities and treatments. And I found this movie a faithful and often superlative representation of the author's vision. "},{"Title":"Finally, a Lestat to believe in","Date":"31 January 2004","Score":"13 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  After being disappointed with the casting in 'Interview with the Vampire' I wondered if I would ever be able to tolerate another Hollywood version of my beloved Lestat. My wariness soon faded after the first five minutes into this film. I found myself lured in completely with the much more appealing goth atmosphere, and I settled in for the anticipation that this one would be different. I've always felt when you play the role of a mythical character, especially a vampire, you should look and act the part. Stuart Townsend took my breath away and never gave it back until the end. It was like finally seeing the real Lestat brought to life in front of me. I found myself experiencing the pain and adventure right along with him. It wasn't until Akasha made her entrance as the queen of vampires that I was able to break away from Townsend's performance. I was surprised by the depth of Aaliyah's talent. It was more artistic and developed from her role in 'Romeo Must Die.' She left this world with a crowning achievement in cinema, leaving us to ask the question 'What might have been?' This is a movie I still enjoy watching from time to time, and would recommend that anyone who's a fan of Anne Rice, or Lestat, will want this one in their collection. "},{"Title":"The Mother of all vampires","Date":"16 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Before I review Queen Of The Damned I want to make something for the record to be clear, I never read any of Anne Rice's books that this film is based off.So that could explain why I did enjoy this film if I had read the book before viewing the film I might have felt differently however again I'm one of those movie fans who looks past the junk and see the treasure and if you watch this film with a open mind you might find some good to it while it isn't a classic it still enjoyable to me.The film plot centers around Lestat (Stuart Townsend) who has awaken for the first time in years to begin his raise as a rock star. Along his journey he meets Jesse Reeves (Marguerite Moreau) who after getting a hold of his journal from David Talbot (Paul McGann) begins to become curious about Lestat begins to look for him only for him to find her. However he is unaware that he is about to awake the mother of all vampires Akasha (Aaliyah) with his music and wants to bring hell to Earth.Also the film takes us to where Lestat becomes a vampire thanks to Marius (Vincent Perez) as he begins to teach Lestat about the life of a vampire. Queen Of The Damned actually took plots from The Vampire Lestat And Queen Of The Damned. And This was Aaliyah's last film before her death and it's sad that we didn't see her much in the film but the scenes she took part in she really shine as the antagonist. Akasha was pure evil with no compassion for life. She ranks up there as one of the most evil villains I have seen and in my opinion of the best things about this film.Lestat being played by Townsend I actually enjoy his performance better as the anti-hero, plus Marguerite's performance as Jesse made it interesting for her.The movie best feature is the soundtrack which I remember buying in 2002 before I saw the film, the soundtrack is one of my most favorite movie soundtracks with my favorite song begin Forsaken sung by David Draiman of Disturbed which I felt set the tone and story of the movie. Jonathan Davis wrote a superb score for the film and the songs he did for the film really help tell the story of Queen of the Damned. That's why I love this film is for the soundtrack which is enough to watch the filmThis is one of my favorite vampire movies and it still showcase what a vampire film is suppose to beSo what if this is not the best film in the world it's still a good film to me the soundtrack is superb I give Queen Of The Damned an 8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Keep it separate","Date":"22 April 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Here is the thing about this movie. They get so much from the book wrong that you can't, and shouldn't, compare them. It isn't even on the same level as Interview with a Vampire and, again, should not be compared to it. If you want to watch and enjoy this film then you must take it as is. On its own. Or you will be angry, unsatisfied, sad, and lost. It is a beautiful film as just a film but as a film adaptation of a book it is the spawn of crap and the cousin of vomit. But again it is a great movie for itself and by itself. The actors did well for the script and description They were given and I honestly hope that in the future they will attempt to redo the vampire chronicles in film media again. But until then we have this to sedate our need to see the sexy brat prince. "},{"Title":"Well, anyway, I liked it","Date":"4 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie was so different from the books that I didn't get hung up on how it deviated from Rice's vision. I just enjoyed the visuals, the music, the actors. Just shows how subjective the art form is. After seeing it ten or fifteen times, the plot made perfect sense to me. I'm a rock musician and the notion of a vampire using rock to reconnect with humans and upset his own breed resonated with me. I like this Lestat better than Tom Cruise's, and Marius almost steals the movie for me. Aliyah's scene in the vampire bar (slinky!) and the concert are visually stunning. And the cinematography takes full advantage of the many interesting faces. Not quite Eisenstein, but effective. Anyway, I liked it, and enjoy it almost as much with the sound off. "}{"Title":"7/10  Story apart from the books","Date":"21 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" It's been said in many reviews before this one, It does not follow the books. The basic idea is there, but there's too much book to cram into a 2 hour movie. Not to mention that it tried fitting The Vampire Lestat in with an already massive book to cut up. Trying to have Marius as Lestats maker...*sigh* And changing a few of the physical appearances of the characters. Leaving out important sequences of the story. The book, Queen of the Damned had an excellent story to it, which like most movies based on books, destroy.So from that aspect, don't hope for anything too similar to the story you love.The movie, apart from the book, was pretty cool. The music was excellent as well as some great camera angles. The actors chosen did a fairly decent job. In all honesty, it's one of my favorite movies. And the only reason I rated a 7, is because I REALLY wish it had been like a 2-3 part series covering the book better. I think it could have done well. Like I said before the actors did well portraying the characters, and would have continued doing well, in a 2-3 part series.Sex A really nice Bathtub scene. Drugs None. Unless you count cigarettes. Profanity Mild use of some 4 letter words. Violence YES.Overall, I'd recommend this to vampire fans, these ones don't sparkle. I'd also recommend this to Anne Rice fans who can set aside the differences from the book, because this is a good movie on it's own. Give it a try ) Thank you for reading, I hope you all found this review helpful. "},{"Title":"Queen of the Damned","Date":"4 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" OK.. Queen of the Damned is a hard film to review. I have seen it countless times and to me i will never get bored of it. The storyline leaves a lot to be desired but, hey the music more than makes up for it! As soon as i watched this film i was straight on the internet ordering the soundtrack and its now one of my fave cd's. the music is ace.Anyone who is a fan of vampire flicks and rock/metal should defiantely check out this film because it has both to the max. and anyone not into those things and just want a good perv fest, Lestat is your guy. I don't know whether its down to Stuart Townsend rocking as Lestat or the killer soundtrack. But one thing i do know is I <3 this film!! "},{"Title":"Not that bad period.","Date":"2 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I don't understand why this movie has such a low rating its really not that bad even Ann Rice gave the approval to use her name upon her first viewing but later flip flopped, its true its not as good as interview but its really not that bad, way better then the twilight movies and its different not the same old vampire movie,I think its a vampire movie for a younger cooler audience and it takes that kind of audience to appreciate this type of movie I do think the opening of the movie could of been better but overall I really dig this film its like Romeo and Juliet with DiCaprio older people would prefer a more traditional movie but that's just boring. "},{"Title":"Sad really","Date":"5 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Now don't get me wrong, I love seeing half naked chicks wiggling around. It's part of the fun of a Moroccan restaurant ogling the belly dancers. But it doesn't make much of a plot.My first major problem is the music. I have the feeling that when Ann Rice wrote The Vampire Lestat, the Cure was more the style of the music he would have liked (though I could be wrong). I know relating to current goth music might have seemed like a good idea, but they did a horrific job incorporating it. Lestat was an actor with presumably a pretty good singing voice. That they chose Jonathan Davis to be his stage voice is heartbreaking.Second, and someone else said it, mashing two very intricate books into one crappy movie is a bad idea. Lestat could have been a movie in it's own right, and a damn good one if done right. I honestly don't think Queen of the Damned lends itself to a movie very well. Though I would love to see a movie that incorporates a creation story, there's too much, how to word this, inaction in the book for it to be a very interesting movie. And the retelling they did soiled it pretty badly. Now mind you, it's been a long time since I've read it, I always thought Lestat, Tale of the Body Thief and Memnoch the Devil were much more action packed and would have made better movies.I know a lot of people (hey, myself included) who like a lot of cheesy vampire crap that thought this was absolutely the worst of the genre to be a major motion picture. I tend to agree with them there. Aaliyah had a nice body though. "},{"Title":"Hot People, Awesome Music","Date":"7 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The gorgeous 3 main actors (Stuart, Aaliyah and the main actress) and the music made this film a favorite of mine. Just awesomely sensual and alternative. This was the aspect of Rice's book that the film captured the best. Otherwise, yes, it was a little crappy with representing the rest of the events in the book, but oh well! It was a twenty first century interpretation, what do we expect? I've seen countless recent movies that deserve a 4.7 rating more than this one does!! People probably gave it bad ratings because they were jealous that they couldn't become a freaking sexy vampire and make out with Townsend, as well, ha ha "},{"Title":"Can't hold a candle to 'Interview with the Vampire' but...","Date":"10 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" There were good and bad things about this film.Good things Props, costumes and in particular sets were generally excellent the mise en scene was altogether perfect.The story was generally quite good, the script wasn't late and some of the dialogue was... well... just naff and stupid but the plot expertly worked into all Anne Rices novels shone through.It had vampires in it and i do love vampires.Bad things The acting was poor, the main actor playing Lestat (is it Stuart Townsend?) seemed to think he was playing a cross between a Gothic American school boy and a classic Dracula but Lestat isn't either. The performance lacked the sense of unique angry insanity brought to it by Tom Cruise in Neil Jordan's 'Interview with the Vampire' now ordinarily i wouldn't dream of saying such a thing about Tom Cruise but we all have to make exceptions and he played Lestat to perfection.The ending was Hollywood not Anne Rice, it all seemed it end rather suddenly in a dark Indiana Jones sort of way. In a dramatic final scene with serious over-kill as far as visual effects are concerned Lestat saves the day.I swear Lestat has had a personality change! In 'Interview-' he was so... flawed with no care for human life and yet here he practically becomes Louis and it doesn't suit him.That character Jesse, she annoyed me and i don't know why she just did.Overall It's worth watching but nothing about it exceeds Interview with the Vampire so don't expect anything nearly as good. "},{"Title":"A story of a bored vampire and his bad tempered super-vampire girlfriend","Date":"22 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Let me state beforehand that I have not read any of Anne Rice's novels nor seen the movie Interview with the Vampire, so I will concentrate on this movie as is. Also you need to be prepared as the movie is a bit confusing as there are no less then three threads woven in the story. I have read that the movie is based on two of the novels of Anne Rice, which the writers then try to work into one movie. This might explain the obvious complexity.The main thread of the movie tells us of the vampire Lestat who gets involved in awakening Akasha, a god-like vampire, who's first and only thought after rising is to destroy anything in her path. Since us mortals can have a sour mood after one night, this might reflect the hangover an immortal can have after sleeping several thousands of years(and been fed upon by Lestat somewhere along the line). Not an unreasonable sentiment I suppose. This first thread is getting more confused because for some reason Akasha has decided that Lestat will be her consort and therefore is excluded from the list of beings to exterminate. We are not told why. Maybe this is what sucking on super-vampires will do for you. The second thread of the movie is taken up by the story of the world-weary vampire Lestat in which we are told that his unlife is dull. In fact he is bored from the moment he is turned into a vampire and in the end he is so bored that he exposes himself to the public by becoming a Gothic rock-star(hint Marilyn Manson) thus invoking the wrath of the other vampires, who don't like to be exposed to the general public. Anything for a little bit of excitement I suppose. The third thread is the story of a girl named Jesse who's only mission in life seems to be to offer herself as a sacrifice to Lestat. Lestat refuses to do his duty as a vampire and serves anyone else but this girl up to the very end. Maybe not unreasonable in hindsight, as this girl chases away his boredom this way. However this idea is never brought forward in the movie. But with all this complexity you need to have a good crew to make the movie work and here is where it starts to falter. This movie has an obvious tight budget with it low budget gci graphics and inexpensive movie tricks and works with a unremarkable crew starting from the director down to the screenplay writers and cast. The director might not be bad, but in this movie he is certainly not great. The writers(Anne Rice seems to have declined the honor of participating) have difficulty to work the novels into a proper story line. Not strange since they have no track record to speak off. Unfortunately the movie for a large part is made up out of dialog and while this might sound easy to achieve, it is in fact very difficult to keep an audience captivated with dialog for more then five minutes. And in this movie more then half of the running time is made up out of dialog only. The main cast isn't inspiring. Stuart Townsend I found uninteresting. Aaliyah certainly is interesting and she was around that time a popular singer, but as an actress she had almost no experience and in this movie she moves and speaks in an awkward way as if she is partly a snake. Maybe this was on purpose, but the reason is not explained and to me it just looks likes bad acting. Perez and Moreau are decent actors, but their characters are so locked down that they can't save the movie whatever they do. What I found a bad point for the movie is the fact that it to obvious tries to attract various audiences. Aaliyah is added to attract her admirers, Townsend is a Gothic rock artist to attract the Gothic crowd(and gives away a almost ten minute performance halfway the movie for this end only) and the story itself is set to entice Anne Rice fans. None of these people will watch the movie with satisfaction I think.My entire point is that the movie could have been better if the team had concentrated on one main thread, added more action and had made more of Aaliyah's other talent performing. Personally I would have replaced Townsend by Perez. The entire 'Jesse' story was pointless and could have been left out. The look back on Lestats past seems also rather pointless so it could have been left out as well, or maybe only brought up as flashback. The Gothic look of some parts of the movie is so overused that leaving it out would alone have improved it instantly.All in all the story was to much for the crew and in the end they where overwhelmed by it. So when you go and watch it, don't expect too much as it is a mediocre movie at best. "},{"Title":"Mi opinion","Date":"26 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I think that if you read the book and all the Vampire chronicles you see it as an insult to it. Maybe if you don't read it and then you see the picture it is entertaining.It also happens (way less) with Interview with the Vampire in which you have many errors.But Queen of... is not just the usual phrase that they adapt the book and can't do it exactly as it is.It doesn't respect anything in the book. This poor girl Aaliyah's performance was really bad for such an important character. But again. I think that that's the position we have all the ones that read the books.I repeat, if you didn't read it you may like it. I don't think so, though. "},{"Title":"A sad representation for an excellent novel","Date":"20 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Well it is quite better than I expected; however, as a loyal reader of rice's novels I think the movie is really mediocre its not based on the novel its a degradation of it. they only tried to fit a long story into a short one, omitting and changing turning points of the actual story. I must rescue the performs of Marius and Lestat, (they did the best they could)keeping in mind the awful scripts. on the other hand i was totally disappointed with the performs of David Talbot, Akasha, and Jesse, Jesse and David felt kind of empty and Akasha is over acted. some important characters of the actual story were omitted as some of you have commented, but my biggest concern about the movie is that any of the characters show the true essence of the actual characters AT ALL! I think the movie is maybe acceptable for the ones who haven't read the book, but for the ones who have followed the vampire chronicles is highly disappointing. "},{"Title":"This Awful Mess","Date":"7 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" If you took the pleasure of reading Ms. Rice's novels, you will most likely despise this awful mess. Incoherent and unfaithful to its source, this adaptation has justifiably repelled and angered many fans of The Vampire Chronicles. It is quite unfortunate, since the original novels provide enough excellent material for two or three feature films.Even the beauty of Marguerite Moreau cannot absolve the film of its cluttered pretensions. But even worse than the confused writing is the terribly campy performance of Aaliyah as Akasha the queen - a ludicrous casting decision. "}{"Title":"This movie is straight from beneath the ninth circle of Hell","Date":"19 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I just watched a bit of this film and, yes, it was not merely dreadful as I thought on my first viewing. It is a great big 200 pound toxic plutonium turkey that threatens to explode and obliterate all rational thought across the entire galaxy. Yes, it's that bad and worse.Start with the source material. I gave up on Anne Rice's take on vampires after Interview With The Vampire--both the book and the film. Even Tom Cruise and Brad Pitt can't make a gaggle of hysterical shrieking queens in capes remotely interesting. It's rather like Ru Paul and Harvey Fierstein in goth drag. (In the interest of full disclosure, I'm gay.) And then we come to Queens (oops, Queen) Of The Dead. The acting, generally, is at least consistent with a gaggle of hysterical shrieking queens--Stuart Townsend, in particular, is reminiscent of Hayden Christiansen Darth-Vader-pouting-teen, but with really bad eye makeup.And then we have the alleged sole queen, Akasha, interpreted by Aaliyah--a new candidate for worst eye-scorching-shockingly-horrible-the-universe-is-about-to-collapse performance by an (alledged) actress. Yes, friends, she slinks, she pouts, she snarls, she looks about as Egyptian as Debbie Boone. Not even the COSTUME looks Egyptian.And what's the single worst thing about this film--without further examination of more bad acting, without examination of flatfooted direction, without even noting the utter absurdity of the plot, even by Anne Rice's dubious standards? It's not even good campy fun. It's not even so-bad-it's-good--it's too bad for that. It makes the average Ed Wood film look like Citizen Kane. It combines the portentous pretension of The Unbearable Lightness of Being with grade Z-minus acting standards. Not even the (fair) production values save it.Do not waste your time. You actually risk brain damage by watching it. "},{"Title":"Worth watching? Maybe. Worthy of it's title? Not even close.","Date":"26 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Anyone who is even somewhat familiar with Anne Rice's book Queen of the damned, the vampire chronicles in general, or any of the characters therein, will be disappointed with this movie. Anyone who isn't familiar with the book, or her work in general sadly wont rush to read any of it based on this movie. The only thing this movie shares with the book by the same title is , well... the title. In short everything from the plot to the characters (with the exception of their names) has been changed. To list the ways in which the movie falls short of the book would be an almost endless task. That said, the movie on it's own (with no comparison to the book / story from which it was derived) is at best teetering the line of worth watching. The acting isn't bad, the soundtrack is good, and for those who like vampires - a little blood is spilled. However, in changing the original storyline and characters of the books the story gets botched and the movie seems choppy at best. So I wouldn't go into it with high hopes of a great storyline. Interview with the vampire it is not. "},{"Title":"A fairly good sequel... if you forget it is based on a book","Date":"12 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A lot of people walk into The queen of the damned and ask where is Tom Cruise? Where is Brad Pitt? A lot have read Anne Rice and think why did they take 3 books into this film and leave half questions unanswered?. So did I. There is far too much in Anne Rice that would get the poor woman into trouble if her writings were read by the man on the street that it was a reasonably safe bet to remove this religiously sensitive material from the film and work on the fun bits of how much fun can you have when you are a vampire. It looks more like a Dracula is my friend than like the strong material where it came from but the whole remains very enjoyable. Photography and set design in particular are exceptional and if you're not tempted to dress in black, leather jacket, piercing where nature can allow, well you probably never will. I guess young Goths will simply love this film and rush out buy something - anything provided it's black with silver on it.In my view a very well done sequel that does not claim to be 100% sequel, and a fairly good use of a material which was not easy to get on screen. "},{"Title":"What a grand disappointment.","Date":"13 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Warner Brothers could have followed up right away with the other two books of the Vapire Chronicles (up to that point) but they waited too long, rushed what they could in the end, and turned out this disappointing mish-mash. They should have done anything to induce the original cast to reprise their roles. Stuart Townsand was all right as Lestat and if Interview With a Vampire had not been made this film might have been acceptable. But the departures from the second and third books, the resulting mixture of what was left left the fans of Ann Rice's stories feeling cheated. If you have never read the books you will probably enjoy this one. I have it in my library but am forced to ask myself why? "},{"Title":"Good vampire movie. Does not follow book.","Date":"5 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" First let me say this If it weren't for Anne Rice's artistic and beautiful vision of the modern day vampire, I would have ZERO interest in Vampire novels. Interview With the Vampire was a gorgeous movie that almost, closely follows the book's plot. One could read Interview and then watch the movie and not be disappointed. Now comes The Queen of the Damned. The upside to this movie is that it was a good vampire film. The downside is that it had very little to do with the book and completely mutilated the actual book's plot. I was very disappointed in this. Why did the director completely avoid the story of the red-haired twins? Marius did not make Lestat! Lestat and Jessie do not end up together in the book. Maharet does not turn into a pillar of salt at the end of the book (well, that's what she looked like in the movie). Lestat does not get the violin from a gypsy on a beach. This movie had the potential of being an Artistic vision of the book, but it ended up being a campy, rock and roll MTV vampire story that didn't capture anything close to the spirit of the book. I think the fans deserved something more. Overall, this is a decently made good vampire movie &#150; but it could have been done as ANY vampire movie. I just don't think the Anne Rice fans deserved this. I think SOMEBODY needs to step forth and take all of her books and turn them into a new set of movies that actually do the books justice. "},{"Title":"Terrible! A pain in the neck.","Date":"24 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Being borderline obsessed with all things even remotely connected with vampires and Gothic art, I was thrilled when I heard Queen of the Damned had been made into a movie. If it was anything like Interview with the Vampire (which was pretty darn good, even though there might have been some deviations from the book), it had to be good stuff. For all those Anne Rice fans out there, prepare to be sorely disappointed. Better yet, save yourself the pain and just avoid this film altogether. Then again, if drastic plot reworkings are your thing - go right ahead. But if you are expecting the cinematic brilliance and glamor of Interview or Bram Stoker's Dracula, forget it! First off, the casting director should be shot. Obviously he/she is completely unfamiliar with the vivid world of vampires and creatures of the night lovingly crafted by Anne Rice. Marius and Pandora are grotesque parodies of the stunning characters in the books. Armand is a joke. Stuart Townsend and Aaliyah were the only saving grace - however, Aaliyah (gorgeous though she is) commands none of presence and authority of the vampire queen. The special effects make me want to watch Ghoulies 3 all over again. Second, although this would have been a challenging screenplay for anyone to write, the writer does a useless job of establishing the characters and their motives. For those who have never read the books, it's like being thrown into the final act of an intricate detective plot - there's no establishment of characters, plot, or intent. Marius and Armand have always fascinated me - I wanted to cry after I watched this film...from frustration. Enough said. Do yourself a favor and avoid this sad piece of celluloid. Until someone (once again) treats Anne Rice with the respect she deserves. Len Wiseman, James McTeigue, Zack Snyder, Gore Verbinski....are you listening??? "},{"Title":"Almost but not quite","Date":"21 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I have two basic problems with this movie.1. Lestat was a blonde with blue eyes in the books. Stuart Townsend is great in the part...he has the attitude JUST RIGHT, but I can't help thinking that they could have done even a few blonde highlights to make him look closer to what Ann Rice had in mind.2. They combined two books into one movie. It is hard enough distilling one book into a good movie, but two? Because they have to leave SO much out, it's hard to get a good clear picture of why the characters do the things they do. you just miss way too much this way.Having said that, they did hit it right with Aaliyah as Akasha. She was sensuous, sexy, seductive, persuasive and psychotic all at the same time. I don't think I could think of a better actress to play the part. She will be missed as an actress.The other thing that they hit with is the Gothic feel to the movie. The music and the scenery are spectacular, with some of the greatest special effects.It's a good movie, but not a great movie...maybe I was just hoping for more. "},{"Title":"Could have been better","Date":"21 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The movie is alright, but I got the feeling that they HAD more story but didn't use it. Seemed like there wasn't enough plot. Especially when compared to Interview With The Vampire. The first movie had a complicated story with three dimensional, complex characters. This one didn't.In the commentary, the director mentioned and explained all the various changes he made between the book and the movie. But it seemed like almost every single change he made would've made the movie better.Example; in the movie, LeStat has short brown hair, which is both inaccurate to the book and contradicts the first movie. Especially since vampires can't cut their hair this was not only established in the last movie but was actually a plot point during Kirsten Dunst's tantrum.There was another vampire who sired LeStat but he has REALLY short hair, again, vampires can't cut their hair. And in the book, apparently, he had LONG GREY hair.The Queen of the Damned herself had been petrified, and is first seen as a statue, but was reanimated by blood. In the book, her clothes, jewelery and hair were still real. This would've made allot more sense. In the movie whatever petrified her turned her gold jewelery and her cloth garments to stone, too, and these things are also turned back into gold and cloth by blood.The only change I'm not complaining about is her skin. The Queen of the Damned, like Cleopatra, was not actually of Ejyptian blood, but was white. She looks fine as she is. "},{"Title":"Not that good, but not that bad either (without considering the novel)","Date":"7 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" To say that the movie sucks because it doesn't follow the books, is to underestimate the fact that, when seen on screen, the lead characters just don't lead. They're not convincing enough, not half as impressive as they're supposed to be in the first place.I somehow think that it's not their fault, I mean, I believe no actor, good or bad, could ever nail the part of Lestat.He's too magnificent, too irresistible to be played by just anyone. So that makes the movie not credible at all.Perhaps they should have choose a rock star to play that role. Personally, I think that Ville Valo would have absolutely nailed it if he just dyed his hair blonde (although I'm not sure if he can actually act, but he would have fitted the part more than Tom Cruise or Stuart Townsend, or just any actor at all).And then, of course, following the real story on the books, working on the dialogs, letting the author get involved in the screenplay and focusing on the facts that go along on the movie more than just use them as an excuse to make some sort of erotic goth love story would have helped a lot.I give it 5 out of 10 just because, watching the movie without considering the fact that it's based on the books, it is somehow entertaining. "},{"Title":"oh dear, oh dear, oh dear....","Date":"3 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is the most recent adaptation of Anne Rice's Vampire Chronicles. Lestat has arisen after a hundred years of 'sleep' to become a rock star. His music reveals names and secrets of Vampires the world over, enraging the entire vampire community. Akasha, the mother of all vampires, has been awoken from her sleep by Lestat's music. She decides to make him her consort and resume her rule as Queen of the Damned.Firstly, Michael Rymer needs to be chased naked through nettles by a pack of rabid dogs. Secondly, When Anne Rice offers to do your screenplay for free, ACCEPT! Then you might end up with something that amounts to more than a prolonged music video for a very bland and childish character. And that's what Stuart Townsend's Lestat is. Yes, he's gorgeous, and OK, his Creole accent's passable, but how do you follow on from one of the most amazing portrayals of Anne Rice's most beloved vampire? Quite simply you don't. (Tom Cruise spoils it for everyone again.) Bit of a shame, because Townsend does have his moments. He is very slick and sexy in the music video segments of the movie, but with dialogue as inane as this screenplay's it's hard to make a character believable when he spouts idiotic lines like Boo Back&#133; not much of the sensuality, egotism or charm of the original character remains in this version &#150; this time around, Lestat is a whiny, tantrum-throwing angry young man. And there's a big difference between hammy acting and lack of talent. So it's a bit of a shame the whole movie centres around him, really.Aaliyah's portrayal of Akasha is good, although she unfortunately does little more than squint in a sinister way, belly dance about in a small metal bra and set other vampires on fire. Aaliyah's acting &#150; dodgy Egyptian accent aside &#150; is probably the best in the movie, but again, she's that underused that her character loses her menace. After a while she's just this pissy bitch who wants her own way all the time. Which is a true shame as her motives in the book do actually have a point. And to say this movie's title is Queen Of TheDamned, said Queen is curiously shoved into the sidelines, and the movie becomes more about Lestat's rise to rock superstardom and his moral struggles. Akasha's attempt to regain her rule over the world of Vampires is almost an afterthought.The rest of the vampire alumni included in this movie were, on paper, really rather exciting (for a vampire novel-reading geek like me). Marius, Maharet, Mekare and Armand are all included (apparently) but harshly overlooked, and dismissively underused. No time is spent on these characters at all, despite them all being some of the most important in the story and for those who haven't read the books, there's probably a certain amount of who-the-hell-are-these-guys?-syndrome happening. It's almost like the writers took a pair of garden shears to the book, put it through a blender and then filmed what was left. Yes, the sets, costumes and makeup effects are good, the Death Valley concert scene is well done, but the whole movie dithers about for 97 minutes, unsure as to whether it's following the' Queen of the Damned' or 'The Vampire Lestat' plot lines. A tad ambitious I feel. And look what happened. The movie falls flat on its face with all it's glamour, black leather, body piercings and tattoos in a heap around it. And I just want to stand pointing and laughing. "}{"Title":"Loved it!!!","Date":"22 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" ***May Contain Spoilers*** OK, it wasn't exactly as good as expected in fact it was a lot different than I had thought it would be but it still turned out to be a pretty good movie.I usually don't care too much for that type of music but in this movie it worked perfectly (I mean duh he's a rock star) but anyway I loved Stuart Townsend in this, and Aaliyah, although she had a small part in the movie was amazing.And even though Tom Cruise played Lestat in the Interview with a Vampire, I have to admit that I am glad he turned down the role even though I normally hate when they use different people to play the same characters in like sequels and stuff.Overall, the movie was great and I enjoyed watching it, even if there were parts that could have been better. Great vampire movie. "},{"Title":"Casting","Date":"9 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" While it's always going to be a challenge to satisfy all of the fans of the books in terms of the screen play and the characters. This movie was a disappointment for me. Despite the fact that the Aaliyah is certainly a talented singer/performer and potentially might develop into a very talented actress with some experience and training; her being cast as the Mother of All Vampires was a mistake that ruined this film for me.I just never bought her playing Akasha, a vampire who is thousands of years old, she simply doesn't have the acting experience to pull that off. On paper her being cast probably seemed like a good draw for younger audiences familiar with her music, but in terms of her screen presence she's got a long way to go.Don't get me wrong, she's beautiful and has presence, but she was totally unconvincing as the world's oldest vampire. To me she looked like Aaliyah in skimpy costumes with fangs and makeup on and any actor who played this role would have to be able to have a lot more going on internally as a performer to be convincing. It was like watching Sofia Coppolla playing Michael Corleone's daughter in Godfather III; I just cringed whenever she was on screen - no one should have ever put her in a role where she'd have to play opposite Andy Garcia; nothing against her but she just didn;t have the chops. "},{"Title":"i hated the movie","Date":"7 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" OK OK...good acting from stuart townsend, aaliyah was very seductive i have to admit this (OK OK, very good special effects, good goth rock, even i don't like goth rock...i don't want you to think that i am being ignorant of this things) but still let's face it the movie only scored this good because aaliyah's death(someone had to say it), it would have gone directly to video if not for that extremely tragic accident...i mean the story was poor(a very sad reap-off of the novel, i wonder how rice alowed the novel, which was brilliantly constructed and much more complicated, i mean the movie left out almost every single crucial plot point)... and we ended up with this junk, i mean the fact that none of the vampire's names who attacked akasha wasn't mentioned in the movie but they appear in the credits... i mean please... "},{"Title":"A Cool Vamp","Date":"13 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Enjoyed this vampire film because Lestat De Lioncourt,(Stuart Townsend),Head in the Clouds,'04, portrays a vampire who finds acceptance in a tattooed pierced black-clad world and is a modern day rock star and does not want to hide in the shadows or even in any darkest if he can help doing so. Aaliyah,(Queen Akasha),Music of the Heart,'99, plays the starring role as an old ancient Queen who is charmed by Lestat's bite on the hand and his sweet tasting blood. There is plenty of blood sucking and lots of french blood kisses going on constantly and all the hickeys a girl or guy could possibly give each other. Aaliyah, put her complete body and soul into this role and had a charm about her that I have never seen; it is a horrible shame that an airplane crash took her to the bigger Screen in the Clouds. Great modern day vampire film. "},{"Title":"Read the book instead","Date":"10 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie left out about 20 chapters of the book.There is a long back story on how Akasha and Enkil became the first vampires, which was omitted, save a clip of it happening (while Lestat was drinking from her, there was a flash of her being accosted by what looked like gnats). Marius was not Lestat's creator, that would be Magnus, and his creation isn't even in Queen of the Damned. Davud Talbot was too young. And they also left out the other sister Mekar (appologies to the fans), as well as why in fact Maharet and Mekar hated Akasha, and the plights Akasha had caused them, (Removal of Maharets eyes, and Mekar's tongue). Save yourself the trouble of watching the movie. Buy the soundtrack, and the book. Much more mental stimuli. "},{"Title":"queen of the damned was all right","Date":"2 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" In Queen of The Damned,Akasha(Aaliyah) was more sexy and had a bigger,demanding presence, she just caught your eye and attention. now the movie did have faults, like the lack of explaining Akasha's past. What i also Did not like was the that the movie didn't really explain or show more of what the relationship between Lestat and Akasha was/ or was like.Akasha's (Aaliyah's) role was sort of limited in the movie and she didn't appear until the 2nd half of the movie and then to top it off, her(Akasha's) death came 2 quickly.But i liked how Akasha fought back when the ancients tried to kill her, because in the book the last fight between Akasha and The ancients was rather boring (they killed Akasha in like 2 secs).Akasha's head got knocked off in 1 sec and Lestat turned into the biggest punk in the world.Aaliyah played Akasha very well and Stuart was perfect as Lestat, they could not have picked a better Akasha or Lestat. REST IN PEACE AALIYAH "},{"Title":"A movie gone right...","Date":"23 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" ...a book portrayal gone wrong. *Warning lots of spoilers ahead* When I discovered Interview with the Vampire a few years ago, I instantly fell in love with the story and read all of Anne Rice's Vampire Chronicles books. I found the movie stuck so true to the book that I couldn't wait to get my hands on the fairly new Queen of the Damned.I found the opening of the movie to be kind of confusing. Even though I'd read the book, I couldn't really follow it. I was highly disappointed that the vampire Lestat, who is supposed to be blonde haired and blue eyed, was dark haired and dark eyed. That would be something I could easily overlook if the rest of the movie had gone well.I found the movie totally lost the message of the book. The book was about Lestat's accidental awakening of the Queen of all vampires and the journey they go on to, in her belief, fix humanity. Meanwhile the vital story of the Twins is incorporated, as well as a few minor stories along the way that show just how much of the world is affected by the vampires and how much hold Akasha has on the fate of humanity. The movie basically focused on Lestat and Akasha's romance. The story of the Twins was touched on but not really fully explained. The character of David was totally off, not British enough, too young and a bit too harsh. And random characters were almost thrown in front of the Hollywood sign, never explaining who they were, why they appeared, or why they cared about Lestat and/or Akasha. It was just horrible to sit through.However, if I hadn't read the book, I probably would have enjoyed the movie. It was very well filmed, the casting was well done and the romantic storyline was interesting. I actually really liked the visual aspects of the movie, except for the fact that the only character who remotely looked the part was Jesse. I know many people who have seen the movie without reading the book and loved it. My overall opinion is this- if you are looking for even a minor interpretation of the book, don't see this movie. However, if you like vampire/sci-fi movies, or you aren't picky about how novels are portrayed, then go for it. If you haven't read the book, I can almost guarantee that you'll like at least some aspect of it. "},{"Title":"Warner Bro's crap on a stick.","Date":"18 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" OK, heres the deal, I have the entire vampire chronicles memorized, including those that wasn't even written as of the release of this movie. And this movie is horrid. Interview with the Vampire, was despite having bad casting in many roles, a good representation of that book, the mood was right, the look was right..and the story was only moderately hacked leaving most of the story intact. Queen of the damned on the other hand, was strictly to get the Gen X crowd to see Allyiah in leather and silk, Stuart Townsend shirtless, and Jonathan Davis's original songs..The story was cut to the point it wasn't the same story. Lestat's maker is NOT Marius. Where's Mekare? (the real QUEEN of the damned) Where is Louis? Why wasn't more attention paid to Khayman, who had an important role in the story...Azim...Gabrielle ...Armand, Daniel (The interviewer from Interveiw with the Vampire) Why did the Queen die in that fashion, part of what makes the real ending cool, was the fact that as powerful as the Queen was, she is killed by simple, common, mortal beheading, done as a human would do it with a large sharp pane of glass..Why did it not show the Queen Killing innocent men everywhere she went, as that was her whole purpose for waking, not Lestats music. There was no mention of how Vampires came to be, which is really the true point of the entire Queen of the Damned story. I know they couldn't leave everything in with film time constraints, but they cut out most of the important characters, and almost all of the relevant story. It's pretty, the music is decent. but its not the same story. Anne Rice was on set during IWTV. and it showed, Warner Bros. refused to allow Anne Rice any rights or say on this film, and wouldn't even allow her to come to the sets, again. It showed. The casting was bad again. Lets clear this up. Lestat is about 6 foot tall, 175lb-ish, medium length blonde hair, eves that range from blue to Gray. Not 5'6 with brown hair, and brown eyes, or 6'0 with brown hair and brown eyes. Armand is not a 40 year old Latin guy, he's about 14 human years old in appearance and is Russian, has long CURLY auburn hair and is small, and looks boy like Sorry Antonio..he's not you. Marius also has long curly hair and is roman/Anglo Saxon. Allyiah looked great, and considering she did a great job, but as an African-American, she doesn't look Egyptian... overall I feel like I just watched a pre-packaged, music video, not one of my favorite stories of all time. Thanks Warner Bros. jerks. "},{"Title":"Disappointment","Date":"29 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I only give this movie a bad rating because the movie is nothing like the book. At fifteen i have read and admired all the books from the Anne Rice Vampire Chronicles and i was greatly disappointed in the way Queen of the Damned was depicted. it told nothing of the red haired twins or the Talamasca and the relationship between Lestat and Akasha was far more interesting. it is my belief that if you want to make a book into a movie you should make it as close as possible to the book. However, this movie wasn't even close. they never even explained the real reason for Akasha's rampage of killing. Once again, i was disappointed. "},{"Title":"The Best Comedy In Ages.","Date":"18 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" It's not a comedy? Oh, that would explain all the pretension. This could have been campy fun, seeing as rock musicians and vampires have several similarities, but this piece of guano seems to think it is the coolest thing since the blood bank. Stuart Townsend, who between this and The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen has proved he can play a seductive immortal in the day and the night, is the highlight, although it would have been fantastic to see Tom Cruise come back. He is perfect to play an attention seeking bloodsucker and was surprisingly good in the Interview. Aaliyah made only two movies and this is the bad one, she also shows off her inexperience as she is neither scary nor sexy. This deserves to be in the same bargain bin with Pulse and The Forsaken. "}{"Title":"Not worth the $4 at Blockbuster...","Date":"12 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I was more than disappointed with this film. The book in itself was not very good either, but what's always most important is that a movie be based on the book it was made after. I honestly think that the only thing this movie had in common with the original book were the names of the characters affiliated.The actors were all good, even though some chosen did not fit the book's description of the characters they portrayed (i.e. Marius, Akasha, David Talbot, etc.). These people really would have had a chance to shine if only the screenplay were done with better effort.The book Queen of the Damned contains so many different characters that at first it becomes tough to catch on and follow along with the story. If you have not read the books, The Vampire Lestat, and Queen of the Damned prior to seeing this movie, you are guaranteed to feel confused. It moves at a very fast pace, and deletes many scenes that are critical to the story's plot...not to mention that some of the characters that DO appear in this movie are never introduced, so when you start seeing a gang of goofy looking vampires near the end, you're going to wonder, Who in the hell is that? "},{"Title":"the queen of the damned was horrible","Date":"2 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" as a huge fan of Anne rice's the vampire chronicles, i was very upset to see that the movie version of queen of the damned had ridiculed and crushed everything i love about the book. lestat was wonderfully portrayed by tom cruise in interview with the vampire, but Stuart Townsend mad lestat look like a completely different character in queen of the damned. how are you supposed to follow through these two films when there are no similarities between the two lestats. and even the actor who played Armand in queen of the damned didn't look like the dark and powerful vampire that Antonio band-eras portrayed. this film was an outrage and completely stupid. "},{"Title":"This movie ruined my life","Date":"14 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is the worst movie I have seen in my entire life. I can't BELIEVE it has an INCREDIBLE 4.6 here at IMDb. That makes it the most overrated piece of crap E V E R. Makes me sick!About three years ago, I was fooling around with this hot blonde in my class. We had been back and forth because of her insane boyfriend, which kept me from reaching my goals. However, they were also back and forth, and she broke up with him (like fifty times, but this time it seemed to be for real). So she finally agreed to watch a movie with me some Saturday night, in my home. Sex was REALLY in the air, and I had been trying to get into her pants FOREVER. Get it? FOREVER, damnit! She practically said Hey, we should have sex after that movie we're going to see.... not that she hadn't been inviting before, but with the boyfriend out of the picture and everything, I figured this had to be it. And it probably would be..So before she shows up I had to get downtown to rent a movie. I remember seeing K-PAX in the shelf, and this Queen of the Damned. I also remember reading the word erotic in a bi-sentence or something on the (Norwegian) back cover. Seemed perfect for the occasion, so I rented it.I got back home, she showed up (first and last time she set foot inside my house). We started watching the movie. Needless to say, a movie has the power to change an atmosphere completely. It can be a great way to get things going with someone. It doesn't have to be sexual or romantic, anything exciting or just funny usually gets the atmosphere right for more flirting, and so on. Even some bad movies might work; if you can start making fun of it in some way, it might kill off the nervous tensions and break the ice.Queen of the Damned failed miserably at everything. Not only did it NOT break ANY ice, it killed off all hope by adding several layers! It seemed like we sat there for ten hours scratching our faces, not being able to communicate. When the pain was over, she left within 15 minutes.I can't describe with my poor English vocabulary how painful this movie was. I didn't get in anybody's pants, AND it was actually awkward to see her again the next Monday. As I'm typing this, she's pregnant with her about-seven-years-older-than-me-with-a-sports-car-and-tattoo dumb-ass new boyfriend. THANK YOU, QUEEN OF THE DAMNED! "},{"Title":"who is the target audience?","Date":"20 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I don't understand who this movie was made for. Which people did they think would want to go see it? Anyone who is a fan of the books could not possibly like this movie because it mangles the story so terribly. On the other hand, it seems impossible that anyone who was not familiar with the books would have any idea what was going on. And then of course people who read the books and didn't like them would have no desire to see it. So who is the target audience? People who read the books and wished there was a crappy movie of a messed up version of the story? So if you like the books, don't watch the movie, it's just frustrating. If you've never read the books, don't watch the movie, you won't understand what's going on. Basically the movie is pointless and no one needs to watch it, except maybe for people that are fanatically obsessed with Marguerite Moreau, but even then, it's probably not worth it. "},{"Title":"Excruciatingly Bad","Date":"9 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Well, it's just a dreadful, dreadful movie. If you've read the books, you most likely would hate it. They basically reinvent relationships and mix and match plot points between the characters so they are faithful to the books in name only. Even if you haven't read the books, the movie is just too much of a mess to recommend. The plot jumps around randomly, characters are cardboard, acting is rather feeble, and it feels much longer than the 90 minutes running time. Many of the major characters from the books (Pandora, Armand, etc.) are not even referred to once by name. They were badly cast and the only fun I had was to guess who they're supposed to be. Aaliyah was channeling Bela Lugosi as Akasha, that's was funny. So, why did I even give it 3 stars instead of 1. Well, at least it doesn't look cheap, that deserves one star. The special effects on the vampire movement is pretty cool and interesting, that's another star. The fact that they mangled the amazing source material so thoroughly is a feat worthy of another star! "},{"Title":"Falls tragically short of what it could have been.","Date":"5 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I'm a devoted fan of Anne Rice's Vampire Chronicles, but I tried to put that aside when I saw this film (The night it came out in the local theater.) I know no film can do justice to a book, because there is only so much that can be reproduced on-screen, never mind the obvious time constraints. I didn't like Interview with the Vampire when I first saw it, because I expected too much. But I watched it a few more times, and I realized the scenes and characters that were present in that film were quite well-done. Queen of the Damned, however, took two books- either of which would have made a great film- and crammed them together in a fragmented, confusing, goth-rock pop-culture nightmare full of plot holes. The characters were poorly developed, and there were many scenes in both books that *could* have been beautifully done on-screen. Instead, there was a blatant disregard for the original story and characters. The plot is choppy and highlights Lestat's rock star image, which is only a tiny part of a much larger story. Again, I know there was no way for them to include *everything* from the books, but the elements they did include seemed irrelevant and out of place because they didn't relate to anything else in the film. I'm not talking about the question of who created Lestat. That was wrong, but I just chalked it up to artistic license for the sake of time. Even aside from the total disregard for the books, taking random pieces of them and slapping them together created confusion for the viewer, and made the story awkward. It didn't flow.Queen of the Damned was a rush job, and it shows. I'm disgusted with it, and saddened that it doesn't even come close to reaching the potential of the original story to be a great film. "},{"Title":"Read the book first -- 7 (Worth the time)","Date":"13 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I haven't read the Anne Rice novel that this movie was based on, but who knows, maybe reading the book is cheaper than renting QUEEN OF THE DAMNED and is probably better for your health. It isn't that this movie is necessarily bad for your health, but a book can be very relaxing and certainly exercises the active part of your brain more so than this movie. You can count the number of pages by Anne Rice that I've read on one hand, but after seeing this movie and Interview with a Vampire, I get the feeling that she writes really good novels. The plots for both movies hint at a whole sea of deep and interwoven vampire history.Still, Stuart Townsend's voice-over narration gets a heck of a lot more annoying than Brad Pitt's vampire narrative ever did, and you can tell that QUEEN OF THE DAMNED's limited production resources barely give enough flesh to the Anne Rice storyline. While Interview decided to go with lace and elegance, QUEEN relies on low budget special effects that try really hard to be taken seriously. One can see that the original novel had potential as a movie and that the production team focused its attention in the wrong places. The costumes and rock & roll stage could have been replaced with more blood and an eerier soundtrack.However, I'll give credit where credit is due. The soundtrack is excellent. Korn and Disturbed had me down with the sickness bobbing my noggin like Butthead.The film opens with a very cool Goth-rock zoom & splice montage, but after the first ten minutes or so, the directing degenerates quickly. It's as if the movie was so long that the director realized that there wasn't enough time and enough money to do an Anne Rice novel justice. What results are some mediocre vampire scenes and plenty of cheesy special effects. Unfortunately, QUEEN OF THE DAMNED fails to do the genre justice just as its John Carpenter counterparts fail to impress. Where are the yellow contacts? Where's the pale blue make-up? Scene after scene, I shook my head reminiscing about the days of Salem's Lot and Fright Night when low budget was done right.There are redeeming qualities though that save this movie from being garbage. Props to Aaliyah, and may her soul forever rest in peace. She might have become a renowned actress, had her life not been taken from us so prematurely, for she did give this movie a decent performance with plenty of nice belly dancing. Did I mention that the soundtrack was good? Let's see, what else can I say? It wasn't too long. The Anne Rice novel could have easily been a three hour movie if an ambitious director like Francis Ford Coppola got his hands on it. There are a few twists and turns here and there in the plot. But all in all it was a legitimate rock and roll addition to the slew of second-rate vampire movies out there. The director of this movie went on to direct a new Battlestar Galactica mini series if that tells you anything.JYJimboduck-dot-com "},{"Title":"Fantastic.... despite previously read reviews.","Date":"12 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The cast, acting, and plot were absolutely excellent... and not anything like I initially suspected... I figured by the reviews I'd read the movie would be cheesy... well, not in my opinion.As for the posed question, Who portrays a better Le Stat?.... I think this goes to Stuart Townsend over Tom Cruise by far. If your skeptical to watch, don't be. You won't be disappointed.Prior to watching this movie, I did not know that Aaliyah had died. Saddened to read this as I think she had a very viable acting career.Having watched this on the USA network, I'm sure there were some very critical parts removed. I'm quite tempted to go out and purchase the DVD. This movie has seriously turned me into a vampire film fan. ) "},{"Title":"Without the grace of Anne Rice?","Date":"21 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Yet again, having read the book many times, this movie was a shock. It seemed that the book and the movie were a whole different thing, almost from different planets. Again, excuse me my English-speaking fellow-citizens that my language is not perfect or even close to it. But let's get to the point, shall we? The actors, the raped script, the corny music etc. This can't be Anne Rice, can it?Stuart Townsend was so much better in his role as Dorian Gray. Why did he ever want to compete with Tom Cruise? In my mind, Lestat is Lestat, not some cheesy youth-idol prettyboy as Stuart is. Yeah, he had his tight leather pants on, vow, he must be good then! Lol. If not deceased, I would criticize the lead female actor. In my mind, Akasha was something greater. But, I can be wrong. My imagination (and my lack of words) might just be too scarce. "},{"Title":"Stuart Townsend is a marvelous actor!","Date":"1 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Stuart Townsend and Vincent Perez had good chemistry with each other. I enjoyed watching them act because they became the parts they played and were believable. I think this movie was visually more stunning than Interview with a Vampire. I like Tom Cruise and Brad Pitt, but as vampires they looked malnourished and seemed uncomfortable in their roles. I would like to see Stuart Townsend in the role of Lestat in future movies. I give QOTD a 10 for the music as well. But the soundtrack is performed by other artists and not the same singer as in the movie. Just listen to the DVD. I also recommend the DVD widescreen version over the full screen. "}{"Title":"it was only off a bit","Date":"29 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" In general, I thought the movie was great (being a vampire/fantasy/romance lover myself). Although, I'm also a big Anne Rice fan, and I noticed that the storyline in the movie did not match up hardly AT ALL with the storyline of the novel. I'm not sure if this is a spoiler (it doesn't seem like it), but Lestat was NOT made by Marius, he was made by MAGNUS. Magnus threw himself into a fire, and Lestat went from there to teach himself most everything he knew. And, here's what may be a spoiler towards the end of the movie -- but Jesse was NOT drained and turned by Lestat, but I believe by her aunt, Maharet. And this was only done due to acquired injuries at one of Lestat's concerts, which was also never mentioned in the movie. The rest seemed okay, but those were two huge factors that greatly bothered me. Other than that, it just seemed like the movie script left out fantastic parts of the novel that I would've loved to have seen acted out in the movie.~K~ "},{"Title":"Aaliyah's Movie","Date":"22 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Aaliyah blows all the female cast members out of the water, including the official love interest Marguerite Moreau.I would have loved to see this movie play out as Akasha's power trip. Aaliyah is simply electrifying whenever she is on the screen. She does sensual, beautiful and menacing to the power of 10. Watching her take on a bar full of vampires is a sight to behold.Lena Olin is cast in the ungrateful role of the older woman, which is hugely unjustified. She looks fantastic and at 46 (according to the IMDb) still looks stunning.The story unfortunately is very limited plot wise, we've seen it all before, etc.The most heart wrenching is Akasha's death scene, especially keeping in mind what happened to Aaliyah after filming.All in all, a remarkable vampire movie. "},{"Title":"Utter tosh","Date":"8 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie fails first and foremost as an adaptation of Anne Rice's novel. A secondary failure is certainly that it fails as a standalone movie due to a dull, abbreviated script, laughable dialogue, poor casting and all-round abysmal acting. It neither brings across the general appeal of vampires nor the specific intricacies of Anne Rice's vampire lore. If it had been a good movie in it's own right I wouldn't say anything, but the makers of this movie fill in the gaps they tore in the original material with convoluted MTV trash. Just read the books and forget about the film, you won't be missing a thing.P.S. The song sickness by disturbed is great, the only spark of brilliance in this pile of refuse. "},{"Title":"Worst film ever","Date":"30 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie is horrid. I could sum it up in a lovely gagging noise. Not only was the acting intolerable, but it was like they didn't even bother with reading the book. The book itself was never structurally made to be brought to the screen. The concept of a vampire rising from his 'sleep' to join a rock band, simply works better in writing then in moving pictures. Even if Tom Cruise himself hadn't passed over the role, it still would not even have risen near acceptable. Tom Cruise was Lestat without a doubt. Townsend pretty much destroyed the character! He raped Lestat of his personality, his cunning, his wit, and every other trait we've come to adore him for. Townsend turned Lestat into nothing more than a jerk with an ego problem and a lust for groupie blood. Other characters were also maimed in the making of this film. Marius's portrayal especially made me cringe. In the books, Marius is a LONG BLONDE haired, BLUE eyed roman man. NOT, and I repeat NOT a short dark haired, brown eyed Spanish man!! I love Vincent Perez, he did wonderfully in The City of Angels...but failed miserably in Queen of the Damned. Now another blaring moment, is that fact that a good share of main characters are MISSING. Louis and Armand do not make a reappearance. Gabrielle is gone. Maharet's sister is missing. Or in some cases characters were diminished. I believe I saw Mael at some point, but he was never given a name. Same with Pandora. I only knew she was in the movie because the credits told me so. Well there is so much more I could detail, but there is a word limit. Strictly speaking Queen of the Damned fell so far behind its predecessor that I don't blame Stuart Townsend for basically disappearing off the face of the earth. Interview with the Vampire is still the best, and probably always will be. If you have questions, read the book. You'll hate the movie too after that. "},{"Title":"Not a Surprise","Date":"19 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I am pleased to say that, for once, a movie was exactly as it appeared.One cannot help but be apprehensive when told the plot. A movie about an ancient vampire going rogue and becoming a rock star, well, that's right up there with Attack of the Killer Tomatoes. The fact that Aaliyah would be playing the title role was not comforting, nor were the previews, which showed extended shots of Aaliyah eating a still-beating heart. And still I pushed aside my doubts, reminded myself that Interview with the Vampire hadn't been too bad, and forked over the five dollars for a ticket to Queen of the Damned. I was surprised not to be surprised.Queen of the Damned is exactly what it sounds like--a group of pretty actors and actresses (and singers) vying for the position of most ridiculous role. Whether it's Stuart Townsend's laughable portrayal of the dangerous Lestat (who, I had thought, was supposed to be French--I suppose one must disregard Townsend's lisping, almost Germanic attempt at an accent) or Marguerite Moreau's bland performance as the enigmatic Jesse, watching this movie was rather like watching a train crash. It's violent and painful, but you just can't look away.The hardest part about writing this review is looking at the ratings, and finding that the lowest one possible is a 1. "},{"Title":"The Horror................","Date":"19 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" One thing that separated Anne Rice's Vampire Chronicles from the hundreds of vampire drivel out there was her ability to develop deeply-layered characters that we could immediately identify with. Each one from Lestat to Pandora to Marius, had their own inner battles that served as an umbilical cord to their humanity. That along with the rich historic origins of vampirism exquisitely detailed from vampire to vampire, lent an aura of romanticism that few other writers could develop. The book, Queen of the Damned, connected the past with the present and introduced us to the group of immortals who hold the survival of fellow vampires in their hands. Queen of the Damned the movie, on the other hand, is just plain bad. From acting, writing, casting, directing, all facets of this exercise, which in essence is just a music video, utterly and miserably fail. After years of hibernation, Lestat awakes in the 20th century and decides to come clean and cause a ruckus as he usually does. This he does by writing an autobiography (the Vampire Lestat) and joining a rock band and thereby announcing to the world the secret of the cabal. This, as you can imagine is not taken lightly by the other bloodsuckers who revel in their nonexistence, living on the fringes of society. The vampire nation decides it's time that Lestat shuts up forever. At the same time, Akasha, literally the mother of all vampires, is also awakened and decides to enforce her vision of utopia on the suspecting world. Never have I seen such a bland, untalented, and unmotivated group of actors. Stuart Townsend plays a wooden and stiff Lestat who seems bored except when on stage. Aaliyah is truly miscast as Akasha. The scene where she enters a vampire bar is pure comedy. The few actors of substance like Lena Olin, are barely given any screen time. The dialogue is reminiscent of a cartoon. There are far too many vampire bar scenes where fashion attire is the only reason the scenes were shot. Black leather and heavy makeup, this is a good advert for the goth-look but nothing more. It&#129;fs image and style over content and substance. It's no wonder that Anne Rice disassociated herself from it. There seems to be a slew of directors from the MTV music video school of film making and though some learn enough to eventually make a decent film, the majority are better suited for commercials or even better yet, music videos. As long as it looks good, then it's fine. Eye candy works for a 5 minute music video but not for a 2.0hrs film. I didn't expect them to follow the storyline which is fine but it's clear that they chose this route only to appeal to the younger audiences in the same way they cast Townsend and Aaliyah. Demographically, I don't think the majority of Anne Rice's readers are teenagers. The only positive reviews I read, extol the beauty and looks of Townsend and Aailyah as reasons for liking the movie. Sorry but that's not enough for me and many others. I have made a note of those involved in this fiasco from the director to producers and will avoid anything they are involved in like the bubonic plague. "},{"Title":"Proof that style over substance simply does not work","Date":"11 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Mother of God. This is one of those movies that I couldn't believe I sat through; I wanted to sue the makers of this film for wasting my time, but then again, no one made me stay, so I'm still kicking myself for allowing this turkey to ever get my money. Every element of it was a misfire, and it's an absolute shame that Aliyah's credibility as an actress could never have improved after this. Vincent Perez proved once again that he's only there to look pretty (he was decent in La Reine Margot, but that's about it), and even that managed to flop. When I was younger, I was a fan of Anne Rice's works, and _Queen of the Damned_ is my favorite book from the Vampire Chronicles. I know quite well that she doesn't shy away from sexuality or violence in her work, but at least she makes the psychology of her characters as ever-present as anything else. This movie eliminated any sense of three-dimensionality and hence anything alluding to eroticism was downright gratuitous. Ugh; do not waste your time on this flick. "},{"Title":"uneven most of the time and pretty dumb but fun anyways WARNING!!!!!!!! SPOILERS!!!!","Date":"3 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  uneven most of the time and pretty dumb but fun anyways. Okay i am not gonna lie to you i had a lot of fun watching this it is very entertaining with 3 great leads but it is also very uneven script wise and can't match interview with the vampire Noir is it anywhere close to being as good but it's still quite fun. the finale is pretty good and i liked most of the characters and it had a bit of blood. i liked the story and not one minute of it was boring and it had potential to be a great horror movie but it just didn't deliver now it is a fun horror movie but it is not a great one that's for sure.the acting is GREAT. Stuart Towsend is surprisingly very good in the lead role and was very likable he had the occasional bad line now and then but it didn't hamper his performance at all good job!. Aaliyah does fine here in her limited screen time she is beautiful and does very well here in her limited screen time it's so sad what happened to her she had the potential to be a great actress and singer R.I.P Aaliyah we will miss you. She was also beautiful. Marguerite Moreau is STUNNINGLY GORGEOUS!! and one of the most beautiful women out there in my opinion and is also a terrific actress and does EXTREMELY well here and i hope to see more of her soon i have seen here in all the Mighty Duck films and i will being seeing her film Fire Starter 2 very shortly. I LOVE her. Vincent Perez does fine here and liked him lots he also made me chuckle at times don't know why he just did. Lena Olin does so so here and didn't convince me at all. Paul McGann does okay here and nothing more. Overall a very dumb and uneven but also stylish and a fun horror movie that's worth a watch and buying if you get it cheap (i might buy it eventually). **1/2 out of 5  "},{"Title":"I don't know what you all are complaining about, This movie is awesome!!","Date":"19 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  A film adaptation of a book is simply that.... an adaptation. If the movie were to be exactly like the book word for word, why would anyone want to go see it? You know exactly how it goes already. Die hard fans of anne rice's books, or any book for that matter, generally don't enjoy film adaptations because they already have pictures of what the characters and places look like in their heads. I however think it is really cool to see how other people interpreted the same characters and events differently. Though Queen may not be as true to the book as Interview was, I loved the movie. I separated the film from the book and enjoyed it for what it was. Townsend was sexy, mysterious and defiant and that makes an excellent Lestat! Fans of Anne Rice must remember that the Lestat we met in Interview was not the real Lestat, it was Lastat as Louis saw him....Jaded. I hope you all will realize that this movie isn't a book on film, rather a great peek at what Queen of the Damned has to offer.  "},{"Title":"A film that doesn't quite reflect the book!!!!","Date":"11 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  If you like reading the famous Anne Rice books you might want to stick to them!!!!! I haven't read many of the Anne Rice books but when you have read one this film can became a bit annoying as it doesn't quite reflect on the book!!!I think if they followed the book like they did with the 'Interview with a vampire' it could have been another smash hit. Also this film doesn't really link to the first one and may confuse some people as Lestat suddenly changes from Tom Cruise to Stuart Townsend!Although on a better note I did think the music to this film was brilliant being a bit of a goth myself and I thought Steward Townsend played Lestat the best he good have.Overall great music and actors but it has a weak story line!I would give it 5 out of 10  "}{"Title":"Man oh man!","Date":"2 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I am a die hard Anne Rice fan, especially of her Vampire Chronicles, so imagine my surprise when I realized that the movie was NOTHING like the book. First of all, I suggest that anyone who wants to read the book and watch the movie to WATCH the movie first, that way you'll get a better idea of why they couldn't put every aspect of the book into the movie. I am trying to appreciate Queen of the Damned as simple Vampire flick, and take it as it is, which is the only reason why I like it. But if you compare it at all to the book (written by Anne Rice) you will more than likely hate this movie with a passion. This is by far one of the worst transitions I've seen from book to movie however. And I don't nitpick at the many details that they left out of the movie or blatantly ignored because it just destroys the experience. As for the actors, I thought the accents to be awful, and Aaliyah did not do a very good job at playing the role of Akasha. I think Tom Cruise would have made a better Lestat, he was much more vampire like and didn't over exaggerate the role of Lestat. I recommend this to anyone who enjoys a good vampire flick.  "},{"Title":"Good movie, bad adaptation","Date":"24 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Music perfect. Cast good. Style good. Plot - drivel.If the book hadn't been written, it would be a very credible film. If you have read the book and find it difficult to accept changes you'll never be open-minded enough to like it. The plot has been changed far too much, for reasons that aren't really good enough to be forgiven. The book is such a mix of many different plots and ideas, they couldn't all be included. Akasha's character is not developed enough and the exclusion of Mekare doesn't really work, however hard they have tried.However, the one theme it does focus on it brings out superbly the Lestat the rock-star idea. Stuart Townsend is perfectly cast for this (as for having the wrong hair colour, just get over it) and the Jonathan Davis has done a fantastic job with both the source music and his first ever film score. Stuart Townsend's incarnation of Lestat the rock God is enthralling, sexy and magnetic, which saves this film. Aliyah's Akasha was brilliant - for such a young actress she embodied a 400 year old Egyptian Queen remarkably. Shame we won't get to see her in other roles. She has left behind such indications of potential.If you're not too much of an Anne Rice fundamentalist, and you can put the books behind you, you can enjoy this film. When it is good, it is very very good. If you dwell on the bad, you'll hate it. "},{"Title":"Good for laughs...","Date":"29 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I used to be one of the biggest die hard Anne Rice fans you would meet, I still love her old work, but I haven't managed to read any of the books all the way through since Merrick.  My two favorite books were The Vampire Lestat and Queen of the Damned.  When I heard they were making them into just one movie I was horrified and then I saw the cast and I nearly cried. Near as I can tell Aaliyah wasn't bad in other things, but I hated her being cast as Akasha because I knew that the movie was going to be bad.  I went and saw the thing with my mom.  She had to spend the rest of the night shushing me because I kept breaking into hysterics.  If you love the books and are hoping for a faithful adaptation DO NOT go and see this movie. If, however, you are willing to have a little fun and laugh a bit go for it, this movie is one of the funniest I own and I put it on whenever I do my homework.  I wouldn't recommend this to most, but there are some I know who would love this as much as I do. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Stupid but good.","Date":"19 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" When i learnt of a new Anne Rice vampire movie coming out about Lestat becoming a goth rock star with his very own band i automatically assumed this would be terrible but i really enjoyed watching this movie. It has some shocks and most of the acting is good. Don't mean to speak ill of the dead or anything but Aaliyah's (R.I.P.) acting is very bad and she acts far too over the top but she's not in it that much so that's a plus (sorry Aaliyah fans, i thought she was a good singer though). Stuart Townsend's performance was in general good even though he looked a bit weedy near the end when he was half naked and i do think Tom Cruise played Lestat far better. Vincent Perez as Marius did an awesome performance and was the best thing in the film (he should have been in the movie more, not Aaliyah). Queen Of The Damned didn't follow on correctly from the end of Interview With The Vampire which left me a bit miffed as i like continuity and some elements of the film did seem stupidly cheesy (the whole goth band thing) but it was fairly original in places. I liked the music even though i don't really like rock music. I know a lot of people don't like this movie but i don't care, i enjoyed it. All in all pretty entertaining. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Finally, a Lestat to believe in","Date":"31 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  After being disappointed with the casting in 'Interview with the Vampire' I wondered if I would ever be able to tolerate another Hollywood version of my beloved Lestat. My wariness soon faded after the first five minutes into this film. I found myself lured in completely with the much more appealing goth atmosphere, and I settled in for the anticipation that this one would be different. I've always felt when you play the role of a mythical character, especially a vampire, you should look and act the part. Stuart Townsend took my breath away and never gave it back until the end. It was like finally seeing the real Lestat brought to life in front of me. I found myself experiencing the pain and adventure right along with him. It wasn't until Akasha made her entrance as the queen of vampires that I was able to break away from Townsend's performance. I was surprised by the depth of Aaliyah's talent. It was more artistic and developed from her role in 'Romeo Must Die.' She left this world with a crowning achievement in cinema, leaving us to ask the question 'What might have been?' This is a movie I still enjoy watching from time to time, and would recommend that anyone who's a fan of Anne Rice, or Lestat, will want this one in their collection. "},{"Title":"Yuck","Date":"18 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I have just watched 'Queen of the damned'. Every aspect is inconsistent with the books. If you make an opinion of Anne Rice or her body of work from viewing this aberration please go check out her books and resculpt that view. However 'Interview with the vampire' did a great job of staying on track and stayed almost true to the books. But if yo uare expecting Q.O.T.D. to be anywhere near as good as I.W.T.V. be in for disgust. "},{"Title":"Great Characters & Soundtrack QOTD is Pure Entertainment.","Date":"1 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I loved Queen of the Damned.  It is a true mystical romance - I have seen it many times and never get tired of it.  It is pure fun, the way movies should be.  The characters are colorful, the soundtrack is awesome and the plot follows through.  I fell in love with Stuart Townsend as Lestat.  He flawlessly expresses Lestat's dark sensuality throughout the movie.  I feel absorbed by his darkly affectionate eyes, sympathetic of his windswept infatuation for Akasha and stirred by his veiled passion for Jesse.The ending is perfect, which is the main element of a movie that makes you want to see it again.  QOTD has already developed a following and will be appreciated more and more over time. "},{"Title":"Poor rendition of a brilliant book","Date":"28 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is my favorite of all Anne's books and I was very excited to see this on film. At first, I was confused. The story was very loosely based on the book, the actors weren't great and it didn't look appealing. After my 3rd viewing, I'm really starting to like this. Tom was great as Lestat but Stewart is even better. When I thought of Lestat, he looked just like this guy. Sure, the acting is poor. Sure, the story is a bit jaded. Sure, it's very, very stylized but it's still enjoyable. And as Anne's fans were divided by Interview... so will they be divided about Queen...7/10 "},{"Title":"A steaming heap of crap","Date":"24 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I am so sorry that I paid to see this movie. Bad dialogue, bad plot, bad acting, bad special effects (the heart that Akasha bites into? Why so cheap and unconvincing? Why??) It's so lame that I can't think of one nice thing to say about it other than Aaliyah is gorgeous. Rent Romeo Must Die instead. That movie is watchable at least. I can't believe this movie has such a high rating! I know tons of people (me included) love Aaliyah. But this movie is just terrible! "},{"Title":"**+ outta ****","Date":"21 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I'd rate this **+(** 1/2) outta ****.It's pretty boring in the parts without Aaliyah.It was an alright movie. I wouldn't reccomend it though.Watch it if you want. "}{"Title":"Better dead than alone","Date":"25 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I heard this movie wasn't even worth seeing but after I borrowed it from a friend I may not give it back. It is a great movie and is interesting to see more Lestat than Loey because the first one (Interview with the Vampire) focused more one Loey. It was neat to see it in modern day instead of in the 1700's to 1800's. Also John Davis from Korn sings as Lestats' voice. It has a great story about how Lestat is very lonely and went to sleep. When he awakes the storyline begins to develop when he tries to get vampires to stop hiding and to attack him. This all backfires when he alerts Aaliyah, the mother of all vampires. R.I.P Aaliyah "},{"Title":"What do you think..Russel Crowe plays The Ancient Vampire Marius???","Date":"21 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I see and feel..and noted for a long time.. The rights to say the Russel would play marius beautifuly the idea came to me..while watching master and commander.. is it..Marius is master..and commander in his own way? comments anyone?? "},{"Title":"Good musical score, bad movie","Date":"13 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The only thing good about this movie was the appropriate musical score.  The casting of Aaliyah as Akasha was excellent, except that she was only in 10 minutes of the entire movie!  Did someone not have their heads screwed on straight?  The lack of Aaliyah was reminiscent of the lack of Darth Maul in Star Wars Ep 1.  Disappointing.For a sequel to the very good Interview with a Vampire, this flick did not resemble its predecessor in any way shape or form.  Without the death of Aaliyah, this movie would have been straight to video.  Bad story, bad plot, bad special effects (the vampire speed shots were laughable).  A low budget bomb.  I am sorry I purchased this fraud of a vampire movie on dvd.Summary  without Aaliyah and the music, nothing!  5/10 "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good but inevitably flawed","Date":"10 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Any follower of Anne Rice's Vampire Chronicles will blanch at the way this film tampers with, or rather flagrantly violates, the plot and relationships in the source novel.However, this film gets a surprising amount right, mainly in the mood, atmosphere, and visuals, which are central to the books' effectiveness. In using a largely unknown cast, the characters have a freshness absent in Neil Jordan's Interview with the Vampire, where Brad Pitt was an especially inappropriate choice as Louis. Stuart Townsend is really quite good as Lestat, certainly physically, although he is a tad wooden. I thank god he didn't have a New York drawl.Premature death always elevates the mediocre and deifies the talented, but it is not an exaggeration to say that Aaliyah is pretty sensational as Akasha (the Queen) here, if you forgive her the cod Transylvanian accent.The problems predictably occur in the plot, which is messy and confusing, although the pacing and tension are reasonable. Akasha's goal is poorly sketched as some kind of world domination. In the novel she has a much less nebulous and more grotesque vision, which propels the action in a far more effective way. Stripped of any plausible context, the denouement lets the film down badly, with Lestat's motivations particularly baffling.Over all, some evocative sequences, good special effects and visual richness mean the movie can be enjoyed on the 'sensual' level Rice works best on - meaning that, ironically, fans of the books may enjoy it more than most. Out in the real world, the return of rock as a credible source of cool of late has also enabled this movie to appear vibrant and relevant in a way not possible five or ten years ago.  "},{"Title":"Terrible movie, Great Lestat","Date":"3 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  As a whole this movie is pretty bad.  It's a bad movie and it's a terrible Ann Rice adaptation.  The one thing the movie has, however, is a dead on perfect depiction of the Lestat that has been described in numerous books.  This is the erotic and beautiful character that millions of people have fallen in love with.  Stuart Townsend shoots lightning bolts off of the screen.  He is sex personified.  If you want to watch Lestat explode off of the page and walk and talk onscreen, skip Tom Cruise and rent this movie.  Actually, if you watch the DVD, make sure you check out the Lestat videos among the extras. All I can say is  Wow.  Give it a watch for Stuart becoming Lestat.  "},{"Title":"interesting accents and really nice pale skin","Date":"5 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Stuart Townsend is the best person to play the part of Lestat he has that...look about him. The girl who played Jesse, Marguerite Moreau, just wasn't the right person. I think it was her voice, she was too innocent and they really didn't show a lot her character. I love vampire movies and this is one of my favorites. I think it's the heavy metal music mixed with the confusing plot that did it. Plus Stuart Townsend is much cuter when hes pale with long hair. "},{"Title":"Just Plain Awful","Date":"23 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I'm really glad that I didn't see this movie when it came out in the theatres. Instead, I saw it for free on cable. This movie seemed almost like it was made for cable or video. It had a low budget-sci fi feel to it. The special effects looked straight out of Xena Warrior Princess (when the vampires would fly around there was sort of a trails type effect--egads!). The Lestat character in this movie was not at all like the one in Interview. He seemed more of a Jim Morrison knock off, if you ask me. The acting was dull and the atmosphere was campy. Why I watched the entire movie was beyond me.  "},{"Title":"Not a good movie!","Date":"18 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  With the exception of the acting and the directing, this movie lacks all the elements of a good film. The script is totally shaky and the SFX terrible. This movie makes Blade looks like a academy award contender.  "},{"Title":"Insult to book adaptations","Date":"9 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is most possibly one of the worst book adaptations i have ever seen...The casting was an insult, the story line was WAY off, and the character formation was, in a word, CRAP. I would never suggest this movie to anyone. "},{"Title":"Queen (?) of the Damned","Date":"2 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I was really looking forward to seeing this movie. I've seen the previous one, and i had read the books. Based on IWTV (1993) I really thought i'm in for a treat. Instead i got a skeleton of a movie. 2 decent books turned into one Lame flickIf you loved Interview, and/or the books than by all means DO NOT WATCH THE MOVIE.Cheers. "}{"Title":"Best Vampires Movie","Date":"23 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is the story of vampires that are true gods and god is a dj so maybe that is why this movie is not only one of the greatest vampires stories it's also an amazing musical. No, I'm not talking about singing and dancing although you will find those in this movie. I strongly recommend this movie to all you vampires and rock music lovers. And I just LOVED the Jonathan Davis cameo!!!  "},{"Title":"This movie rocks!!!!","Date":"5 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Stuart Townsend does an great job as Lestat de Lioncourt!!! Plus he is so damn sexy in his role, the rest of the cast I give a thumbs up!!! Marguerite Moreau did a fantastic job as Lestat's love interest Jessica Jesse Reeves and Maharet descesdant and beloved niece, Vincent Perez did great as Lestat's long lost maker, Marius!!! Aaliyah, how could I forget about Aaliyah as Queen Akasha, all of it was just marvelous, this movie to me, is just unforgettable!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Beware, Some Spoilers","Date":"29 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I have to say that the book was better, and I am a Huge fan of Anne Rice, But I loved the movie, in fact i loved it so much I bought it on DVD and I have seen it about a hundred times (Literally). This is a wonderful film that you will simply fall in love with. And the soundtrack is a total killer. Also, Jonathan Davis of Korn plays a cameo part of Ticket Scalper. He produced the entire Soundtrack. It really helped though if you read the book first, because it explained a lot more. I was a little disappointed in the way they changed much of the things, such as Marius did not make Lestat, He was made by another vampire who, after teaching Lestat what he needed to know, went into the light (Got burnt by the sun.) and also Lestat did not make Jesse, she was made by Maharet after the concert. But if you read the book you can find all this out for yourself. Happy Reading ) "},{"Title":"sucked","Date":"27 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Since most other people summed up my feelings I have but a few things to say... the movie sucked beyond comprehension.  I liked the movie for only 2 reasons Stuart Townsend makes a very sexy vampire and the soundtrack rocked. But besides that the movie s*ucked major as*.  MARIUS DID NOT MAKE LESTAT!! MAGNUS DID!! "},{"Title":"The Brat Prince","Date":"7 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Id have to agree that this movie is bathed in a very MTV type of influence. I probably wouldnt have given in a second look had i read the book before i saw it, but i didnt. In fact, i hadnt read any of the vampire books. That was the movie that put me through the series. So i have to thank it, even though it twisted the story beyond recognition.But to tell you guys the truth, i wasnt a big fan of the book. In fact, its my least favorite book in the entire series. And had they covered all they had in the novel, i would have been bored to tears! To be quite honest with you, i dont care about Khayman, or many of the others.Im all for Lestat , as im sure many of the fans are. The one thing that toasted me about the movie was that they fused two characters. Yes, you know what im talking about all you readers. Marius and Magnus were made into one person.Another thing is, how hard would it have been to dye their hair blonde? Marius was supposed to have long beautiful straight blonde hair, and Lestats was to be a wavey gold. Also i think they shouldve expanded on the story with the twins past with akasha and enkil. But to tell you the truth, that bored me too.People were also complaining about stuart townsend. Frankly , i like the guy. And despite other comments about Tom Cruise, i liked him as Lestat too. To be perfectly honest, ive not seen an actor who looks like i imagined my Lestat.To finish this off, i'd like to say that no one even heard about this movie coming out until Aaliyah died. I was knee deep in a conversation with a relative of mine how they thought it was 'manipulative of hollywood to put it out and milk on peoples sympathy for her death'. I didnt see it that way at all.If she took the time from her busy schedule (and you know it was busy), and wanted to do the movie, she wouldve wanted it to be put out into the public. It was low budget, i assume (by costuming), so theres no doubt that someone had offered her other parts for more money.And it was a laid back flick with all good elements. Kickass music, Blood and of course my Lestat.Love and Blood "},{"Title":"Waste of time...","Date":"4 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I bought the damn movie before I read the books, because I loved the soundtrack and the little hommage to The Cabinet Of Dr.Caligari at the beginning. I just finished reading Interview With A Vampire and The Vampire Lestat, and I have begun reading QOTD. Man, I can't believe how much this movie disrespects the books. First of all, I just don't understand why they tried to merge The Vampire Lestat and QOTD into one movie. They could easily have made an interesting movie with only The Vampire Lestat. The physical descriptions from the books are just totaly ignored in the movie, and there's a bunch of other things that have been mentioned already, like Marius making Lestat a vampire, Marius jumping on the stage, the fact that we never see Gabrielle nor Louis. And now I'm stuck with this piece of hollywood sell-out trash...Oh well, if you haven't read the books and don't intend to, you can see this movie, but but if you have read them, or intend to read them in the future, just avoid this, because it'll screw up your perspective of it all. Before reading the books I would have given it a 7 or 8/10, but having read the books I now give it a big generous 5 for the intriguing violin score that I just fell in love with... "},{"Title":"How could Anne Rice allow this travesty?","Date":"26 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Let me begin by saying that I am probably about to point out things that others have already noted. I don't care; I just saw this awful excuse for a movie, and I am going to try my best to keep others from making my mistake! I have loved Anne Rice since shortly after Interview With A Vampire (the movie) came out.  Tom Cruise's portrayal of Lestat, in particular, drew me into the story.  Now, true, the character Louis was hard to get behind (accurate to the book; Louis IS kind of a whiner) and Antonio Banderas, though he portrayed Armand beautifully, was physically about as inappropriate for the role as possible, and the end was a major departure from the book, but the movie held true to the general plot and personalities and feel of Anne Rice's world. Not so with Queen of the Damned.  It seems like the scriptwriters barely gave a nod to the plot; they borrowed the names of characters, but didn't even bother with their actual personalities; they took bits and pieces of some of the most insignificant bits of the book, without bothering with what was really important; they inserted ridiculous things that manufactured themselves. For you who have not read, and probably will not read, Anne Rice, let me clarify a few of the most glaring points for you.  We'll start with Lestat. Lestat is a vampire.  A self-proclaimed monster.  He's not a nice guy. But he also drinks only the blood of the evil doer.  I wouldn't call the poor girls he was chasing around in the movie evil doers.  And Lestat is in love with humanity.  Not just Jesse; he loves the members of his band, he loves David, he loves humans he comes into contact with.  Humanity fascinates him.Oh.  And he can't fly.  Sorry to burst your bubble, but that doesn't happen until AFTER he becomes Akasha's playboy. As a note, I do think that with a better script, and a better idea of what he was doing, Stuart Townsend might have been as good a Lestat as Tom Cruise; maybe even better.  As it was, he failed hard. Then there's David.  You don't see much of our boy David in the movie, which is ok.  The little we saw of him, he was even well-portrayed.  Except one little thing.  Insignificant, really, except that it's an essential part of the character.  David is in his 70's.  Hello?!  The words I'm too old coming out of that actor's mouth are...  Ridiculous. Then of course, there's Marius.  What did these butchers masquerading as screenwriters do to our lovely artist, our Roman scholar?  They turned him into some sort of ...  villain!  Anyone who has read Vampire Lestat would cringe...  To someone who actually read the book ABOUT Marius, his portrayal was perhaps the most painful of all.  And to clarify a few key plot points related to Marius; he is NOT Lestat's maker.  Teacher, perhaps, friend certainly, but not his maker.  Moreover, Marius was trapped under tons of ice for most of the duration of Queen of the Damned; trapped by Akasha when she escaped so that he would not be able to interfere. And Akasha...  Aaliyah was great as Akasha.  She was just as I'd pictured her, and the only reason I gave this movie two stars instead of just one. But, for the record, Akasha and Enkil were not actually statues.  Their skin looked like marble, but not their clothes or eyes or hair or whatever. They had color, but the morons who wrote the screenplay apparently missed this. Jesse, along with Maharet and the other ancients, is such a two-dimensional character in this movie I won't even go into them, except to say that it's sad that such characters so essential to the plot were so ignored.  And when Lestat originally drank from Akasha, it was not Akasha who pushed him away; in fact, he was nearly KILLED by a jealous Enkil, and only just saved by Marius' intervention. Now, a few notes about vampire lore.  In the vampire club, when Jesse goes in looking for Lestat, claiming a relationship with the ancient Marius, one of the vampires tells her all of the ancients are dead.  There is a reason for this belief.  Just before Marius' time, Akasha and Enkil, her king, were dragged out into the sun by their keeper, in a bid to end their existence. While Akasha and Enkil only acquired a deep tan, because Akasha, who was the mother of ALL vampires, was burned, so every single other vampire was burned.  New vampires were immolated; older vampires didn't die, but existed in agony.  Their kind was nearly wiped out before the royal pair was dragged from the sun.  Akasha's blood did NOT bequeath Lestat the ability to walk in the sunlight with no fear.  If Akasha had actually walked into the sun, or through the fire, most of the vampiric population would have exploded into flame.  And for Lestat, though after drinking Akasha's blood, sunlight would no longer kill him, it still certainly isn't pleasant. Last of all, worst of all, is the plot.  The scriptwriters took the most insignificant scene and turned it into the bulk of the movie.  Lestat's awakening and discovering of rock music isn't even IN Queen of the Damned, it's in The Vampire Lestat.  Moreover, that and the later battle comprise of perhaps two chapters, one out of each book.  And yet in the movie, it's more than three quarters of the story!  The rich history of the vampires is never touched on, even though it's the bulk of the plot in the book.  It's vaguely mentioned that whoever drinks the last drop of Akasha's blood won't survive, but not why; they don't mention that if Akasha dies, all vampires die. And where is Mekere, Maharet's dumb (as in, tongue was cut out, not as in stupid) sister, the one who eventually took Akasha's essence into herself? Where is Akasha's quest to eliminate most men, to elevate women and establish herself as their goddess?  Gone.  Not even touched on. Perhaps, if you never read the book, this is a watchable movie.  But flashy special effects and attractive stars are no substitute for the depth of story that a movie like this COULD have had.  Don't waste your time, don't waste your money - don't watch this movie. "},{"Title":"staurt townsend","Date":"24 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  i found the movie the best ever of all vampire storys. its cool everyone should see it. especially stuart townsend what a fabulous performence. he acted so natural and so real. he is the real hero in hollywood no one should compare with him.he is the most cute and charming guy in whole the world. we love you. "},{"Title":"More boring than a documentary on yarn...","Date":"23 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I don't want to be rude but this movie is more boring than a documentary on yarn. The acting was pretty good, considering that the supernatural researcher lady was in the Mighty Ducks. The Queen played by Aaliyah, sorry if I spelled that incorrectly, was pretty good by acting standards. Actually very good. The problem was it was so boring! The whole movie was so boring! I got some good sleep time though, it was daytime, and am usually scared by almost anything. I just fell asleep on this movie, literally. I would only recommend this movie cause the first five minutes are kind of cool. "},{"Title":"Not as great as it could have been, but less depressing and more fun than the first","Date":"16 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Combining The Vampire Lestat and Queen of the Damned, the movie tries to cover a small part of Lestat's past and the Akasha issue in just a few hours.  Impossible.  Although it was less depressing and more fun than the first, it was rather obvious that the editors had a difficult time editing the movie and having it flow from scene to scene.  After watching the deleted scenes on DVD, I think they would have been better off leaving the scenes in and just sacrifice their pacing issues for the half understood plot issues that developed due to their editing.No offense to Tom Cruise, but I thought Stuart Townsend did a more accurate job playing Lestat (in looks if not in attitude).  Aaliyah was amazingly wicked and beautiful as the Queen of All Vampires, Akasha. Whether it was the way she would stride into a scene or the dance number she performed (check the deleted scenes for the full number), she was completely believable.  Vincent Perez equally caught my eye, playing an ancient vampire, Marius, and Lestat's maker (in Hollywood's interpretation only). His performance was equally believable and showed the depth of a vampire who's been around since the B.C.To sum it up, it was more enjoyable to watch than the first, but due to poor editing and script problems, don't expect to fully understand the plot. The deleted scenes help to alleviate this problem but they just needed to spend more time writing the script if they were going to combine these two novels.  "}{"Title":"cheesy ripoff of interview with a vampire feel","Date":"6 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I found nothing impressive about this movie. The characters were shallow and didn't seem to act naturally in any way. Some nice special effects but nothing amazing. The plot was weak, and the acting certainly didn't win any acadamy awards. "},{"Title":"Waste of Blood","Date":"5 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This Film really Sucks. Stay Away from this Piece of Crap at all Costs before it sucks 98 minutes of your lifetime out of you.All the Vampires looked so cheesy, really really bad Make-Up, i started laughing many times when they appeared. Do all those Vampires use the same awful Lipstick color ? The camera work is cheap, the Special Effects are lousy and the actors are so bored, you almost can hear them whisper One for the money, two for the money, in 2 weeks i'm done with this crap honey.No Wonder Tom Cruise has declined the Lead. He has thrown the Script into the Garbage.The Best of it was,in fact,the End. I mean the last Scene.Nice. A little Bit Interview Feeling was coming over me.But the 97 minutes before are horrible boring, confusing and unsatisfying. "},{"Title":"HATED IT!!!!!!!!!","Date":"31 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Queen of the Damned happens to be my favorite Anne Rice Vampire Chronicles Book.  I absolutely LOVE it.The movie was NOTHING like the book.  It was all wrong aside from the names of the characters.One trait I love about Ms. Rice vampires is that they are beautiful, charming, magnetic, mesmerizing...... The vampires in the movie looked like zombies!I did happen to like Stuart Townsend as Lestat, but the whole role was CRAP!  "},{"Title":"To Lee Bartholomew and others complaining about Not seeing enough of Aaliyah in the film","Date":"21 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Are you a total idiot?  The reason why Aaliyah is not shown much in the movie is because SHE DIED before it's completion.  Another point, the reason why some people may have screamed at her death scene is because, she DIED in real life similar to how she died in the scene in QOTD.   In case you weren't aware, Aaliyah was killed in a plane crash on Aug. 25, 2001.  She was killed instantly due to the plane bursting in flames and she was burned to death (INSTANTLY).  This would explain why some people in the audience screamed or gasped at the death scene in Queen of the Damned.  Her on screen death scene was eerily similar to her real life death. "},{"Title":"The Death of Two Stars","Date":"21 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I would compare the Queen of the Damned with The Crow.  In the sense that both of it's key stars died before the completion of the movie.  Brandon Lee and Aaliyah.  Their deaths added an errie darkness to both films, because as we watched both films we knew the sad outcome of both main characters...they DIE in real life.  Yet, I've heard a lot of negative comments about Aaliyah (Rest her soul) and rave reviews about Brandon Lee (Rest his soul).  Brandon Lee had the potential of being the next superstar in hollywood, and Aaliyah was also headed in that direction.  My question is, why has so many negative comments been directed towards Aaliyah?   "},{"Title":"At least Aaliyah was good","Date":"16 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  It's a shame that the talented Aaliyah died just after principal photography was complete, because had she lived she could have put this mess behind her. Not criticising Aaliyah at all, she was good as Akasha and she made me give this movie 3 rather than 1. The rest of the film is terrible, Stuart Townsend is a really bad choice for Lestat.Tom Cruise made the character his own in Interview with the Vampire and Townsend completely changes the way the character was. Lestat was a cold blooded killer and was still happily killing at the end of the last film. Are we supposed to believe that because of rock music he somehow reconnected to his human side. Some of the music was just about ok to listen to, but it's not life changing. If the names weren't the same you really couldn't connect Queen of the Damned to Interview with the Vampire at allI haven't read the source material, but I do believe that in the book Lestat becomes a rock star. In my opinion that was a rubbish idea to begin with. Maybe the film makers should have just got permission to use the characters names then make up their own story instead.  "},{"Title":"Bad Casting Man","Date":"12 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I haven't read Queen of the Damned yet but I did read The Vampire Lestat. First of all, why did they skip the 2nd installment in the series and skip to the 3rd?  Secondly, Townsend cannot compete with Tom Cruise's portrayal of Lestat one bit!  Lestat is supposed to be vicious, cold and sharp looking.  Townsend looks like a bleepin groupie man!  Anyway it was ok I guess but why the bad casting? "},{"Title":"Anne's touch is missed","Date":"11 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I'm not going to start saying how it wasn't faithful to the book (I'm sure enough reviews have done that).  I know it could have been much better if Anne wrote the screenplay like with Interview with the Vampire.  I can't understand why she objected to Tom Cruise and Brad Pitt being in Interview but said nothing about this.  There are some good points to this film though.  I love the soundtrack and Lestat's accent.But that can't outweigh the heavy mistakes in casting.  Aaliyah is just not right for the role and its sad she had to die with this being her last film.  Townsend is also not a good Lestat.  He doesn't have the charm that Tom Cruise had. "},{"Title":"Buy the DVD! If you need a good coaster, that is....","Date":"8 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Wow, this was bad. Don't get me wrong, I like some bad movies simply because they are so bad it's funny. This one was so bad it put me to sleep. I honestly don't know what happened after Lestat drank the blood of the Queen... since i was bored into unconsciousness.  I had doubts about this movie going in, I knew it finished after Aaliyah died, but that the studio had so little faith in the film that for a while it was set to go straight to video.  I can do the math, straight to video = bad. Straight to video when the star just died, a situation that increases the buzz by a factor of 10 and normally meaning big bucks, means it must stink so bad that it hurts careers of people who only THOUGHT about appearing in the movie. I gave a 2, because most of the supporting cast seemed to be trying to make the movie work.  "},{"Title":"Quite good, though a bit too much on the blood gore","Date":"5 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I expected this film to suck badly- and boy was I wrong. This is actually a pretty good flick. The plot develops quite well. It's about a vampire, L'Estat, who wakes up in this generation, and openly welcomes it into his world (or maybe the other way around). Anyway, he starts a hit rock band, but unfortunately, the QUEEN OF THE DAMNED wakes. One good thing about this film is the dialogue- none of that excessive swearing (not any here, really), but really life-like. I love Aaliyah's dialogues especially.Now I wanna see INTERVIEW WITH THE VAMPIRE. "}{"Title":"Anne Rice must have been away on holiday when they made this....","Date":"7 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I've seen some bad book to movie scenarios but this takes the cake!  There was NOTHING redeeming in this film!  Now, on the Queen of the Damned website the director or screenwriter (or someone) says that we should expect some changes from the novel.  SOME changes??????  I've read not just the book but the Vampire Chronicles 3 or 4 times through and had a hard time keeping up with this adaptation.  I cannot imagine how someone without a good Lestat background could possibly understand what was going on!  Why in the name of heaven they chose to make this particular book into a film is completely beyond me.  There is SO much background that you really need to have in order to understand what is happening!  It's an extremely detailed story. The characters in the move were all one dimensional (and that's being kind). The characters in the novel have such depth.  Perhaps my loyalty to the written word is way out of kilter but good grief - it was nothing short of butchery. I couldn't believe it.  What was Anne Rice thinking....???????Anyway, if you've read the book(s) I say give it a miss (although, having read the books you'll probably be the only one to even get a GLIMPSE of what is actually transpiring).  If you haven't read the book(s) and are in the mood for a tacky, mindless bit of time well wasted - go for it.P.S. for all of you who really did like the film, I'm sorry, I know my views are really strong but....man....what a mess...... "},{"Title":"Awful...","Date":"28 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie was a major disappointment! If you cant get hold of the original cast you shouldnt make the movie...Tom Cruise is the true Lestat! Lestat in Queen of the damned is a completely different person than in Interview with the vampire and Stuart Townsend isnt good at what he does! Poor Aaliyah, what a way to finish... 2/10 "},{"Title":"It's not a Horror movie, it's a love story!","Date":"12 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I thought Queen of the Damned was going to be a gross horror movie with cheesy vampires in it, how wrong I was. At first the only reason I wanted to see this movie was because I thought Akasha's (played by Aaliyah)costumes looked cool, but to my surprise, this movie was actually a love story-go figure! I was very impressed, especially with Stewart Townsend's performance(he played Lestat, a vampire), he was sexy, mysterious, dangerous, and he had some great lines. Yeah there were some gross parts, but the whole love story between Jesse (a mortal)and Lestat made up for the gross parts.I had to watch it twice to really understand everything that was going on, but it was well worth it!  "},{"Title":" She takes pleasure only in their pain","Date":"11 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Stuart Townsend is illicit as Lestat in this snappy horror movie. The supporting cast is flawed. The costumes are unique. One of the fair films in the genre, Queen Of The Damned provides less scares. 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Nothing special just a decnet vamprie flick","Date":"5 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Queen of the Damned  is nothing more than a vamprie flick. One has to wonder was the film released after a year of being on the shelf just to cash in on Aaliyah's death? Micheal Rymer makes a okay his direction is nice and the special effects are cool but the film has a choppy script. As for the performances Aaliyah and Stuart Townsend are in top form the rest of the cast is ho-hum. Judge for yourelf. "},{"Title":"queen of the heck...","Date":"20 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  You call this a movie ? Well, call it useless waste of time... Why ? Because that is the only thing you do watching this movie. It is horrible, senseless. Weak acting... also, as a quote I saw... Rest in peace Aaliyah (, unfortunately this film should also have been buried with you... "},{"Title":"Excellent piece of vampiric cinema","Date":"9 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  It's been a few days since I saw the movie, so my recollection of the movie is not perfect.  From what I can recall, my lasting impressions of the movie had been that   1.  It was one of the better vampire movies within the last ten years; it beat Interview with a Vampire hands down.   2.  It was an erotic film, and Aaliyah was quite seductive.   3.  It was disappointing in that important scenes were cut from the movie.  (Where did these people learn to edit a movie??  Why in the world they cut out the introductory scenes for the ancient vampires, in addition to a few other important scenes?  Before I saw the DVD feature about the scenes cut from the movie, I had to guess who Armand, etc. was.)   4.  The soundtrack kicked ass.   As with any movie, it was different than the novel.  For example, Lestat could not fly until he drank enough of Akasha's blood in the 20th Century.  At least the movie wasn't as gay as the novel.All in all, it was an excellent movie.  If you had to decide between the DVD and VCR formats, purchase the DVD version.  It has important cut scenes that you can watch after the movie, in addition to a few other features, including background information about the soundtrack.  Jonathon Davis of Korn did an excellent job putting everything together. "},{"Title":"The mother of all vampires has awakened...","Date":"8 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  THE PLOT The Vampire Lestat has been resting for a hundred years. Now, he has risen to send the world of mortals a message about the truth of vampires and their existence. To do this, he has joined a rock band, and brought them great success.However, his music has awakened an ancient evil.Akasha, the mother of all vampires, has risen as a result of the invocations in his lyrics. She wants Lestat to join her and become her king. So they can rule over mankind and bring about absolute destruction!THE ACTING Great acting in this movie. The performances were realistic to the roles the actors portrayed. Akasha I feel was the best represented.THE BLOOD What you would expect from a vampire movie.THE BODY COUNT 6+ although hard to tell (off camera deaths)THE RATING A well done translation of the Anne Rice novel though some parts were lifted from The Vampire Lestat. I have to say the book was better but the movie was still an excellent addition to the vampire sub-genre and is one of my favorite vampire movies. "},{"Title":"* * out of 4.","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Vampire Lestat (Stuart Townsend) awakens from almost a century of slumber. He becomes an instant hit with the public when he becomes a rock n' roll singer who claims to be a vampire. The media and public alike think it is a publicity stunt, however the Queen of the Vampires, Akasha (Aaliyah), knows better and awakens again from many centuries of slumber. She kills her king and immediately sets up to make Lestat her king and gain world domination.The first two thirds of this film are pretty boring and badly done. It's main problems are Townsend's wooden performance, the rest of the usually solid cast making fools out of themselves, and a thin script. However, when Aaliyah finally arrives on screen for the last act things speed up real fast and she turns in such a commanding, sexy and amusing performance that makes the whole film worth watching.Rated R; Sexual Situations and Graphic Violence. "},{"Title":"Sexy","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  In 1994 I saw 'Interview With The Vampire' and decided it was the most sensual and sexy movie I had ever seen, and eagerly awaited the sequel.  In the meantime I read the books, and was a little disappointed, though not dettered in the slightest.  Tonight my wait was finally over when I saw my long awaited sequel...  Despite Tom Cruise's fantasic performance as Lestat in Interview, I think Stuart Townsend did the character justice, while adding something Cruise couldn't have even tried to pull off.  It still retains the sensuality of the first film, though in a darker kind of way.  The visuals were great, though Interview still stands as the greatest Vampire film of all time, this one runs definitely in the top ten. "}{"Title":"Anne Rice it ain't, good? I thought so.","Date":"14 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  MAY CONTAIN SPOILERS!Those of you going to see this film and expecting an exact copy of the book will be horribly disappointed. This is a story based on two books (The Vampire Lestat and Queen of the Damned), and is one version of them. Parts have been changed, left out and not mentioned to give you a whole story and to fit in the time allowed.However, i REALLY enjoyed this film. I am a big fan of Anne Rice and the difference in the story didn't matter to me at all (e.g. one change being who sired Lestat). The settings were well constructed, and i could really see Lestat on the screen. I think that Stuart Townsend really caught Lestat's character, how he wants to exist in both the supernatural and the natural, much more than Tom Cruise did. I found that the people playing the vampire characters were like how i imagined, with only few changes there.Some of the acting by lesser characters was questionable, sort of stiff, but these are not on the screen long enough to really ruin the film.I especially liked how the movements were made to seem more supernatural than those of humans, some may call it flashy effects, but i think that it showed how different vampires are, especially in the 'feeding scenes'.The one thing i would warn against is for people not to expect normal vampire films, this is not Buffy or Blade. Those are made up of 'evil vampires kill good humans, so good humans kill evil vampires', this isn't like that. This film, and the book, are about how the vampires live, what happens to them, evil or good. This film, for me gave a feeling like that only one part of a long story had been told, which is how it should be, what with Vampires living forever.As i have said i really liked this film, which i was happy about since i had heard a lot of critics (mostly middle aged men who this film is not aimed at) say how bad and stupid it was. I think it was a good way of escaping to another world for a couple of hours, which is the whole point of films.I give Queen of the Damned a big thumbs up! "},{"Title":"It's about time!","Date":"8 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Yes, indeed it was about time that a book-to-movie was done properly. Granted, it took two books to put one movie together, but those fans of _The Vampire Chronicles_ by Anne Rice, have been waiting with baited breath to see Akasha and Lestat brought into the proper light. If you haven't read the books, the movie gives you enough history that you can follow along the storyline. If you have read the books, then you finally get to see the atmosphere and hear the voices that until now have been ghostly echoes in our heads. Stuart Townsend was perfect as Lestat. Head to toe and back again vicious and mysterious and bold. Aaliyah brought Akasha an age-old beauty that few others could have done so well. She will be missed. I enjoyed this movie greatly! I've seen it twice and intend to go a few more times! Forget the popcorn, though, it just gets caught between your fangs... "},{"Title":"Good material which went to the wrong hands","Date":"7 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I was, like, REALLY interested in this movie.Ever since I saw 'Interview' on TV, I was fascinated with the moral dilemma of Vampires and its dramatic possibilities. The story on which the movie is based on, is very interesting and offers a possibility of a dramatical, visually powerful Vampire flic.Well, and after that, most things went wrong.First of all, the script is BAD. Scenes which could be giving dramatic thrills are scripted to boredom or even TOTALLY OMITTED! Akasha's second awakening, for example, is brought into the story by Marius saying 'Oh well, yeah, she just woke up, y'know...' This is NOT dramatic. In other moments, the dialogue is so stupid you don't have the slightest idea of what is going on, for example when the part with the Family Tree is 'explained'.Secondly, there are only two people in this movie which could be called 'actors' (Townsend and Perez) and they, well, 'do their best'. Aaliyah just shows her body and beckons around in her stupid accent and could as well just be replaced with an animated character from Final Fantasy. The rest of the actors are, on the main, forgettable. Marguerite Moreau simply makes you wanna run out of the cinema and does make you think about Lestat's motives How can he want to spend eternity with this BORING BORING person? The actor quality does the part to the film which is the greatest sin for a movie wanting to have some drama You don't care about anyone, except maybe for Lestat. Even the beach covered with corpses does only make you feel glad you didn't experience them alive, 'cos they probably would have been bad actors, too.I gave this movie 5 out of 10 because, well, Townsend tries REALLY hard, and I really liked the music part (Jonathan Davis does a good bit here). Besides, the scene with thousands of fans approaching the concert is stunning. The movie design is also very good.Well, maybe the next Chronicles movie is made by the right people. I DO hope so. "},{"Title":"Different Times, Different Story, All different but not worse","Date":"24 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Then I saw a trailer of this movies I was shocked. Why? Becouse it was disgusting. It looked like it will be another street fighter movie... I was scaried, but I've waited to see the final. I've just finished watching The Queen of The Damned and I must say that being suprised is very fine feeling. This movie is so different than Interview with the vampire... It's so modern... just like the book. I think that the Lestat's acting is great... And all this music... If you want to see the sequel of Interview of the Vampire you shouldnt go to the cinema... but if you want to see The Queen of the damned - do it.Darkeye dE Tereasee  "},{"Title":"Damned Fine","Date":"22 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I am not a rabid fan of Anne Rice, but I do enjoy her writing.  So I was interested in seeing Queen of the Damned.  I found the movie not quite as beautifully done as Interview With the Vampire, but it was rather well done nonetheless.  While I wasn't entirely happy with Tom Cruise not returning to play Lestat, I thought Stuart Townsend did a very good job in his place.  He played Lestat as a classic vampire, being both seductive and fear-inducing.  And the late Aaliyah also turned in a very good performance.  However, I can't help but wonder, along with the multitudes of Anne Rice fans, why didn't they make a movie out of Rice's The Vampire Lestat  right after Interview With the Vampire.  The movie just seemed to touch on Lestat's origin briefly.  So, one can only speculate if they will move on to film Tale of the Body Thief, Anne Rice's fouth book in the Vampire Chronicles series. "},{"Title":"Visual junk-food, lots of eye-candy ... a good easy weekend film.","Date":"10 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I enjoyed Queen of the Damned far more than the other Vampire Chronicle adaptation, Interview With The Vampire (I like Jordan's work generally). I think that many people, who like the books, got swept into them into the fun historical milieu and eroticism.  Jordan's film took itself a little seriously and tried to draw that world in too much detail.  This movie knows that the immediate appeals of this novel are the classics of escapism youthful sexuality, delusions of grandeur, and big effect violence. Viewers want all of these and want them serving some simple didactic theme.  In this case, even an egotistic cruel vampire, like Lestat, can have a shred of humanity and will make the choice to serve humanity's best interest (even though to him they are an amusement). The new faces in the cast were good. Aaliyah looks great, but her dialogue was a little flat, nonetheless she shows the same charismatic potential that River Phoenix and Tupac Shakur showed and her untimely death, like theirs, means that her talents will be forever represented as ripening.  I liked Stuart Townsend, his Lestat was sexier and more charismatic than that other fellow who played the part years back. I liked Marguerite Moreau and Vincent Perez but felt that more of their work may have ended up on the cutting room floor.  Not enough of Lena Olin! I wished that they had attended a little more to Louis and some of their backstory (a mention of Claudia and Armand might have been nice.) The presentation of the goths was interesting. I wonder how many of them will see this film and realize that most of them are more like the naieve or dorky characters who the vampires denigrate, than they are like vampires themselves.  Basically, where the novels Interview and Lestat were fun pseudo-history and pseudo-biography, Queen was a little soapy and glitzy. The movie is an eye-candy version of  a word-candy book ... not too nutritious but sensationally satisfying. "},{"Title":"I knew that rock stars were vampires!","Date":"5 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I saw Queen Of The Damned four times, and I  think I'm going to see it again. I really love this movie, and Stuart Townsend who plays vampire rock star Lestat just melts me like butter! Aaliyah was really good in the movie too, as Queen Akasha, the main villain. Some people have dismissed her acting because she was a pop star. But I think she can act better than Britney Spears and Mandy Moore combined.The best thing about the movie for me was the music, especially the songs Forsaken and Slept So Long. Those songs would feel right at home on any modern rock station today, and the videos could play on MTV or any other music channel.There's a minor spoiler ahead10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1Serena Atschul of MTV makes a cameo appearance as herself, introducing a video for Lestat's band. Atschul also appeared in Josie and the Pussycats as herself, introducing that band's videos. It would be so funny and very twisted if Josie and the Pussycats and Queen of the Damned were in the same universe. "},{"Title":"Sometimes incoherent but fun","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Vampire Lestat (Stuart Townsend) awakens from the dead and becomes a rock singer (don't ask).  He taunts other vampires to come out and unwittingly awakens Akasha, queen of the vampires.  She wants Lestat and, with him, rule the world...but the other vampires out there aren't happy with that.  And then there's a human girl, Jesse Reeves (Marguerite Moreau) in love with Lestat...The film really works.  It has two great scary moments--one when Lestat attacks and kills two girls and a fantastic, violent vampire vs. vampires at a Death Valley concert.  Great special effects, flashy camerawork (love how they show the vampires flying), some good acting but the plot has serious problems.  There's way too much for one movie and there are obvious cuts in the film (I'm guessing for time) that render the last section incomprehensible.  I was able to (sort of) follow it but it ruins what could have been a really great vampire film.Stuart Townsend looks good as Lestat (a definite improvement over Tom Cruise) but his acting is only so-so.  He doesn't hurt the film but he doesn't help either.  The late Aaliyah is very good as Akasha--she's sexy, slinky and scary.  There's a scene of her eating a still beating human heart that won't leave me.  However it's Vincent Perez who steals the movie as Marius (the vampire who made Lestat).  He's obviously enjoying himself and it shows.So, it's worth seeing--much better than Interview with the Vampire. "},{"Title":"An insult to Anne Rice","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  When the 90+ minutes of this drivel ended, I felt slighted.  I felt as if I had been cheated of my matinee $5.  As an avid fan of the Vampire Chronicle books by Anne Rice, I wonder how she ever allowed her name to be put on such complete and utter crap.The absolute plot inconsistencies are completely ridiculous.  It is as if the writers took the book, read it, and threw it out the window before beginning the screenplay.  I would understand some small omissions in order to condense a long book into a movie, but drastically changing the integral plot points (such as individual vampires' makers, lovers, and friends) is completely inexcusable.There were only 2 things that I can even imagine complimenting in this movie.  First, the soundtrack.  With bands like Disturbed, Orgy, and Korn on board, the driving rock of The Vampire Lestat was perfectly set.  Second the performance of Stuart Townshend was terrific.  As I read the books, I formed a mental picture of Lestat.  Tom Cruise wasn't it.  Stuart Townshend was. From the patterns of speech to the latent sexuality, to the dark beauty, he was everything Anne Rice described in her hero Lestat.  Townshend's acting was the only reason I gave this a 2 instead of a 1. "},{"Title":"not the best but not the worst","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  It could have had a little more to it and I wish  The Queen of the Damned was in it a little more seeing as she was made up to be the star.The movie was more about Lestat, which should have been expected if you think about it, but still....... . even so, the movie wasn't all that bad. I'd say it's good enough to see again, but not to watch over and over, as it's one of those you'd get sick of easy. The actors did their parts great. It was believable, dark, and sexy. Which , you must admit there are films FAR worse than this.  "}{"Title":"I admit it...I liked it.","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Okay, so it's not the greatest movie I've ever seen. But I can't get it out of my head. I've read the books, and so I was a bit disappointed that tons of things were left out. But THIS IS A MOVIE!!! Tons of things from the book always get left out. So I can accept that. I saw this with another avid Rice reader and we compared notes all during and after the movie. However, Stuart Townsend was just a super Lestat. I never really liked Tom Cruise's Lestat as he seemed too much like Tom Cruise. But that's just my opinion. Anyways, it was an entertaining flick, and a chance to reunite with familiar characters despite the train wreck they made out of the plot. Rice purists will have a lot to gripe about after seeing this one. Fans of Interview with the Vampire should not expect QotD to be the same flick. First of all, it's a completely different movie with different director and cast. Second, Interview is told from Louis's point of view and is told with his tone. QotD is told mostly from Lestat's (in a way) and so it has his wild child tone to it. Different characters, different movies. Both very entertaining... "},{"Title":"Good but not the book","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  If the viewer can manage to take the movie as a separate entity from the book, it can be quite enjoyable. When I sat down the the theater, I expected the books to be portrayed on the screen and was severely disappointed. In retrospect, the movie as a whole expresses the key characteristics of Lestat, the main character. Through that character's music, his personality and essence and be truly seen. The movie removes a few of the critical characters from the book, but still manages to create the ominous overtones... I'd recommend that if you've read the book view it once and be angry, but go back and see it at least once more with an open mind. "},{"Title":"Loved it!","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I went expecting to hate it ..from some of the things I read here..and I walked away loving it..the effects were great, the cast was well picked and I even enjoyed the story. Maybe it is the fact that I haven't read the book..so I wasn't expecting it to be in SOME way...anyway..I enjoyed it..I also enjoyed Interview With a Vampire! I thought both actors, Tom and this one, played their parts very well..I thought it was a great night of entertainment! "},{"Title":"It rocked!!!!","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I thought Queen of the Damned was an excellent vampire movie. I did indeed enjoy all the Vampire Lestat tie-ins that were in the movie as well. And as far as this being the last thing Aaliyah did before her tragic accident that was her demise I don't think that they could have picked a better person for the role.I give it 2 thumbs up!!!! "},{"Title":"Though butchering the book in one fell swoop, still a stunner.","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Alas, if you go to the theaters expecting some sort of unbelievable trek through Anne Rice's books you are going to be distinctly disappointed.  So forget the book, for the most part anyway, and simply enjoy the tale thats been INSPIRED by her wonderful series.The acting was honestly sub-par, some of the early scenes in the movie made me want to snicker.  But once the movie starts to progress you become extremely ingrossed in the entire scene; darkness, loneliness, love, and music music music!  Once you set aside your expectations and WATCH the movie it's really quite a good flick.As for the music, I can't say enough about how amazing it is.  The videos for Lestat's songs are incredible, very dark, and very modern.  If you like Nine Inch Nails, Marylin Manson, Korn, and etc. then you'll LOVE this soundtrack.So in short, don't expect to be DAZZLED by the acting but other wise sit back, shut up, and enjoy the show.  A great movie....and for the record it makes me SICK that it only got a 5.0 rating on here. "},{"Title":"LAME","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Despite the special effects, good muisc and some fine acting Queen of the Damned is a lame movie. Storyline made little to no sense. Most of the vampires a joke.  IF you are into vampires,  go read the Anita Blake series by Laurell K. Hamilton. It's probably the best series with Vampires, but it's about more then Vampires too! "},{"Title":"Good Stuff!","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I went in expecting the worst.  I came out really, really surprised by how much I liked it.  Maybe the key was I was expecting horrible trash because the majority of reviews were soooooo critical.  However, Stuart Townsend was so much better in the part of Lestat, in my opinion.  This movie LOOKED fantastic.  The style was great, especially the whole  Kabinett des Doktor Caligari theme to the Lestat videos and stage show.  It doesn't take itself too horribly serious, either, which should be apparent during the vampire battle during the Death Valley show.  The only part that I thought took away from the film was the whole Talamasca bit.  It just seemed to be in there to help explain so many things that couldn't more easily be crammed into an hour and forty minutes.  So, it was kinda weak, but necessary for production's sake.  That happens sometimes.In all I give it an 8 out of 10.  It was something I wanted to see again right after, which doesn't happen very often and for me tells me it was something good.Also, if there wasn't so much baggage to be taken in with this movie, it would be considered much better.  It kicked John Carpenter's Vampires weak ass!  It was better than Interview... in total value, though the first obviously had a lot more money and production thrown at it.  The story that was arranged for this movie was good, period.  It may have butchered the books, but it's true to itself, and is at least, at the VERY least, as good as the Blade series that's out there.     "},{"Title":"I liked it - thought it was sexy","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I thought this movie was entertaining and very sexy.  It reminded me of dressing up as goth-girl and going clubbing in high school.  The fight scenes were really neat.  Aliyah did a good job as the Queen of the Damned, even though the character itself was very one-dimensional.  I liked Stuart Townsend, too - he was really sexy as vampire-boy.  Yum!  Also I thought it was neat that Claudia Black (Aeryn Sun from Farscape) was in the movie as well.   "},{"Title":"Easily the best new movie of this year so far...and all that I expect from a modern vampire movie","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" For my money, QUEEN far outshines INTERVIEW as an enjoyable movie. The story made perfect sense to me, the characters were portrayed well and interesting to watch, and the effects added to the plot, rather than acting as an excuse for the plot. Alliyah would have been proud of her performance and I think Townsend made a much better Lestat than Cruise's overly-mannered performance. A good popcorn movie, well worth the price of admission....and who cares if it varies a bit from the book....different mediums often require story variations. I even think the soundtrack helped build the mood and style of the film. See it, you'll like it! "},{"Title":"Faithful to the book","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Having read the book definitely helps in understanding the plot, but in appreciating the characters. If you haven't read the book, this is just another vampire movie. I'm very disappointed they didn't tell the twins' story, but... I liked it a lot.  "}{"Title":"It didn't suck Contains Spoilerish Material","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  If you are expecting a faithful rendering of Anne Rice's novel, you will be sorely disappointed.  You will also be somewhat foolish - we all know that it is be nigh on impossible to create the depth of character, landscape, background & mythology in film that one finds in any good novel, let alone novels as densely written as the divine Ms Rice's.If, however, you have the basic common-sense to expect a film loosely based on the Anne Rice novels, you may well enjoy yourself.One reviewer has noted their annoyance at the accents used by certain members of the cast.  In my humble opinion, it seems reasonable that a French nobleman would have a French accent; a Roman would have a Latin accent; an Egyptian would have an African/Arabic accent.  And, of course, as any non-American can tell you, whether or not an accent is irritating is purely subjective.As in any film, there are times when more information on a character, motivation, or background would have been nice.  In this film, more information on Akasha herself would have been invaluable.  Aaliyah (Akasha) herself is shamefully under-used, it's true; however, Stuart Townsend (Lestat)fairly burns up the screen.  Vincent Perez's (Marius) wisdom & puritanical adherence to the rules clashes beautifully with his desire for mortal contact (& obsession with red velvet).  Marguerite Moreau (Jesse) thinks she knows what she wants, but her romanticism cannot withstand a dose of reality.The lack of reference to the history & role of the Talamasca, information about Davaid Talbot, & explaination of Akasha's origins & powers weaken the film.  That said, there is much to enjoy here* Lestat's realisation that the 'MTV-age' is the best possible era for an egotistical vampire to exist in * His revelry in public adoration & notoriety * Marius's jealousy & internal moral wrangling * Maharet's quiet authority * Jesse's panic when faced with the reality of vampirism * Akasha's amusement at Lestat's ego * The tongue-in-cheek observations of the rockstar-fan relationship; our cultural refusal to believe in the supernatural whilst being obsessed with the idea of power beyond our ken; the entertainment industry's identification with the vampire * The sumptuous sets, costumes, make-up, & effects.To summarise Don't go expecting Anne Rice.  Go expecting a vampire film. It's really rather fun.  "},{"Title":"Not the book, but not bad...","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Let's start with what is not so good Being an avid Anne Rice fan, the prospect of my favorite of The Vampire Chronicles making the jump to the silver screen thrilled me. Then I found out how many changes they had made, and I was a bit peeved. There are moments when the speed of the rock videos interspersed throughout the 100 minutes seems to be fighting against some drag in the story. I have a feeling that if the script writers had cut some of the longer camera pans and taken that extra time and another twenty minutes, not only could they have been more faithful to the book (the Legend of the Twins, some more character history), but they also could have fleshed out some more of the characters, especially Akasha, who lacks the complexity that made her such an interesting and seductive villain in the book.That being said, I give the film makers this defense I have a feeling that while a good percentage of the people coming to see this film will be Anne Rice fans, another percentage will be fans of the late Alliyah, a group who I doubt (1) have even HEARD of The Vampire Chronicles, (2) would understand the poetry that made the book so intoxicating, and (3) have the attention span to sit for those additional twenty minutes, much less read the book.Let us, therefore, remove the movie from the book, and look at what was good the pace, though slow at times, did have enough moments to keep you enraptured and get your heart pounding. The camera work helps transport us into the world of the vampire. The story (there ARE elements of the book present) worked and flowed, connecting and explaining most of the questions it posed.As was said above, the characters and their histories could have been established a bit more, but what was there was good. The concerned and wise David Talbot (McGann), the pure passion and power of Akasha, and the weary but ever fighting fatherly figure of Marius (Perez) all transfer to the screen well. While disappointed at the lack of development from Armand (Newton), Pandora (Black), Mael (Manon), Khayman (Spence), and especially Maharet (an albeit luminous Olin), and the complete lack of Gabrielle, Louis, and others, I must give kudos to Stewart Townsend and Marguerite Moreau.The chemistry between the two was AMAZING and one of the best points of the movie. Of everything that was changed from the book, this is perhaps the best and the choice I agree with the most. The conflict, love, and passion between Lestat and Jesse drives the movie and even manages to slip in some of Anne Rice's messages from the book.If you are an Anne Rice fan and you go expecting a near word for word adaption as was seen in Harry Potter and Lord of the Rings, you will be disappointed. If you are looking for something that takes rich characters, plays with them, and creates a fun and (at times) truly intoxicating movie, then spend the money and trust that The Queen of the Damned will take you on a journey you may not want to come back from.   "},{"Title":"I enjoyed Queen of the Damned.","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I know that the movie is getting a lot of negative reviews but it really is a lot of fun. As an Anne Rice fan I really didnt have high hopes for the film, but I was pleasantly surprised. The movie is certainly not perfect, and it presents some information differently from the books, but, despite this, I enjoyed this adaptation much better than Interview with a Vampire. Stuart Townsend makes a great Lestat, much sexier and Lestat-like than Tom Cruise's characterization. It has fantastic special effects, and the Concert scene will knock your socks off. I just hope that, despite the reviews, the movie does well so that we can have more Vampire Chronicles (and definitely more Lestat) on the big screen! "},{"Title":"What a pile of @#!*","Date":"21 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I was unlucky enough to catch this film on a bootleg VCD (I will never pay good money to see films in which African Americans verbally masturbate), and I still felt ripped off. Although I have fully outgrown Anne Rice's shallow, meaningless, and dull vampires, I still felt that her work deserved better than this.Apparently, the filmmakers turned down her offer to pen the script for nothing. They should have been begging her to write a script for them! Not only does this film miss what little point the novel had, it also glosses entirely over everything that makes the characters what they are.While I am on the subject, what the hell is up with the casting directors? An afro (c)rap star as the queen of Egypt? What the *&!%? But wait, it gets worse! They cast a tall, gaunt New Zealander as her *African manservant*. Yeah, you heard me right. How ironic that, in the year that the second part of a highly faithful adaptation of one of the greatest books ever written is due out, they should peddle this unfaithful rendition of a trendy hack's work. I'll bet Stuart Townsend is rueing the day he left that other production. "},{"Title":"Big Pile of Crap, Great Big Pile of Crap","Date":"19 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie is so terrible.  It's just about one of the worst things you could spend your money on.  I saw it for free and still feel like I paid too much.The story is terrible.  A vampire wants to be a rock star???  In order to bring out his pals!!  The dialogue is abominable, the acting even worse. I feel so bad that this is what the film career of Aaliyah will end with. She only has about 3-4 lines and her acting, well, she was a great singer.If you're willing to toss 8 bucks into this, I've got some beautiful ocean front property in Michigan to sell you... "},{"Title":"Good movie, too short","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Queen of the Damned really seemed to be a merging of some content from both the Vampire Lestat and Queen of the Damned novels.  I think it stressed Lestat much more that Akasha, but I believe that is due to the untimely death of Aaliyah, which occurred before filming ended.  Had she lived, this would have been a truly spectacular movie.  Nevertheless, the effects and acting are impressive, and the actors seems well suited to their roles. Stuart Townsend makes a much better Lestat than Tom Cruise. "},{"Title":"A Great Vampire Film For Everyone","Date":"18 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Flawed, yes, but definitely fun and in my opinion masterful. The actor playing Lestat is fantastic as Lestat, as his performance is memorable. All the other performances are memorable as well, I especially liked Aalilah, although she did die about half way through filming, I believe, so the film is less like a vampire/love/rock movie and more like a vapire/rock story following Lestat's rise to fame and his journey and attempts to lead humans. Although there is a love connection, between him and Jesse, the two definitely have on screen chemistry. The music, not only the rock music, is really good, even though I don't usually listen to Korn (the lead singer wrote and performed most of the rock music).Anyways, I never saw Interview with a Vampire, and I don't plan on doing so, Tom Cruise as Lestat? The picture I saw of him was hilarious, I laughed, I also luaghed at the thought that he might have played Lestat in this film.Overall I liked it. "},{"Title":"amazing display of feminine power","Date":"16 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I love this movie, mostly for Aaliyah's incredible performance as the newly revived Queen of the Vampires who is brought back to life and begins to stalk the Earth in search of the perfect mate. The scene in the modern-day vampire bar when she comes slinking in in her archaic glory is iconic when the young male vampire approaches and threatens her, she calmly rips his heart right out of his chest and starts to eat it ... Admittedly, the ensuing attack on her by modern-day vampire posers whom she handily dispatches is filmed in a less than convincing manner--for me these details are overwhelmed by the presence of this electrifying woman. Also, Anne Rice's idea to turn Lestat into a rock star was a stroke of brilliance that is acted out convincingly in this film. This movie is far more worthwhile than the film adaptation of Interview with a Vampire. Aaliyah lives! "},{"Title":"Very good movie... If you haven't reed the book...","Date":"15 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Well, as I read a comment about this movie, I understood why so many people give the movie bad ratings. I liked the movie.. That's why I gave it a 10... But if I would be able to give it a 9,5 I would more, but it isn't possible so... I am not a goth, emo or that kind of a fake-person, I dress up in hip hop pants, shirt, and like this kind of music like in the movie. The only thing that makes the movie not 100% (from me!) is the performance of the music. I don't like how he sings, if you would listen to the Queen Of The Damned OST CD you would understand. He sings way different from the songs. But the way that the movie is built on is great, the persons in the movie has very good character and how they saved the movie when Aaliah died in a harmful car accident, by faking her with some computer effects is just unbelievable.I would say that this movie isn't for everyone, specially not those who can't stand blood, supernatural things, vampires, a.s.o. But you just have to judge the movie by yourself, no one has the same feeling for movies, it could be you like it or not... I loved it... "},{"Title":"Good movie,made me want to read","Date":"24 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" What can I say about Queen Of The Damned?!It was the movie that made me read Anne Rice's Vampires Chronicles.It is a movie worthy of seeing. I liked the way Townsend played his part. But the movie isn't like the book. In The Vampires Chronicles says that another vampire created Lestat but in the movie it's Marius...I also liked the sound and the special effects.One thing I'll always remember is the joke with the reporter...watch the movie and you'll see!!!Anyway,i used to watch this movie once or twice/day.I even wrote the script.PS- Sorry about my grammar mistakes... "}{"Title":"Watch it first","Date":"14 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Personally, I LOVED TRIS MOVIE! My best friend told me about it so i rented it out a watched it. It's amazing! The music, the acting, the story lines the emotion, everything...... well except for one minor fact. Absolutely no loyalty to the books at all. I saw this movie before Interview with the Vampire and before i even knew the books existed, so i was shocked to find how many people actually hated the movie. I picked up quickly that the book fans weren't at all happy with the unfaithfulness, not wanting to be hypocritical (I hate the Harry Potter movies due to lack of book loyalty)i stayed silent. Eventually i picked up The Vampire Lestat and understood immediately why everyone hated it. It is completely different (The movie Queen of the damned is a combination of The Vampire Lestat and The Queen of the Damned). But i still loved the movie from when i saw it before reading any of the books. So if you haven't seen this movie or read the book watch the movie first or you'll hate it. If you have read the book then you have every right to hate this movie. "},{"Title":"Bloody Brilliant!","Date":"8 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I quite this Anne Rice book adaption. While most of the film is filmed here in Australia it offers a great amount of scenery and a fantastic area to shoot in. Lestat (Stuart Townsend) has recently woke up from a long period time of sleep and has decided to betray his vampire oath by revealing himself to a band. When he becomes a popular movie icon his fellow vampires, understadebly, go mad and plot his death. Meanwhile Jesse (Marguerite Moreau) a orphaned member of the supernatural studies, who has an ancient vampire family tree, has become deeply obsessed with Lestat. Her boss David (Paul McGann) understands her obsession and revaeals his obsession with the vampire Marius, (Vincent Perez)who is an ancient vampire and the man who made Lestat a vampire too. Jesse is given Lestats diary and reads of his first killing and an encounter with the Queen of the Damned- Akasha (Aaliyah). When Lestat holds a concert in Death Valley he receives news that not only will angry vampires be there Akasha may come as well. Meanwhile Akasha has other plans. She goes to a vampire coven, a bar, and kills everyone in her path. With Lestat tempted with royality and loving care by Akasha the ancient vampires consisting of Marius and Jesses Aunt Maharet (Lena Olin) plot against them. Join Her Or Die?I thought the film was fantastic, it had great fight scenes, great music and great locations. Aaliyah sadly passed away in a plane crash shortly before the films premiere, but she looked stunning on the set and off the sets.I gave this film 10/10 because it was a fantastic film and I urge you to see it! "},{"Title":"Nice vampire flick","Date":"13 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" nice diversion for a sleepy Sunday afternoon..... This was an entertaining tale of the conflicts in the vampire community...kept me watching, even though I have never been much of a horror fan...reminds me of my first visit to the Rocky Horror show, but with a different slant with the music ....All the actors were all above caliber...who was that gypsy girl with the violin?...Aaliyah, you are missed...her early accidental death in an airplane crash is sad and will be a loss for future film effortsIf you do not like Vampire films, you will like this one...This novel by Anne Rice and the screen play translation by Scott Abbott was excellent....In summary, well done with credit to all "},{"Title":"Lestat, I salute you!","Date":"3 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" As a big Lestat fan i was a little dissed at Tom ( Cruise) he just wasn't Lestat, but then came Stuart ( Townsend) who was sexy, smart and a great actor, he looked like Lestat and sounded like him.I was totally dissed at some of the characters, like Marius, good actor, but looked nothing like him, same goes for Pandora and Mael.Plus the story was totally different from the book, which was annoying, but the music was good and the lead was terrific, i really enjoyed it. Just hope they don't plan on another one.And if they do, please guys choose Stuart as Lestat, he rocks!And this time, keep the story, Anne Rice is an iternational best seller for a reason! "},{"Title":"Great entertainment","Date":"16 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie sits between all chairs Too careless to please die-hard Anne Rice fans towards her epic novels, confusing all others who don't know them - even if you have seen the predecessor Interview with the Vampire to which Rice herself wrote the script.Starting but not stopping with Lestat, it mistreats characters who have become icons to fans The mysterious Marius, Lestat's powerful maker, finds a rather sober incarnation in the short-cropped not-too-beautiful Vincent Perez (the haircut is okay for a classical Roman, but not in the all-out vain Rice universe!) Akasha, mother of all vampires played by the sexy Aaliyah, is not the least bit rusty in her ancient bones and could have been born yesterday - and what happened to her dark-feminist (book) plot to kill or enslave every male on the planet to stop humanity from destroying itself? Pandora and Armand are not even recognizable, but most of all the great Maharet (and her entirely left-out sister Mekare) whose story made up the red string of the novel is not a fraction as impressive as she could be. But then it would be a different film (one to which Rice would have written the script, supposing she didn't because of the above), and maybe one as dark and fraught with tragedy as its predecessor.Instead, this is thrilling, funny and sexy entertainment, and you won't leave the theater feeling depressed. I bought the soundtrack right away, but the music surely isn't to everyone's taste. The story focuses on Jessie of the Talamasca who tracks down Lestat and in the end is made a vampire by him (and they live together happily ever after). The prince of darkness appears more human than ever - bored by immortality, lonely and desperately reckless, this Lestat is dead only on the outside. He plunges into the remote-public guise of a rock star to draw out other vampires - better dead than alone is his motto. Their human-vampiric love affair starts out as mutual fascination with each other's boldness. While all back-row vampires in the movie are over-made-up caricatures, Aaliyah-Akasha is truly frightening - and very believable as a powerful, spoiled half-goddess that rips apart anyone she likes to, though not an old-Egyptian one (as far as we know, ancient queens didn't try to always act in the most sexy way).The end of the movie is the disappointing part - Maharet's ragged band of involuntarily funny creatures sucks beautiful Akasha dry, after traitorous Lestat has drained her enough for them to overpower her. She disperses in a cloud of golden dust, a special effects feast - but seems like it didn't take that much to get rid of her after all. More like a storm in a teacup, compared with Anne Rice's mountainous final struggle. So, 9 out of the 10 it would otherwise have been.I love Anne Rice's books, and I like the first film adaptation, but I think this movie has been treated unfairly in judging it by Lord of the Rings standards. The authors apparently thought that one and a half hours are not enough to deliver more than a snapshot of the Queen of the Damned epic, and they're right. So they based their version loosely on it and made up a new core of their own. Oddly enough this Lestat resembles the one in the novels very much, and Steward Townsend plays him with a funny snobby style full of self-irony that truly brings the voice from the pages to life. "},{"Title":"I loved it!","Date":"3 February 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I thought that this was actually the best vampire movie that I've ever seen. I've seen a lot too. The effects were great, and the casting was brilliant. It was an all around good movie. The makeup and costumes were great too. I would recommend it, but not for kids. It's not a children's movie. "},{"Title":"Great sequel","Date":"26 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I liked this movie very much, especially because I'm a huge fan of Ann Rice her vampire books. The actor who played Lestat was very realistic, also the special effects were great. What I missed a bit is that the movie was not deep enough. In the book is explained how vampires arise and some characters are too superficial. But I can understand why the director has not explained all this, then he had to make a movie of 2,5 or maybe 3 hours. What I really  found great, is that the character of Lestat was really deepened. He's  a kind of devil and enjoys taking lives but at the same time he is very sensitive (the scene with the girl at the fire). He loves being a vampire but he also admires us for our mortality and our weaknesses. For me this movie is a big succes. "},{"Title":"amazing movie","Date":"11 December 2005","Score":"11 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" OK, I HATE goth rock, this movie showed me some appreciation of it. AAliyahs last artistic performance before her death is so seductively powerful, as is Stuart townsend.The actors dark mysterious moods without seeming depressive draw you into a world of supernatural beings,at some stages you feel you are a vampire watching in on lestats progress.A much more modern and darker sequel to interview with a vampire. This one shows less emotion from the characters yet you feel more empathy towards them. A good movie that won't scare you silly but will pull you into a seductive world of make believe. "},{"Title":"Enchanting with the music and the mood.","Date":"3 April 2003","Score":"17 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The movie, although not faithful to the original novels, succeeds in creating modern gothic vampire vision. Somebody tried to insult QotD calling it a 1,5h music video clip. Actually it is a complement. The everpresent gothic music combined with the music-video-like shots made the movie so moody - and Queen of the Damned is a mood-driven story.I do not understand the die hard fans who complain on the modifications of the story. The plot has been modified to be less confusing for viewers who do not know the novels. The number of characters had been lessened and I have no problems with changing Lestat's maker or skipping Mekare's character. The biggest change - the romance of Lestat and Jesse - seemed a very nice addition to me.Actually, I think that a faithful adaptation would be a complete failure. The slow and gloomy mood, that was perfect to XIXth century New Orlean and Louis's angst, wouldn't fit Lestat's rebellion and his music. And while the book can be slow, descriptive and combining multiple elements yet conveying them well, the movie simply cannot do it without turning chaotic. Vampire Lestat and Queen of the Damned can be split into at least three movies - the creators had to choose something.Some of the special effects, like the flying or walking out of the flames were the only thing I actually didn't like in this movie. But Akasha's death was very nice. The cast was good, Stuard Townsend was convincing as Lestat, especially on the concert, but I preferred Banderas as Armand. I loved Jesse, Maharet and Marius though. And of course Aaliyah was perfect with her quasi-ancient-Egyptian accent.So if you are into gothic music and vampiric dillemas of loneliness and eternity (and you don't consider books to be movie scenarios) Queen of the Damned is one of the few movies which show vampires as something more than blood sucking monsters. But please do not compare it to the Interview movie. It has a completely different style, precisely as much different as different were Louis and Lestat. Personally I find it thrilling first to watch a vampire's existence from Louis' bottled hunger point of view, and then switching to one devoid of all morals but surprisingly outgoing for a vampire, Lestat.I'd give Queen 8 of 10 as it had some technical flaws, but I decided to give it 9 as it's vastly underrated by people who hate it simply because it didn't match their vision of the books, which can be clearly seen by looking at the votes breakdown. "},{"Title":"This is an amazing movie.","Date":"14 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I remember disliking this movie the 1st time I saw it, but it has grown on me. I love the costumes and poses the actors make, the humor, the cinematography, the soundtrack. The scenes are very rich, and it moves very quickly. Every time I watch it, there is something new that catches my eye. Aaliyah as Akasha is probably the only thing that ruins it, but not enough.Also, the Lestat in this movie IS different, it is not the same character. You can see that the character Armand has been given Lestat-like qualities because I'm assuming Anne wanted it in. But there is no reason to trash this movie just because it's not like books, it's a fascinating by itself. "}{"Title":"disasterdisasterdisaster","Date":"29 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" having read the series of books, i would say this film went through a very bad process between being book and film. ie somebody with a low IQ read it and tried to find three key themes, then getting ones that weren't there. try grief, lesbianism, severe depression.when i started watching i was just hoping to see cool immortals with powers done with a big budget, but the more i watched this film the more i thought about how unfaithful it is. i am a lesbian.anyway, the acting is poor, the makeup is only sexy on females, the script is tosh, the idea of the books is lost completely, the production is low-rent. All in all i definitely like it. "},{"Title":"The biggest disappointment in my life","Date":"24 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I do not know where to start with this. After reading Queen of the Damned, the book written by Anne Rice, I was so ecstatic to be finally seeing the movie. But as the movie progressed, that ecstasy that I felt for the book turned into disappointment for this movie.BOOK vs MOVIE As we all know, whenever books are made into movies, most of those movies, are nothing like what they're supposed to be and this one is the same with them. It's really really different from the book. Its plot wasn't copied, I think that they just used the book for names and such. And also, the book is a masterpiece, compiled and put together by one of the smartest being on earth. If you were turned off by this movie and opted to not read the book, then you are so missing a very great chapter in your life!STORYLINE It was bogus. Anybody could make that up. A story where the main lead (ML) was lonely needed somebody, found that special someone (SS), said bogus line, but was caught in the net of someone, not quite beautiful but more of a s*** (S), if you know what I mean. Then S is bad who wants SS to die by the hands of ML who turns back on S. LOOOONG story short, SS and ML live happily ever 'till death do them part, which is unlikely since we ALL know that they live forever. EFFECTS I was expecting more, since hello, DUH!!! These are the Warner Bros. we're talking about! I mean a year before they made the greatest movie ever! Harry Potter with very, VERY awe-inspiring effects. Then we just get crappy burning effects and decomposing, audiences doubled in the concert arena and don't forget the flying and jumping and grabbing hold of their so-called victims. Oh wait, that last part when the spirit inside Akasha went out and it was like doing the atom-like movements around her, it was almost okay, almost that is.CHARACTERS If you are particular to the vampire world, authors would usually say that they are the most beautiful creature that roam the world, that wherever they go if not concealed turns heads around, not literal of course, but the only person who was beautiful was Lestat aka Stuart Townsend. Jesse (M. Moreau) was beautiful too, just that she was better looking when she was still alive and not in her vampiric state. I don't know what to make of their acting since I do not really know on how to judge it, but one thing's for sure, Stuart Townsend is the best looking vampire actor in the world who beats Edward(Rob Pattinson) hands down! And Townsend is better at acting too.TOTAL All in all, if you're intrigued, I'd rather you just watch it online, no need to get out of your house to go out and rent it for you're just wasting your time. But, as I've said before if you're interested about the whole queen rising up again and rocker vamp next to her, go and look for the book, it's worth it and there are tons of lessons to learn from this book. OTHER COMMENT I wish that they'd make another movie out of this. They'll follow the real sequence that was in the book, find more people who are pleasing to the eyes to play the parts of the vampire people. And that they use Townsend again to play as Lestat with his cool and angelic voice that sounds demonic which doesn't make sense but if you listen to him you'll understand. "},{"Title":"Without spoiling the contents of the movie, I can only say that it bored the hell out of me.","Date":"10 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I can see how this movie could work for some pseudo-goth teenage girls who find Townsend attractive... With that lame accent no less.But I'm not a teenage girl... or a pseudo-goth for that matter...While watching movies inspired by books, I try to be unbiased by reading the said books. The fact that this movie butchered the books wouldn't matter to me if it were a meaningful, interesting to watch movie that could stand by itself (not that something like that happens very often). This one didn't work that way.To put it simply, the movie is mind numbingly boring. The plot inspires no thought beyond the possible the guy is hot/the music is great reaction. Since I don't care whether the guy is hot, and I don't find the music at all original or interesting, I can only wish this were a music video instead of a movie. That way it would waste less time than it did. "},{"Title":"AALIYAH, SEXIEST VAMPIRE IN CINEMA HISTORY, SADLY NOT ENOUGH OF HER!","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" QUEEN OF THE DAMNED (2002) *1/2 Stuart Townsend, Aaliyah, Marguerite Moreau, Vincent Perez, Lena Olin.  Dreadfully abysmal adaptation of Anne Rice's cult novel continuing the morbid tale of doomed vampire Lestat (this time the boring Townsend who suggests an unearthed River Phoenix) who decides to out himself as a lord of the undead by becoming a global rock star (!)  The only thing horrible is the dialogue no thanks to the anemic screenplay by Scott Abbott and Michael Petroni and zip chemistry between Townsend and the barely present Moreau.  Sadly this was r&b chanteuse Aaliyah's last onscreen performance in her budding film transition and although she acquits herself from this unholy mess (she's the best thing about the misleading titular vamp; you'd think the filmmakers would've been savvier to showcase her for the entire flick!) &#150; and a few cool special effects sequences &#150; she deserved a better cinematic epitaph. (Dir Michael Rymer)  "},{"Title":"Best vampire movie ever!","Date":"19 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I don't understand how people didn't get this movie. It has everything! Love, darkness, horror, great music...it is very sexy movie. Best part (to me) is when Queen offers hers lover everything- eternal life and all the wealth in the World, but he chose something else... Love it! There is lot of very bad movies about vampire and they have great ratings here, so I don't get how this great movie is rated so poor. I've seen this movie many many times now and still love to watch it like the first time. Lestat and Queen Akasha are totally sexy Vampires, dark and cruel. The film leaves you thinking that you could decide if you were in his place. Would you accept what it offers Queen Akasha or human Jesse Reeves? I am not fun of vampire movies and think they are for teens, but this one is for watching with your loved one at your date night ) "},{"Title":"Music and vampires over storyline","Date":"15 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I don't know why people assume that just because a movie is based on a book it has to have the same storyline. And it happens very often actually when someone makes a book adaptation we expect to see the characters as we imagined them and the background about them as well. But what we need to understand is that when someone bases the movie on a book, it only mean that they are going to use their names maybe some major storyline, they might even only use names and the fact that they are vampires. It doesn't necessarily mean that it have to be all the same as the book.That being said I have to say that as for the movie, it is not a masterpiece, but it did become a cult. Probably, it wasn't because of the script, but that doesn't change the fact that at least every goth or vampire loving person knows the movie and it is highly possible that he/her saw the movie. For me it was actually a nice easy going movie. I can watch any time. O actually saw the movie more than I can count. And to be honest I don't know why it has such a bad reviews all the time. I mean for Stuart Townsed was genius as vampire. And Jessee was great and Marius and the girl with violin. If you really think about it, it is very sentimental, romantic and about someone who is lost for so long and found by love at the end. It is so clich and so predictable, but also it is very controversial, because of the music that is provided.I think you will all agree that QoTDhas one of the best soundtracks ever. For me personally it was a start of being addicted to that kind of music. It is shame that didn't find an actor who could actually sing, I believed Stuart when he was singing. I can't imagine for example Jonathan Davis to be Lestat even though he sings his songs. Also we had Chester from LP, Deftones or Marilyn Manson. It was really incredible. Or the violin parts, it has kind of ethereal feel to it. I think about the movie more as musical than a serious piece about vampires. At least they didn't sparkle and had fangs. "},{"Title":"One of my all-time favorites!","Date":"6 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie is one of my all-time favorites. It is mostly about loneliness in the wider sense and not just the loneliness of an immortal. Just so I can get this out of the way, I am really tired of Ann Rice fans complaining about how it is different from the book. I haven't read the book to be honest, and I don't see a reason why I should. Same way that all Ann Rice fans felt that they absolutely had to go and watch the movie so that they can go and complain about it.I have watched the movie plenty of times and every time I love it a little bit more. You have to appreciate the enormous talent of Aaliyah in this one as well as what Stuart Townsend has tried to bring to the Lestat character. The supporting cast does a great job, too. The atmosphere is purely magical and the music is just sensational. Just reading the list of contributing artists will tell you that it was a big deal.I am not really in the whole vampire experience but I feel that this movie should be recognized as a classic within the genre. "},{"Title":"Not bad at all","Date":"1 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie has been a favorite of mine ever since I first saw it and I still like every bit of it with a very few exceptions. At first when I heard they were making a movie on Anne Rice's third book I prayed they don't take Tom Cruz again for the role of The Vampire Lestat and thank god they didn't and thank god again they chose Stuart Townsend. After reading 3 books in which The Vampire Lestat had featured, I had formed a definite image of him in my mind, of a bold but very sensitive immortal and Stuart Townsend's performance as The Vampire Lestat is the best performance as a vampire I have ever seen while that of Vincent Perez as Marius is severely lacking - nowhere in the movie does he manage to portray himself as an ancient Vampire and being superior to Lestat in elegance and power of character and his performance is one of the shortcomings of the film. Coming to other things, after seeing the movie for the first time I felt disappointed that they changed many things from the chronicles but at the same time, I did not fail to appreciate how so many other things like the spirit of Anne Rice's tales were still there in the movie and the music they included was simply spectacular. If The Vampire Lestat were real and would make a musical album he might write the exact same one. As for things being changed I understand their reasons.. Anne Rice's chronicles of Vampires is too huge a tale and there's no way they could cram every thing in a 2 hour movie. They had to include the essence of it and still have it make sense and changing a few things here and there had to be done.As for the special effects, it does look artificial at times and is a little too excessive, they should have relied less on it and relied more on the old disappearing from one place to another instead of showing them blurringly flying perhaps. Anne Rice did however explicitly state that her Vampires were capable of all this and it was an attempt to be as true to the book as is possible. "},{"Title":"what i really think of queen of the damned!!!!","Date":"31 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" i think queen of the damned pretty much sucked! i did like the end, and feel if the rest of the film had been like this then it might have been good. vincent perez was the only good thing about this poor excuse, but from what my friends tell me the book sucks too! i wish i had paid more attention though because i might have seen jonathan davis from korn in it as a scalper. all in all i was not too impressed with it, but felt it was a better film than Dracula 2000, which is not even worth watching. i think aaliah did well as the queen but to be brutally honest i wouldn't watch this again. i probably would recommend it to someone who can't be bothered reading the book and when there is absolutely nothing else on t.v. that would be the only time to watch this film!! "},{"Title":"Weak","Date":"16 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Vampire movies are a genre filled with many absolutely detestable movies. Sometimes a miracle happens and a Vampire movie can be very entertaining. But most of the time it turns out like Queen of the damned unwatchable.Lestat (you know, the character from Interview with the vampire) wakes up and needs a way to cope with todays society. He decides to become a rock star, and his music wakes up the Queen of the damned. A vampire queen that has been asleep for centuries, now she wants to rule the earth with Lestat as her husband.This movie displays almost everything that is wrong with Vampire movies. The acting first of all is terrible. Everyone walks around trying painfully hard to look cool in leather and rubber, most of them using thick fake accents since apparently no Vampire has ever learned to speak proper English. Worst here is Vincent Perez as the man who made Lestat a Vampire. Second of all it always seems that every film-maker doing a Vampire-movie has to try and introduce some sexual tension. Apparently Vampires are very seductive and alluring, something that the actors are usually completely inept at portraying. Stuart Townsend as Lestat falls completely flat in his attempt.There has been much talk about Aaliyah and this film since it was her last role before her tragic death. But it's hard to comment her performance considering she was not actually on screen very much. Her thick accent was not flattering though and personally i wish she would have had something other than this as her last performance.There is so much i could write about why you should stay away from this movie. But what's the point, it seems these movies have their loyal following no matter how poorly made they are. So i guess fans of the genre might as well watch it, while everybody else can stay far away from this. I rate it 3/10. "}{"Title":"Why won't the hurting stop?","Date":"4 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Oh, it hurts... It hurts my head... I fear watching it might cause an aneurysm. And I could spit in the face of anyone who dares compare Stuart Townsend to Tom Cruise. There's no contest. Tom understood the character, felt for him, became him. Anne Rice, herself, said he was the perfect Lestat and called Townsend's... Whatever that was as being too cold and humourless and not her Lestat but these teeny boppers (Oh, dear, I'm labelling) can't accept that and latch on to what they consider to be a pretty face. Townsend wasn't playing Lestat. He was playing Dracula in a leather coat but I could rant for hours about that.When Tom Cruise played Lestat in Interview with The Vampire there was layers to the personality. The pleading look as he asks 'Do we forgive each other then?' The way he worried for Louis as Louis ran out into the rain, the way he saved Louis from the fire, the angst the personality it was all there.WIth Stuart Townsend you had nothing. The acting was wooden. Shallow. And even if you had never read the Anne Rice novels this movie doesn't stand up on it's own. It makes little sense. And the 'hero' kills innocent girls at random because according to the director's commentary good and evil are too abstract to feed on evil doers as he did in the novels. What's so abstract about killing murderers who feel no remorse? Good and evil were major themes in the book but anyway... Aside from the book this 'hero' had to be told twice that Akasha had killed her old king from two completely different characters. And each time he was surprised. Talk about a short attention span. This movie was designed to appeal to people with a very low IQ and little respect for the original source material, be it Interview with the vampire the movie or the novels. And as a stand alone film I don't think I'd even tolerate it on Mystery science theatre.I did like the songs Forsaken and Not meant for me so I'll give it credit for that but ONLY that. Fortunately for us people who actually have a mind of our own and care about character personalities we have the Sir Elton John's The Vampire Lestat Broadway musical to look forward to. "},{"Title":"Utter garbage","Date":"1 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I had some time to kill, and being a fan of the books, decided to watch this. I'd heard it was bad, but had no idea how much worse than the rumors it actually was.Bad acting, bad music, bad cinematography. Laughable special effects. Incomprehensible plot. The list goes on. It was as if the director decided to pander to the MTV generation's Goth base, but instead, insulted their intelligence and aesthetics at the same time. That's a good trick, right there. The movie is like a 103 minute music video for a Godsmack-inspired Monkees.If you are a fan of Anne Rice's books, you will hate this movie for the massive changes to the story arc. If you have not read the books, you will not understand the story. My recommendation? Don't even bother with it. "},{"Title":"Somewhat Silly","Date":"25 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I`ve never read The Vampire Chronicles by Anne Rice but I do vaguely remember seeing INTERVIEW WITH THE VAMPIRE , of which QUEEN OF THE DAMNED is a sequel . Lestat is now played by Stuart Townsend instead of Tom Cruise and our vampire anti-hero decides to become a rock star . Doesn`t that premise sound slightly silly ? It does to me and it`s not helped by the way the characters in the story react to the idea that a rising rock star is indeed a vampire . If Marilyn Manson claimed to be a blood sucking vampire would he become an even bigger media sensation ? I don`t think so either . Having said that if Michael Jackson claimed the same thing that would explain a lot , like for example why he looks so pale and avoids sunlight . Oooppps better not go there guys As I said I`ve never read Anne Rice so I`ve no idea how it`s been adapted to screen but as you may expect from a tale about a rock star vampire there`s a bit too much MTV imagery involved . Stuart Townsend plays Lestat very well ( Though I doubt if he`d been successful as Aragorn - He`s a bit too young ) with the right amount of sexiness and camp . Unfortunately the rest of the cast are a bit too poe faced to make much of an impression especially former DOCTOR WHO Paul McGann . There`s another problem with the cast and that`s the minor  British  characters . As I was watching the movie I couldn`t help noticing that they didn`t have British accents , they had  Strine  accents , strine being the variant English accent that Australians speak . It wasn`t until I came to this page to write this review that I discovered that QUEEN OF THE DAMNED is an American /Australian co-production and that most of the minor Brit characters are indeed played by AussiesAt the end of the day QUEEN OF THE DAMNED may appeal to horror / Lestat fans and MTV addicts but I found it a silly film that takes itself far too seriously at the same time      "}]