[{"Title":"Totally great","Date":"18 July 2004","Score":"36 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Dangerous Lives of Alter Boys is kind of like a cross between The Virgin Suicides and Stand By Me. Set in the 70's (featuring many cool 70's haircuts) in small town Georgia, the story focuses on Francis, a 14-year-old dreamer and troublemaker. He and his pals, Tim, Wade, and Joey cope with life under the oppressive rule of one-legged nun Sister Assumpta (Jodie Foster) at the Puritan Christian high school they're unfortunate enough to attend. One of their methods of escape is the 'The Atomic Trinity' comic book. Each of them have their own character with superpowers (such as The Muscle, Captain Asskicker and Skeleton Boy), battling against the tyrannical regime of Nunzilla/Pegleg (a gross caricature of Sister Assumpta). These fantasy stories make up the terrific animated sequences of the film. The cool thing is that they are not so totally removed from the reality of Francis, Tim, Wade and Joey.The boys soon find their way into a lot of trouble though. After stealing the school's nun statue mascot the quartet plan to steal a cougar from the zoo and put in Sister Assumpta's office. A mad plan yes, but their determination and invention behind it is very clever.Some scenes of the film are very emotional, so if you have soft spot you'll find it tough to get through the scene where Tim finds a dying dog by the side of the road or Francis reading a poem at the funeral.Francis' relationship with Margie (the very cute Jenna Malone) also takes many curious and unique turns. The scene with the ghost watching them sleep was pleasingly weird. Taken from the one and only book (posthumously) by Chris Fuhrman (a book I must get as soon as I see), The Dangerous Lives of Alter Boys is attractively shot, wonderfully acted and definitely worth getting.The DVD is in 1.851 widescreen (strangely non-anamorphic, though the region 2 version is) with Dolby 5.1 sound and a mild bunch of extras.  "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Great Original Coming to Age Movie","Date":"19 September 2005","Score":"27 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" In the Seventies, the fifteen years old troublemaker and leader altar boy Tim Sullivan (Kieran Culkin) and his three great friends, Francis Doyle (Emile Hirsch), Wade Scalisi (Jake Richardson) and Joey Anderson (Tyler Long), study in a repressive Catholic school, and they hate their nun-teacher Sister Assumpta (Jodie Foster). Francis has a crush on Margie Flynn (Jena Malone), who has a dramatic secret in her life. They like to write a comic book called 'The Atomic Trinity' and all of them have an alter-ego in their superheroes Brakken (Francis), The Muscle/Skeleton Boy later (Tim), Captain Asskicker (Wade) and Major Screw (Joey), with Sorcerella (Margie) joining them later. Francis uses to fantasize reality with the fantastic situations the heroes face against the evil Nunzilla/Pegleg, a dark caricature of Sister Assumpta. The group plots an evil prank against Sister Assumpta, with tragic consequences.The Dangerous Lives of Altar Boys is a surprisingly great original coming to age movie, one of the best I have ever seen in my life. The group of friends recalled me 1986 Stand by Me or part of 1981 Four Friends and the dramatic situation recalled somehow 1999 The Virgin Suicides. The screenplay, alternating animation with film, is great the boys escape and fantasize reality through their alter egos. The performance of the young cast is also excellent. Jodie Foster, as the severe teacher, and Vincent D'Onofrio, as Father Casey, magnificently complete this wonderful cast. I could never imagine Jodie Foster in such role. I highly recommend this great movie, much unknown here in Brazil. My vote is nine.Title (Brazil) Meninos de Deus (Boys of God) "},{"Title":"Growing Up Catholic","Date":"29 April 2005","Score":"24 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I came across this indie gem one day at my local Blockbuster. I looked at it and it seemed like it would be an o.k. way to kill two hours. There was really nothing else in the videostore, so I decided to rent it. Boy, am I glad I did. I really appreciated the movie and related to it, after all I do go to a Catholic High School. 'The Dangerous Lives of Altar Boys' is actually a great coming-of-age tale set in the Catholic school setting of the 1970s. Just by reading the title I thought it was about pedophile Catholic priests or something, but it's really about two friends who are the altar boys at their church/school and their adventures as they discover what's life is all about... or their interpretation of it.The two boys in 'The Dangerous Lives of Altar Boys' are Francis Doyle (Emile Hirsch - The Girl Next Door, The Emperor's Club) and Michael Sullivan (Kieran Culkin - Igby Goes Down, Home Alone). They are two fifteen year old rebels that have a passion for comics and writing and illustrating their own. They despise their tough-as-nails and strict one-legged Catholic nun school teacher, Sister Assumpta (played by Two Time Academy Award Winner Jodie Foster - The Accused, The Silence of the Lambs). The two boys make themselves their own creative superheroes in their comic and have Sister Assumpta be the evil motorcycle peddling nun from hell that the two superheroes battle, along with the boys' other two friends who provide superheroes for their comic too. The film switches from real-life to the creative comic book setting during conflicts in the story, and I think that it's done very stylish and neat. The two boys rebel against their teacher and misbehave in front of her constantly, especially Michael (Culkin) who drives her absolutely nuts. The boys rebel by doing other things that the nun doesn't know about like, drink, smoke pot and steal and damage church property. The film contains some funny moments, and as the story unfolds Francis (Hirsch) becomes interested in the girl who lives next door to him Margie (Jena Malone - Saved!, Cold Mountain), a cool, nice, beautiful and independent girl with a deep and dark secret that challenges Francis. I won't give it away though.There are many great aspects to this film. Most notably is the acting. Emile Hirsch is nothing short of incredible as the genuine misfit Francis and Jena Malone is equally as good as the sweet yet complex Margie. Jodie Foster is hysterical and always a pleasure to watch as the uptight Catholic school nun and 'Law & Order Criminal Intent's' Vincent D'Onofrio has a somewhat small role as an interesting Catholic school priest who smokes like a chimney. The stand-out of the film however is Kieran Culkin. He is definitely the most talented performer in his family, and he gives an astounding performance as Michael Sullivan that puts him on the top of the list of the best child actors working in Hollywood currently. Culkin gave an equally amazing performance in Burr Steer's neurotic and darkly hilarious film debut 'Igby Goes Down' which was released the same year as 'The Dangerous Lives of Altar Boys'. Peter Care does a fabulous job with this, his feature film debut, and the valley's Todd MacFarlane (creator of Spawn) provides the comic book illustration for the animated scenes. All in all this is a great coming-of-age movie, with a lot of heart and intelligence. It has some flaws like dragging a little towards the beginning, being a little unclear towards the end and having some freaky and unnecessary ghost sequence towards the middle of the film. I'd recommend this to anyone who attends Catholic High School because it is a great movie but it's also something you could relate to. Next time you are at the videostore and can't find anything to watch, maybe pick up 'The Dangerous Lives of Altar Boys'. Chances are you won't regret it. Grade B+MADE MY TOP 300 LIST AT #245 "},{"Title":"Live Dangerously! (spoilers)","Date":"4 August 2004","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Dangerous Lives of Altar Boys is based on the bildungsroman novel by Chris Furhman, who, unfortunately died of cancer during the revision of his novel, which was later published by a friend. Judging by the last chapter (although it is narrated from the first person point of view of Francis Doyle), I assume that the novel is based on Fuhrman's own actual childhood experiences and developed into a comic book of the same title. Unfortunately, while both the novel and the movie are quite good, the movie lacks some of the structure as well as more significant, yet controversial images than does the film (for obvious reasons on this latter point--they are catering to younger audiences and pre-teen sex doesn't go over well with your always alert conservative censors). Likewise, the novel, which is set in Savannah circa 1970 and deals with heated issues of racism (and our characters recognition of the fallacies of generalization). It was risqué enough to develop a movie which contains among its characters a young school girl who has not only engaged in an incestial relationship, but also attempted suicide. This is the story of four boys in at Blessed Heart, a Catholic School for Boys. Francis Doyle (Emile Hirsch) and Tim Sullivan (Kieran Culkin) are figures that model Tom Sawyer and Huck Finn (although Francis is ruled by considerably fewer rules than Tom's Aunt Polly reserved for her own boy). Tim Sullivan is the inspiration for the gang, living the credo that danger and trouble is their only defense against boredom. Partly, their only defense against the absurd rules of society and the meaningless ritual of adults (our character Tim is of the Holden Caufield variety), is a comic book (The Atomic Trinity) which the friends create, which parallels their various coming-of-age experiences with pranks and first love and so forth. Part of the screen time is shared with animated scenes of our comic book heroes at work. Francis and Tim seem to differ on their goals, however. For Tim, his goal is the revolt against Sister Assumpta (Jodi Foster) who embodies most of the absurd rules as head of the Catholic School. For example, she is the one who confiscates Tim's copy of a book by William Blake (I think it was called 'The Creation'), and as such, is seen as an unruly censor. Tim is out to defy that absurdity. His character is the bildungsromane type more Francis. His character is much smarter, much more aware of his surroundings. But sadly, it is all he is focused on. As you see in the comic book scenes, he is the hero who is only concerned with bringing down the flaming skull, which is actually Sister Assumpta. Blessed Heart represents everything finds wrong with the world around him.Francis, too, may be disgusted with the hypocrisy of the Catholic teachings and Blessed Heart in general, but his disgust with the world and likewise his concern is Margie Flynn (Jena Malone), his first true love. Flynn is an utterly sad character in a film where you might just expect boyhood pranks on unsuspecting authority. Flynn is a young quiet girl who attempted to kill herself because she thought she was going crazy and hated herself for an incestial relationship she carried on with her brother. Francis, through his real actions and through his comic book hero image, tries to rescue the frail Margie Flynn. She is the girl he is forever in love with, and her frailty may in part be part of the oppression he sees (like Tim). They don't tell much about her parents or brother in the movie, but in the novel, they are divorced and Donnie Flynn is a real sadistic creep, at least towards Francis and the other boys. Margie Flynn is really a difficult character to endure, particularly for younger audiences, considering the circumstances. The story starts out like another 'Heaven Help Us' type (only more intellectual and much funnier) of Catholic School boys run amuck, but the introduction of Margie's character puts a weird spin about things. I'm not sure that they developed her character enough for this movie, although much of the focus within the Flynn-Doyle relationship was on Francis and not really Margie. Maybe if Emile Hirsch didn't always act so spaced out all the time, this aspect of the story might've been more effective. Meanwhile, when the four boys's comic book is confiscated by Sister Assumpta, the boys (Tim in particular) get the idea that they're going to get retaliation on Blessed Heart and, in particular, Sister Assumpta (amongst all other things that they think need revolting against in that William Blake revolutionary sense that Tim abides by) by releasing a panther (in the novel, it was just a bobcat) into the school. By doing so, they would be declared the local legends of danger. This is going to be their mark of importance. This is when each of the boys start questioning their loyalty to this unofficial pact of a crusade for danger. Francis and Tim (the closet of the four friends), too, start questioning just how far they're willing to go because, their idea of importance changes. For Tim, it's all or nothing. For Francis, he's second guessing just how easy (and necessary) such a prank would be and also, is meanwhile, wrapped up in his own little world with Margie Flynn.This is one of those coming-of-age films with young characters who have a heightened sense of self-awareness and such in the style of 'Stand by Me' and hell, even 'Fandango' and so forth. It's funny and it's sad. Overall, it's a pretty good movie worth catching. Live dangerously!  "},{"Title":"Tries hard but story lacks conviction","Date":"10 April 2004","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Young boys growing up and experiencing life while going to a Catholic school is a fairly familiar story and when it ends I asked myself if this film had anything new to offer. It doesn't but there are some effective moments and performances that keep this from being a total disappointment. Story takes place in the 1970's at a Catholic school called St. Agatha's and four young boys are the central characters. Francis Doyle (Emile Hirsch) and Tim Sullivan (Kieran Culkin) are best friends along with Wade (Jake Richardson) and Joey (Tyler Long) and the four of them pull preposterous pranks against their school and also collaborate on a comic book story that is called The Atomic Trinity. At school they are constantly being criticized by Sister Assumpta (Jodie Foster) who is a very strict nun and one night they decide to steal a statue from the school and instantly they are suspected of the crime. Francis starts to date Margie Flynn (Jena Malone) and they get along very well until she confides in him a very dark secret.*****SPOILER ALERT*****Margie tells Francis that she had an incestuous relationship with her brother and now he is unsure about how to continue dating her. He asks Father Casey (Vincent D'Onofrio) for some advice but doesn't get the answer that he is seeking. Meanwhile, Tim has devised a plan on tranquilizing a cougar and putting into Sister Assumpta's room but during this prank something horrible occurs.This film is directed by Peter Care who has directed many music video's but this is his first effort with anything resembling a budget. Care does an adequate job of telling this story but the script lacks conviction in both plot and character development. Culkin is the king of all pranks and clearly doesn't take what is taught to him in school seriously but in one scene while carrying a dying dog he starts to yell about this animal not being cared for. This reveals a dark part of his persona but the script never dwells into it and we are left wondering about this part of him. The part of the plot about Malone and her brother seems a bit overwrought for the mood and tone and I never had a sense of what this film was trying to say. A film like American Graffiti could balance both comedy and drama but one of the flaws here is that this film does not do that well at all. Both Hirsch and Culkin are solid and Malone continues to show great promise but the script lacks focus with their roles in correlation with the rest of the film. Foster for the most part plays her part one dimensionally and uninspired and seems to just go along with what was written for her without developing the character for her own. The only originality comes from the film balancing both the live action and the animated sequences and it does a fairly good job of reflecting their inner most fantasies through their comic book stories. The films comedy isn't as humorous as Heaven Help Us and it also doesn't possess the dark tone and edge of The Devil's Playground. This film attempts an emotional ending but with the lack of focus and conviction in the story it doesn't occur.  "},{"Title":"Evocative and funny...","Date":"13 September 2003","Score":"12 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Group of Catholic schoolboys in the mid-1970s are obsessed with comic books, girls, and wreaking havoc on their most hated teacher, Sister Assumpta (Jodie Foster, in a nun's habit, somewhat uneasily cast but still quite good). A surprisingly rich, rewarding film about adolescence puts other, more popular films in this genre to shame. The scruffy, nostalgic era is captured nicely, and the young players really shine. Spiked with wonderful animated sequences, the film failed to catch on with its target audience yet is otherwise intelligently crafted and often very moving. Foster also served as co-producer. *** from **** "},{"Title":"Sweet Look At Young Love, with Original Animation Fantasy","Date":"12 December 2005","Score":"11 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Dangerous Lives of Altar Boys is very similar to Stand By Me, with   the nice addition of a non-stereotyped girl and a stereotyped nun   (played by producer Jodie Foster) in the mix.     Young love is shown the sweetest I've seen in a long time (oy, I'm   still apologizing to a certain boy in my head when he was so sweet to   me at that age and I didn't know how to handle it; oh well, I didn't   have a script based on a book to follow.)    Emile Hirsch and Jena Malone are marvelous, especially with the very   serious sides of their lives, though the lousy parenting is only   vaguely shown with shouting.    While the gambits of their crew are a bit unbelievable as they try to   put fantasy into their real lives, their fantasy comic life through   Todd McFarlane animation is a lot of fun (I was a fan of McFarlane's   HBO series Spawn.) I've never seen a super-hero with such sensitive   eyes!     (originally written 6/23/2002) "},{"Title":"IMMACULATE CONCEPTION","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"12 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  THE DANGEROUS LIVES OF ALTAR BOYS (2002) *** Kieran Culkin, Emile Hirsch, Jena Malone, Jodie Foster, Vincent D'Onofrio, Jake Richards, Tyler Long.  Funny and poignant coming of age story centering on two Catholic school adolescents (Culkin and Hirsch both superb) whose penchant for juvenile acts of defiance is only underscored by their innate desire to fit in and be loved while pitted against their arch nemesis, their teacher Sister Assumpta (a dourly cheeky Foster, who also produced the project), a one-legged harridan from Hell.  Based on the novel by Chris Fuhrman and written by Jeff Stockwell and Michael Petroni, the film's strengths in storytelling are in its dynamic duo of troublemaking loners and are punched up with a wise peppering of Todd McFarlane's vivid animation depicting the boys' creative flairs as a Greek chorus to the plotline at hand.  (Dir Peter Care)  "},{"Title":"good film that remains relatively faithful to its source","Date":"15 January 2003","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Dangerous Lives of Altar Boys is one of the best books I've read in awhile, so I was pretty stoked to see how it translated to film.  The good news is, this coming-of-age tale (revolving around the themes of first love and adolescent mischief) remains faithful to its source, while expanding (successfully, I think) upon what was written in the book.  This worked very well in Terry Zwigoff's Ghost World, but there are times in The Dangerous Lives of Altar Boys where the tone threatens to go from comedy-drama, to flat-out drama, to flat-out comedy.  It always manages to regain its balance, though.  The story revolves around Francis Doyle (Emile Hirsch) and Tim Sullivan (Kieran Culkin, who's very good), altar boys with a comic-book fixation and a resentment of authority (represented here by Jodie Foster's peg-legged Mother Superior); also on hand is Francis' love interest, Margie (Jena Malone), who reveals herself to be a complicated, tragic figure.As far as revisiting adolescence is concerned, The Dangerous Lives of Altar Boys is accurate, funny, and even sad.  However, it suffers from an over-emphasis on close-ups during key dramatic scenes, and the lead performance of Emile Hirsch is surprisingly weak (when he emotes, it looks exaggerated and fake).  Overall, though, this is pretty good.  3.5 stars out of 5.   "},{"Title":"Gah!","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Dangerous Lives of Altar Boys is probably my favorite book of all time. Jena Malone is unbearably cute. This was without a doubt the most disappointing moviegoing experience of my life. Kiernan Culkin and Malone both turned in good performances, but the movie was lacking in too many areas to mention them all. Bottom line, read the book, or rent this movie in a few months (if you can find it) only to admire Jena Malone and the fairly interesting animation from that guy who did Spawn. The character interaction was horrible, the story was muddled and unrealistic, and what was an amazing novel is now a pointless movie...I've been wanting to make a film out of this book for years, and now its been done and destroyed. It's a damn travesty if I've ever seen one.  "}{"Title":"Really disappointing","Date":"27 September 2004","Score":"13 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  'The Dangerous Lives of Altar Boys', directed by Peter Case, is a coming of age story about two boys, Francis (Emile Hirsch) Tim (Kieran Culkin) who supplement their boredom at Catholic school and their home lives by playing pranks and working on their own comic book. Their main nemesis in life, who they turn into the villain in their book, is their teacher, Sister Assumpta. (Jodie Foster) I wish that I could add more to the synopsis, but there's not a lot more to tell. The film centers around the hijinks of these characters, then tries to throw in some character development that generally go absolutely nowhere.Most of the film is spent planning a prank on the Sister that goes awry, but after awhile it becomes so boring that when the climax of the film arrived I didn't remotely care. 'The Dangerous Lives of Altar Boys' has been praised for its creativity and the mixed genres, (the film turns into a Todd McFarlane produced form of anime at times) but even these moments were just plain boring. Jodie Foster, as always, is wonderful in the film, but despite the fact that she is supposedly the evil nemesis, she has an aggregate screen time of perhaps ten minutes, so there wasn't enough of her to truly enjoy.Generally, films that deal with topics such as incest, ghosts, and untamed youth are at least thought-provoking, but 'The Dangerous Lives of Altar Boys' didn't provoke anything in me but boredom. 'Coming of age' films have been done many times before, but they can still be effective if done well. (See a film as recent as 'The Virgin Suicides') Unfortunately 'The Dangerous Lives of Altar Boys' doesn't come remotely close to approaching effective, or well done. I expected more out of a Jodie Foster production and am disappointed I didn't get even an average film.--Shelly  "},{"Title":"A thoughtful and complex coming-of-age film","Date":"19 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Great acting, solid direction and some inventive presentation-- the protagonists re-imagine their lives in terms of comic-book fantasies, and we are treated to some wonderful traditional animation thereof-- are just the start in this complex picture.The film follows a group of '60s Catholic schoolboys who hatch a plan to play a crazy prank on one of their hated teachers. The plan, of course, goes awry. What is interesting in this film-- besides watching Culkin, Hirsch and Foster working their usual magic-- is the complexity of theme going on behind the adolescent antics. The film looks at the purpose of fantasy, the meaning of faith, the dangers of testing boundaries, the unpleasantness of unfinished business, the nature of God and the question of how one interprets His authority. The question of original sin-- never clumsily and straightforwardly stated-- permeates the film, from Margie's awful revelations to Tim's mischief. The film's real genius is its ability to play with obviously religious ideas without really doing any preaching.Behind all this, of course, is the Viet Nam war. As America loses its post-WWII innocence at the end of the 1960s, and as the flower-power generation realises that breaking the boundaries that authority sets ultimately breaks much more, so the boys learn what happens when people want to take God's power. When Tim Sullivan tells his teacher that William Blake's poetry is written simply enough for a child, she responds with so are the instructions for a handgun. "},{"Title":"One of the, least said, most interesting films i've seen in a while","Date":"13 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I first encountered this film on a foreign TV channel and on an unknown language. However, i was attracted to the TV screen like a bee to honey. I can't really say why, but the film was just very, well, attracting. It has sort of a gloomy atmosphere, and the scenes which changed in front of my eyes were understandable even in a foreign language. It could be because i can relate with the story and the feelings that the boys are going through, but i believe that the reason is that it's just a terrific film. Of course IMDb helped me find the film ) and today it's one of my favorites films. I would recommend it to anyone who wants to see a good film, but is ready to see some real life on the screen. The story isn't sweet, nor particularly happy, but it's real and emotional. "},{"Title":"Another entertaining look into the eyes of children","Date":"14 November 2010","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Well now we have a film that tends to capture some of the child's mind qualities of stand by me mixed creatively with some creative cinematic and an interesting plot line.The story follows four friends going to a catholic school and getting together causing trouble drawing comics and otherwise being boys. The main story starts when Jenna Malone's character comes in and turns some of the relationships on their heads. There is a lot to be said about the dynamics of growing up and coming to terms with life.This story is quite dark and goes through a different line than many movies of it's type and therefore is not quite as viewer friendly as stand by me. The ending may also be debatable but I will let you as the viewer decide.The story cuts into animated scenes to illustrate the imagination of the main character and does a fair job conveying the emotions and relationships throughout the plot. These scenes are of course brought to you by Todd McFarlane himself and again isn't exactly child friendly.In the end this is a movie for adults but does a good job moving the message it goes about trying to convey. It is creative and draws you in. The plot is a bit dark and it does have some issues that may not sit with many viewers. All in all I believe this is a good film. "},{"Title":"Average","Date":"22 March 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  While the novel by the late Chris Fuhrman is one of my top-ten all-time faves, this movie, produced by Jodie Foster's late Egg Pictures was only average.  The casting was uneven, especially in casting Foster herself in the role of the villian.  Having played too many protagonists or victim/heroes to ever be believable as an antagonist, this fact really pulled me out of the story each time Foster appeared.  I couldn't quite reconcile seeing her in a nun's wimple, and playing a stereotypical bad nun.  On the other hand, the casting of Emile Hirsch as Francis, Kieran Culkin as his best friend Tim, and the unrecognizable Vincent D'Onofrio as Father Casey was brilliant.  The interspersed segments of animation were disruptive rather than helpful to the story, and the plot itself seemed to meander too much without ever coming to a conclusive whole.  While I admire that this novel was made into a film, it could've been done much, much better.  Some books are better left as books. "},{"Title":"Confused, uneven mess.","Date":"13 July 2003","Score":"15 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I sat down unsure of what the movie was going to offer.  My best guess was a coming-of-age film.  It clearly had Catholic elements as well, though I wasn't sure if that was just a backdrop.After watching it, I still wasn't sure.  The movie tries to be light-hearted, but is too angry and cruel.  The Catholic elements tend to weigh a bit against the religion but even there the movie vacillates.  The movie doesn't try to stay out of the argument, mind you, it just seems very confused as to what it thinks.The animated sequences, meant to illustrate the lead character's emotional thinking, are the best element of the film.  And even they aren't terribly well done.  They don't give much extra insight into his mind, nor do they progress the main movie.I generally try to find a way to recommend a movie, even if it's a qualified recommendation.  Most films have entertaining qualities that some can enjoy.  And some have clearly enjoyed this one.If you like comics, there are a few nice references to existing titles plus the characters created by the boys (and featured in the animated sequences).  Or, if you are a Jodi Foster fan, she turns in a decent performance as the nun.Overall, however, I'd just avoid this one.4 out of 10. "},{"Title":"It was good but it could have been so much better without the comedic moments.","Date":"3 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A group of Catholic school friends, after being caught drawing an obscene comic book, plan a heist that will outdo their previous prank and make them local legends. In mid-1970s Savannah, two bright but rebellious boys, Francis Doyle and Tim Sullivan, fight boredom, hormones and harsh teachers as they struggle to find something meaningful beyond the walls of their parish school. Francis, an exceptional artist whose imaginative forays into a fictional universe of good and evil fill his notebooks with comic-book imagery, creates a netherworld of superhero alter egos for the two boys. When the ultra-strict Sister Assumpta seizes their artwork one day, the boys embark upon an obsessed trail of revenge that ultimately changes their lives. Roger Ebert wrote Another hint of the overachieving screenplay is the running theme of the boys' fascination with William Blake's books Songs of Innocence and Songs of Experience. I can believe that boys of this age could admire Blake, but not these boys. And I cannot believe that Sister Assumpta would consider Blake a danger. What we sense here is the writer, Jeff Stockwell, sneaking in material he likes even though it doesn't pay its way. (There's one other cultural reference in the movie, unless I'm seeing it where none was intended Early in the film, the boys blow up a telephone pole in order to calculate when it will fall, and they stand just inches into the safe zone. I was reminded of Buster Keaton, standing so that when a wall fell on him, he was in the exact outline of an open window.) The movie has qualities that cannot be denied. Jena Malone (Donnie Darko, Life as a House) has a solemnity and self-knowledge that seems almost to stand outside the film. She represents the gathering weather of adulthood. The boys are fresh and enthusiastic, and we remember how kids can share passionate enthusiasms; the animated sequences perfectly capture the energy of their imaginary comic book. Vincent D'Onofrio muses through the film on his own wavelength, making of Father Casey a man who means well but has little idea what meaning well would consist of. If the film had been less extreme in the adventures of its heroes, more willing to settle for plausible forms of rebellion, that might have worked. It tries too hard, and overreaches the logic of its own world. It was good but it could have been so much better without the comedic moments. "},{"Title":"Unexpected.","Date":"21 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I watched this because I have a soft spot for any of the Culkin kids. IMDb listed this movie as a comedy, so when I watched it I was ready to have some light hearted laughs at a seemingly cheesy film. What started off as I expected ended up leaving me devastated. The four boys deal with the difficulties of young adult life, interest in girls, smoking and drinking, growing apart, and a fantasy world which reflects their interest in comics. (It softens the blows of their lives by mimicking it and helping them cope.) It reminds me a lot of The Virgin Suicides with the tone it sets, and almost similar to Wristcutters A Love Story.It's definitely a good film and worth the watch as long as you understand that it isn't going to leave you happier after watching it. "},{"Title":"Worth Sticking With","Date":"9 November 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Not sure what I was expecting when I started to watch this coming-of-age drama, but it certainly wasn't what I got. It doesn't quite know what it wants to be, beginning as it does as a comedy, developing into a Stand By Me-type rite-of-passage drama and culminating in tragedy, having embraced comic-book animation along the way. It tries too hard to be too many things, which is a shame because there is a lot of good stuff here. It will remain one of the more curious choices for Jodie Foster, cast as a hard-line nun, but perhaps this is explained by the fact that she also co-produced. Well acted by all the young cast though and worth a look. "},{"Title":"Whoa!","Date":"23 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Man, this film caught me off guard! I added this film to my Netflix Queue just because I read some random review in some small newspaper about it that said it was a good movie. I had no expectations whatsoever going into it and it totally surprised me. It was a great look into young adolescent love, mischief and camaraderie. Emile Hirsch, I believe, did a great job and will be a very strong actor for a long time. The ending caught me off guard and it had me in its grip the whole way to it. The only thing I didn't care for was the comic book cut scenes thrown into the movie. I understood them and why they were there, but didn't think they fit the movie. But if you're looking for a rather tender movie to watch, this isn't a bad choice. Reminds me a lot of 'Stand By Me'. "}{"Title":"Liked everything but the title & Answer to a goof","Date":"24 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I thought this film was marvelous. Beautiful portrait of growing up. However, given all the priest and altar boy scandals these days, I think the title leads people to believe it's on a different subject. I kept watching to see if the priest was going to make a pass at Francis or Tim. In response to one of the alleged goofs, I think the bus said Immaculate Conception because St. Agatha's School and Immaculate Conception share activity buses. The schools don't have outside activities on the same day. Notice they said Activity Bus and not School Bus. Meaning they aren't used for home-to-school transportation but only for school-to-field-trip transportation. "},{"Title":"Great film","Date":"18 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Very emotional feel, one of those movies that errs to the emotions of people more than a plot. Think Royal Tenenbaums or life aquatic and you have a good idea what this film feels like. The story is well played out and the cartoons give a fascinating glimpse into the main character's head. The characters each have their own distinct feel, but they never succumb to a categorical character, they seem to all maintain a level of humanity. At times the plot seems to be edged forward to make the movie go faster, but in all I had very few moments where I was spacing out. The lines are also incredibly well written and again maintain the feeling of humanity. Great film in all and an emotionally heavy ride. "},{"Title":"Haunting","Date":"26 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This film haunted my head more than any other I saw in the year of its release. It is an emotionally realistic depiction of adolescence (however unlikely some elements of the plot might be) and a disturbing critique of Catholicism (in particular) and authority (in general). Kudos especially to Jena Malone for her performance, which was disquietingly honest. Jodie Foster and Vincent D'Onofrio don't have much screen time, but their performances are memorable (especially his, I thought). The one major flaw of the film is that the animated sequences are rendered in a style that is anachronistically too modern, in a film that otherwise does an excellent job of recreating its historical period. I grew-up during this time period, and the film aroused vivid memories for me (I wouldn't exactly call it nostalgia, because not all of the memories were pleasant). If you see this film and enjoy it, you might also want to have a look at The Ice Storm (another fine period study) and Heaven Help Us (for more Catholic-school angst). "},{"Title":"Fantastic Coming of age film","Date":"1 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I saw Altar Boys the first time about one year ago. This film is mind blowingly good. When I first saw this I was 15-years-old and let me tell you it really does capture what the essence of being a coming of age teen is like. The two main characters, Francis Doyle (Emile Hirsch) and Tim Sullivan (Kieran Culkin) really capture the realism of going through the changes that happen around the era of 13-16 years of age. The opening of them doing their math homework is so funny and refreshing. I like how the film captured real problems that adolescents go through. Not the sh*t that other teen movies portray. This film shows how Francis is ready to grow up and go beyond things like stealing a statue, he wants a girlfriend and just wants to grow up. While Tim is just not maturing fast enough, their friendship deff goes through some rough patches.This film is about two boys around the age of 14. They go to a Catholic School and it takes place somewhere in the 70s in the South. The two boys Tim and Francis are best friends. This film chronicles the ups and downs of their friendship and things they have to go through. Francis becomes infatuated with a girl Margie Flynn (Jena Malone). He and Margie become close and this is hurting Tim to watch his friend grow. Tim is still into playing dumb pranks and not wanting to really grow up. Their friendship goes through many trials and tribulations. Tim really despises their teacher Sister Assumpta (Jodie Foster). His goal in life is to get the one legged b*tch. Francis goes along with Tims plan to destroy the nun, but doesn't really care. Throughout this film Francis makes drawings for a comic book they have called The Atomic Trinity these drawings he makes are really the emotions and things his is thinking/feeling. Francis later has to deal with a dark secret from his girlfriend Margie, and he realizes that even this secret is too much for him. He and Tim are slowly drifting apart...all while Tim is also feeling hurt on the inside which he lets out with all of his trouble making. There is a very powerful scene when Tim finds a dying dog, which forshadows the ending. I do not want to give too much away about this film. All i can say is this is one powerful mind blowing coming of age story. Please go out and rent this!!  "},{"Title":"Better than it may seem at first glance","Date":"19 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  THE DANGEROUS LIVES OF ALTAR BOYS is the latest in a long tradition of coming-of-age stories, and a pretty good one at that.  It sticks true to the formula, but pushes the envelope at the same time.What's unique about this film is that it forces its audience to grow with the main character, Francis Doyle.  At the beginning of the film, Francis lives in a pretty carefree world of going to Catholic school and hanging out with his friends, and that is the world that the audience lives in for the first 20 minutes or so.  It looks like kid stuff, but don't be fooled--there's some real darkness and depth just around the corner.  Francis discovers about life, death, love, and pain, and all these revelations surprise the audience just as much as they surprise Francis.Live action in the movie is interposed with the comic book adventures of Brakken and the Muscle, the superheroes who are Francis and his friend Tim's alter egos.  It's a wonderful addition, adding a physical journey to Francis's confusing emotional journey.All in all, a very competent film, made more so by wonderful performances from Kieran Culkin, Jena Malone, and Emile Hirsch. "},{"Title":"don't you ever tell me to get real. i know what real is okay","Date":"18 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  this was a great movie. it's kind of funny how things happen, though, because the first time i attempted to watch this movie the dvd broke right when they were stealing the statue, and up until that point it had been really funny, so when i went to watch it again i figured it would be a really funny movie, but right after the statue part it starts getting serious, and also really good.the acting is solid all the way around, but kieran culkin is the best actor of the bunch. i thought it was cool to see jodie foster as a villian for once. the animation clips imbetween scenes are pretty cool. what i liked about this movie is that you see all the crazy stuff these kids are doing and you say i want to go do that with my friends (i'm only 15), and of course you never do, but it's fun seeing other people do what you can't and probably shouldn't.another thing that i really liked was that josh homme of queens of the stone age did the soundtrack. his song all the same really helps make the ending as sad as it should be. not that the movie needed help, because it had a plenty sad ending, but the song was still a good way to end it. i usually hate coming of age movies, but on the rare occasion that they are done right, like 'the dangerous lives of altar boys, they are some of the bes movies to come out. 10/10   "},{"Title":"Darkly comic...","Date":"5 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The title sounds ripped from the headlines, but is actually from a 1994 novel by the late Chris Fuhrman, who died of cancer before the book was released. The story centers around a group of teenaged boys who attend Catholic school. Their ringleader Tim (Kieran Culkin) is a prankster who schemes to get revenge on Sister Assumpta (Jody Foster), the joyless, strict nun with a prosthetic leg. They create a `blasphemous' comic book, and plan to kidnap a cougar from the zoo to give her a fright. The Dangerous Lives of Altar Boys is a darkly comic, touching coming-of-age story that could have turned into by-the-book teenage drivel, but is rescued by the performances of Kieran Culkin, Emile Hirsch and Jena Malone and some very cool animation by Spawn creator Todd McFarlane.  "},{"Title":"Just brilliant","Date":"29 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Highly entertaining film about a bunch of Catholic schoolboys who find the best way to cause trouble just so life would be more amusing. Tied to that is the subplot of the main character bonding with his love interest and discovering more about her than he thought he would. Funny, intriguing, compelling, sick and disgusting at times and seldom a satire towards zealots. This film is worth it. Too bad it didn't get too wide a release. 5 out of 5. "},{"Title":"Very entertaining","Date":"24 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I'm not Catholic nor a teen, but I found this movie very interesting and entertaining.The interaction between all the kids was pretty real and the dialog did not seem juvenile.Although not normally a fan of animation, that portion worked OK in this movie because it was the outward expression of the kids' imagination.Of the 7 primary actors, Jodie Foster had the weakest character as nunzilla. Perhaps it was just the nature of the character.Vincent D'Onofrio was entertaining as the smoking, swearing priest (and apparently in the book he was a womanizer, too.)The 4 boys were all pretty good, but Jena Malone probably had the toughest role as the girl with a secret, and she was very good.The whole cougar plot-point was a bit much, and the dog scene came from nowhere, but the rest was very satisfying.The extras on the DVD were good, too.P.S. Originally I could not get this DVD to play in widescreen as it was advertised from Amazon. Amazon was no help, but Sony said it was a known encoding problem and to change the DVD player setup for TV to normal letterbox instead of normal pan/scan. Worked like a charm. "},{"Title":"Great!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"20 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a great and wonderful film and i think that everyone should see it.I really related to it.I went to a catholic school like the boys in the film and are the same age as they would be now.I dealed with drinking and girls just like the boys did.The film will bring back old memories and remind you how hard it was being 14.It's a great film with comedy and drama.It really shows whats going on inside their heads.I also recommend reading the book its even better.A++++++++++++++++++ "}{"Title":"Great Acting, Great Story, Great Movie","Date":"21 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It's a nice surprise to see that this is a great movie. All of my interest to watch it was rewarded, as the end result as a very enjoyable movie to watch.  The story of four altar boy friends plays out so well only because these boys are regular, average teens who swear and think about girls. The fact that these boys are like that make the movie so enjoyable when the story plays out. Another aspect that makes this a good movie is the acting, which makes everything realistic. It's very rare when four teen actors can do such a good job acting dramatically and make it look like they're having fun. The last time I saw this was in 1986's Stand By Me. A final point to comment is that the story ends with a surprise ending that shouldn't be spoiled. I'd recommend this movie, it's a great one to watch. "},{"Title":"Fantastic film --","Date":"26 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is easily one of the best films I've seen since American Beauty.  The acting is excellent, sincere, and professionally done.  The story is amazing.  And the sense of humor is superb.  Anyone who enjoys the novels of John Irving will certainly enjoy this film.My only concern with it is that its sense of location was blurred from the book.  In the book, the story is set in Savannah, Georgia, in the mid-1970's.  Considering all the pranks and jokes that the boys perform, I think that the book's setting in the South is perfect.  In the film, the viewer must assume, based on the character's flat accents, that the story is set somewhere in the Midwest.The sense of intimacy between the boy protagonists is entirely believable; anyone who was a small-town boy during the 80's will appreciate the comic book motif that sews the main character's internal condition cleanly into the film's action.  In essence, the way that these boys relate to each other and the world is wholly believable.  It's how my friends and I, growing up in South Carolina, dealt with the confusion of puberty.Those who have thought that the stark, tragic ending was unbelievable evidently preferred boredom to trouble in their youth.  Reflecting back upon the acts of vandalism, trespassing, and inventive pranks that I and my childhood cohorts performed, there were many instances where one (or all) of us could have died violent, painful deaths as a result of lacking forethought.  This movie beautifully illustrates how boys in the South bring themselves up.  One of the best, in my opinion, about boyhood -- ever. "},{"Title":"Terrific","Date":"20 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I just want to say that I HAVE NEVER SEEN A TEENAGE ACTOR who can say I almost can't breathe when I look at you without making it sound like it's straight off the script. I have never seen such an actor who can say that genuinely, and never have such a cheesy line been well said by an actor Emile Hirsch's age. Much kudos to him. The rest of the film is pretty much like the way Hirsch said his line. The young actors (Hirsch, Culkin, Malone) are genuine and true. Not only the main characters but the boys who played Francis and Tim's sidekicks were superb as well. This film was well supported by Jodie Foster and Vincent D'Onofrio. Some say that their acting was so-so, but I think the filmmakers did a good job of not letting them get behind the shadow of the main characters yet gave them (Foster & D'Onofrio) enough screen time. Yet, I felt that Foster's performance was a bit empty. This movie shows both the irony and joy of living a teenage life. On my side note, I liked the way the movie was shot...especially when the 4 partners-in-crime are fooling around in the field, drinking and all. "},{"Title":"A great little gem...","Date":"18 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is one of those coming-of-age movies that's sincere and keeps to the point, rather than going for some Hollywood guffaw or cheap choice to entice you during the trailers. It's a great little gem of a movie that you should watch with a good friend that you grew up with. Kieran Culkin proves where the talent is in his family and the rest of the cast is in fine form as well! "},{"Title":"Least cliched coming of age story I've ever seen","Date":"10 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Hollywood, and the public in general, loves a good coming of age story (or a bad one, for that matter), and so film makers produce a score of them each year.  The only problem is that Hollywood has developed a formula for such movies, with the result that they have become increasingly cliched.The Dangerous Lives of Altar Boys is the least cliched coming of age story I've ever seen.  Funny, poignant, and often scathing, this movie has managed to accurately capture the conflicts of being a teenage boy in America without lapsing into sentimentality or nostalgia.  As much as I loved this movie and related to the characters, I never felt the obligatory twinge of nostalgia for the good old days that so many movies of this genre try to evoke.The Dangerous Lives of Altar Boys is one of the best films I've seen in a long time.  Jody Foster delivers a superb, if slightly uncharacteristic, performance, while Vincent D'Onofrio's understated yet sympathetic performance is worthy of a Best Supporting Actor award.  But the real stars of Altar Boys, Kieran Culkin, Emile Hirsch, and Jena Malone produce outstanding portrayals of American teenagers.  I would recommend this movie to anyone longing for an accurate and unsentimental look at adolescence. "},{"Title":"AMAZING!","Date":"5 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is one of my favourites.It is filled with emotion,love and the lives of four teenage boys, who try to find their way through a comic book.This movie completely indicates teenage-love and what is going through a normal average teenage boy, through girls,drugs,revenge on their nun-teacher, and yes even life it's self.This movie will open you up into a whole new way showing two boys trust and friendship for one another.If I could understand how their gut feeling was,there's no doubt in my mind you won't either. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"15 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Dangerous Lives of Altar Boys is a wonderful movie different from all others, and that is why I liked it so much. It had everything that you could want in a movie comedy and drama and love. All of the cast were excellent in their roles. The comic scenes gave Altar Boys a wonderful twist. Francis and Tim are two typical teenage boys, just wanting fun. This really is a good experience, check it out. "},{"Title":"movie not like book but still ok","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Watch the movie then read the book. If you reverse the order you will be disappointed. Jay Shapiro (producer) uses artistic freedom to concentrate on subject matter that is left obscure in the book. In the novel, there is one incredibly poignant moment between Francis and Margie that the film dismisses in turn for some rating grabbing fore play. Had Shapiro chosen to visualize that scene and skip the skin crawling make out one, it would have had a much more dramatic effect. Also, it would have enlightened many who have complained that the movie didn't justify Margie's revelations on incest with her brother. This movie leaves you aching for more character development, especially of that pertaining to Francis' ultra cool best friend, Tim Sullivan. Kieran Culkin does a nice job portraying Tim despite constant screen sharing with minor characters. He is the film's redeeming quality and reason worth to watch. He is a great actor, and had he better lines he could have blown this movie through the roof. Instead this movie falls short and becomes a quick fading memory. Hopefully it inspires viewers to read Chris Fuhrman's version because that holds the weight the film strives to capture. "},{"Title":"Thoughtful and nostalgic.  Moving and thought provoking.","Date":"14 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Though technically flawed in some respects, overall a worthwhile and good effort.  Definitely worth watching.  It will make you sad.  So, I would call it a moving experience rather than an uplifting one.  I would have liked to see Tim's character developed a bit more. "},{"Title":"The life of an altar boy can be dangerous","Date":"11 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Dangerous Lives is an interesting peek into the real life on an altar boy.  There is more to these youngsters than just being an acolyte.  The two main characters played by Emile Hirsch and Kieran Culkin are altar boys who are trying to grow up in a world surrounded by uptight clergy and tough households.  They escape into the world of comic book fantasy so they can keep their sanity.  The movie has a pace that purposely meanders because I believe it is told from an angle that tries make the viewer perceive it as reality.  The story is relatively refreshing for this genre (comparable to Y Tu Mama Tambien) and Todd McFarlane's brilliant talent for animation edifies the story even more.  I thought the cast did an excellent job with their chosen roles.  My favorite performance went to Jodie Foster as the evil nun (I found her character is very easy to sympathize with).  For what it was, I loved this movie.  I give it a 10 out of 10!Here ends my rant! "}{"Title":"When Nuns Attack!","Date":"10 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  wow, what a compelling coming of age story. i totally disagree with the previous post that attacked this film. the doom, the wonder, and reckless behavior that go hand in hand with adolescence are really highlighted well in this film. At times the animated sub plot was a bit over bearing, however this artistic mis-step is forgivable when the live action plot is considered. jena malone gave a knock out performance. "},{"Title":"Charming","Date":"7 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Kieran Culkin has acheived something his older brother never could  he's overcome his child-star status and become an engaging and talented actor.  Between this and IGBY GOES DOWN, he shows an intelligence and natural charm that I predict will carry him far.  He's one of the best things about ALTAR BOYS, a charming and creative coming-of-age story.  He's not the only thing the film does right, though.  All the performances are top-notch.  Culkin and newcomer Emile Hirsch carry the film ably as Tim and Francis, a pair of trouble-making Catholic School boys who spend their days dreaming about women, mischeif and comic books.  Jodie Foster and Vincent D'Onofrio bring a great deal to their performances as the hated authority figures.  Jena Malone was my particular favorite.  This beautiful and soulful young actress has a big career ahead of her, of that I'm sure.  The best part of the film, I feel, is the stunning and powerful animated dream sequences animated by SPAWN creator Todd MacFarlane.  The sequences are so vividly brought to life and so creatively intertwined with live-action story that it breathed life into the entire film in ways no other genre entry has ever managed. The film isn't perfect, though.  I found it hard to beleive some of the situations that the boys got themselves into, and the ending was a big disappointment.  It seems the screenwriter just felt like wrapping things up and went with a far too obvious finale.  These are minor complaints, though.  I had a great time watching this film. "},{"Title":"Insightful Depiction of a Sensitive Juncture of Life","Date":"4 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Context is basically what separates one coming-of-age story from another, as well as the way it's presented; the filmmaker's ability to make that all important connection with the audience.  Due in no small part to some strong performances, `The Dangerous Lives of Altar Boys,' directed by Peter Care, is a successful and worthwhile-- even significant-- addition to the genre.  Though it works within specific parameters (the subjects are students at a Catholic school), most importantly, the film taps deeply into the internal angst experienced by the individuals who are the focus of Care's incisive study, and the way in which their feelings are externalized in the film offers a satisfying examination of the human condition at a particularly sensitive juncture of life.Francis Doyle (Emile Hirsch) is fourteen and in the throes of that inescapable period of change through which we all must pass on the way to becoming who we are as adults.  A pupa encased in the cocoon of youth, Francis is straining against that protective shell, attempting to break through into manhood.  His family environment is strict, the routine of his life (which includes being an altar boy) is rigid, and puberty is having it's way with him.  Adding to his inner conflict, as well, is the fact that his best friend, Tim Sullivan (Kieran Culkin), is continually engaging in exploits that transcend mischief to the point of being outright foolish and dangerous; daring deeds in which Francis must necessarily take part, in keeping with their own established caste and as Tim's confrere in this business of probing life's eternal mysteries.  Not to mention, too, that Francis has discovered something else, quite on his own.  And her name is Margie Flynn (Jena Malone).Luckily (perhaps), Francis manages to vent his pent up frustrations and confusion creatively, through animation.  With his friends Joey and Wade (Tyler Long, Jake Richardson), he has created a comic book, `Atomic Trinity,' which features four outcast teenaged boys endowed with superpowers (Tim has been included as `editor').  And to channel their hormonal driven rebellion against authority and structure, they have chosen their teacher, Sister Assumpta (Jodie Foster), as their target, for in their eyes she personifies all that is wrong with their world.  Assigning her the role of Source Of All That Is Bad, she emerges as `Nun-zilla' in their comic, this haven to which they can flee and momentarily escape the realities of a world they haven't as yet figured out.  What they don't realize is that Tim is about to involve them in a scheme which, if effected, is going to change their lives forever.  And that `safe haven' of theirs may soon be a thing of the past.Learning to navigate the rapids of life is no easy task, and director Care treats his subject accordingly, with a sensitive and serious rendering of the material (the screenplay was written by Jeff Stockwell and Michael Petroni, adapted from the book by Chris Fuhrman).  Care succeeds by avoiding the kind of embarrassing frivolity that is too often associated with a film of this nature.  He maintains credibility at every turn, making the story believable by keeping it on the stage of reality, rather than allowing it to wander into the theater of the absurd.  The way he presents the relationship between Francis and Margie, for instance, is entirely convincing in the way they tentatively explore their budding sexuality together, rather than lurching ahead with seemingly sudden and inexplicable knowledge and enlightenment.  Their discoveries come more from reaction than action, and the result is a very honest and genuine depiction of the situation.  And Care uses this approach consistently throughout the film, which goes far in making it a thoroughly thought provoking drama.As Francis, young Hirsch gives a commanding performance, exhibiting a maturity and grasp of the character that is far beyond his years.  There is a complexity to Francis that demands a tremendous emotional range to be convincing, and Hirsch delivers it all and then some, with a portrayal of astounding depth.  Here, in his motion picture debut, he emerges as one of the finest young actors in the business today.Jena Malone also makes a substantial impact with her acute portrayal of Margie, successfully conveying the tortured soul of this young girl who must endure a most distressing secret.  There are moments in which the pain derived from her inner turmoil is almost tangible; and that about sums up the quality of her performance here.Displaying yet another side of the coin is Kieran Culkin, who in Tim creates a character who, unlike the others, internalizes his adolescent discord while outwardly manifesting an almost aloof disdain for caution in all things.  We're given indications and a glimpse into the strife existing within his home and family, and it's enough to make us aware of the source of his discontent.  It's a solid performance, though he fails to make any real connection with the audience, most likely due to the fact that Tim is quite simply not an easy character to embrace.The most subtle and understated performance in the film is turned in by Jodie Foster, who though she lacks enough screen time to adequately develop her character nevertheless manages to succinctly reveal exactly who she is and what she's about.  She is stern, and obviously a disciplinarian; but though her methods may be too straightforward, even to the point of seeming malicious, she is not, and is far from being the monster `Nun-zilla' depicted in `Atomic Trinity.'  On the contrary, she has a good heart and sincerely wants only to instruct her students in ways that will lead them to a fulfilling life.  There is obviously more to Sister Assumpta's story, but the focus of the film must necessarily remain elsewhere, and we are left to infer what we may.A thoughtful, emotionally involving film, `The Dangerous Lives of Altar Boys' offers a viable perspective on the rigorous undertaking known as `growing up.'                     "},{"Title":"I was at the edge of my seat.","Date":"4 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I have never been so fascinated by a movie about young people and starring young people.  This is truly a must see; a great storyline, tons of emotion and a unique plot that revolves around the boys' cartoon characters.  One of my favorites! "},{"Title":"Amazing","Date":"3 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I just seen this movie and it is now my favorite. The whole thing is amazing in every way possible. The actors were perfect, no one could fit it better and Emile Hirsch is an incredible actor and i hope he gets more credit. I recommend everyone to see this movie, you wont regret it. I promise. "},{"Title":"a must see for any indie buff...","Date":"1 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  i just watched this movie last night and i must say it's one of the best indie-style films that i've seen all year...the acting was amazing, as one has come to expect from all of jena malone's films...the plot was light enough to give you a laugh and dark enough to make you cry...the dangerous lives of altar boys dives into many issues including puberty and catholicism...a must see for any indie buff... "},{"Title":"Totally Overrated","Date":"29 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  To be honest, I was really disappointed. Once again, Jena Malone just cries, has an evil secret, and makes out throughout the movie just like she did in Donnie Darko. The plot was good until the whole incest plot twist and the (SPOILERS) Cougar killing Kieran Culkin's character. It really was quite ridiculous. I immensely enjoyed the animated sequences at first, but after a while they just became annoying. Overall, a bunch of squished together subplots that just doesn't work. "},{"Title":"Altar boys and their alter-egos","Date":"23 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I thought the movie was excelllent and that the juxtaposition of alter boys with their alter-egos was brilliant. My only complaint was the soundtrack. The comicbook sequences were so much louder than the reality sequences,  that I found I could not enjoy them at all. "},{"Title":"a good adaptation of a great book","Date":"15 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Since I am not privileged enough to live in a select city, I rented this as soon as it came out. I was very excited and nervous to watch it - excited because the book is one of my absolute favorites and nervous because I knew I would either love it or hate it with no middle ground. I loved it! It was a very worthy adaptation of a totally fantastic book (if you haven't read it, go read it now!). There are differences from the book, and understandably so, but none that were truly offense to have included or not included. In fact, the pranks the boys pulled in the movie (the homework scene in particular) were totally within the boys' character and funnier than some of the stuff in the book. Kieran Culkin and Emile Hirsch were perfect choices for the two main roles. They are both excellent up-and-coming actors, and they gave very compelling performances. Todd McFarlane's animation also deserves mention because it was a cool and innovative way to tie everything together. Thumbs up to a very commendable adaptation! "},{"Title":"Coming of age in the Catholic Church.","Date":"15 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  'The Dangerous Lives of Altar Boys' follows the adventures of a group of fourteen-year-old boys that express their rebellion against their Catholic school upbringing by drawing comics and plotting exotic vengeance against their nemesis - Sister Assumpta (Jodie Foster, also a co-producer).The focus is on instigator and plotter Tim Sullivan (Kieran Culkin), whose family life is so dysfunctional it's given attention in morning prayers in class; and dreamer and storyteller Francis Doyle (Emile Hirsch), who is the heart and soul of the piece and the creator of the Atomic Trinity - the comic-book alter egos of the boys.  Culkin and Hirsch give painfully accurate portrayals of young teenaged boys burdened by every aspect of what they perceive to be a harsh world.  The church and the school can't understand them, Sister Assumpta keeps a close eye on them, and they're suspected of every wrongdoing (rightly or not).  Worst of all, one girl, Margie Flynn (Jena Malone), draws Francis to the edges of the boys' club as his feelings for her start to cloud his loyalties to his band of brothers.There's nothing simple here.  Sister Assumpta isn't just a dragon lady out to get the boys because she hates children; she feels frustrated by her inability to connect with the boys.  Tim Sullivan isn't just the designer of mad plots (such as the key scheme to steal a panther from the zoo and unleash it on the Sister); he's a disaffected youth trying his hardest to deal with the realities of his life in the only way he knows how.  Francis Doyle isn't just a dreamer; he's a conflicted boy in the midst of exiting childhood for good and he knows it.  The comics he draws aren't just daydreams of a boy's mind, they're his own interpretation of the ways his life changes day by day.It's a textured tale that offers realistic interaction between the boys (Culkin and Hirsch turn in standout performances) and the girl (Malone in a very vulnerable supporting role).  To tie the film together, and weave the fantasy realm of the Atomic Trinity into the real-life world of the school grounds, director Peter Care adds in animation sequences that bring Francis' story to life.  Produced by Todd MacFarlane's studio (the same group that did the animated 'Spawn' for HBO), the boys' alter-egos reflect their flesh-and-blood counterparts, all the way to the bitter end.'Altar Boys' is a worthy effort, a tender reminiscence to the times in all boys' lives where they must make the journey from boyhood to manhood.  It's not just one step, either, it's a series of obstacles and challenges that daunt even the best of us.  This film is worth seeing, even for those of you who don't happen to be altar boys.    "}{"Title":"just rent it","Date":"13 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I thought that this movie was brilliantly done, and I just wanted to recommend it, unfortunately, it has not gotten much attention. Jodi Foster is excellent as a cold-hearted nun with one leg, and the rest of the cast gives a wonderful performance, both comedically, and dramatically. So, if you DON'T want to rent another piece of crap from Blockbuster this Friday, RENT THIS. "},{"Title":"An Outstanding Film, (may contain spoilers)","Date":"13 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I'm a longtime fan of independent films, and The Dangerous Lives of Altar Boys certainly ranks among my favorite.  From the opening sequence, you get an in-depth look at the lives of the two primary characters, altar boys Tim Sullivan and Francis Doyle, (played by Kieran Culkin and Emile Hirsch, respectively),and their cutting down of the telephone pole early on perfectly introduced them to the audience, as well as really setting the tone for the movie as a whole.  Some have said this film doesn't really delve that far into their characters, and I'm not sure I can agree with that.  It certainly doesn't have one of those Hollywood characters come clean and reveal all their deep dark secrets sequences in it, but it deals well in subtlety, and gives more genuine hints as to what their lives are like.  The scene in which Tim's parents were arguing accomplished what it needed to accomplish, and without overdramatizing it at that; putting less attention on it makes their arguing seem like more of an everyday occurrence, and that is substantial.  Furthermore, the scene in which Tim and Francis find the wounded and dying dog on the side of the road certainly establishes a bit of Tim's character, at least to my mind.The animation sequences, for my money, were perfectly done, and fit in very nicely with the live action sequences, and really help the film in the long run.  Most importantly, they convey what the boys, especially Francis in particular, are feeling inside, and that again, is substantial.  In my opinion, it is an excellent film, and it is a very well-done film.  But, again, that is my opinion and only that. The DVD is most certainly excellent, with loads of special features, including deleted scenes, a featurette, interviews, and a lot more.  In my estimation, this film is outstanding, and should not be missed. "},{"Title":"A Good Coming of Age Story","Date":"11 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I remember seeing a preview for this movie and for some reason really wanting to see it. I'm not exactly sure why. Though it does have Jodie Foster who I like and I'm also partial to coming of age stories. I think it was literally only in Santa Barbara for one week and I wasn't able make it. So when it was release on DVD, I picked it up and I'm glad I did. Jodie Foster is good as always, but hers is really a minor role in this story that is centered around Emile Hirsh's character, Francis. The movie deals with his first Love, Margie Flynn played well by Jena Malone, who has some deeper issues that your typical teenage girl. And his partner in crime Tim, played by Kieran Culkin who is always planning some way to get into trouble. This story basically deals with your standard typical teen issues, but they are taken to the limits and things that your average teen probably doesn't have to consider. One of this movies big strengths is that the live action is interlaced with animated sequences by Todd McFarlane, who's arguably the best. Francis is an artist who fantasizes about becoming a comic book artist. The boys have created their own characters and these characters are brought to life in their thoughts and they are shown in the movie in the animated scenes. The mix of live action and animation blend together really well and are appropriately timed so that the film flows very well. I'm not sure if this film will appeal to everyone as much as it did to me, but it is a good quality story nonetheless. Rank #9 in 2002*** (Out of 4)  "},{"Title":"Fantastic...","Date":"10 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Alter Boys (no not about priests molesting boys) is a fantastic indie film. Keiran Culkin (yes Maculy's bro) and newcomer Emile Hirsch are wonderful as the two up to no good alter boys. This movie revolves around the two main characters, Francis Doyal (Hirsch), and Tim Sullivan (Culkin). They attend a private catholic school in Savannah, GA. They are about 14 years old, and are always do something to get them into trouble. The two and their friends have a comic book called the Atomic Trinity where the evil nunzilla tries to defeat them. The character nunzilla is based on their teacher Sister Assumpta, played by Jodie Foster. She plays this character very well, a cold cold nun. Francis gets a girlfriend Margie Flynn (Jenna Malone), whith an abnormal secret she confids in him with. I can't tell you too much about this film, only that everyone should rent it and watch with an open mind. I give this movie 4/5 stars. Watch out, I think Keiran and Emile are going to make a name for themselves in hollywood.  "},{"Title":"Trouble is their only defense against boredom...","Date":"9 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I have to say I personally disagree with a lot of comments made about this movie. From the looks of it a lot of people who've reviewed this film have totally missed its point. The Dangerous Lives of Altar Boys, the film, is about four 14-year-old boys (two main ones, two friends) and their comic-book altar egos (illustrated by Todd McFarlane and intertwined into the story) coping with life, love and adolescence in the wake of the 70s and Catholic School. The main boy, Francis Doyle (Emile Hirsch) discovers a new love interest in Margie Flynn (Jena Malone), who hides a dark secret. Tim Sullivan (Keiran Culkin), Francis's best friend, attempts to totally escape reality by engaging in a series of childish pranks geared towards p***ing-off their teacher, Sister Assumpta (Jodie Foster), a one-legged nun (the other is prosthetic) who is actually trying to help the boys, but it seen as a cruel authority figure. All four boys illustrate a comic book involving their alter egos. Francis is Brakken, a green muscular giant who can mutate into veiny strands. Tim is The Muscle, a brown giant that looks entirely like it's made out of muscle. Tim later decides that there's too much flesh in the way and becomes Skeleton Boy, a hero made up entirely of bones. Wade and Joey, the other two friends, are Captain Asskicker and Major Screw (who screws and goes down on guys - literally!). Together, they form The Atomic Trinity (Joey doesn't really count), a group of comic-book misfits who don't belong anywhere. They band together to fight the forces of Nunzilla (or PegLeg), their alter ego bad-guy for Sister Assumpta. Margie Flynn is incorporated as Sorcerella, a dethroned princess who must save her kingdom from the clutches of Nunzilla and her clan. As the real-life story moves along, so does the comic story. I do not want to tell what happens, but you'll get a major lesson the poetry of William Blake, the importance of true friendship and the need for forgiveness. This is more than just a coming-of-age story - it's a coming-of-LIFE story. 10 out of 10. P.S. - if you read the book, this take on it is basically the same, the story has some major differences as well, which do, however, reflect the messages conveyed in the book. If you're open-minded and able to interpret situations from more than just one angle, you'll have a great time viewing this cinematic gem.. "},{"Title":"Some background","Date":"9 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Chris Fuhrman died before he completed work on the novel, so it had a rough, unfinished feel about it. The movie has a more linear quality.I had not even heard of the movie until I saw a poster at a theatre; it was already in the video stores by then. Pity, it's a fine coming of age in the south story. (Though no one in the movie has an accent, it took place in Savannah, and was shot in Charleston and Wilmington.) "},{"Title":"Stand By Me meets Calvin and Hobbes","Date":"29 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I think the Dangerous Lives of Altar Boys is a great movie, the best I've seen so far this year. The performances are all just right, especially the three young leads. Kieren Culkin, Emile Hirsch, and Jenna Malone are all actors to keep an eye on... in fact I'd nominate all three for Oscars if I could. The film is a coming of age story that reminds me a lot of Rob Reiner's highly regarded Stand By Me in the way it evokes an era (the 70's) and the feeling of adolescent bonding. I like this film even more, and that's saying a lot. The kicker with this movie is the animated sequences which are interspersed with the live action. Much like the comic strip Calvin and Hobbes, the animated fantasy sequences serve to illuminate the main character's real life dreams and dilemnas, and the animation is very lively and well done. By the way, the title has nothing to do with the current problems being experienced by the Catholic church, but rather refers to the characters' own sense of adventure. This film may not be for everyone - it's a bit raw in places - but the visual poetry and great performances all hang together to make it (for me anyway) one of the year's best films.  "},{"Title":"A beautiful coming of age story","Date":"27 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Dangerous Lives of Altar Boys is definitly a film that everyone must see.  It is visually beautiful, emotional, funny and sad.  The story is a great coming of age story, where the audience feels so involved that at the end, you don't want to move.  The performances are great, Jena Malone espeically and Kieran Culkin. It was great to see Jodie Foster play such an unlikeable bitch but the audience still feels for her character.  There is no faults with this film, the story is intersting with some great twists, the direction is amazing and the animated parts add humour and interest. All in all, this is a great film! *****/out of 5 "},{"Title":"Quirky independent film","Date":"12 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Because this is in a genre that is not given much respect - a teen film - it may go underrated.  It is an excellent and realistic portrait of troubled souls.  The acting is good all around.  Kieran Culkin is outstanding as always.  There's plenty of humor and also some good, if tragic surprises.  "},{"Title":"I don't know what to say","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Except that Jodie Foster as a peg-leg nun (and yes her leg squeaked with _every_ step she took -- noticeably) was worth my seven dollars.  I thought that small attention to detail says a lot about this movie, actually.  Other than that, I found the boys most annoying as hell.  The real main character, who I think should have gotten first billing,  was the boy who played Doyle.  He actually showed some maturity at points and a good heart, so I found him bearable.  Personally, I'm with Nunzilla -- I find boys vile -- so I may be biased.  This made me super-glad to be born a girl, not having to deal with penis angst.  Basically, this was a truly unromanticized version of what I imagine boys lives must be like. and I think that's admirable in a film.  Also, it's set around what I think is the early 70s in a small town, and I haven't seen a movie lately which had this as a setting so that was refreshing.  They drank their soda (mixed with alcohol) out of the old-fashioned steel cans.  I just don't know what else to say about the film.  Oh!  The animation, super-hero parts juxtaposed with the storyline, sort of a fantasy of these young boys of what they would do if they had more power or were more grown or were super-heroes in the comics -- that was really well-done and interesting.  Jena Malone was fabulous, and her character was fantastically complex. It was an enjoyable time.6 of 10. "}{"Title":"An autobiographical coming of age story, is set in the 1970's.","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  SPOILER---SPOILER----SPOILEERDangerous Lives of Alter Boys, an autobiographical coming of age story, is set in the 1970's.  Tim and Francis Kieran Calkin and Emile Hirsch, respectivley are teen boys seeking outlets for their raging hormones and creative minds.  This isn't likely to happen in school under the watchful eye of Father Casey Vincent D'Onofrio and Sister Assumpta Jodie Foster; structure and discipline are the watchwords at St. Agatha's.  The boys, and their friends, escape reality by creating the Atomic Trinity comic book of `super hero's' living violent and sensual sexual adventures.  Their real life antagonists the Priest and Nun are featured in this fantasy, and it becomes the boy's downfall when the book falls into the wrong hands.  Meanwhile, in the real world Marie Jena Malone shares a secret with Francis; who shares it with others.  The plot thickens and our teen super heroes escalate their misdeeds, to their own detriment.   Dangerous Lives of Alter Boys has a ton of themes and issues on its plate, only some of which are brought to closure.  This is one of those movies that may suffer because it's constrained by the facts and the writers are loath to take liberties with their labor of love.  The specific events, in the aggregate, may stretch your imagination unless you lived your childhood in the very fast lane.  None the less, you don't have to be an alumnus of the St. Somewhere school to appreciate and be entertained by the story.  The yarn could easily be a light comedy, but there's serious stuff in the air, and that's what this slice of life is really about.  The filmmakers cleverly intersperse cartoon clips as windows to the boy's minds; that may or may not be your idea of clever filmmaking, but it works here. Jody Foster produces this film and is basically its patron saint.  She's also clever enough to play second chair to the young cast, particularly Hirsch and Malone, who deliver stunning and grownup performances.  "},{"Title":"authentic portrayal of adolescence","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  THE DANGEROUS LIVES OF ALTAR BOYS, based on the only novel of the late author Chris Fuhrman, gives a great portrayal of the ups and downs of adolescence. Despite veering wildly away from the novel, the film does a great job of transposing moments of boredom-inspired adolescent lunacy with aching transcendence (the scene in which Francis, the protagonist, akwardly talks to his dream girl Margie for the first time made MY heart flutter, and I haven't been 14 for a while!)Still, I wished that the scriptwriters had stuck closer to the book in some respects, especially detailing Francis' home life, which would have given greater insight into WHY he uses his drawing as an escape(and he has a heavy-duty reason to escape). For the guy who wondered in his review about Tim and Francis' home lives, let's just say that Francis' parents are WAY more disfunctional in the book than in the movie. Even with the parents' virtual absence from the movie, there are still great momemts that were more or less transferred from book to screen the scene in Margie's bedroom(although a bit more explicit in the book);Tim and Francis' finding the dying dog by the highway and Tim's subsequent soliloqy; the fateful journey into the wildlife preserve. Painful, beautiful, and true. See this one.  "},{"Title":"Brilliant!","Date":"11 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I saw this film with a friend of mine in a small intimate theater last night.  it was amazing.  it's one of the few movies recently that hasn't made me feel like i was watching a MOVIE.  there was a subtle undertone that was at once understated and quite apparent and allowed the director's vision to shine through quite beautifully. the cast was wonderful, a group of fairly young and new faces that added life and beauty to the screen. i highly recommend it. not your typical movie and most definitely worth the trip.   "},{"Title":"Not what you probably expect","Date":"9 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  No, it's not about priestly sexual abuse.  Nor is it simply a typical, mindless, cliche-ridden teen comedy.What it is, is an original, sensitive, tragicomic film that explores adolescent life in a way that few others have actually done.  It helps if you attended a Catholic school.  The plot involves some of the teen hijinks you often see in movies, but things don't go the way they do in other teen movies.  They turn out more as they would do in real life.Brazil and Natural Born Killers had similar animation sequences which symbolize what's going on in the story.  So it's not an original idea here, but still well done.By turns hilarious, sad, romantic, and nostalgic, this film stands head and shoulders above most of this summer's releases.  It's worth going out of your way to see. "},{"Title":"The best movie I have seen in a long time.","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I was amazed at how much this movie roused my emotions. In many ways I was able to relate to the characters. The movie made me feel both sad and happy at the end with a sort of bittersweet aftertaste. What I loved most about this movie was the fact that each situation was not over-reacted and over-dramatized. The fight scene, for instance, was very anticlimactic, much like it would probably be in real life. I love how real everything seemed. To me, this movie and the way it made me feel is priceless and indescribable. To describe how well the movie was made, however, I would definitely have to say that it was beyond excellent. The acting was superb and I could truly see myself through the life of Francis. It far surpasses any of the marketing-tool movies that plague the theaters and draw massive crowds who are forced to sit through yet another recycled Hollywood script complete with banal dialogue and a lousy story-line that has purely profit written all over it. The Dangerous Lives of Altar Boys was everything I expected of it and more. How often can you say that of any other movie? "},{"Title":"Coming of Age with a Twist","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Rising like a small phoenix out of the ash heap of nearly every teenage gross out loss of innocence comedy of the last decade emerges this modest little gem of a film . Actually it's rather unfair to clump THE DANGEROUS LIVES OF ALTAR BOYS along with such fare as the American Pie movies and others of that ilk . Although it shares with those films an affinity for adolescent sexual boasting and a preponderance of scatological verbiage , this new picture has bigger things on its mind. Set in a small southern town circa 1970's , the story centers on a group of Catholic school boys who spend their off school hours developing an elaborate cartoon scrapbook of super heroes that intentionally mimic counterparts in real life , mainly the Catholic high school's principal , Sister Assumpta (Jodie Foster) , and Father Casey (Vincent D'Onofrio), the parish priest . The boys are enthusiastic young artists, and their artistic fervor creates Sister Assumpta's menacing alter ego, a motorcycle bound , wraith - like nun who dominates their sketch book,  The Atomic Trinity  . This imagined cartoon world at times intrudes on the live action movie itself, as if the boys' collective effort morphs into full fledged fantasy. These well executed animated sequences, supervised by Spawn creator Tod McFarlane, prove to be an interesting diversion up to a point, but in the end seems to be a good idea run amok. It's the only misfire in an otherwise excellent production. Director Peter Care does a great job of depicting the bravado and awkwardness of adolescence ; his young actors are as naturalistic a bunch of kids as one could imagine. Into this mix is the seemingly generic teen romance involving two best friends and the pretty Margie Flynn (Jenna Malone), a young girl haunted by a deep, dark secret. When Margie divulges her story to one of the boys in a moment of trust, this movie becomes unexpectedly painful and moving. The title of this film is something of a misnomer  yes, some of the kids are altar boys and there is a brief scene of the boys serving Mass, but for a movie with Catholicism as a backdrop, the religiosity is treated with a deft hand. The one major voice of guilt and sin is given to Jodie Foster's austere Sister Assumpta, a woman whose harsh exterior belies a compassionate woman underneath. A diminutive but formidable figure swathed in black veil and starched collar, Sister wears a prosthetic limb, and is rudely called Peg-Leg behind her back. This could easily have been a situation for caricature but Foster brings a fierce intelligence and understanding to the role. Foster has never given anything less than a good performance, and this is one of her best A counterpoint to Sister Assumpta is Father Casey, the undemonstrative, chain - smoking pastor who pretty much leaves the disciplinary duties to Sister but leavens things a bit with gentle warnings. The scene where they peruse the boys' cartoon handiwork is priceless.As with past coming of age and loss of innocence movies, THE DANGEROUS LIVES OF ALTAR BOYS serves up scenes of humiliating jokes and reckless pranks, but in this movie there is an unexpected twist. Moments of real tenderness fight their way to the surface, and don't be surprised if you find yourself wiping away a tear or two at film's end. "},{"Title":"Traditional coming of age movie with new twists.","Date":"1 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie has a lot of elements seen in other works about coming of age, such as Stand by Me and Dead Poet's Society. The young actors are engaging and well-directed, and Jodie Foster puts in a great supporting role as a comically desperate nun trying to keep them in line. The movie also has a parallel plot in which one of the boys interprets unfolding events in terms of a comic book plot involving four superheroes (the boys) against swarms of evil motorcycle nuns. My only complaint is that I found the ending implausible and a little out in left field. Still well worth seeing in my opinion. "},{"Title":"hail altar boys","Date":"1 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie yesterday, and this is simply a wonderful movie. It's so nice to have such an original story for once, and the actors and supporters of this film pulled it off beautifully. It's great becuase of the mix of drama and comedy, the love and the loss, it's all so good. It's one of those films that makes you thank directors and artists everywhere. "},{"Title":"added together it made for a very good film.","Date":"29 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  this was pretty good film. the friendship the love interest, the adolescence, the juvenile delinquency, and the animated sequences. added together it made for a very good work. i thought the audio was done very well, the music was perfect, done so well, i didnt notice there was any until the end. plus youve got to admit, despite the nun outfit jodie foster is still hot. what made the movie that much better for me is that i got in trouble for making drawings my teachers in my planner back in junior high. yea teachers really dont like that. "},{"Title":"Forgive me father, but you should see this movie","Date":"28 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"   What can I say about this comedy of love, coming of age, catholic school, and comics. All that I can say is that this is a great movie. Not only is this a great movie, but it also shares a great cast, crew, and great animation squences.  In this movie, it's about four catholic boys dreaming about making a comic called, The Atomic Trinity. Now, the person who does the animation squences is the same man who draws the Spawn comics. So, of course, it's going to be weird. But beside that, it's a movie that everyone should see (even if you never been in a catholic school). Anyways, who wouldn't want to see a movie about four boys trying to get back at a vindictive b**** of a nun (played by Jodie Foster). This comic/dramatic film also includes Vincent D'Onofrio as the priest. So, forgive me father, but you should see this movie. "}{"Title":"Can't get it out of my head","Date":"28 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I just returned from seeing this film, and I've already recommended it to everyone who'll listen.  I expected to like it, based on the subject matter, Jodie Foster's participation, and early reviews.  It didn't disappoint and in fact left me giddy and entranced.  Ensorcelled, even.The boys' drawings morphing into animated comics was particularly well done. All the young actors gave fine performances - and they seemed unforced and natural.  I can't imagine the pitch meeting for this script, because it's certainly not Hollywood at all.I'll see it again. "},{"Title":"It started at curiousity and became something more.","Date":"25 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I just saw this movie last night at the Globe Cinema in Downtown Calgary. I literally loved every second of this movie. Going into it it was sheer curiosity and wanting something different to watch. The bits about the cartoons I wasn't so interested in, but I'm a fan of Kieran Culkin and Vincent D'Onofrio, so I wanted to check it out. To my amazement it was a lot better than I thought. It showed me to what extremes small town kids will go for a little adventure, and excitement. I know for myself at 14 I was nothing like these kids, drinking, smoking and the main theme of it all living vicariously through the lives of cartoon super heros which they created. What I find interesting, however is the actors picked to play the kids. They're all 3-6 years older than the actually kids they're playing, Kieran Culkin being 20. But I think it was a smart move because realistically you can't really know what it's like to be a certain age until you've passed it and look back on it. I think all of them did an amazing job being 14 again. I almost wish I could go back to 14 now and live more dangerously. To wrap it all up, it was a great movie for anyone who remembers life at 14, it was a new and exciting concept mixing McFarlane cartoons into the dangerous lives of these 4 altar boys. "},{"Title":"Shockingly good movie","Date":"23 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  So well done all around that you can ignore the decade-bending anachronisms.Cast is almost perfect--Foster shines as a member of a religious order who is no where near as bad as the boys think, but also unable to connect with them in any real way.Haunting echoes of Blue Velvet and other indy masterpieces.The score fit the action as well as anything I have seen and heard. "},{"Title":"Functionally what any good coming of age film should be!","Date":"21 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Coming of age story for two boys at a Catholic School, exploring their imagination, their courage, their compromises, and their relationships with their friends, love interest and mentors. Includes animation from McFarlane's studio and ace performances from the entire cast, with notables like Vincent D'Onofrio as Father Casey & Jodie Foster as Sister Assumpta. Well crafted, shot, edited, scored and completely magical & horrible & wondrous and terrifying as any worthwhile coming of age yarn should be. Love this film! "},{"Title":"tiger, tiger burning bright","Date":"21 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Having just watched this film for the first time, I'm still a bit dazed. It is a beautiful, heart-felt film that captures that unique experience of adolescence.  The animation sequences, while spectacular in their own right, work so well with the live-action as to enhance the narrative, heightening my emotional response and making the film that much more amazing.  The direction and editing are inspired, but it is the performances that really dominate.  I've been a big fan of Jena Malone since 'Donnie Darko', but I was amazed by Emile Hirsch and Kieran Culkin.  And while both Jodie Foster and Vincent D'Onofrio are wonderful, it really is the kids' picture.  I'm still reeling from the kiss under the stars montage and the amazing cougar sequence.  It truly is a remarkable film. "},{"Title":"Something fresh, if only this side of paradise.","Date":"19 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Naturally, I went to this movie almost expecting it to have something todo with altar boys being molested by priests (hey, let's face it.  It'sthe scandal du jore of the moment).  I insted found a delightful moviethat was quirky and fun.  It kind of reminded me of Stand By Me init's attempt to balance the fun and joyus side of childhood with thedark side.  The cast was generally excellent, and I think young KerinCulkin may yet one up his older brother.  Jodie Foster, as always, issuperb, as is Vincent D'Orfino.  It's kind of nice to see a friendlypriest in a movie at the present time.  The film really tries to perform a balancing act.  It tries to on theone hand depict a slice of life/coming of age story, while trying todepict a pure childhood fantasy (i.e. the wonderful animated segments byTodd McFarland), and depicting a genuine look at the horrors ofchildhood.  And it very nearly succeeds.  The business with thegirlfriend was handled well.  But the ending was too heavy handed.  Ifind alot of films these days seem to think going over the top into anapocolyptic ending is the answer (ala L.I.E.).  Still, a  "},{"Title":"Downbeat","Date":"19 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  ...Altar Boys is a downbeat, coming-of-age film.   The central character is Francis, an altar boy who  attends a coed parochial school; his best friend is  Tim who also is an altar boy at the same school;  his new girlfriend is Margie who attends the school.   Two other boys at the school (Joey & Wade) make up  the FOUR males Atomic Trinity who are superheroes  in a notebook.  The movie at times shifts to comic  book style animation reflecting the Atomic Trinity  sketches.  The primary villain in the boys' minds  is a nun, Sister Assumpta (Jodie Foster).  All of  the adult actors give one-note performances which  assumedly was what was wanted by the director.   The young actors all turn in good performances.     Rated R primarily for language.  GRADE = B "},{"Title":"A Brilliant Comic Film About Tyranny, Loyalty, And Death","Date":"18 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Great cast with stellar performances all around, this curious effort succeeds when it seemed it should not.  Combining animation and live shooting seemed curious to me, conceptually, but the proof was in the viewing.  Culkin is the young image of Tobey Maguire and acts as well as his elder.  Wry script, double dose of darkness cum death and incest, who could ask for anything more?  If Ice Storm had been funny...  "},{"Title":"Terrific acting, patchy story telling.","Date":"4 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie has a compelling direction with terrific acting but, in the end, there are a lot of blind alleys in the plot.  The director was at the screening I saw and let it drop that it had been through at least one screenwriter change.  That may account for the unfinished feel of the story.If you go thinking you are going to see Little Man Tate (a gentle, early Jodi Foster attached project) you will probably walk out of the theater. Several people did at the screening I saw.  However, if you go to the theater remembering early Jodi Foster (The Little Girl Who Lived Down The Lane or Taxi Driver) you will enjoy the experience.  No, Ms. Foster does not have a large part but the young stars are all up and comers who play the rolls she did at the same age.Much is made of the animation and it is a highlight.  It is not a stunt and advances the movie very well.Overall a mixed bag, great film-making, less than great story-telling; . . . but worth your time "},{"Title":"Great Movie - at least released on DVD","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film which has not been released theatrically yet (in any country I think) is now available as VHS or DVD for rent in Germany, and I highly recommend to pay your local video store a visit IMMEDIATELY, because after watching THE DANGEROUS LIVES OF ALTAR BOYS twice I happily recommend this jewel in recent film making to everyone!The story is wonderfully told, the characters are amazingly well developed and so believable that it hurts and makes you feel good at the same time. TODD McFARLANE's animation works very well and blends in beautifully in PETER CARE's visual and narrative concept (which makes it hard to believe he's a first-timer). JODIE FOSTER is as great as ever playing Sister Assumpta, a bitter nun with a wooden leg; she is disgusted with anything unholy, sacrilegious, or blasphemous that could possibly happen at the Catholic school she teaches, always on a quest (or crusade) looking out for potential sinners who must be punished. Whereas VINCENT D'ONOFRIO plays Father Casey, the more or less moderate Catholic priest who still has enough empathy towards his students to realize that boys will be boys, mischief or not. D'ONOFRIO is as good as ever, he is simply one of those actors who could not give a bad performance even if their lives depended on it.But basically the film is about, well, the lives of the altar boys (and Margie Flynn, the object of one altar boy's affection). EMILE HIRSCH and JENA MALONE do a fine job, convincing and believable, but it is KIERAN CULKIN who really shines as Tim Sullivan, the mischievous, charismatic, and self-confident leader of the teenage gang who, on the other hand, is very troubled and deeply hurt ('cause of his disfunctional family - to say the least). He delivers one of the finest, most mature, and most subtle performances by an actor of his generation I have seen in a long time. It takes great skill to underplay his part the way he did and yet being passionate about his plans and aims at the same time. I see a great actor in him coming in future years!It is too sad that ALTAR BOYS had not been released theatrically somewhere in the year 2001 because it has some career-defining performances in it and could probably had become a serious Oscar contender. I hope the public will care for the film when it is finally getting ist release on June 14th in the U.S.  "}{"Title":"Little strange movie","Date":"26 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I watched the movie and I must say it's a little strange one! You don't expect how things happen and end. I would say See for yourself! Also I noticed the cast (Jena Malone) looked much younger then they are, I thought the movie was made a few years ago because Jena Malone did look much younger then 18 years. "},{"Title":"superb acting, wonderful storytelling","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Saw this at the Ann Arbor Film Festival.  The most unique thing about this film is its use of animation.  When I first heard it had animation, I wondered how they would work it in.  Well, let me tell you that it flows very well with the movie and is really an integral part of the story.  It adds another dimension that could not easily be told otherwise.  The other notable thing is the quality of acting from the young actors - not your typical Hollywood teens, but real teenagers with real teenager issues.  Wonderful storytelling - thank you Jodie Foster! "},{"Title":"Fantastic film","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A fantastic film, and one of my favorites from Sundance 2002. Excellent performances from the young cast, especially Kieran Culkin and Emile Hirsch. Jodie Foster produced the film and has a small role to give the film a name star, but the kids carry the film. A group of adolescent boys attending a Catholic school get into trouble through their various shenanigans, and they imagine themselves as superheros fighting a group of evil nuns on motorcycles (superb animated sequences by Todd McFarlane run parallel to the live action film). Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Opinion from a Sundance Screening.","Date":"20 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie at Sundance, and I must say I was happy with what I saw. The movie has a very young cast that made the radical lives of the altar boys seem realistic. It made me want to be 14 again. I'm so happy they made the characters talk like kids normally would and not some John Hughes written dialogue. Also the use of animation moved the pace of the movie and also showed a unique idea that I've never seen in the movie. The animation worked. The audience at the screening seemed to like it very much as well. In the directors own words you all oohed and laughed at all the right parts. To sum up the movie made me laugh, scared, and almost cry. I will go see this movie again when it comes out in the theaters.  "},{"Title":"One of my favorite movies","Date":"21 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie is one of the best movies i have ever seen. The actors they chose for each character was perfect. Although Emile Hirsch is the main character in the movie, and his portrayal of Francis was great i think that Kieran Culkins portrayal of Tim was amazing. it was like if he was Tim in real life. i think that Kieran will soon become a well known actor. Hopefully he finds more roles like this. Also at the end of the film i realized it was a bildungsroman which is where the main character in like a movie or a book matures psychologically and spiritually by the end. In conclusion this film makes you think a lot about your life and is a film that everyone should watch.This film is TYTE! "},{"Title":"Good outweighs the bad","Date":"29 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  There was a song at the end of the film that had the line I'm older in my head, my innocence is gone. That pretty much sums up adolescence right there. Too bad the film couldn't convey it without a nudge.I have a problem with Hollywood and older writers writing dialog for young teens. They write what they might think, but not what they would say. It becomes way to over dramatic.  Dialog for a film that is supposed to be set in the 70's having the kids say whatever! or I sucked at it is just un excusable for professional writers. It's like they are trying to understand their own adolescence as an adult and talking it through. They might as well have had one of kids say yo, Knowhat i'm sayin?  Either write for the times or move the time to your writing. I didn't once hear the word groovey. That kind of writing can ruin a movie for me. Story was great, production was great, cinematography was great, acting was great.  Fusion of animation with the story was tremendous. In my opinion the best aspect of the film. Watch it for that alone just for film study.If you ever grew up in the 70's as an alter boy in a catholic environment, you will probably be less amused.  "},{"Title":"An excellent movie...","Date":"21 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It is impossible not to fall in love with this movie. From the plot line to the acting to the drama, it all so well done. The only reason I even considered renting this movie was because Emile Hirsch starred in it. But after the first couple of minutes I could already tell I would enjoy it.The acting is great. Jody Foster plays a great nun, and if I'm not mistaken she also directed it. Emile Hirsch was so adorable and sexy in this movie. His relationship with Jena Malone was so believable. They had such a strong bond, even through the rough times. Kieran Culkin did an awesome job playing Tim. I totally cried at the end of this movie.*****SPOILERS*****The movie was great all the way through, up until the part when Tim gets the ax. I mean honestly, do movies now a days always have to kill of the best characters. I was satisfied with the movie however, and everyone should see it. I give it **** out of ***** stars. "},{"Title":"the book was better","Date":"10 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I had read the book soon after it came out in '94 and was pleased to see that it was being made into a movie. I was less pleased when I actually saw the movie.There are many examples I could give, but I'll stick with the most basic. For one, the feel of the school was all wrong. While the book perfectly captured the culture of rebellious teenagers resisting authority in an old-school Catholic environment, the movie didn't even come close. One gets the impression that the filmmakers had no personal experience in that environment and copied ideas they'd seen in other movies.Suprisingly, another big problem was Jodie Foster. While she is one of the best actors of her generation, she is woefully miscast as the evil nun. (I know evil nuns. I attended classes taught by evil nuns. Jodie Foster is no evil nun.)The various subplots and student subgroups were mishandled or missing completely. The book showed the main characters interacting with other students and contained a potent racial subplot relevant to the time period. The movie left every character flat and unconvincing. Even a surprising revelation by a main character and the dramatic conclusion were played simply for shallow shock value.Overall, it was a disappointing film. And my negative appraisal is not simply because the book was better (as is often the case). A good friend who also attended Catholic school saw the movie and found it to be untrue to its setting and even exploitive. It's just not very good on its own merits. "},{"Title":"Passafist Reviews The Dangerous Life Of Alter Boys","Date":"11 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It's always nice when a film tells a good story.  Even if it's full of flaws.  I smiled a lot during the early moments of THE DANGEROUS LIFE OF ALTER BOYS.  I reminisced about by own childhood.  I felt deep sympathy when the characters wanted to cry.  Oh yeah and Jenna Malone has proved she can play more layered roles.  This is a great movie.Set in small town America; in a time before video game saturation and before the Internet was a gleam in Al Gore's mind.  Boys and girls did what they could to elevate boredom. They played outside.  Emile Hirsch (The Emperor's Club) plays Francis Doyle, an alter boy with that typical teenage angst.  Kieran Culkin (Igby Goes Down) plays his best friend Tim Sullivan, he's the brain in the friendship, at least he's the guy who comes up with all the crazy schemes.  There are two other friends Wade (Jake Richardson, Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back) and Joey (Tyler Long, Forrest Gump).  Together these 4 boys create a comic book world into which they can escape.Jenna Malone (Stepmon) plays Margie Flynn, the innocent girl with the dark secret.  Francis longs to date her, and she's going to let him.  Let the coming of age movie begin.Francis and his friends have one problem Sister Assumpta (Jodie Foster, Panic Room).  She's their teacher and probably the meanest nun to ever be on film.  She cuts them no slack, humiliates them during class prayer.  She's the perfect villain, for small town kids with out many real problems.THE DANGEROUS LIFE OF ALTER BOYS strikes the right cords at the right moment.  This film hits me like THE CATCHER IN THE RYE, it's not the same story, but Francis is just as strong a central character.  I have a feeling that the real Sister Assupmta, isn't half as mean as Francis think she is.Kieran Culkin's performance hits the right tones too.  He's the mischief-maker and the ringleader, and you know why?  He's charismatic and funny at the right moments.  If I was that age I would have thought the cougar idea was a good one too.  Would I have followed them to the cage? Hmm&#133;I don't know!Jenna Malone, one word--WOW!  The camera loves her, and her performance is so sweet.  I think I hung out with girls just like Margie when I was in high school.  She steals small moments in this film, and you just want to give her a big hug near the end. Did I mention the animation?  The film has some of the most inventive comic book style animation I've ever seen.  It's a nice device to move the story forward; any lesser movie would probably wallow in trashy voice-over.  Thankfully this film does not. If you're looking for a film, that's sweet but not sweet enough to give you a cavity.  If you're looking for a film with just the right beats, even with some faults.  THE DANGEROUS LIFE OF ALTERBOYS just might be your penance. "},{"Title":"'Well, it's the altar boys. Did you come to get altered?' <local pot dealer, peeking out of his trailer home>","Date":"16 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  minor SPOILERS herein...Dangerous Lives of Altar boys is not a comedy, although it has many funny moments. It also is not a movie for youngsters. This time critic Ebert missed the gist of it, in my opinion, and critic Berardinelli has a much more meaningful review. The title is linked to the four boys' behaviors, and after an afternoon of drinking alcoholic drinks, while three of them are eating anchovies to hide the smell, the fourth heads home. One of the others says, 'Going to live dangerously?' There are other examples of their choosing dangerous choices, including the tragic one at the end with the second cougar.The altar boy content sets up the contrast between what parents and clergy think the boys are doing, and what they really are doing. Although I was not an altar boy when I grew up in the 50s, I had enough schooling by Sisters and Fathers that I almost feel like I was one. Although their pranks went a bit far, the misbehavior, salty language, and obsession with drawing cartoons is very realistic. It could have been me and my three friends. The Culkin kid plays a character here that is very hard to like, and that fits him very well. Also fitting is Jenna Malone as the sexually confused teenager. I like Vince D'Onofrio in everything, he is superb here as the priest. Jody Foster is always OK, and she is just OK here.I like the movie very much, and I thought the end was very appropriate. Too many movies make everything come out rosy in the end. This one left many unresolved issues, it is obvious that the boys and girls still had much more growing up, and perhaps incidents like the ones portrayed here are part of that process. Although not remarkable, the DVD is good and the Dolby 5.1 sound adds to the effect. It is in 169 widescreen format which perfectly fits our widescreen TVs. I haven't seen the extras yet, but I own the DVD and will eventually.TxMike "}{"Title":"Very well done.","Date":"17 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I rented this movie with FEARDOTCOM last night, and let's just say that I liked this movie better. It is the coming-of-age tale of four Catholic school boys who cause trouble to keep themselves from being bored. It is basically a story about growing up, and the people who help you while doing it. The whole movie is very well done and I was very impressed with the performances. Kierian Culkin does a wonderful job.Heartbreaking, and actually pretty funny at times, THE DANGEROUS LIVES OF ALTAR BOYS is indeed one of the best films I have seen all year. I missed out on it in theaters, only because at the last second I decided to see MR. DEEDS instead of this (man, that was a mistake) and I never got around to seeing this film again. But the film is well worth seeing as it is truly a great film. It is a feel-good movie that makes you feel sad.The animated sequences drawn by Todd MacFarlane (the guy who draws the Spawn comic books) are very well done and I was laughing my head off at the cartoons that swear. That was pretty funny I thought. Jodie Foster was also very good, in case I forgot to mention that. Her role was a bit smaller than her usual ones, but she was still very good. A little too religious and too by-the-book but that is how some people are, so therefore she does a very good job. So, yeah. All in all, this is a very good film. I recommend it to anyone with a casual or serious interest in film. So, basically, I am calling it a must-see. Truly one of the year's best films. THE DANGEROUS LIVES OF ALTAR BOYS gets 5/5. "},{"Title":"A few good moments, original and well made but disappoints","Date":"18 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Let's call a spade a spade....This movie gets high marks for acting, direction and for its original screenplay. There are also some funny moments.But it forces a downer ending on you that is a little too unbelievable.It's the same feeling I had at the end of The Ice Storm.People try to portray this movie as a comedy. It is not. There are not enough light moments.The juxtaposition of Todd Mcfarlane animation is nice, but let's call a spade a spade. The movie should not be high on your list.This movie takes the fun-weirdness of David Lynch's 'Blue Velvet', the heartfelt kid relationships of 'Stand by Me' and the the unbelievable, nonsensical crap of 'Donnie Darko'.There is not enough to save this movie to make it worth it. I'm sure a lot of people will disagree with me, and that's how it is with art. But the whole project of this movie just doesn't score. Pieces of it are great, but the whole take of it is lackluster. It's like saying, But you know, the Edsel had great headlights and a really nice bumper.  "},{"Title":"Whatever.","Date":"7 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  ...Altar Boys is a misguided slice-of-life/coming-of-age flick which wanders with obvious lack of purpose as it takes us into the post-pubescent midteen lives of a handful of male catholic school students and the usual boy stuff....smoking, drinking, sex talk, acting up, pranks, etc. The film has animated interjections which only serve to remind us we're watching a MOVIE...duh. Nothing like being yanked back to reality by some dimwitted auteur's brain fart. Overall, this flick is pretty near the bottom of the heap and will likely by most appreciated by fans, pedophilic priests, and the like. (C-) "},{"Title":"The name is all too apt.","Date":"2 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The lives of altar boys certainly are dangerous!  The title of this movie based on an autobiographical novel set in the 'Seventies turns out to be truer than one would ever have imagined. There is this contrast between the innocence of 'Seventies Catholic school students and the heavy stuff that happens to them.  But these disasters all take place outside the church and parochial school that loom over the young boys and girls glimpsed in `Dangerous Lives of Altar Boys.'Somehow I'd gotten the naïve impression that this movie would be lighthearted fun.  Instead, I left somewhat shaken and rather disconcerted because some pretty serious emotions were aroused - without being fully dealt with. Young Francis' life - not unusual for an adolescent boy - is pretty much a non-stop downer even when he gets the girl of his dreams. There are few payoffs and few laughs and the ending is tragic.The movie nonetheless has its own discreet charms.  The dialogue is impressively real from the very first.  These kids don't talk like adults or like hip John Hughes cuties; they talk like what they're supposed to be fourteen-year-olds. When the four boys get together to plan a comic strip or a prank, magic doesn't necessarily happen.  I liked the fact that the filmmakers were willing to let events be as anticlimactic as real boys' lives usually are. And the whole conception of a band of young troublemakers in eighth grade and their outrageous projects to get revenge against a nun who has seized their self-created comic book is a delightful one.On the other hand, the story doesn't exactly show kids just confronting everyday kid stuff. When young Francis Doyle (Emile Hirsch) gets close to his girlfriend, she reveals an ugly secret far more extreme than anything most kids would ever have to deal with, and what happens to Francis' best friend is a romantic-tragic fantasy of still greater extremes, something that really requires a whole other movie, not just a quick finale. In neither case does the film thoroughly process the issues it has raised.  I wanted to go back and reread S.E. Hinton to see kids' serious problems confronted and dealt with in a mature but youth-friendly way.  Perhaps because of the Catholic milieu, events are framed in overly lurid colors. True, these are nicely absorbed into the imaginary Todd McFarlane animations that grow out of the boys' project to conceive a trinity of supermen based on themselves.  This animated element is an original touch, one that, in theory anyway, parallels the overactive imaginations and busy hormones of young boys - but it's an idea that's not worked out in complete enough detail. I was intrigued by the way the good and evil figures of the animations somehow also fit into the references to William Blake and his `Marriage of Heaven and Hell' - there's some thoughtful writing lying behind the screenplay - but ultimately the animations neither develop completely enough on their own nor parallel the actual events closely enough to provide commentary. Interesting though they are, they seem a bit tacked on, and in fact they were added late in the making of the movie.  We're talking about serious structural flaws, here.On the other hand, Emile Hirsch and Jena Malone, as the principal boy and his girlfriend, both give fine quiet performances without a wrong note. Their lovemaking scenes are sweet and touching and surprisingly intimate for fourteen-year-olds (what would the Legion of Decency say?). Kieran Culkin has presence and intensity as Francis' best friend Tim.  The other boys are not as well differentiated as the minor characters are in `Stand by Me' or `L.I.E.' or `The Virgin Suicides,' though, and while Vincent d'Onofrio and Jodie Foster are smooth and competent, they add nothing remarkable to the movie.  Foster (Sister Assumpta) in particular is disappointing, providing a kind of one-note intensity and no subtlety at all.  It's true that she has wooden material to deal with, playing a classic repressive nun with little to do but snap at the boys and punish them; somehow the screenplay doesn't give her enough real substance.  Nevertheless, there is a whole world of menace and kinkiness behind even the most generic idea of a repressive nun that Foster could have tapped but didn't. Her performance is pushed. D'Onofrio is a pleasant kind of foil, the easy-going, unpretentious priest - but this is surprisingly uninteresting work from an actor of of D'Onofrio's originality and talent.  Why, by the way, are there just one priest and one nun?  And why do we learn almost nothing about Francis and Tim's families? First time director Britisher Peter Care deserves credit for nowhere giving away his music video background, and seeing the movie has made me want to read the late Chris Fuhrman's book.  But I went away disturbed, not enthralled.  "},{"Title":"Sweet Jesus . . .","Date":"4 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Okay, so I avoided seeing this movie for YEARS because everyone said it sucked. I read the book, though, which I thoroughly enjoyed, and I was always curious about the movie. I should have listened. The setting, characters, and general mood of the movie was so dishonest to the book. Jodie Foster comes off as severely out of place. The boys in the movie seem to be way to unreal also. I'm not just talking about bad acting. There's like this film over them of boys that are just a little too perfectly placed. What's really great about the book is that the boys are total dumbasses, but not in a way that any other boy that age isn't. In the movie, though, it's very apparent that a script is being read. All that glorious, natural dumbass behavior turns to pre-fabricated pulp and makes me a little ill. As far as movies go, it would be okay to watch if say, nothing else were on and both your arms were broken and your legs and you had nothing to do but watch television and thank God that your parents didn't send you to Catholic school. "},{"Title":"it was sort of interesting...","Date":"29 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" but I didn't like the animation thrown in for no reason. It is about a group of rebellous Catholic school boys, who play pranks and create a comic book where the villain is a nun at their school. I guess the main plot points involve one of the boys getting a girlfriend and the group attempts to kidnap a cougar for some reason. That I never got because I never understood what they were going to do with the cougar. And the most reckless of the bunch gets what's coming to him concerning the cougar.Jodie Foster is basically a cameo because her character doesn't do much. I guess she agreed to play the part to bring publicity to the film since it had such a small budget.FINAL VERDICT It was decent. If you like independent films, check it out, but don't expect a lot of action or flashiness. "},{"Title":"I LOVED it!","Date":"17 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a must see!Everyone in the cast pulled this movie off excellently.  Acting was great by everyone, which made the movie all the more absorbing and real.It is a funny movie, but is definitely serious when it needs to be.  It's sort of what you'd call dark humor.  I love how they put the cartoon bits in at exactly the right time and still let the movie run smoothly.It's a very tragic portrayal of 4 young boys', but mostly focusing on Francis and Tim, journey in growing up, and learning some of life's hard lessons.If you liked this movie, I strongly recommend reading the book.  The book is just as great, but much different at parts.All in all...I loved this movie.  9/10 "},{"Title":"Such wasted potential","Date":"17 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie based on the book by Chris Fuhrman could have been so much better.  It wasn't a bad movie, but I wonder why they chose to excise the entire bit about the main character Francis' horrifically abusive alcoholic father who regularly beat the crap out of him.  It helps explain the drinking and drugging and the fact that this 14 yr old kid is out of the house all them time, day or evening, during the school year.  It would explain his bond with the messed up girl, his bond with Tim who's parents are f***ed up differently.  I did like the mix of comic and action, that was really well done. "},{"Title":"...um..interesting...","Date":"20 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A friend of mine had rented this, so I watched it with him and another friend and none of us fell asleep. One problem with the story is that it lacks a setting. The boys' haircuts are 1970s, but the nun's habit is 1950s. We don't see the boys' parents at all, so I guess this is supposed to be a residential school. But we don't see the boys in the dormitory either, not that I remember. The performances of the young actors are good, but much of the action seems unmotivated. The boys think of something to do, like kidnapping a mountain lion from a zoo, then they go ahead and do it without asking why or considering any consequences. Do today's youth behave that way? I hope not.The adult characters (nun and priest)are shallow. One boy has some serious questions to discuss, and the priest advises him to pray the Lord's Prayer. When the nun confiscates a book of William Blake that a boy is reading, she fails to explain why--other than saying Blake was a dangerous thinker. I don't know any priests or nuns who are like that. Oh well, it's only a movie. . . . "},{"Title":"Simple & Wonderful","Date":"19 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I had just seen a bunch of the summer blockbusters and feeling a bit ripped off when I decided to check out this little film and was so surprised. It is wonderfully made and the acting by the mostly young cast is excellent - with majestic work by Hirsch, Culkin and Malone. The film has so many wonderful, real moments of those awful teenage years where you are trying to figure out who you are and what is important to you. Powerful, strong adaptation of a good novel - my only complaint is with Jodie Foster. She's a terrific actress but I just felt she was miscast. I know it's her name and production company that gotthis film made, so good for her - but she really didn't seem to understand the character, so she was just acting as opposed to what she usually does - which is totally inhabit her characters and make them three-dimensional people - I just think a Louise Fletcher or Ellen Burstyn would have made a much more powerful figure as the boys' nemesis. Jodie's nun never seemed that mean or cruel or threatening (And I'm not talking about making her into a one note crazy, hitting nun either). But, as I said, Foster got the movie made and this is a simple, sweet, tragic film about growing up. Well worth seeing.  "}{"Title":"uneven, well acted film","Date":"5 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  `The Dangerous Lives of Altar Boys' is NOT, as you might expect, a film about predatory priests, but rather a slice-of-life tale about four malcontent Catholic schoolboys who spend most of their free time devising preposterously elaborate and life-threatening practical jokes to play on the faculty members of their school.As a coming-of-age drama, the film is fairly conventional in its plotting - i.e. young boys, in their rebellion against the uncomprehending adult world, experiment with drugs, first love, sex and general rule breaking - although there is a tricky and touchy incest-related subplot that is handled with a certain amount of delicacy and sensitivity.  The highlight of the movie is the outstanding performances delivered by youngsters Emile Hirsch, Kieran Culkin and Jena Malone, whom you might remember as the young Jodie Foster in `Contact.'  In fact, Foster herself appears in this film (in addition to co-producing it) as the uptight nun, Sister Assumpta.  Unfortunately, her character is probably the least well developed one in the film, a fact that seems more obvious than it otherwise might if an actress of Foster's caliber were not playing the part.The film also displays a nice feeling for its early-70's setting and does a good job capturing the way young people actually speak and communicate (the cast members have their nonverbal expressions and gestures down beautifully as well).  Working from the novel by Chris Fuhrman, screenwriters Jeff Stockwell and Michael Petroni, along with director Peter Care, interrupt the live action at regular intervals to provide animated sequences that are ostensibly derived from the anarchic superhero comic book on which the gifted boys are collaborating.  We know that these sequences are intended to provide a kind of fantasy alternate universe for these troubled kids who seem to find no meaning in the restricted world of religion and rules in which they find themselves, but the fact is that these sections of the film, not very creative in themselves, merely serve to thrust us out of the story at crucial moments.`The Dangerous Lives of Altar Boys' is an odd and somewhat misleading title for this film, since most of the `danger' these boys face is, primarily, a product of their own stupidity and not of their religious upbringing.  Indeed, the religious figures in the film are mainly cranky and/or ineffectual, not really dangerous.  `The Dangerous Lives of Altar Boys' is an uneven film, but the superb performances by its youthful cast members make it ultimately worth seeing.   "},{"Title":"A Great Potrayel Of Adolescence","Date":"25 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Dangerous Lives Of Altar Boys is a movie about a bunch of young teenage altar boys who have a wild imagination and can't seem to stay out of trouble. There is Francis(Emile Hirsch) who has a big crush on a pretty fellow student Margie(Jena Malone). As Francis gets closer to Margie, he finds out a terrible secret that's been haunting Margie in the past. Also there is Francis's best friend Tim(Kieran Culkin), who is always by his side and with them two together it's double trouble. I really enjoyed this movie, i think it potrayed adolescence well, and the acting was very great by the young actors. Also there is a very great performance by Jodie Foster who plays Sister Assumpta. I would give Dangerous Lives Of Altar Boys 9/10 "},{"Title":"Delinquents coming of age.","Date":"11 January 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I'm not going to write a whole lot about this movie. I liked it OK. There was really nothing in the movie that I hadn't seen before in better movies, but it's still a pretty good movie. Kieran Culkin and Emile Hirsch gave winning performances, and Jena Malone was wonderful. I guess my main problem with the movie is that it didn't really have a point. Maybe I'm getting old, but just because you are 14 and are in an oppressive environment doesn't give you the right to do absolutely anything you want. I would've been OK with the movie if we could've seen more of the good side of the kids and less of the bad. I know, I'm getting old... All that said, I was glad that I watched the movie - it did make me think, and I did become involved with the characters. I guess that's more than what you usually get. "},{"Title":"Religion, School and Pranks gone Bad","Date":"16 December 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This film, set in the religious environment many adults grew up with tells the story of four boys, who's personal lives become intertwined with their fertile imaginations. Immitating many boys their age, they deal with personal problems and set about to enliven their dull existence with pranks. They are common enough, until they run headlong into Jodi Foster who plays their main teacher and a Catholic Nun. Their stunt of stealing the statue of the school's namesake progresses to stealing a mountain lion, which in turn initiates death. With the added concepts of visual art in comic form, the film delivers a plausible entertainment. However, the search for the reason why this film earn an R rating proves illusive. "},{"Title":"The Best Of The Best","Date":"18 September 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  K, i don't know what's with you guys - But i loved that movie! iv'e seen many movie in my life and i can honestly say that this was one of my favourite ! that's one of the movies that you can't predict the end. The end was so strong, and it sure leaves you with some feelings. I really would recommend this movie coz' it sure is one of the best but not anyone would like it - just the one's that have the ability to focus in the movie itself !!But its really a great movie!! my favourite one !!! loveMe  "},{"Title":"A 'Stand By Me' of its own time...","Date":"20 February 2003","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This story reminds me of Stand By Me-but with a different, new, fresh style. The casting was done really well.  Kieran Culkin is a better actor than his brother without a doubt.  Emile Hirsch is a newcomer to me and is not bad an actor himself.  The comic scenes were quite...entertaining to some extent. But because of Culkin's character in the movie, the ending was a huge surprise.  This movie gets 7 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"authentic portrayal of adolescence","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  THE DANGEROUS LIVES OF ALTAR BOYS, based on the only novel of the late author Chris Fuhrman, gives a great portrayal of the ups and downs of adolescence. Despite veering wildly away from the novel, the film does a great job of transposing moments of boredom-inspired adolescent lunacy with aching transcendence (the scene in which Francis, the protagonist, akwardly talks to his dream girl Margie for the first time made MY heart flutter, and I haven't been 14 for a while!)Still, I wished that the scriptwriters had stuck closer to the book in some respects, especially detailing Francis' home life, which would have given greater insight into WHY he uses his drawing as an escape(and he has a heavy-duty reason to escape). For the guy who wondered in his review about Tim and Francis' home lives, let's just say that Francis' parents are WAY more disfunctional in the book than in the movie. Even with the parents' virtual absence from the movie, there are still great moments that were more or less transferred from book to screen the scene in Margie's bedroom(although a bit more explicit in the book);Tim and Francis' finding the dying dog by the highway and Tim's subsequent soliloquy; the fateful journey into the wildlife preserve. Painful, beautiful, and true. See this one.  "},{"Title":"The Greatest Teenage Drama of All Time","Date":"8 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" *I wrote this review last year for my university's newspaper. Thus, it contains a bit of summary, but nothing that overtly gives any specific plot instances away.*2002's The Dangerous Lives of Altar Boys endures as one of the greatest and most under- appreciated dramas of all time. The movie is heavily based on the novel of the same title by Chris Fuhrman; it was Fuhrman's only novel before he tragically passed away from cancer at age 31. The film adaptation, set in a 1970s American town, features three of the industry's most gifted young actors Emile Hirsh, Kieran Culkin and Jena Malone. Hirsh and Culkin star as Francis Doyle and Tim Sullivan, close friends who journey through their maladjusted teen years as students of a strict Catholic nun, played by Jodie Foster. As the boys work on their adventurous and obscene comic book, the film incorporates unique cinematography by bringing the animated scenes to life alongside the basic storyline. Francis' and Tim's adventures demonstrate the teenage mind's ability to arrive at surprisingly deep philosophical conclusions about life's meaning and morality. The film masterfully develops these characters and shows them dealing with complicated and weighty issues such as perverseness in domestic relationships and premature death. Culkin's funny, heartfelt and insightful portrayal of Tim single-handedly tears down the societal parallel between supposed moral maturity and existential knowledge. The misbehaviors of the teens become entirely understandable and relatable to the honest viewer, for the carefully-crafted characters truly embody essence of humanity. The ability of The Dangerous Lives of Altar Boys to appeal to the literary mind &#x97; the film offers odes to the works of William Blake &#x97; while incorporating vigorously entertaining animations which allow hope to endure amidst tragedy marks the drama as unique and undoubtedly worthwhile to those who appreciate good art. "},{"Title":"Mediocre","Date":"7 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This was a very mediocre film about teenagers It is true that it deals with shocking themes such as incest and death, but in way that is so bland and uninspired that this seems just as a typical TV-movie about teenagers.The performances were adequate (Specially the performance of Jodie Foster) but nothing special. I was expecting so much more about this film It wasn't completely bad, but it wasn't very interesting either.Also, the animated sequences were boring and poorly made, being very ugly, stupid and pointless. I guess those sequences tried to be some kind of symbolism about the lives of the main characters...But those sequences didn't work at all, and were just a burden for the main plot.This wasn't a bad film, but it wasn't a good film either. "},{"Title":"The script?","Date":"1 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Does any one know where I could find the script for this, the best movie our fried brains have ever processed? I don't really want to say anything more, but to submit my comment I have to write 10 lines or more. I need this script to perform it at my college. I study Producing, Directing and Script Writing at AFDA, African Film and Drama Association. For my Directing class I had to select any script, and I chose to do this one. I want to do the scene where Francis talks about the fish. Do you think that fish actually exists? I need this script urgently, but can't find a website that has it. This movie is one of the reasons I study film, and I have to return the favor by introducing other people to it. *Sash* "}{"Title":"i thought it was gd but...","Date":"20 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" it was a great idea and i watched it with few other mates and we all guessed that there would be more than one cougar in there. we thought it was a bit extreme that the guy had to die but i thought the funeral was well done. i thought the brother and the boyf hadnt finished up their fight properly but obviously a nose bleed finishes everything and what happened to the girl who saw the ghost, was that just to prove that she wasn't totally crazy? though she was a bit mucked up... i also thought the ending was bad and how many nuns do u know hu go around on motorbikes?!?! cute main guy though... p.s. does anyone know how to change ur username? i am fed up of johnny now! p.p.s hes still gorgeous though "},{"Title":"Skeleton Boy LIVES!!!","Date":"30 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Here's the best recent movie about what it is *really* like to be a teenager since the Virgin Suicides.  And interestingly, in the cases of both movies, the titles give you exactly the wrong idea.  This is really an energetic comedy about a bunch of best friends trying to write the next big fantasy epic while surviving school.  I love the way the movie brings us into the characters' heads.  If you can keep a straight face during the first few animated scenes, I don't know what to say to you. "},{"Title":"OK, nothing special","Date":"1 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A coming-of-age drama about youths in a Catholic school. Not particularly good, although the animated sequences are spectacular. The leads, including Kieran Culkin, are very good, but the film comes to naught. I was hoping for another HEAVEN HELP US, but this was not it. Jodie Foster as a nun is ineffectual; you can tell her heart was not in it. She was one of the film's producers and should have stuck with that role.  "},{"Title":"This is one of the best films of the year and my personal favorite for renewing my conflicted affair with Catholicism.","Date":"23 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  In my Catholic grammar school, the feared Sister Alexia stood me up in front of my eight-grade class to announce I was no more like my seminary-bound brother `than chalk is like cheese.' So when I recently saw Peter Care's `Dangerous Lives of Altar Boys,' I knew I had found the one film that understood the Catholic altar boy experience completely, from heaven (often visions of girls) to hell (often thoughts of what we would do to those girls).  Along the way we would devise plans to make life as hard for Sister Alexia as possible.In `Altar Boys' Jody Foster plays the wicked, peg-legged Sister Assumpta. Kieran Culkin leads the altar boys in a dangerous series of pranks, sometimes blurring the lines between comedy and tragedy. But checking out the girls while holding the plate for the priest during communion was just one of the many rituals we all vigorously adhered to with the requisite punishments.In sixth grade we trashed the wicked Sister's classroom.  We were caught and punished, and I also received the good citizenship award that year. How could that happen? I was the cutest damned altar boy you ever saw and my father was a generous physician. Similarly in the film the boys steal a statue, trash a classroom, and attempt to liberate a dangerous animal from the zoo.  Regardless of the eras, we all were headed toward sin and redemption as altar boys.Besides the wickedly accurate feel for schoolboy anxiety and exaltation, `Altar Boys' intersperses comic-book hero segments from `The Atomic Trinity' that the boys are creating on the side (Sister Assumpta is their`Nunzilla'). The animations are perfectly matched to the lives of the boys and occur with exquisite timing. The altar boys here have an unusual affinity for making comic books and appreciating William Blake, the comics and poet evoking the stark worlds of innocence and experience, heaven and hell.The adolescent love story involving Jena Malone and Emil Hirsch is tender and foreboding of the dangerous lives awaiting the altar boys. Her secret is difficult for Hirsch and audience to accept, but it does reflect the Catholic penchant for damning most sexually-related sins.Although this film is far from the current controversy about sexual abuse, in some ways it is the same abuse of power draws the Almighty's wrath sooner or later.In third grade a nun called me a dirty thing for holding a little girl's hand. I wish she had seen `Dangerous Lives of Altar Boys' because then she would have seen me for the good citizen I was. This is one of the best films of the year and my personal favorite for renewing my conflicted affair with Catholicism. "},{"Title":"Funny in places but not always fun","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  If you go in expecting this to be a fun comedy, as I was (haven't read the book), you will be sorely disappointed.  So get that fun-comedy idea out of your head right now, punk!  Instead, go in expecting nothing, and you will probably like the film a lot more.  Great performances from everyone, especially the always-wonderful Jena Malone, and incredible animation sequences by Todd McFarlane.   "},{"Title":"A laughable imitation of authentic youth","Date":"26 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I've tried in vain (google, etc.) to find a reviewer who saw this movie and laughed his/her ass off like me and my friends did when we saw this movie.There's a completely random melodramatic scene where the two boys are biking along and one of them sees a dead dog.  One of them says to the other, clutching the dying canine in his hands and in a burst of emotion, tells the other Don't you ever tell me what's real!I'd like to address it at the move itself and all the reviewers trying to say that this movie is real, authentic youth - im sick of people, this movie, telling me whats real and that this movie is good because it has its grips on reality like Caulkin on a dead dog.  This movie, at the moment of saying Don't tell me whats real is trying to tell me whats real, and trying to tell it without irony or subtelty.I never realized authentic youth was a beer commercial.  Or gripping dead dogs along the road.  Or standing in front of your whole school and tearfully reading out poetry while everyone is gripped in emotion.  Or being a liberal, hedonistic, a free thinking genius in the midst of harsh Christian social repression.  Or truely bonding, tearfully, with your male friends.  Sounds like a wet dream to me.  That is, while i must say that the haircuts and bicycles are all very seventies, the actual scenes are simple, pointless, uninspired.  They are citations of other teen movies.  Its a seventies shell with a filling of hollywood cliches.A movie that is scattered, uninteresting (plotwise) and trying at every moment to force its version of Pepsi-Cola reality down my throat, as if its version of reality by itself were enough to overlook the plot and anything redeeming ironic or humorous content.RATING one of the worst i've ever seen "},{"Title":"Stop it with the symbols already!!","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is so overloaded with metaphors that it hardly has time for the people.  It's trying so hard to be a powerful coming-of-age saga that it ends up being rather hollow.  That said, all of the young actors were good. What the hell was Emily Watson doing in ONE scene?  I'd have a talk with the editor if I were her. "},{"Title":"This movie is Stand By Me Revisited.","Date":"16 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It is, primarily, the story of two young Catholic boys on the cusp of manhood; and one's discovery that the world is more nuanced, sometimes sadder, and occasionally richer than that which he knows. We watch the boyhood black-and-white vision of Frances Doyle, played with surprising depth by the very talented young artist Emile Hirsch, transform gradually to shades of grey as he closes the door on one phase of life to enter another, not even turning to glance over his shoulder. Kieran Culkin, too, turns in a simultaneously beautiful and tragic performance as Frances's best friend, Tim Sullivan. Somewhat brash and completely unapologetic, Altar Boys delves the minds of 14-year-old boys in all their hormonal and conflicted glory; from the imaginary alter-lives they lead in the collusive effort of creating comic book heroes to Frances's first love testing the bounds of their friendship in ways both startling and completely expected, to an riotously-14-year-old-inspired plot to kill the nun they so detest - played with great reserve, yet to great effect by Jodie Foster - by loosing a cougar into her office, it's no-holds-barred and (at least I expect) dead-to-rights in depicting the indefatigability of boys' imagination and penchant for mischief.I am all about the characters and these were interesting and charming and exasperating; silly and rotten and exhilarating. Like Stand By Me, the characters were richly drawn, well-layered and both primary players had very impressive depth for playing these roles as full-fledged people and not merely...well, not merely '14-year-old boys'. Unlike Stand By Me, these characters were fleshier -- if for no other reason than because of the added two years' life experience. Hirsch's portrayal of Frances's battle within himself, in dealing with a very sensitive secret told him by first love Margie Flynn (Jena Malone does a great job) was realistic and truly conflicted -- not at all cut-and-dried -- and did a fine service to young men everywhere...even if her secret turned out to be a manipulative betrayal, of sorts. Culkin's Tim possessed a worldliness reflective of his love for William Blake and Edgar Allan Poe as much in his critique of cartoon hero KickAss kicking the s*** (literally -- the s***) out of Vincent D'Onofrio's Father Casey as in his tearful (but not over-wrought) roadside warning to Frances of , Don't you ever tell me to 'Get real' again, okay? Because I know real. I kept catching myself thinking how the character Tim possessed the mystical combination of intelligence, wit, passion, and Devil-may-care bravado that drove me wild as a pre-teen girl, so while it was a unique juxtaposition that the slightly more uninspired Frances 'got the girl', it wasn't implausible, but rather added a bit more depth of curiosity to this unique and very interesting film. The very slightest hint of a reverse Cyrano early-on really was charming.If for no other reason than the performances, this film is worth checking out. I could see where in less-talented hands, the script and perhaps even the direction could've fallen flat, but the screen talent carried this one really, really well. Someone once said that they could be enthralled, watching D'Onofrio read the phone book. I concur completely, and this film was no exception to the greater amount of work I've seen of his small parts, huge impressions. Jodie Foster is...well, she's Jodie Foster if I need to say more, you haven't seen enough of her films. But these young actors are ones to watch for, I believe.  "},{"Title":"a little lost...","Date":"2 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  ***WARNING SPOILERS***I loved the trailer for TDLOAB. I loved the idea, the approach, the story. Unfortunatly, I hated this movie.TDLOAB wanted so much to be a drama. Hacky doesn't even begin to describe it. The screenwriter(s) seemed to be going down a checklist of 'what makes a drama'.Incest, family troubles, neglectful parents, sex, drinking, best friends separated by the inevitable first girlfriend, overbearing nuns, big catholic families, etc etc.Apparently someone getting eaten by a lion is on that checklist too... An idea so unbelievable I laughed at the funeral scene, unfortunate since it was so well done.The movie included a million annoying tidbits, most dropped but never fully paid off IMO Blake could have really been used even more, there should have only been two friends, the entire incest subplot could have been taken out, etc, etc.Foster and D'onofrio I love regardless... and this movie didn't change my opinion of them at all. These two are the type of people I love to watch on screen as an audience member you just have to sit back and say, Wow, that guy is acting! Whew Look at 'em go! To say they're great actors is to state the obvious, so I am... stating the obvious, I mean.(Particularly stand-outish was D'onfrio smoking in his office and shaking an eight-ball. The way he portrayed the priest was so amazing I found myself wishing the screenwriter had added 'getting molested by a catholic priest' to the drama list, just to get some more of that D'onofrio charm. Foster was great as always, but her Irish accent seemed spotty (maybe a character choice? i dunno). She really made a whole character out of relatively few scenes, again making me wish she was featured more prominatly in the movie... but hey, she's Jodie Foster. Amazingness is par for the course).In the final analysis, I think TDLOAB was a great idea with great actors and great motivations. But the message/theme/moral/what the hell the movie was actually about got lost in the subtext. I was left with an unsatisfied feeling and the hope that if Jodie Foster and Vincent D'onofrio agreed to do this movie in the first place, then it must have been amazing somewhere along the line. "},{"Title":"Comic book version of Catholic School Boys in Trouble...","Date":"22 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" ...this turgid soap opera gives us a peg-legged Mother Superior, incest, and even a mountain lion attack, all the while feeling the need to allegorize the story with a Todd McFarlane comic subplot.  Over-indulgent and rather self righteous (and with a subdued dose of perversion), much like Catholicism itself.  There's some enjoyably silly whimsey for those who avoid the philosophical pretentions. "}{"Title":"tight","Date":"13 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie last night.  I was blown away.  The performances were great.  And the comic book stuff worked surprisingly well.Much smarter than THE VIRGIN SUICIDES.       "},{"Title":"It's a its a its a its a Its A Sin!","Date":"23 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Oh my God! Danger is everywhere! Please forgive for my sins, Dear Lord. What did I ever do to go through the torturous hell of watching `The Dangerous Lives of Altar Boys'? Now my lord, I do realize that the film focuses on 2 adolescent altar boys and their turbulent years of adolescence; which I do think it's a very captivating premise. But Father why o why must they encompass such an unarticulated comic book reference within the plot? Kieran Culkin and Emile Hirsch star as our altar boys. However, what really put me in an altered state was watching Jodie Foster play the part of a one-legged nun. Oh Jodie! Jodie! Jodie! I hope that this is your `confirmation' that we will have `nun' of these types of performances again in your illustrious acting bio.  I do have to `confess' that I have committed cinematic sin by watching the appalling `The Dangerous Lives of Altar Boys'. ** Needs Improvement "}]