[{"Title":"Clever, Likable Kids Movie","Date":"9 April 2007","Score":"31 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":" This was a pretty clever film mixing live characters and human voices for the dogs and cats. The dubbing is extremely well-done, and so is the humor. It's a funny story, although it displays the typical whacked-out father, which is another political correctness feminist agenda (mother = good; father = bad). Other than that, it is a very entertaining film even with a bunch of silliness.Check the cast out. How often to you see Susan Sarandon and Charleton Heston in the same movie. Now THERE is diversity, even if it's only their voices!People here complain the film is too much for kids, and not adults. Well, isn't that terrible? Imagine the nerve of these filmmakers, doing something just for children! "},{"Title":"Who Will Rule the World?  Cats or Dogs............","Date":"21 October 2001","Score":"21 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Why can't people just let a movie be cute instead of analyzing it to death.  Sure the plot is a bit much--cats are trying to prevent a Mr. Brody from inventing a vaccine which will cure dog allergies--thus making dogs more popular than cats.  With a Mission Impossible format dogs and cats battle each other for domination of the world.The plots gets carried away with itself toward the end, but who cares? The dog and cat agents are all good (their voices, excuse me).  Especially, good is the voice of the persian cat, Mr. Twiggles, whose owner is bedridden.  The housekeeper/nurse makes Mr. Twiggles' life a horror by continually dressing him in feminine outfits which he hates.Another favorite is Lou, the beagle puppy who is adopted by the Brody family and is drafted as a secret agent in the war against cats.I gave this movie 8 stars. "},{"Title":"Worth seeing!","Date":"1 September 2002","Score":"20 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I loved this movie, from the diverse animal characters, to their human counterparts, to the amazingly funny dialogue!  I've seen it about 10 times, and it's still one of my favorite movies!  (and I'm no spring chicken...I'm in my 50's)  Some animal movies aren't worth seeing more than once or twice, but this one is worth seeing many times!  It won't go down in history as a classic, but it certainly puts you in a good mood and keeps you there!I love dogs, especially beagles, and the one in this movie (Lou) is just adorable!  Tobey Maguire is the perfect voice for him, and Sean Hayes is hysterically funny as Mr. Tinkles' voice!  The writers should have gotten several awards for the script!  Jeff Goldblum is always good, so it's no surprise that his character, Professor Brody, suits him to a tee.  Everyone plays off each other very well, and the storyline is original and appealing. I love the fact that Charlton Heston plays the voice of the mastiff at Headquarters!  Very well cast!I hope they do a sequel, with all the original actors & voices!  Oh yeah, did I mention how great Susan Sarandon was, as Ivy ???Bravo to all these actors, and to the director, the writers, and the producer!   "},{"Title":"The eternal fight between cats and dogs","Date":"13 November 2005","Score":"21 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":" This movie is so cute! It's all about the eternal fight between cats and dogs. (And it's funny to notice that cats are always the bad ones) We have famous actors as Jeff Goldblum as Professor Brody and Elizabeth Perkins as Mrs. Brody. The famous voices are from Tobey Maguire as Lou,Alec Baldwin as Butch and Susan Sarandon as Ivy,only to mention a few. The story is kind of simple Professor Brody is trying to find a formula to cure the people's allergies to dogs, being himself one example of an allergic person to them. The cats of course, are worried about this,because the cure of the allergy would make dogs even more popular among humans,making the cats rejected. The story turns around Lou and his dog spy friends,who needs to protect the formula and also save Lou's owners of the evil cats. Ps The dogs have a high tech technnology to cause all the humans jealous. ps2Ivy,rules. ps3Mr.tinckles is hilarious. "},{"Title":"Good for kids but fails to have any adult comedy","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"14 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Scientist Brody is working on a formula that will wipe out dog allergies, thus making dogs the most popular pets on earth.  When the dog agent protecting the house is kidnapped he is accidentally replaced by an untrained puppy Lou.  Lou is trained up with the help of Butch, Peeps, Ivy and Sam.  However with Mr Tinkles chasing the formula and Lou growing near to his family - can the formula be protected?This had great potential - a good plot, a really strong cast and a good opportunity for children and adult jokes alike.  The plot delivers what it has - a little silly but quite clever in places - but the comedy is seriously lacking for adults.  For children there are some fart jokes and plenty of cat and dog slapstick but there are almost no jokes for adults that other films such as Shrek and Toy Story had in spades.Given the cast this is very surprising - Jon Lovitz is a great voice but is hardly used at all, the character of Mr Tinkles could have been a great Dr Evil character, but even he is wasted.  This is a great shame as all good children's films need to have something for adults to enjoy again.  The great cast (Maguire, Baldwin, Clarke Duncan, Sarandon, Pantoliano, Charlton Heston, Lovitz) is a good draw for adults but having almost nothing to deliver for them is a big disappointment.  The only funny scenes are the ninja cats and a handful of others but mostly it's wasted.  The human actors are bland - Goldblum playing a scatty scientist? Surely not! That'll really push his barriers.Overall a disappointing film that'll please children but needed a lot more work to keep adults entertained. "},{"Title":"Great special effects and energy, but a less-than-great story. ** (out of four)","Date":"5 January 2002","Score":"14 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  CATS & DOGS / (2001) ** (out of four)In Cats & Dogs you get a cat and mouse chase movie, except the dog replaces the mouse, and the feline's goal is not just to catch the opponent, but to claim world domination. That's a pretty weak concept for a bid-budget, special effects action film, especially when the production features the best technology has to offer. The movie uses more than 800 visual effects, and 200 animators, designers, compositors, sculptors, and technicians. With so much going for it, Cats & Dogs should have utilized these tools to bring a great story to life. It does breathe life into a plot filled with energy and gusto, but it sure isn't great. Unbeknownst to humans, cats and dogs have always fought for world domination. A power-hungry Persian cat, Mr. Tinkles (wonderfully voiced by Sean Hayes), has broken a truce between the species. He plans to lead an attack against man's best friend. Jeff Goldblum stars as Professor Brody, a scientist allergic to dogs. He conducts experiments in the basement of his house, hoping to invent a cure for man's allergic reaction to dogs. Mr. Tinkles designates the Brody home as ground zero for his global battle plan.Initially, the folks at Warner Bros. considered doing the film as an animated feature, but they finally decided on a combination of live action, cutting-edge technology, complicated puppetry, and computer animation.The results are splendid. Each animal has their own vivid personality, complete with facial expressions and physical gestures. The special effects do not overwhelm the film. Lawrence Guterman, the film's director, doesn't exploit the amazing special effects, but focuses on creating believable animal characters. Sadly, however, the sight of a talking cat eventually wears off, and that leaves Cats & Dogs with little interest. It might entertain children with high energy action and talking animals, but a movie cannot run on those things alone. Perhaps the film could have worked as a comedy, but it lacks any form of wit or impulse. Cats & Dogs thinks its concepts are funny and entertaining enough, which is probably why it puts so little thought into the story.   "},{"Title":"Not as bad as I was led to believe","Date":"12 December 2009","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":" Cats and Dogs was a pretty entertaining film. I will admit it I think kids will enjoy it more than adults, but it is fun. It has a silly but clever plot, a commendable voice cast and some decent acting in the human cast. While there are some funny moments, there are some parts in the middle half that are lacking slightly in comedy, and the script is a tad weak in parts. Despite the film's short length, it goes along at a swift pace, and the characters are at least likable. I have to say Lou(voiced with earnest conviction by Tobey Maguire) is adorable for a dog, and while you certainly don't want to mess with villainous feline Mr Tinkles (Sean Hayes seems to having a whale of a time here), though he is cute to look at. I have to say I think the best lines came from Mr Tinkles, they were often hysterical. As I said, the voice cast do a commendable job with the material they are given, and Jeff Goldblum and Elizabeth Perkins turn in decent human performances as well. The technical aspects are very well done indeed, and the music is good. Laurence Guterman does well directing, better than he did in the dreadful Son of the Mask four years later. All in all, not perfect, but it is cute and has a great concept. Kids will love it, adults might. 7/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Feline fun and canine capers that guarantees to lick your funny bone.","Date":"9 May 2007","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":" In the town of comic book land there is a home that lives the lonely young boy without a friend. Until one day Lou the Beagle puppy arrives on the scene.Set around the game of espionage, with similar themes to Mission Impossible, James Bond and to a great extent Austin Powers; Cats and Dogs animates the spy game with great bravado and even greater humour. This is a stylish and extremely witty parody that has the cat world fighting for world domination and to see dogs put in their place, outside in the doghouse, where humans would, as is the cat's goal, be allergic to the canine breed and thus welcoming the feline race into their homes.This is a high octane fun and friendly family movie that is built around the life of young Scotty (Alexander Pollock) and his scientist father (Jeff Goldblum) who whilst working too hard at trying to make a breakthrough for a cure to prevent dog allergies in humans. Unaware of his neglect, young Scotty, as too his parents, is completely oblivious to the fact that the parallel world that revolves around them is in great danger of crossing the divide of talking animals and dumb humans.Cats and Dogs is more than puppets meet Muppets; it is more than that, even though just as entertaining, it has progressed to greater levels. If you want to see Mr. Tinkles, the white Persian, that strangely resembles the white cat seen in the Bond and Austin Powers movies, giving his orders, over a grand table and log fire in his mansion. If you want to see secret agent dogs fighting Devon Rex's ninja style, a knife throwing Russian Blue hair-balling big style and a gigantic army of mice reading an instruction manual, all at once, on how to concur the world then this is the movie for you.With an intelligent and comical script, good sets and capable staff, such as Tobey Maguire, Alec Baldwin, Jon Lovitz, Michael Clark Duncan, Susan Sarandon and the great cinema legend Charlton Heston in the limelight, some very good special effects and plenty of spills and action, you really cannot go wrong.This is your typical laugh a minute family day in at the movies, and whichever side you cheer for, you are always guaranteed to end up stroking that funny bone until well after your sides ache. "},{"Title":"It's good for the kids - that's all that matters...","Date":"19 February 2007","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":" I personally thought Cats and Dogs was really good. The espionage war between the cats and the dogs was an inspired, if not so original idea, and the fight scenes were hugely amusing - the ninja cats had me in stitches, to say the least. The way Mr. Tinkles suddenly finds a way to make his plan succeed is a little rushed - how did the fainting of his owner suddenly change everything? There are several plot holes in this film, and a little more explanation wouldn't have done harm. But this film didn't try to be intelligent or gripping - it's basically the Cold War with pets for most of the film, but with a climactic finish in which everything is suddenly resolved and all the baddies are ruined. Even if it is not a corkingly intelligent piece of cinema, it sure is an amusing one, and it isn't badly done either. In fact, the climactic finish is brilliantly done and very amusing - machine guns are replaced by spraying machines, and bombs are replaced by spraying machines too (you'll see what I mean). It stays funny throughout, and it is amusing to see how all of the espionage happens behind all the humans' backs. Even if it does make human beings out to be a bunch of idiots who could quite easily be invaded by animals, this is still a great film which will tickle anyone's funnybone (unless you're a cruel, heartless critic of course...) 7/10 "},{"Title":"Not as bad as some people think--cute & fun","Date":"15 October 2005","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":" Sure, this is pretty much a kids' movie, but it's still fun. I didn't care for the boy who starred as the Brody kid (they could've picked someone better), but I really liked the dog voices (Alec Baldwin, Tobey Maquire, etc.) & some of the cats too. Yes, it was an animal movie--I wasn't as interested in the humans at all--& their acting wasn't great (although I did like Sophie the Maid for some reason). But the movie did have some funny moments. As a dog lover I especially liked Lou (Tobey Maquire) & Butch (Alec Baldwin). As a Chihuahua lover, I would've loved to see at least one in the movie. Oh, well. Btw, the person who commented that the boy was drinking Hi-C was wrong. It was Capri Sun (but, yes, blatant advertising--uncalled-for). Still, I liked the movie. I thought it was cute & funny. Besides, I'm still pretty young at heart even though I'm past 40 (not immature, mind you! LOL). I gave it 8 out of 10, maybe a bit high, but so what? *grin* If a movie can give me at least half a dozen or so laughs, it's OK by me! LOL (Too bad so many people are SO serious & old-thinking--stay young at heart!) ) "}{"Title":"One of the better family films I've seen recently","Date":"6 July 2001","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  From the commercials and trailers to this movie, I thought it was going to be a live action (albiet long) cartoon.  I was right, although I found out what cartoon it was trying to do.  Not exactly Looney Tunes, although it takes from them often.  I found a connection here with an old show from Nickelodeon called Ren and Stimpy where cats and dogs fought constantly, and while the dog was the smart one, the cat who also though he was smart was really and idiot (eediot really).  That's why I give Cats and Dogs it's rating here because this is the type of family film that more often than not can work for the whole family because while the kids can laugh at the pratfalls the dogs and cats encounter, adults will find humor in the ninja cats, the dictator-like-boss cat and other small things.  Like Spy Kids, it's more for kids, which I Highly reccomend this movie for, but maybe even parents will get a chuckle.  I know I did.  Voices include Tobey Maguire, Alec Baldwin, Sean Hayes, Michael Clarke Duncan, Joe Pantoliano, Susan Sarandon, Jon Lovitz and almost un-recognizable talents from Robert Stack and Sir Charleton Heston.  B+ (strong one at that) "},{"Title":"Adorable!","Date":"28 October 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This movie was super cute! CATS RULE! I love the idea of cats trying to take over the world and dogs trying to stop it. Just cute! Although, when the dog was taken in the beginning, shouldn't it have been dog-napped? Oh well. Still it's a cute, warm movie. Especially if you're in a silly mood or have young children!  "},{"Title":"Don't waste your money (or 2 hours of your life)","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  At three times during this movie I seriously considered walking out (which I have never done). Why did I stay? I guess I hoped it would take a turn for the better. Needless to say, it didn't... it only got worse.I think the reason I hated this movie so much is that I wanted it to be something else.  I wanted an original take on this ancient rivalry, instead of the standard cats bad, dogs good. (Forget an original story, I just wanted a marginally good one.) I wanted the animals to be real characters, treated with respect and earning our emotional reactions, instead of being used as props - hurt, tossed around, put into scary situations - to manipulate our emotions.That it's a kid's movie is no excuse. What an insult! Kids don't deserve quality entertainment? Movies have to be dumbed down for the kid audience??If you can handle watching a disturbing, strange, disconnected family (and not in a good/funny way), a squirmingly bad kid actor, some very ugly cats, sloppy editing, and as many cliches as you could ever want, then go see this movie. There are one or two clever moments, and some of the people around me did seem to enjoy it. But make sure you catch it on dollar night. "},{"Title":"Actually quite funny and cute","Date":"7 October 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I was reluctant to see this film, based on all the negative comments I've read here. But I'm glad I did so anyway.Admittedly, a spy film about talking cats and dogs is likely not going to be the best in cinematography since Casablanca, but for its intended audience it's a very funny and well-made film.The star of the film is Mr. Tinkles, a beautiful and megalomaniac white Persian cat, who wants to take over the world. Not coincidently, it's exactly the same cat that Blofeld from the Bond movies had on his lap. And there are more clever hints at Bond movies.Mr. Tinkles is hilarious as an arrogant and aristocratic feline. A comment I've read is that the film is anti-cat biased, because of the way how cats are portrayed. As a matter of fact, the only real Bad Cat is Mr. Tinkles, whereas the others are merely his henchcats. I'm a cat lover, and quite frankly I'm inclined support the opinion that, from a cat's point of view, we're merely there to serve them. In my day-to-day contact with our two cats, I've found that they can be bad-tempered, and even outright vile.The only real let-down of this film is the sub-plot of the father doesn't pay enough attention to his son kind, which we've seen too often before. Because of this and the sentimentality surrounding the puppy, it balances somewhere between a children's film and a more regular one.If you want to see a no-brainer film which is still funny and cute, and too which you can take your children, I would definitely recommend this one. "},{"Title":"Sleeper hit","Date":"2 October 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  After getting panned by reviewers and critics alike, I went along to the local two dollar theater with little expectation. What I saw was a very funny movie, with some excellent dialogue and set at a great pace. The story is silly and some of the special effects look rough around the edges, but who cares? The story and many memorable quotes make this a great film for kids and adults alike. I may get this as a DVD when it's released!Quite the sleeper hit. "},{"Title":"excellent for 10 and under","Date":"7 August 2001","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I found this to be a movie full of unrealistic stunts, odd situations and weird looking puppets that only a 10 year old would believe. Cats, who fly airplanes, cough up spiky hairballs and fight karate. There were dogs who live in doghouses that are filled with computers and satellite hook-ups, that also provide shuttle transportation to Control. I went into this movie expecting Shrek, and came out disappointed.A word of warning-This is NOT a movie for cat lovers. Cats are portrayed as the typical villain, obsessed with world domination. While dogs are made out to be the heroes who not only save the world from allergies but also rescue the humans.  If you're looking for meowing fluff balls that save the day, you're watching the wrong movie. *** out of ***** "},{"Title":"Cats and Dogs!","Date":"14 January 2005","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":" Cats and Dogs is a great comedy action film that stars Jeff Goldblum, Elizabeth Perkins, Alexander Pollock, Miriam Margolyes, Tobey Maguire, Alec Baldwin, Sean Hayes, Susan Sarandon, Michael Clarke Duncan, Jon Lovitz, Joe Pantoliano, and Charlton Heston! There are several hilarious moments in this picture. The action scenes are done very well. Goldblum and the other actors were. The castle scenes were really cool. The music by John Debney is very good. The movie is totally funny. I thought it was something else seeing all those different types of dogs and cats. So if you who like Jeff Goldblum and the rest of the cast mentioned and comedies with animals then I strongly recommend this film! "},{"Title":"Cute, but it's a funny-for-kids film....","Date":"30 June 2001","Score":"12 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  When I went to the sneak preview of this, I was hoping for the kind of humor Shrek had, hilarious for people of all ages. I found Shrek to be one of the funniest movies I have seen all year, this wasn't.It was full of childish humor, and really had nothing at all to give to people who are over the age of 10, except celebrity voices and a few funny covert spy lines. If you are 10 and under, go see it, if not I don't think you would find that much to it.  "},{"Title":"I LOVE this movie )","Date":"17 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":" I love this movie. Why? Because... I HATE CATS and I love dogs and etc... (just kidding) It's any see montage, spec. effects and original story for 2001. year??? This is MASTER PEACE!!! Most HATERS from this review forum is STUPID MORONS EVER! Why? Because... IS NOT MOVIE FOR ANY LOVER OR CAT-DOG DEPRESSIVE HATER, this is movie for NORMAL KIDS and PEOPLES!!! So, if you like boring Godfather or some criminal-violence movies, please don't watch this good family movie. I don't know, why people HATE some normal humor, or family scenes? This movie is BEST for good people! Bad people with some psychics problems, hate this movies without real reason... "},{"Title":"Good film","Date":"11 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":" This movie is so cute! It's all about the eternal fight between cats and dogs. (And it's funny to notice that cats are always the bad ones) We have famous actors as Jeff Goldblum as Professor Brody and Elizabeth Perkins as Mrs. Brody. The famous voices are from Tobey Maguire as Lou,Alec Baldwin as Butch and Susan Sarandon as Ivy,only to mention a few. The story is kind of simple Professor Brody is trying to find a formula to cure the people's allergies to dogs, being himself one example of an allergic person to them. The cats of course, are worried about this,because the cure of the allergy would make dogs even more popular among humans,making the cats rejected. The story turns around Lou and his dog spy friends,who needs to protect the formula and also save Lou's owners of the evil cats. Ps The dogs have a high tech technnology to cause all the humans jealous. ps2Ivy,rules. ps3Mr.tinckles is hilarious. "}{"Title":"Ah...childhood memories...","Date":"1 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":" When watching this, I am reminded of my childhood memories, such as the lines that I used to quote in this movie (No, I think not, Sophie!).Basically, the plot is that Professor Brody, played by Jeff Goldblum, is trying to find a cure for Dog allergies. This is just the latest spark in the on-going conflict that is between cats and dogs. Mr. Tinkles (voiced by Sean Hayes), the antagonist in the film, needs the research, as he wants to take over the world, by making everybody allergic to dogs. So, now it's up to a Beagle named Lou (voiced by Tobey Maguire), an Anatolian Shepherd Dog named Butch (voiced by Alec Baldwin), a Saluki named Ivy (voiced by Susan Sarandon), a Chinese Crested Dog named Peek (voiced by Joe Pantoliano), and an Old English Sheepdog named Sam (voiced by Michael Clark Duncan) to save the world.This is a fun film. Period. End of story. I think it at least deserves a 6/10, but I'm going even higher than that. This was a movie that I watched during my childhood, so no, I'm not going to hate. Those people who analyze this movie do not understand that this is only supposed to be entertainment. I've also heard some complaints about Cats being the bad guys; I think that the reason for this is because of the idea that dogs are man's best friend. If I was a cat, I'd be jealous of that for sure.The acting in front of the character is great (Goldblum is good at pretty much everything he does), but if anything, it's the voice acting that's the best thing about this movie. Maguire, Baldwin, Sarandon, Pantoliano, and Duncan all do a great job as the main dogs in this film. Hayes is great as the villain. Jon Lovitz is great as his sidekick. But, to a lot of people's surprise, this film also includes...wait for it... Charlton Heston as the the mastiff, the leader of the dog agents. That's right, you heard that last part right.Overall, it's characters and plot may not be the best, but the acting and the special effects are all great. At the end of the day, it's nothing more than a fun, family film, and that's all that it should be. A 9/10 for me. "},{"Title":"Hello Human Guard. Let us in. That is all.","Date":"5 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":" I wouldn't necessarily call me loving Cats & Dogs a guilty pleasure per se, because I don't think it was an awful movie that I happened to really enjoy. I do find it odd, as one friend points out, I hate pretty much the majority of animal-talking movies whether CGI-crammed or simple mouths moving to the lame voiceovers and yet, I throw a curveball and love this movie.Perhaps because it was so damned funny, creative and inventive. Maybe because it was a versus movie and they took the lead by telling the audience who to root for instead of alternating between the pros/cons of the different sides. Or, possibly because it was clever &#x96; for the animals, using their strengths, weaknesses and limitations to the movie maker's advantage. For example, two of my favorite scenes involve the back-flipping and in the background ninja cats and one dogs paws flying over a keyboard.The film's weakness was, as always, the human counterparts. As much as I like Jeff Goldblum and as much as he tried, he was annoying as crud. (This also applies to the kid (Pollock) and Mom (Perkins.)) I see the dad (Goldblum) as attempting to channel the good ole Doc Brown (Lloyd, from Back to the Future) but failing miserably. No, the real stars were the animals.I liked the majority of the animals, like the already mentioned ninjas but also the Dobermans, including and especially their offspring. Also, Hayes as the main baddie, lead cat, Mr. Tinkles, stole the movie for the most part, though I believe they could've gone a little further. Russian Blue (Ficarra) was a hilarious prelude to Shrek 2's Puss in Boots and had me rolling as did Mr. Tinkles Smithers-wannabe sidekick.The basic plot line is Mr. Tinkles' vision of world domination, a la Brain from the Pinky & the Brain, but he's hunkered down by morons and insufficient spy cats. Meanwhile, newcomer and mistaken spy dog, Lou (Maguire), needs some encouragement from the neighborhood dogs to protect his master (Goldblum), literally, so he can create an anti-allergic-to-dogs formula for all humans. Throw in life lessons for the boy of the family, who needs to adjust to both a new replacement dog and his mostly absent(minded) father.Forget all that. The fun relies in watching what the animals will do, what secret tunnels or high-tech spy gear they're use or the fights (and cleanup) between them. Obviously, there'll be the big showdown where Lou has to be a real hero, but again, we want to see the animals talking and acting like slapstick humans.Highly recommended for kids, families and even adults. Though the sequel's due out soon and I'm not sure after the 9 year wait, the follow-up would match even half of the original's charm, I'll still see it. "},{"Title":"An Enjoyable Children's Movie(SPOILERS)","Date":"2 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":" SPOILERS I have been desperate to comment on a movie so I was think about some movies that I have seen recently and this came up. I might as well comment on it. This is a great little family movie, plus I am a huge dog-lover. Some of the scenes are cringe worthy, not to mention painfully predictable, but this is a fun film to watch on a rainy Saturday afternoon. Why Saturday I have no idea.Here is the plot of this movie. A family gets a Beagle puppy and name him Lou. The father of the family is a scientist who is trying to make a medicine that can take away dog allergies. The dogs all over the world want him to succeed, the cats obviously do not want him to succeed. The leader of the cats named Mr. Tinkles tries to do anything to get the formula of the medicine. The cats are planning on stealing that and using it so everyone in the world will be allergic to dogs. Mr. Tinkles gases the family and take them to a factory. Lou saves the day but the factory explodes. Lou survives. Mr. Tinkles is forced to wear psychotic and girlie outfits for the rest of his life.Overall, this is a very nicely done family film. Although crude and annoying at times, this is a very good film. To be honest, I was very impressed by it. It was a very fun and good film. Plus it had Jeff Goldblum in it. Ironiclay he played a scientist in this and the much better the Fly. Anyway, this is a nice family film that any dog-lover will enjoy to watch.7/10Recommended Films Beethoven, Homeward Bound. "},{"Title":"This movie rocks the house, period.","Date":"11 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Hilarious parody of the James Bond and Mission Impossible series even though the two feuding parties aren't human, it's between the cats and dogs. The story follows a lovable beagle pup, who becomes involved in the animal version of The Cold War and plays a pivotal role in thwarting a cat's fiendish attempt to make the humans allergic to dogs.  I was sort of disappointed that the cats weren't the good animals, then I realized why the dog is always referred to as man's best friend.  I had more fun watching this movie than Brian DePalma's movie version of Mission Impossible.  And I can't avoid to mention the cast, which is very good here.  This movie rocks the house, period. "},{"Title":"A great light-weight film","Date":"19 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Views about this film are very divided. However, I would urge anyone who enjoys family comedies to watch this film, especially if you are an animal lover!The story is about an on-going war between cats and dogs, with the ultimate aim of being the best friends of humans. Jeff Goldblum plays a scientist who is researching for a cure for dog allergies. At the start of the film, his secret-agent dog ends up getting catnapped by the evil Mr Twinkles. Mr Twinkles' aim is to stop the cure being founded. The Dog Council has to quickly find a replacement agent to protect the research. A beagle dog, called Lou (voiced by Tobey Maguire), is selected by the Brody family as a replacement for the old dog. However, it was not intended for Lou to be selected. A mishap meant that he was chosen over several specially trained agent dogs. The rest of the film follows Lou meeting up with other neighbouring dogs (also agents) and then them fighting Mr Twinkles and his evil cat friends.This film really made me laugh in several places and the animals are very cute. There are several scenes with animals hitting their heads into lamp posts and destroying houses!The animatronics and puppetery are excellent - when the animals talk, it really does look real! Also, the movements look extremely realistic - for example, when Lou is fighting the Ninja cats!Mr Twinkles (voiced by Sean Hayes) is the best character in the film - he must be one of the best movie villains in recent years. His video taped sequence is excellent! Tobey Maguire also performs well, voicing Lou the dog.However, this film is not without faults. The cats and dogs are by far the biggest stars of the film, but the Brody family and other humans are just plain annoying (especially the kid and the mother!). Furthermore, this film is not for everyone - if you are unwilling to relax and enjoy an unrealistic piece of family entertainment, then you definitely will not enjoy this!Overall, I would recommend this film to anyone who likes family films. If you do not want to risk hiring it on DVD, you should definitely watch it when it comes out on television, as you may be pleasantly surprised!My rating 7/10 "},{"Title":"Silly, not bad , but very slanted racist movie.","Date":"11 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  It's a racist movie if you think about it.  The dogs are mans best friend so the cats must be evil beyond mankind.  I liked the movie..don't get me wrong, but I found the true meaning to be a tad racist in my opinion.  I like animals in general.  Cats & Dogs can get along.  Just because they chase each other doesn't mean one is badder than the other. They are cute.  I'll give it that, but it leaves a sour feeling in my mouth that the cats have to be bad.  I don't find this movie to be very kid friendly either.  Parents use caution.6/10Quality 5/10 Entertainment 7/10 Replayable  haven't the foggiest.  I'd say 2/10 for cat fans, and 8/10 for Dog fans "},{"Title":"A big smelly dog turd of a film","Date":"8 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I've just whatched this on video after renting it from the video shop and i just have to get my frustration out of my system. IT'S A DISGUSTING FILM. Apart from some impressive(if a bit cartoony)visual effects,cats and dogs is about as much fun as having one's pubic hair plucked out by a pair of pliers. It has none of the charm,intellegence or the captivating story of babe(or the underrated paule)all it has is dumb jokes about poo and cheep sentimentality. Also the slapstick is surprising violent. And what the hell is jeff goldblum doing sluming it as a bofin who descovers a cure for dogie odder.(or something like that,i lost interest by then) The novelty of seeing cats and dogs walk,talk and fight wears off after two minutes,so whatch the trailer instead. If you whatch the film you will only be depressed at the amount of misery these poor animal's look like they are going through just for the sake of cheep,nasty,moronic entertainment.one star out of fivep.s not even my dog was interested. After twenty minutes,my dog fell asleep in front of the fire. All human's should folow suit. "},{"Title":"A great movie for kids and adults.","Date":"13 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Cats and Dogs is a great movie for kids and adults. The movie Directed by Lawrence Guterman has great effects and a perfect plot that relates everyone by the most common pets.This movie has non stop laughs from begining to end. As profesor Brody(Jeff Goldblum) tries to create a formula to prevent humans from being alergeic to dogs. The leader of the cats, Mr. Tinkles(Sean Hayes I), tries to stop the fomula from being crated and to take over the world. So it is up to one old spy dog Butch(Alec Baaldwin)and a pup named Lou(tobey Maguire) to stop Mr. Tinkles plans of foiling the formula.This movie was a lot better than I thought it would be. I am not to big on kidie shows, but this one had something that made me want to see more. I would say that the graphics where better done on the dogs than for the cats, but cats would be much harder. All in all the movie was one that sould not be missed. And would be perfect for a planed family fun night.  "},{"Title":"Uneven in the extreme, but worth your time overall","Date":"25 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Cats & Dogs was a great idea that just couldn't survive the journey to feature-length intact.  The trailer was brilliant because it was able to focus on the general conceit without worrying about plot or pacing.  Sadly, there's a certain amount of dead air here which, while not entirely derailing the experience, does slam the the brakes on it a few times.It gets off to a very slow start; there are almost no solid laughs to be had for the first half hour or so.  The main problem is that the part of the story that involves humans is dead on arrival.  The film-makers are clearly not terribly interested in people, and it shows.  The pace and inventiveness really picks up when we begin to explore the world of the canine secret agents and the supervillain cat empire.  The dog headquarters sequence in particular has a manic creativity that reminded me of early Tim Burton films like Beetlejuice, and most of the piece's real laughs are found here.I give it a 6 out of 10, on the strength of the scenes that do work.  Children will probably particularly enjoy it, even though the human story may bore them. "},{"Title":"A VERY CUTE FLICK","Date":"20 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I wanted to see this movie when it was in the theatre because the trailer looked hilarious!! Now being an animal lover i was also intrigued because i simply love animal movies!!  I was at the local FUTURE SHOP and i saw this shortly after it was released sitting on the shelf so i couldnt resist,the price also helped by the way $25.00 cdn.    I ended up watching it on the weekend shortly after i bought it.  I was impressed!  Mind you the first 30 min. were the funniest but over all this is a funny flick!  Try and pick out all the diffrent voices of the diffrent charectors.    I guessed Alec Baldwin and Joe Pantiliano right but the others were a mystery.  To make a long story short this is a very cute movie that would be great for family viewing night!   Mind you if you are a cat lover this might not be the movie for you because Mr. Tinkles and crew put a whole new word on mean!! Till next time folks see ya!!!! "}{"Title":"The Fur Is Flying!","Date":"12 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I like animals.  I grew up in a dog-owning household, but I can live with cats.  Loving animals as I do, I found Cats & Dogs enjoyable.  It comes off like a live-action cartoon, not unlike MouseHunt.  And its concept is kind of like Baby Geniuses.  But when some people think it's silly, I find some cleverness in it.  The movie does give you some idea of how dogs feel about their human owners.  There is some bias towards dogs, which after all, are man's best friend.  Maybe cats will get equal time in a movie of their own! "},{"Title":"Amusing and original twist on spy films","Date":"8 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  It is a rarity indeed for anything approaching originality to come out of the mainstream, but this amusing new take on espionage and intrigue is one such film.  The cast is headed by Jeff Goldblum and Elizabeth Perkins, but their by-the-numbers dysfunctional parents play second fiddle to the furry stars, the eponymous cats and dogs.An untrained puppy is mistakenly placed with Professor Brody (Goldblum) to help protect his dog allergy serum from the feline threat - for without us humans knowing, dogs and cats are locked in an eternal struggle for supremacy in a hi-tech, no-holds barred clash.The plot is largely irrelevant (fortunately), as the series of set pieces unfolds as the cats try to steal the serum and the puppy with his secret agent team try to fend them off.Highly recommended for children, but also for adults looking for something new, if undemanding. "},{"Title":"Much more entertaining that people make it sound","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  We saw this recently, as we were in the mood for a light comedy. That's exactly what we got. In fact, it had some very funny segments that had me laughing out loud (which I rarely do.)A lot of people have mentioned this is targeted at kids, but it had far fewer body function jokes than Shrek (in fact, C&D had only one joke that would normally be considered ten year old humor.)My recommendation, see the film regardless of what anyone says. If you're not sure, see it at a matinee. "},{"Title":"Okay, but not as good as it should have been","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I almost gave this movie a 6/10, but decided on a 7 since I gave AI a 6 and this movie, with all its silliness and simplicity, could not hope to match the sheer idiocy of Spielberg's film.That said, let's discuss the merits of _Cats & Dogs_.  I was extremely impressed by the animation of the animals (which had to be very tricky indeed), although some of the more complex scenes are a little rough around the edges.  There's also the undeniable cuteness factor of this movie which could get through to even the most jaded moviegoer.  Those little critters are just adorable, even more so when they are blowing things up with plastic explosives.  It's difficult to explain.The downside here is that there's not much else.  I was expecting some fairly sophisticated jokes for the adult audience and just didn't find any.  (The closest thing was a tired reference to the slow-mo karate sequences of _The Matrix_.)  Most of the time, the film relies on kid jokes and slapstick (which for some reason just isn't funny with animals). Still, I'm sad to say that this is one of the best films of the dismal summer of 2001.  Final verdict see it if you're an animal lover or you have kids.  Otherwise, don't bother. "},{"Title":"A Cute Movie","Date":"31 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I enjoyed it and thought that this movie is an adorable little movie. There were great one liners, the plot was good, and there was a great cast to provide an aray of voices.  This movie was done very well.  I think that most kids would enjoy, I know that the kids I took to see it did.  I recommend it if you want to take your kids to a movie and want to forget the real world for a couple of hours.  I thought it was a good movie. "},{"Title":"Gets an 8 for some nice special effects and THE CATS","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Ok, here's the quick review--Dogs-- THe beagle puppie is cute dog, but the dog characters and the voices were nothing specialThe People-- Worthless. It would have been great if all the human characters were cut out of the movie.The Cats-- Mr. Tinkles, Russian Blue (I might look cute, but inside? GRANITE!), The ninja cats.....the cats were the stars of the show.The effects-- For the most part the puppetry and the CGI were pretty nice. I like the ninja cats dropping from the sky, the russian's gadgets, the dog equipment, the animation and puppetry for most of the cats....Overall i enjoyed the movie. It was entertaining. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Despite some disappointments, Cats will provide a doggone good time for kids of all ages","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  If you are expecting a side-splitting comedy, a solid plot and character development, then Cats & Dogs might be a mild disappointment, especially for adults.Children, however, will be thoroughly entertained. After all, isn't that the purpose family movies serve?Cats starts off strong with a hysterical opener involving - what else? - a dog in relentless pursuit of a cat. (This sequence hit home with me; I have three dogs who go ballistic when they see anything of the feline persuasion.) It's slapstick animal comedy at its finest, particularly when the dog tries to force the cat from what appears to be a literal rubber tree.Unfortunately, after this scene ends, so do the laughs, for the most part. We are then introduced to perhaps the film's weakest link, the Brody family (Jeff Goldblum, Elizabeth Perkins and Alexander Pollock). Things tended to slow to a crawl whenever they, especially Goldblum, were on screen.Like Rick Moranis in Honey, I Shrunk the Kids, Goldblum spends most of the picture confined to a basement laboratory that looks like a meat locker. Perkins turns in a decent performance as Mrs. Brody, but Pollock is mired in a cliche-laden role (sullen, angry kid who eventually sees the light, a tiresome subplot that dragged down otherwise entertaining films such as Volcano and True Lies). The bestial physical humor, such as the Dogs fighting off an army of feline ninjas, wears thin after awhile as well.The film's biggest strength lies in the Dogs. Tobey Maguire provides the voice of Lou, an absolutely adorable and spunky beagle puppy. Butch (voice of Alec Baldwin), an aged Anatolian shepherd, takes him under his wing...er, paw, as he introduces the wet-behind-the-ears pup to the ongoing war vs. the evil Cats. With all due respect, this film is Baldwin's saving grace after the disappointing Final Fantasy and Pearl Harbor.Joe Pantoliano provides some funny moments as the technical whiz Peek (though a Chinese Crested is not a breed that is easy on the eyes).However, the English sheepdog Sam (Michael Clarke Duncan) is somewhat underdeveloped and easily forgettable, as is Butch's old flame, Ivy (Susan Sarandon). The movie centers around Lou, though, and Maguire successfully injects a lot of upbeat personality into the character.This, unfortunately, does not apply to the Cats. Except for the evil Persian Mr. Tinkles (Sean Hayes), a cat owned by a comatose Christmas tree tycoon, and his lackey Calico (Jon Lovitz), plus a briefly-seen, humorous Russian Blue assassin (voiced by Glenn Ficarra, who co-wrote the script), the other Cats are pretty much faceless minions.The much-publicized Mr. Tinkles winds up with only about half the screen time of Lou and Butch, which left little room for character development among the Cats.But this movie is by no means chopped liver. There is a priceless montage of scenes at the main Dog headquarters, overseen by an old mastiff (Charlton Heston), and I loved that a West Highland terrier sat at his side.One hilarious bit is when Butch attempts to disarm a bomb, which is a smart gag on dogs' color-blindness. Another is Mr. Tinkles' (love that name!) reaction to a hysterical Mrs. Brody after she notices that he can talk. There is a priceless scene in the beginning when Mrs. Brody chooses Lou over a litter of militaristic Doberman puppies.Plus, it has just been discovered that Cats can indeed drive limousines (This isn't NASCAR!).This film's most interesting aspect is that the conclusion takes place in a Christmas tree flocking factory, a line of work hardly explored in the movies. Plus, who wouldn't get a laugh out of Mr. Tinkles standing behind microphones and giving a speech while flanked by a huge, red propaganda poster, complete with distributed pamphlets on world domination and a loyal army of a few thousand mice?No spoilers here regarding the ending, of course, but let's just say that you'll probably feel sympathetic toward Tinkles even after everything he's done throughout the course of the film.Despite some mildly weak characters and a hot-and-cold script, director Lawrence Guterman gets two paws up for his major film debut. It's not as heartwarming as Babe, but it scarcely matters. What does is that this is a legitimate family-friendly movie that kids will get a kick out of.But for the legions of cat and dog owners out there after watching this movie, you'll start to wonder if Cats and Dogs can really communicate and conspire with each other when you're not around.  8/10  "},{"Title":"If you've ever had a pet cat or dog... This one is a MUST SEE","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I had the pleasure of viewing this very clever film with my 10 year old daughter.  Her opinion It was GREAT (and believe me, she can be quite picky)I was especially humored by the Russian, a cat in serious need of an attitude adjustment.The special effects were just a tad hoaky, but it suited the spirit of the comedy perfectly.If your children liked Spy Kids, they will thoroughly enjoy this movie. If you have ever had a pet cat or dog, this film will really tickle you too! "},{"Title":"Better than SpyKids","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I enjoyed Cats & Dogs much more than SpyKids.  The talking dogs and cats were much more realistic than those flying kids in SpyKids. Cute, fun, certainly a kid film, but enjoyable for the parent accompanying the children. "},{"Title":"An enjoyable film.","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This move is quite fun.  No award winner but really enjoyable.  Kids will love this film but I think most adults will too.  Sean Hayes as the evil cat was excellent and quite funny.  Yes it was a little hokey but hey, I wasn't expecting anything different.  Jeffrey Goldblum's performance left a little to be desired but considering the role, it was allright.Overall I was quite pleased with all the animal characters and laughed quite a bit throughout the film.  I definitely recommend this film but try to see it on a matinee. "}{"Title":"funny","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  somewhat silly and the plot is very corny but a good time if you just watch the amazing special effects of the dogs talking and so forth. esp the fight with the ninja kitties ..  not as sentimental as babe but good fun .. enjoy "},{"Title":"Crouching Cat, Hidden Dog","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This film was tailor made for the Ailurophobe if you believe that cats have a hidden agenda and possibly even a secret plan to take over the world then you really cannot miss this movie.One of the worst insults hurled at one of the main characters is `Dog lover.'  There are quite a few chuckles and some real laugh-out-loud jokes but primarily this is one sight gag after another.Sean Hayes (Will and Grace, Billy's Hollywood Screen Kiss) is great as the nefarious `Mr. Tinkles,' the leader of the underground cat society, whose biggest threat is the maid of the house in which he resides.Susan Sarandon and Jon Lovitz turned in their usual great performances as the voices of &#145;Ivy' and &#145;Calico,' respectively.Jeff Goldblum makes a great nerd.  Compare him to his sexy persona in `Earth Girls Are Easy' and many of his other films and you can see what a multi-dimensional actor he really is.The sound track by John Debney is perfect &#133; shades of John Williams without being overbearing or detracting from the action on the screen.While this is primarily a kid's movie there are some adult jokes  the word play on the substance being manufactured by Mr. Tinkles owner, as an example.This is good summer escapist fare &#150; especially if the theater is air-conditioned and you are not looking for great art.  It is entertaining, mindless and a lot of fun.  "},{"Title":"Not A Bad Family Film","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I'm an avid dog lover which is one reason I had to see this movie. Watching characters and personalities evolve out of dog breeds and statuses is a very funny comedy bit; a Mexican dog will speak with a Spanish accent and so on. The relationship of dogs and cats to humanity in this movie is quite strained; I think Disney's Homeward Bound and the Doctor Dolittle movies with Eddie Murphy hit it a lot closer. Another thing quite strained is the concept that dogs and cats could create such an elaborate hidden society with their own rules and technology-level is quite ridiculous. Once you get past the inane concept, you have a very funny, live-action cartoon for the whole family including the family pet. I'm sure you're never look at your cat or dog the same way again. "},{"Title":"Cute movie, nothing real offensive.","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I liked it as well as my wife and our 4yr. old son. Not sure why the PG rating, no language that I recall. Some visuals of poopie.Maybe a tad bit violent, but no blood or guts, no one gets killed. Overall it's a cute movie,and made me laugh out loud a number of times. "},{"Title":"Want the truth?","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This flick was definitely funny.  I enjoyed it a great deal.  Of course I'm the kind of sick SOB who likes Kevin Smith movies, so the type of poo-poo, wee-wee humor didn't faze me.  There were some interesting moments wherein the dogs, in an effort to throw off any human curiosity, acted like....well, like dogs.  Very funny.Don't expect much going in, there's less substance here than a Devlin/Emmerich film, but if you go in looking for--pardon the pun--fluff, you'll enjoy yourself.  I did. "},{"Title":"Really enjoyed it with the kids!","Date":"7 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  My wife and I took our 7, 5, and 3 year old to see today.  It was too loud and a little too scary for the 3 year old, but mom and I and the others really enjoyed it.  We were glad for the relatively small number of objectionables in the movie, and it was a lot of fun.  The adult-targeted humor was subtle and quite funny, the cliches were fun -- we didn't find them distracting at all.  I thought it was just hilarious having the super villain in the movie be named Mr. Tinkles and have his greatest nemesis in the movie be the housemaid who continually embarrasses him!  It was a good laugh-out-loud, fun time with the kids.  If you're not bringing kids, it may not be as enjoyable, but we highly recommend it as the best family-friendly film since Spy Kids. "},{"Title":"Great family film!","Date":"7 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Cats and Dogs will do wonders for the return of quality family films.  It was funny, intriguing, and a pleasure to watch.  Even pet owners without kids will laugh at the antics of these crazy animals!  It does make you wonder what happens when you leave for the day, though. "},{"Title":"For all ages, not just for the kids","Date":"5 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I enjoy and gravitate towards critically acclaimed movies. Yes, Cats and Dogs probably will not make any critic's top ten list for this year but sometimes you need to take a break from these type of movies and settle in for some obtuse, mindless fun. And that is what Cats and Dogs is all about, mindless fun. And funny too, I had several hearty laughs all throughout the movie. No, everything about this movie was illogical but what the heck, take a break and see this movie, you won't regret it. "},{"Title":"The truth about Cats and Dogs","Date":"5 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I was pleasantly surprised with Cats and Dogs and its ability to be entertaining to and adult audience while still being geared towards a child-friendly clientele. I'm not saying that its humor is along the mature line of Shrek, but its funny and inventive enough to keep parents chuckling while their kids are too. "},{"Title":"Mr. Tinkles = Feline Blofeld","Date":"5 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I keep reading all of these comments saying that this movie hasnothing to offer anyone under the age of 10, and I can only come tothe conclusion that the authors of these comments either a) havemisplaced their sense of humor or b) have never owned a cat or adog.  I normally dislike family friendly entertainment, but Iabsolutely loved Cats & Dogs.  From the first chase onward, Ididn't stop laughing until well after the credits had finished rolling. Mr. Tinkles is a wonderful villain (indeed, my only real complaint isthat he doesn't have enough screen time), and his minion theRussian Blue is one of the best evil henchmen to hit the screensince Odd Job from Goldfinger.  The comedy is hysterical, theeffects very nicely done, and overall, the movie is just an all aroundgood time.  Don't listen to all of those naysayers out there; if you'relooking for a good laugh, you can't go wrong with Cats & Dogs. "}{"Title":"Get Smart with Cats and Dogs","Date":"5 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This movie has a strong resemblence to the old Get Smart series on television. With the Cats being similar to the old evil Kaos! It brought back a few great memories and provided a few more to remember of this movie in the future! "},{"Title":"Entertaining","Date":"4 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This will appeal to young movie watchers, although there is a very sad scene towards the end of the movie (remember when The Lion King came out how controversial it was with the scene of his father dying?). There are several enjoyable scenes for adults, as well. "},{"Title":"For once, a decent comedy","Date":"4 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This was a very enjoyable movie. It was for once a decent comedy, unlike some comedies I've seen lately with countless sexual references (ex. Austin Powers & Nutty Professor 2some family comedy that was.) There were some very funny gags. One of my favorite scenes was when Mr. Tinkles was holding his dark meeting. He says, All the world will tremble at the sound of my name! Then real evil music cues in & his shadow conquers the room just before the maid comes in and says, Mr. Tinkles! There you are! We can kind of think of this movie as Austin Powers with out all the sexual references.Other than the gags, there were many good details in the movie. The score was a great score! You could cut out the dialogue and, with the score, tell when all the happy moments were and all the sad moments, etcetera. The cinematography was pretty good, too. The visual effects were great. I would say they were about 85% flawless.I would highly recommend this to anyone seeking lots of laughs or anyone who wants to take their family to the movies. It was one of the most enjoyable films I've seen lately. "},{"Title":"If have pets and love 'em, then you'll probably enjoy this film.","Date":"4 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  O.K., much of it is silly, but if you have pets like I do (7 cats, 1 dog, etc.), then you'll probably get a kick out of the movie.It relies on a cute puppy, an evil cat, and lots of (too much?) action. Technically, it's great to see the animal mouths look real when they talk, not a great accomplishment these days, but nonetheless appreciated. Though many of the animals are mechanical (animatronics?), there are still plenty of good old warm-blooded cats and dogs to melt your heart.Sure, this is not going to win any academy awards, but it's great to see a film with some truly funny moments that doesn't rely on foul language or bathroom humor. You can take your kids to it without reservation, and enjoy it yourself. Hey, kinda like Disney movies! "},{"Title":"Cat's RULE!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"4 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This movie was HILARIOUS! Ok sure its talking cats and dogs, and maybe geared for the younger croud, but the adults sitting around me were laughing their fool heads off. Sean Hayes and Jon Lovitz steal the show as the Evil grumpy looking Mr. Tinkles and his sidekick Calico. The computer graphics are great, if Babe the talking pig can win an Oscar, Cats & Dogs should sweep the special effects catagories. The gags are funny even the cliches of Pet behavior. A couple of scene reminded of the old Gary Larson Far Side cartoon where the cows are standing in the field, and one of them yells CAR then they go down on all 4's until the Car passes, classic stuff. See this movie, you will LAUGH! PS Cats do Rule ) "},{"Title":"One of the funniest animated movie","Date":"7 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I've seen that movie a long time ago. Today, I've seen a lot of animated movie (I really like this kind of film). And it's still one of my favorite. I don't really care about the name of the cast. Are they done a great job or not? Yeah, I'm able to believe in each character. That's the important.The storyline is Original. A power's fighting between cats and dogs. Or who gonna keep the highest position in that society. Hummm....that sound familiar. Well, at least it's not another soap movie. Everybody knows, or heard about the great and famous cats genealogy. Everybody ever heard Dogs are man's best friend. Yeah, someone has made a movie about that!Visual effects are good too.Yeah, i really like that movie, for a lot of reason, but it's my opinion! "},{"Title":"Film Good For People of All Ages","Date":"28 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I saw this movie and I thought it was a cute film for people of all ages to watch. It had spectacular voice work by Tobey Maguire, Alec Baldwin, and Sean Hayes. It also had great supporting actors like Jeff Goldblum, and Elizabeth Perkins. All and all I would say this movie is great.  "},{"Title":"Bow-Wow of a Time!","Date":"2 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  For those cool cats that think that pussies are the cutest, you will not like `Cats & Dogs'. However, for my dogs out there that think the bow-wow is the doggoned best than `Cats & Dogs' will roll you over. This very inventive family film is about manipulative cats who try to seize an allergic cure to dogs that agent dogs are protecting. The animal voices executed  by Tobey Maguire, Alec Baldwin, Susan Sarandon, Jon Lovitz, and Sean Hayes were good enough for me to fetch on to  this film again. The only pet peeve I had about the film were the idiotic acting performances by Jeff Goldblum and Elizabeth Perkins. `Cats & Dogs' will scratch your funny bone and bark you up with laughter. **** Good  "},{"Title":"Let a movie be a movie!","Date":"19 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Hey, I laughed my butt off watching this film!  It was a laugh a minute thrill for me.  Once in a great while, Hollywood will actually make a movie for the sole purpose of entertainment, and this film is one of them.I don't see this as a cruel movie in regards to animals, but it's more like a live action cartoon.  We saw this type of thing in the old Tom and Jerry cartoons, and the writers gave the same formula a James Bond/Mission Impossible theme and gave us this great comedy.  It's not anti-cat, as someone wrote in these pages, and I say that because the cats are decidedly the funniest characters in the movie.  Hey, I own two cats and two dogs, I love them all, and a true animal lover will love this film.A hilarious triumph!  However, I will suggest that if you only love cats, stay away, or you might be offended.  Other than that, great film for seeing over and over. "},{"Title":"Laughed ourselves silly - so would any cats who watched it!","Date":"30 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Had a REALLY fun time watching this film with my (also middle-aged) husband - it is just so clever. We even enjoyed the musical jokes using Mission Impossible-type themes, and Indiana Jones coming to the rescue- type themes. And WHY do people say it is anti-cat? Are they kidding themselves? ALL cats (we know because we are owned by one of the ninja-type felines) want to rule the world! After all, they already KNOW they rule their own houses. I feel very sorry for those who went to see the film and expected it to be a serious exposition of the relationship between Dogs and Cats, or dog-people and cat-people. Why can't they just accept that it is a bit of fluff (sorry for the pun, Mr Tinkles!) and sit back and laugh themselves silly? The Hieroglyphics being taken seriously, indeed!*LOL* It must annoy the makers of fluff films when adults take them as serious work rather than an enjoyable family film. "}{"Title":"It was a cute cartoon I enjoyed even though it's for children","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I saw someone else's comment saying that you would only enjoy this movie if you were under 10.  Yes, there were some moments of humour that only 10 year old boys would find funny, but there were many other parts that were funny for everyone.  I mean, how could you not find an adorable black tabby kitten saying I think not little puppy in a Russian accent funny!! "},{"Title":"Hmm","Date":"1 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":" I thought this movie had an interesting premise to work off of- the enmity between cats and dogs. However, one problem I had with it (besides its general low quality) was the fact that the cast the cats as the criminal buffoons. (Bear with me please - I'm at least half serious). I mean, dogs as the smart ones? Come on. Cats taking over the world is believable, but casting most of them as the not-so-smart, criminal stooges was going a bit far. Cats are smarter and more, hmm, elegant than dogs. Face it, in a showdown between cats and dogs that wasn't purely reliant on mass or strength, cats would own the dogs.Now if they had cast the dogs as the villains of the piece...that would be better. Cats like the position they're in - pampered and very little required of them- why go to the trouble of taking over and running the world when it already serves you? Another thing- dogs are the ones who chase the cats, very rarely the other way around- bit of insecurity or jealousy perhaps? Dogs also often have to actually perform, exercise, do handy things or otherwise. If they would play it as the dogs trying to oust all the freeloading superior cats....that could have been real fun. "},{"Title":"Ham and corn","Date":"12 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":" If my 3-year old could review this movie, she'd probably give it high marks. She can watch it over and over. Of all her movies, this is one that I really don't enjoy. I like its idea of a war between cats and dogs who are secretly more technologically advanced than we are, and a lot of cleverness went into the situations, but the dialog is corny. There's a load of great acting talent, but their main instruction seems to have been to ham it up for the kids. I'm not particularly fond of the animations in this, either. When a movie like this comes out and does something that hasn't been done before (in this case, mixing live-action and animation to tell a story with talking and ninja-fighting animals), it makes a big splash. Then, a few years later, when technology's improved and many other movies can do the same thing but make it look more realistic, that first movie will be forgotten if there isn't a great movie behind all the effects. And in this case, there isn't. It's a fun movie for kids, up to a certain age. If you have kids and want to leave them alone with this and feel safe that they're watching something wholesome, OK. But if you're looking for something to watch with them, there's not much here for an adult to enjoy. Even Sesame Street will drop a line, like a movie reference, that's clearly there to make the adults laugh. Some better comedy would really have gone a long way with this movie. Once the novelty wears off, it's a waste of time. "},{"Title":"It's funny, silly beyond words. Enjoy it!","Date":"24 December 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":" Cats and Dogs is one of those films that are to silly for words, if I had a dog with doghouse I would check for a secret button. Makes you wonder what are dogs barking at each other when they meet in the park or is that to much spotted dogs? Though the whole underground transport system to dog HQ went a bit far to believe. It reminded me of Bond. Hightech dog house, how did they think of it. Hilarious.Saw it again on TV this week it wasn't as funny as the first time and probably would be even less funnier the third time. Favorite part the house maid pampering Mr. Wiskers the I want to rule the world cat boss. I've to agree that some of CGI effects where unrealistic and that's why I skipped on Garfield this year. Jurrasic Park Jeff Goldblum didn't have much of a role other then being inventor of the cure. I think that can be said of the whole Brody family though I enjoyed the scenes in the garden with the kid playing with the dog. The voice cast went pass me, didn't recognize one of the 'famous' actors. See it, laugh and have a good time! "},{"Title":"Fun film....for the kiddies.","Date":"17 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Cats and Dogs is a movie that is fun for the little ones. However, older children and adults will get tired of this movie very quickly. The effects are fantastic, and there are some certain scenes that are quite amusing, however, overall, it is a film for small children.Dr. Brody (played by Jeff Goldblum) is a scientist, who in his basement, is working on a formula to fight allergies to dogs. This sets the scene for the battle between cats and dogs (who can all talk when there are no humans around). The dogs see the advantage that this formula would give them in the world of household pets, so it is their duty to protect the formula from the evil cats. The cats wish to get the formula, and change it to make all humans allergic to dogs. This sets the scene for the war between the species.The movie is rather dull, and overblown. Dogs and cats with James Bond-like gadgets? The writers of this movie must have been severely traumatized as children, or been smoking something very illegal.Parents, drop your young ones in front of the television set for this movie, however, remove yourselves from the room so you don't have to watch it. After this one is done, watch Shrek, a film that will appeal to both you and your kids, as Cats and Dogs certainly does not.  "},{"Title":"It's a cute movie","Date":"16 January 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I thought this movie was going to be only a movie for the kids, but I watched it with my cousins, and I was surprised. I laughed a lot. It had some really cute and hilerious moments. And Jeff Goldblum is in it! What more could you want? If you don't mind a little cute humor, I'd recommend Cats & Dogs.7/10 "},{"Title":"oh come on! cats aren't evil!","Date":"6 November 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":" 'Cats and Dogs' is probably best described as a children's comedy film about the never-ending struggle between cats and dogs. In this film, however, dogs are considered the cool heroes while cats are considered the enemies. That said, this film would probably be enjoyed more by those of you who prefer canine company to the company of felines.There isn't much for adults, and I think children will be a little bit lost in some of the technology and dialogue. However, children will probably enjoy some of the humour (which is really immature but not nearly as bad as Fox's dialogue in 'The Incredible Journey' remake in the late 1980s or early 1990s) and the constant action throughout the film.I personally would not recommend this film over the hundreds of other films out there that are so much better. "},{"Title":"Intriguing Premise...Poor Execution","Date":"3 August 2001","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I had hopes for this film. Real, honest hope. Now I feel that 87 minutes of my life have been wasted. No exaggeration.Which is more upsetting, given the films premise of a James Bond-type struggle for world between canines and felines had so much potential. But twas not meant to be because I saw a film that great moments of genius (those ninja cats)but a lousy whole.It had its highlights - Mr Tinkle was a fantastic character and as a whole the cats had more character than the dogs. Guess who I wanted to win despite being more of a doggy person. As for the human story, well that could not have been a more perfunctory exercise in one-dimensionality (what an original concept the father too busy for his son.Where have we seen that sub-plot before???). So one-dimensional in fact that they did not exist as a plot device. They only seemed to be there to pad out the films running time to its current length. Otherwise we would only have had half a film.4/10 for the cats. 0/10 for everything else. "},{"Title":"Why do the cats always have to be the bad ones?!?!","Date":"6 July 2005","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":" Let me start off by saying, I'm a cat lover. And, this movie interested me but... I just HATED that the dogs were good and cats were bad... I like dogs too... but... why didn't they make it where the cats and dogs become friends at the end?!?! But... I would have liked it if they wouldn't have made the cats So... mean... cats are exactly the opposite.. They won't attack if you pass by their territory... but a dog WILL rip you to shreds....Well.... it wasn't... the absolute worst movie ever but.. I DEFINITELY DON'T Recommend THIS FILM TO CAT LOVERS! I saw this when I was like... 9... And I didn't like it then... And most kids would LOVE this film but... cat lovers(like me) probably won't.... "},{"Title":"Nice trailer, shame about the film","Date":"31 August 2001","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I have to admit, I was  looking forward to seeing this film on evidence of the gag-packed, sometimes hysterically funny trailer.  Imagine my dissappointment then, upon seeing the film, when I realised that all the best jokes were the ones already included in the trailer.Cats and Dogs isn't an awful film, it's just not a particularly good one.  Kids under thirteen will love it, so it wasn't an entirely pointless exercise, but for anyone over that age, there is little to captivate.  The storyline is uninspired (and in my opinion, a little too complex for the very young), the sentimentality is sickening, and even the much-hyped CG effects are painfully bad in places.There's solid voicework from the actors, with Tobey Maguire on excellent form as wannabe secret agent Lou, but the human actors (Geoff Goldblum, take a bow) play it straight when they should have gone for laughs. So will the fur fly?  Well, no.  But it may moult slightly.     "}{"Title":"Wow, was this ever terrible!","Date":"24 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":" If you like cats or dogs or both you may find a lot to dislike about this film. I love both cats and dogs. Why did I watch this, then? Because I was a guest at someone's home on Thanksgiving Day and they picked this DVD of all possible DVDs to show. I don't think the elderly lady matriarch of the family was any too pleased at the choice of film and probably wondered about her daughter's taste or lack of same. There were no other rooms to go to and no escape! Cats are not all evil and dogs are not all good. I think that is a terrible message for impressionable small children. Some of the cartoon violence against Mr. Tinkles the cat was disturbingly realistic from a distance. The special effects were a little too good. "},{"Title":"Belongs in the Litter Box.","Date":"13 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":" Cats and Dogs (2001) Dir Lawrence Guterman / Cast Jeff Goldblum, Elizabeth Perkins, Miriam Margolyes, Alexander Pollack, Myron Natwick Could have referenced culture differences but instead its total lunacy. A dog is kidnapped then the screenplay completely forgets about it. A puppy is taken into a family and learns that other dogs are spies. Their establishment would seem clever had it an explanation. They must protect a chemical invented by the pup's owner that rid allergies. Feline Mr. Tingles wishes to destroy the formula so that people will disown man's best friend leaving cats to rule the world. Climaxes with violence tailored for children. Director Lawrence Guterman was out to lunch during the shoot. He never explains how these animals move a human body. Interesting concept bludgeoned with martial arts cats. Why is it that violence is family aimed films is deemed acceptable yet violence in R rated films is met with protests? This is just an excuse to sell candy coated kiddie violence. And just because dogs have been labled man's best friend doesn't mean that cats are automatically the villains either. Jeff Goldblum and Elizabeth Perkins come across with the mentality of a cardboard box. Miriam Margolyes and Alexander Pollack are wasted in supporting roles. While special effects are passable the film itself is totally pointless kiddie crap that should be buried in a litter box. Score 2 / 10 "},{"Title":"Some animals are great but the rest is mediocre","Date":"15 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":" I must admit that I have first seen the sequel of this movie because my girlfriend wanted to watch it in the cinema. Even though the whole thing was quite expensive with fifteen bucks for a movie of one and a half hour with a couple of mediocre special effects and a rather ordinary story line, I think that the follow-up is somewhat underrated because it has many funny characters, a couple of really good jokes and is overall very dynamical. The first part is overrated compared to the sequel as it is only as good as the second movie.The beginning of the movie is way too long and quite boring. The acting is ordinary and quite predictable and copies a lot of family movies such as Beethoven or Honey, I shrunk the kids. I don't know why a brilliant actor like Jeff Goldblum starred in this ordinary movie. The story itself is predictable and the ending the usual Hollywood kitsch for the (whole?) family that might please to the youngest fans but not to the rest. The connections to many spy movies that would make some adults laugh are much better in the sequel and the laughs of this first movie are simply orientated towards the younger public.What saves this movies from bad mediocrity are the animals, the great special effects and the overall entertaining qualities. Especially Mister Tinkles as the villain cat and his strange nanny are very funny while the hero Lou can't really convince. The dog Sam and the Russian cat are two amusing sidekicks but the rest of the animal cast is rather boring.In the end, one shouldn't be too severe with this movie as it is simply done to entertain a young public and surely succeeds from that point of view. The parents will be able to watch it with their children without hating it too much and some younger people that have cats or dogs at home might also like the concept. Anyone else will be more or less entertained with this flick and should rather head for better, more profound and especially more mature animation flicks such as Toy Story, How to train your dragon or Wall-E.Anybody that happens to like this movie even though it has some major flaws shouldn't believe the negative hype and watch the second movie as well. "},{"Title":"Great for kids only","Date":"21 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":" This film is about secret agent dogs who do everything in their power to protect a professor's experimental cure from a group of evil cats who want to steal this cure.Cats & Dogs is a kids film, so I have adjusted my expectations to suit the target audience. For a kids' film, Cats & Dogs has good production and an exciting plot. I am sure children will love the cute animals, James Bond style gadgets and the flurry of action.However, there is little to entertain the adults who have to sit through the film with children. There is no hidden moral message either. If these points could be improved, Cats & Dogs would have been a true family film. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable for kids, Hell for adults","Date":"13 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":" I first saw this when it first came out and quite enjoyed it. Now in retrospect I see that it is awful. The visual effects are terrible, the acting is dodgy, the storyline is horribly cheesy, and yet somehow it seemed to work when I first saw it. Maybe it's because as a kid you tend to not care about the visuals, or the acting, and all's you're looking for is a fun story no matter how cheesy it is. It is fairly witty at times after all. This may be true, I think it is fun for kids, but beyond that it is nothing. Worse than that, for older people it is excruciating to watch. But I guess it does its job, if you ignore the wooden acting and cringe worthy storyline. "},{"Title":"an enjoyable comedic adventure","Date":"16 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":" Without a doubt, 2001 was a year filled with rising stars, surprise box office hits, good movies and trends, which go against the norm. Cats & Dogs is the latest to join an elite list including Atlantis The Lost Empire, Dr. Dolittle 2, Spy Kids, See Spot Run and Shrek; proves family oriented films will entertain all ages.Cats & Dogs is one of the most unique adventure films I have seen because it combines humor, intelligence and the technical savvy to call itself a box-office hit. Additionally, the special effects are truly spectacular to watch and will leave everyone smiling in amazement asking the question; how did they do that? The combination of live actors with voices of actors with incredible special effects immediately elevated Cats & Dogs to a new level of greatness. The movie takes an incredible look inside a top-secret, high-tech espionage war between cats and dogs, which their owners are completely unaware. Jeff Goldblum, Elizabeth Perkins, Alec Baldwin, Susan Sarandon, Michael Clarke Duncan and Sean Hayes combine their talents and voices to create an enjoyable atmosphere.It is Mr. Tinkles and friends against Lou and friends in an ultimate battle for world domination. Mr. Tinkles is the leader of the cats as he tries to invade the Brody household to steal research for a formula that would make human allergies to dogs extinct. Lou is sent in after the Brody's dog is lost to protect the family and formula.Five minutes was all it took to give Cats & Dogs my approval because it contains so many impressive moments. Movie patrons will be glad to learn that it took me more than two hands to count the number of reasons to watch Cats & Dogs. From the special effects to the unique concept, Cats & Dogs is going to please movie patrons across the United States. For example, the unprecedented battle scenes between the cats and dogs were creative and the humor, which came from the two species, left me laughing out loud. I knew Cats & Dogs was going to be a smash hit; however, I didn't realize how much fun I could have watching the movie.The combination of live actors with voice over actors made Cats & Dogs more interesting because it was an element that makes the film more unique. For example, other films like Atlantis The Lost Empire and See Spot Run are great in their own special way; however, when you add this added element, movie patrons are guaranteed to be entertained because of the unique and rarity of the occurrences.Instant credibility came to the movie the moment I heard the voices of Baldwin and Heston because these are among the best actors in Hollywood; however, everyone involved with this movie made it a success. I hope everyone enjoys this film as much as I did because it truly is an amazing film. Cats & Dogs has my vote for the movie that will make people have the most fun. Congratulations to Goldblum and Perkins for turning in performances that made Cats & Dogs a bigger success.Aside from the special effects, the highlight of Cats & Dogs is the performances by the live actors. For example, Goldblum is the only actor in Hollywood I could think of to play the role of the scientist because th role of the scientist brought him fame in The Fly series and again in the Jurassic Park series. Elizabeth Perkins seems to be tailor made for her role as mother; furthermore, she is extremely talented, I can't wait to see her next film.In a summer that has contained animated and live action inventive family films, 2001 has added another with Cats & Dogs. There is one piece of advice I must give to everyone, which is to watch everyone of the family films and share in the enjoyment. "},{"Title":"Score Or Sore?","Date":"13 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":" CATS & DOGS (2001) *** It's not the battle of the sexes; this time, it's the battle between 'Cats & Dogs'. A young, careless, and impulsive Beagle (voiced by Tobey Maguire) falls into the possession of family owners where Dad is working on an experiment that can conclusively cure humans of any dog allergies upon dosage. The dog's Special Training Unit recruits him to protect the experimental findings from being tapped by the enemy - cats. The potential enjoyment of this children-aimed theme is marred by a rather generic, saccharine script, but kids may not enjoy it any other way. Sean Hayes saves the show as the snooty Persian pussycat who leads the cat's conspiracy.Rating System ***** Excellent **** Good *** Fair ** Poor * Bad "},{"Title":"Cute movie, entertaining, not a waste of time -- unless you are a die-hard cat lover.","Date":"18 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  We have a cat, a gentle, playful neutered male named 'Bullet', because that's what he looked like as a kitten when he took off to retrieve a thrown wad of paper. In this film, the cats are well aware of the history of pets, and are jealous that dogs have become man's best friend. Now, a researcher (Jeff Goldblum, in perfect casting) is about to perfect a serum that would eliminate all dog allergies, and the militant cats believe this will do them in. So they scheme to steal the formula, and re-engineer it so that everyone becomes allergic to dogs, and they will use mice to carry the serum to all corners of the world.  Our cat, 'Bullet', would never get that jealous!  -)some SPOILERS - I really enjoyed the first half of the film most, where the renegade cats kidnapped the family pet, and they got a new puppy, 'Lou' (short for loser), voiced by Tobey Mcguire. Lou gets exposed to the secret dog intelligence organization, and begins to learn about the cats' plans. However, the second half I thought was a bit overdone with CGI and animatronics to have the cats and dogs engage in all sorts of battles. Still fun, but not as much. The whole story was done cleverly. The dogs might be in a group, talking to each other, when a human approaches. To cover themselves, they would initiate typical dog behavior, digging a hole, sniffing butts, etc until the person passed, then they would engage again in conversation. The computer effects to get the animals to apparently talk and smile, or form other expressions, was the best I have seen so far. Voices like Alec Baldwin, Jon Lovitz, and Susan Sarandon were very recognizable, and actually added to the enjoyment.All in all a very entertaining film, no lasting value, just entertaining. "},{"Title":"Where have I seen this before?","Date":"24 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  There was a cartoon on Fox Kids that starred secret agent canines who battled evil cats. I don't know if the same people from that cartoon worked on today's movie or not, but their premises are awfully similar. I'm just saying that it's a weird coincidence. Anyway, this is a funny little comedy which will keep the interest of its intended audience, but it's not very memorable. There can only be so many spy spoofs these days, and Austin Powers pretty much beat it to the punch. The computer and puppet effects range from impressive to obviously fake, but I would have liked to see more of the live-action animals. The story is pretty clever, expanding the cat vs. dog mythos to epic proportions, although it got a little too Men In Black when the characters went to the hidden dog base. It was just better when centered in real-life settings. Also, the Little Kid Who Loves His Father, But Cannot Get His Attention Because He's A Scientist And Is Always Working On Experiments story wasn't all that fascinating. With this kind of movie, you know what to expect, so a happy ending is inevitable. So all in all, Cats & Dogs is a good movie to show kids when babysitting or at camp, but it's not so original or funny that it will be remembered years from now. 2 out of 4 stars. "},{"Title":"funniest rated G movie ive ever seen","Date":"30 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  WARNING_POSSiBLE SPOILERS....if you havent seen this movie, go rent it! this is a good movie for kids to adults, especially for any cat owners , as this movie depicts cats as evil and diabolically clever creatures out to rule the world. the special fx were great, the acting was great, all the animal voices were done by some great actors . (i loved sean hayes mr tinkles voice) for older audiences , theres spoofs of movies like desperado, Full metal jacket, and other serious movies. i doubt kids have seen all the movies this flick makes fun of, but im sure they'll be having  a great time looking at all the talking cats and dogs. my favorite moments are involving the evil mastermind himself, Mr Tinkles, says lines like, at what point did you forget that WE'RE TRYING TO TAKE OVER THE WORLD???, or (talking to one of the other cats , )i want you to stay here. Why? Because I hate you. great family flick! enjoy! "}{"Title":"What's not to love about cats and dogs","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I thought this was a cute kid's film that does have some adult appeal. Also, I should state that I'm a big cat and dog lover, so I do have some bias toward the `stars' of this movie. I mean, how can you not think it is neat how they make it look like the cats and dogs are really talking.(SPOILERS) Haven't we all wondered what our pets really do when we are away. Who's to say they don't break every dish in the house and destroy all the furniture and have it all cleaned up before we get home!  Also, how do we know that cats didn't rule the roost in ancient Egypt!(END OF SPOILERS)If you have a childish sense of humor, you will laugh a couple of times throughout this film.FINAL VERDICT  This film is worth watching on a lazy summer afternoon. Get your dog or cat and curl up on the couch for some silly fun.  "},{"Title":"It ought to have been a cartoon.","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I mean a REAL cartoon; not a hybrid in which real footage of cats and dogs is put through the digital mangler, but something animated from scratch, preferably by hand.  Look at One Hundred and One Dalmatians and you'll see how to do this kind of thing properly.  (I mean of course the 1961 original, which, sadly, was remade in 1996 using exactly the same techniques we see here.  Does ANYONE have a clue these days?)  The tacky, awkward-looking footage of talking dogs doesn't even have an economic justification.  To make Cats and Dogs look this shoddy Warner Brothers spent $US60 million.  Disney's plush animated features typically cost $US100 million, but it's possible to do well for less; The Iron Giant, for instance, cost Warner Brothers just $US48 million.The advantages of hand-drawn animation are many.  It looks better.  It makes for a more integrated design (as it stands, is Cats and Dogs a live action film, or a digital cartoon?  The film itself doesn't know any more than I do).  Good character animation is unforced and natural; using computers to make dogs' mouths appear to move in sync with English speech gives the painful impression - hard to shake off - that the animals have been possessed by sorcery and are being forced to do something against their will.  And most importantly, a script as threadbare as this one badly needs the visual wit that pen-and-ink character animators could hardly fail to provide.I love the idea of a secret government of dogs at the Earth's core devoted to furthering our interests (and by extension, theirs), that the Ancient Egyptians were in fact slaves ruled by cats and ultimately freed by dogs.  Good idea to base a film on this premise.  Bad idea to think that the premise alone would do all the work.  STUPID idea to make the film this particular way. "},{"Title":"Cute movie, but mediocre","Date":"1 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Scientist Goldblum is working on a project that will make people lose their allergies to dogs.  Cats bent on world domination try to stop them, while dogs, that act like secret agents, try to stop the cats.  Fun, cute movie for kids, but adults might not like it.  Amazing work with the computer animation.  You can't tell a real dog from a fake.   ** out of **** "},{"Title":"a dog of a movie","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I had seen some trailers for this movie and thought it would be cute. Wrong. The first five minutes were okay but it went downhill rapidly after that. I don't know what was worse, the ninja cats, Mr. Tinkle or the Russian spy cat. My husband who was watching with me said this movie was too stupid even for him. "},{"Title":"I hate cats and dogs (the animals, not the movie).","Date":"1 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  John Debney, who wrote the score for Cats & Dogs, started out as a composer for the likes of A Pup Named Scooby-Doo and other cartoons; this movie about the ongoing battle between cats and dogs (with the former out to prevent a scientist from devising a serum that stops people from being allergic to the latter) is, to all intents and purposes, a live-action cartoon especially in the latter stages. But as Buffy the Vampire Slayer once said, And that's a bad thing because...?Top-billed Jeff Goldblum and Elizabeth Perkins actually spend less time on screen than the title characters, which is only fair seeing as they're the real stars anyway - writers John Requa and Glenn Ficarra are very clearly dog-people (you do wish they could have put in a plot twist that has the dumbest of our four-footed friends turn out to be working for the other side - although the climax does have one of the species' biggest natural enemies turn out as such, which I won't reveal here), which would be more of a bother if I didn't hate both cats AND dogs in real life. On the big screen, of course, is another matter.Some of the plot points are a bit too hard to swallow even for a movie like this, and the animatronic effects of Jim Henson's Creature Shop are a lot more convincing than some of the CGI animation (especially with the cats), but the movie makes up for its flaws by zipping along, never letting the action and frequently funny comedy flag for long, and passing the finishing line under 90 minutes, with some very entertaining characterisations, particularly heroes Lou and Buddy and evil feline Mr. Tinkles (a good voice job from Sean Hayes), who atones to cat-lovers by getting the movie's best lineMr. Tinkles (to idiotic underling in a burning room) I want you to stay here.I.U. Why?Mr. T. Because I hate you.Admittedly the movie isn't quite up there with Stuart Little or Babe, but it certainly beats Babe Pig In The City and Small Soldiers. But I still hate the critters... "},{"Title":"Cute and clever idea, well executed, but runs outta steam","Date":"31 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I hired this movie for my kids - but was also hoping for something fun and light. Well, what I got was a clever idea that doesn't really seem to go anywhere. My 2 1/2 y.o. also lost focus after the first 20 mins (but he'll watch Toy Story 2 as often as we'll let him). Mr Tinkles was great - in fact the Cats' characters came off much better developed then the doggie heroes and the humans were completely irrelevant - but this was maybe 30 mins worth of entertainment stretched over almost 3 times that. My vote 6/10 - mainly for the classy animatronics. "},{"Title":"Destiny is in their paws, and what a bad choice that is!","Date":"29 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I have seen many animal based movies that were very enjoyable, but unfortunately this film is not one of them. Classic movies such as the Lassie series, the very funny Turner and Hooch and Milo and Otis, are much better than this battle between the canines and felines.Meet the evil Persian Feline Mr. Tinkles, Rookie beagle puppy Lou, Special Operative Agent Butch, Slinky long-legged stray Ivy, Big Hearted sheepdog Sam, Chinese hairless electronics expert Peek and Chief Dog Commander Mastiff. This is a tale that pits crack canine agents against their malicious four legged fiends. What is at stake is more than just a battle for the best seat on the couch. It's a fang-sinking, tail- wagging action-packed war to win domestic supremacy. Things are gunna get hairy. Doggone it!Well I might as well comment on what good points that this film has. The voiceovers are probably the best part of this film. With big names including Sean Hayes, from the TV sitcom Will and Grace. He was great with voice of the evil cat, Mr. Tinkles. Tobey Macquire is one of Hollywood's newest stars and his voicing of the puppy Lou, was terrific. I enjoyed his role in the movie Cider House Rules. Alec Baldwin was great as the tough man Butch. He has a very good movie career and his voiceovers were great. Then to top it off you have stars Susan Saradon as the voice of stray dog Ivy and Michael Clarke Duncan as the Chinese dog, Peek. There are so many celebrities that voiced characters that the list is too long to mention.The special effects that Cats and Dogs had to offer, were pretty good. When you think about the effort put in to bring the story too life they were well done. The animatronics were also of a good quality and really did astound me. They were not unlike those used in the terrific movie, Chicken Run. Then you have the real animals that were trained very well on set. This is always a difficult area, but on this occasion it was done very well.The stars of this movie were for one of a better word indifferent. The best member of the cast, was Alexander Pollack who played little Scott Broody. His role was a great, yet I can not say much more for the rest of the cast. Jeff Goldblum is a star in his own right with great movie credits including Independence day and Jurassic Park just too name a few. Yet his role in this movie was what I can only call ridiculous, as nothing about it was that great.  Then the role played by Elizabeth Perkins was even worse, if you ask me. I do not know much of her work, apart from the very funny movie, '28 Days', starring the gorgeous Sandra Bullock.  Yet this film also has another bad downfall, that of the script. For one it is childish and two it is just bad. Nothing about it made me stand up and pay great attention to it. It was a silly story that in places made no sense at all. Especially the way that Professor Brody tries to find an answer to the way humans and dogs can be completely compatible was just plain stupid. I am sure this story was only meant for young kids as they are the only ones that  could get great enjoyment from it. I wished I had left this title on the video store shelf as that is where deserves to stay. No matter how much work goes into bringing a film to life, it needs to be classy, and this film was not classy.  I mean hire a film like Chicken run if you want to see an animal film that has a little class and style. I see that there is to be a second Cats and Dogs film made. However publicized it is, this is one patron that wont be attending it in the cinema, or hiring it off the video store shelf. Very disappointing is all I can say Cats and Dogs was. Rating 3/10 or 1.5 Stars    "},{"Title":"Cute little film","Date":"28 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I saw this movie on Saturday and have to say I wasn't really impressed by it. Perhaps I was spoiled by 'Shrek', which seemed so perfect for grownups and kids, but it just didn't seem like it was a true family flick - more like a 12-and-younger movie.The movie revolves around a supposed war between cats and dogs that stretches back millenia. The main humans in the movie are the family of one wannabe secret agent puppy who is accidentaly drafted to protect the family from the cats, who want to get the father's secret serum.The movie is cute from the start, and features a lot of enginuity, but I have to say I agree with most of the critics it wears thin after a while, and the family really starts to grate on you. If they hadn't been such major players, and maybe just stayed in the background with the focus on the cats and dogs, I wouldn't have minded, but it just got so annoying after a while.There are many, many cute moments that may make you grin, and some that will make you roll your eyes if you're an adult. The kids, however, are likely to love this movie because it features what kids like best action, cuteness, humor, and a world that maybe, just maybe, could be actually happening. If you've got a cat or dog, though, be prepared for your kids' jokes when you get home. I know that my little bro and I were wary of our cats and dogs for a while after seeing the movie, wondering if they were really secret agents in disguise. "},{"Title":"A Wasted Opportunity!!","Date":"27 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This film was awful (hats off to the guy/gal who edited the trailer together as I was really looking forward to this film).In short, the pacing was terrible, the plot obvious and cliched, the effects were embarassing and the actors pointless.  We have seen so many childrens films lately that appeal to an adult audience as well as the little ones and have proven to be a success so why did they not try it with this as it could have been a good film with a bit of direction.Anyway, if anybody sees the director, tell him he owes me the 3.75 it costs to hire this tripe from the video shop.But I will defend it against the racist slur.  Its about Cats & Dogs, dont take it personally!! "},{"Title":"A beautifully made film with charm","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Without a doubt, 2001 has been a year filled with rising stars, surprise box office hits, good movies and trends, which go against the norm. Cats & Dogs is the latest to join an elite list including Atlantis The Lost Empire, Dr. Dolittle 2, Spy Kids, See Spot Run and Shrek; proves family oriented films such as these will entertain all ages.Cats & Dogs is one of the most unique adventure films I have seen because it combines humor, intelligence and the technical savvy to call itself a box-office hit. Additionally, the special effects are truly spectacular to watch and will leave everyone smiling in amazement asking the question; how did they do that? The combination of live actors with voices of actors with incredible special effects immediately elevated Cats & Dogs to a new level of greatness. The movie takes an incredible look inside a top-secret, high-tech espionage war between cats and dogs, which their owners are completely unaware. Jeff Goldblum, Elizabeth Perkins, Alec Baldwin, Susan Sarandon, Michael Clarke Duncan and Sean Hayes combine their talents and voices to create an enjoyable atmosphere.It is Mr. Tinkles and friends against Lou and friends in an ultimate battle for world domination. Mr. Tinkles is the leader of the cats as he tries to invade the Brody household to steal research for a formula that would make human allergies to dogs extinct. Lou is sent in after the Brody's dog is lost to protect the family and formula.Five minutes was all it took to give Cats & Dogs my approval because it contains so many impressive moments. Movie patrons will be glad to learn that it took me more than two hands to count the number of reasons to watch Cats & Dogs. From the special effects to the unique concept, Cats & Dogs is going to please movie patrons across the United States. For example, the unprecedented battle scenes between the cats and dogs were creative and the humor, which came from the two species, left me laughing out loud. I knew Cats & Dogs was going to be a smash hit; however, I didn't realize how much fun I could have watching the movie.The combination of live actors with voice over actors made Cats & Dogs more interesting because it was an element that makes the film more unique. For example, other films like Atlantis The Lost Empire and See Spot Run are great in their own special way; however, when you add this added element, movie patrons are guaranteed to be entertained because of the unique and rarity of the occurrences.Instant credibility came to the movie the moment I heard the voices of Baldwin and Heston because these are among the best actors in Hollywood; however, everyone involved with this movie made it a success. I hope everyone enjoys this film as much as I did because it truly is an amazing film. Cats & Dogs has my vote for the movie that will make people have the most fun. Congratulations to Goldblum and Perkins for turning in performances that made Cats & Dogs a bigger success.Aside from the special effects, the highlight of Cats & Dogs is the performances by the live actors. For example, Goldblum is the only actor in Hollywood I could think of to play the role of the scientist because th role of the scientist brought him fame in The Fly series and again in the Jurassic Park series. Elizabeth Perkins seems to be tailor made for her role as mother; furthermore, she is extremely talented, I can't wait to see her next film.In a summer that has contained animated and live action inventive family films, 2001 has added another to its top ten list with Cats & Dogs. There is one piece of advice I must give to everyone, which is to watch everyone of the family films and share in the enjoyment. "}{"Title":"Two Paws Up!","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I give this movie two paws up! One of the best movies I've seen in a while. I loved the secret agent humor and voices were cool. Don't ever let a dog diffuse a bomb lol that had to be the best scene. Pull the red wire.. I'm color blind. I loved the actors for the parents and of the little kid, overall good for a laugh and I am seventeen. I reccomend it to anyone who is in the mood for a little mindless humor. But everyone has their own opinions.  "},{"Title":"Hugely dissapointing","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Well, I finally saw this movie on PPV so my 3 year old daughter and I would have something to do.  What a mistake that was!  It got weirdly violent at times, I would guess to appeal to adults, but yet they toned it down so to appeal to children as well.  As what usually happens in this situation, neither effect was successfully achieved.  The plot was stupid, the movie at times was painful to watch.  For a movie that looked like it might be original it was awfully cliche.  The characters of the dogs were pretty much all stereotypes. Steal a James Bond theme here, add a 'go through the wall for my master' theme there.  Of course, I don't even need to mention casting Jeff Goldblum as the wacky scientist!  And how cute when *spoiler* his son knocked down all of his formulas and this somehow created the correct serum. ha ha. I don't want to sound too mean, I do enjoy most good kid's movies, but it was a shame to see what they did to this given the great potential it had. To it's credit there were a couple of funny scenes.  The ninja cats and the Russian spy were both funny. Also, I'm tired of seeing movies that use loud, emotion-inducing music to get a rise out of the viewer instead of letting the story do it.Overall, save your money. "},{"Title":"Wanted to like it, but couldn't","Date":"6 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This was one of those films I really, REALLY wanted to like, but it was just not going to happen, from about five minutes in.  Usually I can sit through any children's or family film, but this one really 'bit the biscuit'.  The script was dumb, the story undeveloped and the actors - they must be embarrassed.  Skip it... or put it on and then walk away. Coming back later, you won't have missed a thing. "},{"Title":"Be warned, you don't get what you expect!","Date":"5 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  'Cats & Dogs' is a big disappointment, plain and simple! First, the ads con all cat-lovers like myself  into seeing the movie, thinking that both cats and dogs will have an equal chance in the film. Instead, dogs are exulted as the righteous protectors of humans while cats are portrayed as sneaky, back-stabbing animals with no redeeming qualities and only want to rule the world. Also, the violent animation goes a bit far at times. This could show kids that one, its okay to hurt animals, and 2, cats are mean creatures and don't make good pets. I really think the latter will be likely.I would have preferred to see both the cats and dogs in a conflict that had them both on the same moral footing and in the end make a truce and live in peaceful co-existance with humans. However, Hollywood cliches win out and you get a extremely bland film with a bias against cats. "},{"Title":"Lost potential","Date":"26 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This could have been a funny movie if they didn't aim it right at the 4-10 year old set. Even they might get bored of this stinker. The producers and writers of this movie think they can rehash some seriously tired cinematic cliches and gags just because housepets are delivering the lines instead of humans. There's never a truly entertaining or exciting moment because you know exactly what's going to happen. I wish the cats would have won and wiped out all those overly-cute dogs and humans. If you're the type of person who likes to dress up your cat, then maybe you can find some redeeming qualities here. A complete waste of time. "},{"Title":"Don't waste your time on this twisted and pointless drek","Date":"26 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"    ***SLIGHT SPOILERS*** I saw this turkey when a host was showing it at a party.It was an insult to any child with an I.Q. over 60 and an outrage to any child, teenager or adult who loves animals.  Violence against what looks from a distance like living animals is repeated ad nauseum within the framework of a pointless, boring plot about how good (in the hackneyed Hollywood sense) dogs are and how evil cats are.  In the climax at the flocking manufacturing plant, I was worried about Mr. Tinkles and assuming he had died.  His ultimate fate at the hands of the disgusting middle aged ladies who dressed him up was, admittedly better than having him die, but still was unfunny.  The scene where the beagle hero appears to be dead but is actually alive has been done to death in countless modern-day films of the 80s and 90s whose scriptwriters are not imaginative or experienced enough to come up with a truly heartwarming sequence. Rating  1/2 star out of 4 stars. If you want a good modern animal movie for all ages, try THE BEAR. "},{"Title":"Silly fun-for-kids.","Date":"10 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  CATS & DOGS (2001) Rating 6/10Judging from the theatrical trailers and TV ads, Cats and Dogs should have been one of the most hilarious movies of the year. I mean the trailers really worked. They were funny. But, sadly the end result is just plain ol' silly. This movie is definitely geared toward people under the age of ten. Don't get me wrong, though, the movie is entertaining enough to give it an okay rating, but, it's just too silly to be taken as a good movie (which is a 7/10 in my book). The silliest moment of the film comes when a dog bends an entire tree that a cat is up, and lets go making the cat fling off like it was a sling shot. Silly, I know.I will say that the special effects in this film are pretty damn good. I mean the 'cats & dogs' really look like they are talking, smiling, and frowning. The fight scenes were very well done, and I enjoyed the umpteenth parody of The Matrix in this film.The movie is a bit biased, though, making you wanna root for the dogs, but I on the other hand didn't really care who won. All I knew was that the cats were funnier and more entertaining then the dogs. One of my two favorite scenes came from when the ninja cats broke into the dogs home and kick all kinds of Matrix-style ass. My second favorite scene was with the deep-voiced Russian Kitty and his cool accent and many funny one-liners. My favorite lines came from Mr. Tinkles (voiced by Sean Hayes) and Calico (voiced by Jon Lovitz) at the end in the burning room when Mr. Tinkles says 'I want you to stay here' and Calico asks 'Why?' and Mr. Tinkles replies 'Because I hate you.' Pretty funny, I thought.Overall, Cats & Dogs is entertaining enough to watch. It's a bit too silly at times to be appreciated by anyone over ten, but the kids will love it. Rent it for them.  "},{"Title":"Couldn't Make It All The Way Through This One","Date":"3 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I couldn't take one more stupid looking animated animal face after about 30 minutes into this one. The animation is horrible!  The script wasn't so hot either.  Nice idea and could have been much better.  I wasted my money as far as I'm concerned. "},{"Title":"First 10 minutes purrfect the rest Woof","Date":"6 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  For the first 10-15 minutes this was amazingly funny and well paced but whenever Jeff Goldblum ( doing his very irritating scientist role ) or any of the other humans appeared it flagged. Worst of all was any scene with Miriam Margolyes. There were some highlights later on ( the ninja cats, the russian cat with the hairballs and the rocket sled system ) but I really wish I'ld left before the end. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable, laugh-out-loud family fun.","Date":"24 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  CATS & DOGS (2001) Rating 7/10While it probably won't get a place on your top 10 movies of all time, I don't think I or you will ever look at our cats and dogs the same after seeing this crude, fun and enjoyable family comedy. Cats & Dogs is a movie I happily say will be enjoyed by all family members, even teenagers will find it hard to bust a gut laughing at cats screaming `Our day has come!' I couldn't resist chuckling very loud at the cinema. The jokes were all extremely original like the rest of the movie and all of them succeeded excellently. While the movie does work resoundingly well as a comedy, the drama area is not the one for Cats & Dogs. There are many cheesy father-and-son moments and boy-and-his-dog and they aren't played out or written properly, losing points for the flick. However, I still loved the comedy and action, it was hilarious and I really got into the spirit of this movie. And I just loved that dog kennel! Press your hand (or paw) on the back and computers and gadgets whiz out at you. That red button dog train service just takes the cake. The voices for the movie were all good, particularly Sean Hayes' take on the evil Mr. Tinkles. The live-action acting was alright, with Elizabeth Perkins putting on the best show, but the voice-overs were just fabulous, over-ruling the live-action acting like the dogs over-rule cats at the start. But how does it all finish? Who wins the war? Who will you root for? Go and see this original and ultimately cool movie and find it, it's well worth it.  "}{"Title":"Not as bad as some, but not as good as most.","Date":"22 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This flick was pretty crummy, and it was really disheartening to see Jeff Goldblum reduced to crap like this. I mean, he was Brundlefly, for crying out loud!At one point the cats in this movie have a formula that makes people allergic to dogs, or something, I wasn't really paying attention. Anyway, what if the cats sprayed said solution on the dogs, making them allergic to themselves? Huh? Personally, I think their heads would explode. "},{"Title":"Light and Fluffy","Date":"20 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This is light entertainment at its lightest. I saw this on the big screen about 2 weeks ago and was full of optimism about this, having seen the trailer the week before when I saw Shrek.The animation of the dogs is impressive but that of the cats is rather less convincing, but does not spoil the fun. There are some very fun and impressive fight scenes and many funny visual gags. I spend most of the film with a silly grin on my face although actual laughs were few.The plot was very light and seemed to be added as an afterthought, as if the film was built around the special effects rather than the more proper way, the effects developed for the film. This results in a very uninspiring storyline.Yes, I enjoyed the film, but I'm not in any rush to go see it again. If you have kids, they'll probably love it, though.  "},{"Title":"fun fun fun","Date":"11 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  A film that expands your imagination. Going into the film i expected childish and dreadful humour, coming out i was still laughing. The thought that Cats & Dogs could talk and think like a human, is a very hard topic to write a film on, it could have easily flopped and become one of holywood's bloomers. But it excelled and became a great film. The graphics were very believable and actually made the audience think that the animals were talking, the plot was good, but the outcome was predictable.The case of Dogs being the good guys and Cats being the enemy is biased and will upset many viewers, but overall this film, even though it appeals to the younger majority, is very entertaining and many ages will enjoy this experience. "},{"Title":"Good for those with an open mind for satire.","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I found this film very funny and very interesting. The dog/cat spy movie send-up was humorous, and I found the film's editing techniques added to the humor in some places. One thing that's puzzled me is that I've read reviews from cat lovers, showing their disgust with the film. I'm a cat lover myself, and I enjoyed this film very much. Of course cats aren't evil! By the way, one review really puzzled me. It was from someone who was appalled by the scene with the Hieroglyphics showing the evil cat ruling the humans. How could you interpret that as serious? "},{"Title":"I've seen worse","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  If you can overlook the really, really bad acting in the scenes with the Human actors, then this is a great movie. The scenes involving the animals are hilarious, but the dialouge of the real actors is sappy and tiresome. It had more plot holes then I could count. But the Animal scenes were excellent, and when it all boils down, thats really all that matters. Perhaps in Cats and Dogs 2, they can Reduce the parts for real actors to second tier and only use them to set up the next gag for the animals. "},{"Title":"Hilarious and vomit inducing in turns","Date":"28 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  The funniest thing about this film by far is the evil cat leader. He is consistently hilarious, and had me aching from laughter several times.Sadly these hilarious scenes are punctuated with tiresome contrived emotional scenes between the main dog and his master, the most annoying kid in the history of the world.To dissect it down, 3 quarters of the film is comedy, of which about 50% is funny. The rest is insincere, innappropriate emotional crap. "},{"Title":"Really Well Done!","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This film is really well done, and the voice actors are perfectly cast. The script is fairly weak, but the story makes sense, and is really funny.Lou is brought into the Brody house after their dog has been cat-knapped read retired and is assigned to protect Professor Brody (Jeff Goldblum) from the cats that are trying to steal his cure for dog allergy. Cue lots of cat/dog fights, lots of comedy, a very Russian cat, and some ninjas, along with the soccer game of Uruguay vs. Chad (who came up with this?). If you are a cat lover, you may not like this film, but it is great family entertainment. "},{"Title":"Laughed in places","Date":"15 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Just been to see this last night. Both me and my gf agreed it looked pretty bad, but we wanted to go and see it anyway. The plot is pretty much what you would expect. Shame the cats were the baddies - what precentage of the population are cat-people ?) The funniest thing was the wee Russian kitten. Oh - and the mice. Shades of 1984 towards the end... hmm .. is this getting to be a spoiler? Anyway , harmless fun, and my hero Bill West who does the voice of Fry in Futurama voiced one of the ninja cats! Wee! "},{"Title":"Note to class - must try harder......","Date":"8 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I saw the trailer to this and thought - 'this looks hilarious, witty fast dialogue between cats and dogs in an effort to get the upper hand'. However I soon discovered that these were in fact the best bits of the film Cats & Dogs is built on a good premise (dogs trying to thwart Cat domination of the world) but the film decends to kiddy level on a regular basis through the film with only hints at the 'mission impossible but with animals' style it could have so easily developed. The small number of good bits where they are scrapping or exchanging insults are spoiled by over sentamentalism from the human side...Best advise is - see it on TV when it comes around unless you have kids who will probably really enjoy this...(and I'm talking less than 11 y/o)BPG. "},{"Title":"A very painful experience.","Date":"7 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This movie was terrible.  After 15 minutes, I found myself fidgeting and twitching in my seat, hoping that it was nearing the end.  It was corny, dull, lame, and the plot was so simplistic and thoughtless, it appeared (like Planet of the Apes) to be made up as the script was being written.Moreover, as a cat lover, I didn't appreciate cats being presented as evil. "}{"Title":"Not what I expected","Date":"3 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I'm not sure why but I thought this would be a clever film that would appeal to both kids and adults on different levels ala Toy Story. Instead it relies mainly on jejune slapstick.  It's too bad because this was a very good idea that could have went somewhere. It is defenitely a kid's movie. "},{"Title":"Kid loved it, I hated it.","Date":"3 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This movie was excruciating boring. However, my eight year absolutely loved it. Which is the important thing, I guess. I will say that the way in which they make the creatures talk in the film is quite remarkable. This will keep an adult interested for about as long as it takes you to take your second bite of popcorn. After the initial cuteness wears off its all downhill. There was some eye candy ie. special effects, that kept you somewhat interested, but not for long. There was very little in the way of plot. I found myself ecstatic when it finally ended, (only an hour and a half, thank goodness.)  I must stress again that your kid will probably love it. So unless you really have a thing for seeing dogs and cats talk, (convincingly), or you have nothing else playing at the local bijou I would steer clear of this stinker.  "},{"Title":"Cats and Dogsfight in terrible movie.","Date":"31 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I went in to Cats and Dog expecting something along the lines as that the movie would be about the two fighting,for whatever reasons.Then comes in the sideplot with the professor and of course they were going to have a conflict. Instead I saw an unentertaining feature with boring,uninteresting heroes,an annoying fleet of cat villians,and people giving some of the worst performances in their lives. The whole thing was dumb,unfunny,unoriginal and left me leaving the theater feeling like someone had spent the whole time whacking me in the head with a hammer,the same feeling I got when I saw the Jim Carrey version of the Grinch last year,although this was not quite that bad. It appears that the film makers did not want Jeff Goldblum back in Jurrassic Park 3,because no matter how good or crappy that film is,it would at least bring in more of a profit than this bomb. Rating2 stars (out of ten) "},{"Title":"How do they walk to places so fast? (Spoiler)","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Before I saw this, I wished that they kept the original ending where the main cat was nearly commited, but cats saved him. Not because it would leave room for a sequel, but it would freak children out. (I am much smarter than that-Blade didn't scare me.) After walking out, I realized it wouldn't have saved the film.Also, how the heck do they walk so fast? One of the dogs walks from a house to Paris (I mean a pier, but it would make as much sense) in less than one night. Even my dogs couldn't walk all that way, but the reason is that there's no piers around us. Still...(The spoiler is up ahead)Also, why won't Hollywood start making up new endings? The dog seems to be dead, but he's alive... ITS OLD! Stop ending films on high notes, and start making films where the hero dies. It might kill the pictures chances, but it didn't kill Romeo and Juliet. (They killed themselves.) "},{"Title":"Good premise, terrible movie","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  The idea of a movie where the dogs and cats have a secret cold war going on over who is the number one pet is mildly cute; but this movie misses the mark and is painful to watch. The film makes the oldest mistake of children's movies; it assumes that kids don't understand anything, and so dumbs the humor down to their level.   Unfortunately, this always results in a dumb movie, insulting to kids and torture for adults.The one joke in the move is that  dogs and cats are technologically advanced creatures; and yet their behavior is so stupid  (especially the cats, who are supposed to be the evil menace), that you don't believe this premise for a second. The movie also makes the most obvious mistake in a movie that uses high-tech effects; it makes the technology and the effects the star of the show, not the characters. The dogs and cats have absolutely no character development, and we don't care about any of them.  The human characters are even worse.  They are presented as idiots and morons, for no reason (unless the producers believed this is how kids see adults or would like to see adults in a movie; another fallacy.  Kids like to see likable adults and likable kids they can relate to.A movie kids and adults would have liked would have put the relationships and characters first, the plot second supporting the characters, and the effects last, supporting, not taking the place of, the characters and plot.    For instance, the technology of the cats and dogs is supposed to be secret from humans; half of the humor would have been in finding ways to keep it out of sight of humans in novel ways. There was no reason why the movie could not have had an intelligent script; because it was for children, the producers decided they would be just too dumb to enjoy it.    These are the same producers that grew up with Bullwinkle in the 60s and the Muppet Show in the 70s, that snuck ironic and (gasp) intelligent humor into every joke;  yet they forget this themselves.Jim Henson, the founder of the muppets, alas is no longer with us. But Frank Oz is; if he had been given the script to rewrite and the move to direct, we would have had a truly funny film all ages could have appreciated, not the doggy-doo this movie is. (Most unforgivable moment in the film; assuming that kids can't appreciate clever humor but can appreciate dog fart jokes.  If children could unionize, they should lodge a defamation suit against the producers of this film.) Keep your kid and yourself away from this drek; you'll be glad you did. Two stars  "},{"Title":"Cartoon-paced fun!","Date":"27 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Of all the big movies that have come out so far this year, including some of the big-blockbusters that really did bust, this is the most enjoyable and entertaining. In a season filled with disappointments like PEARL HARBOR and oddly paced sequels such as DR. DOOLITTLE 2 and SCARY MOVIE 2, this movie delivers the goods.It's no accident that CATS & DOGS comes not from Disney or Dreamworks but from Warner Brothers, the studio that gave  us Bugs Bunny and the Road Runner. From start to finish, there is almost never a slow moment in this film. It's on the go from the first scene with rapid chases, zany chaos (for both animals and humans), and an appropriately whooshing soundtrack. This film is the closest thing yet to a live-action cartoon.Great fun for everyone. "},{"Title":"Very BAD!","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I took my kids to see this movie while on vacation. What a waste of time! Unfortunately, it was the only kids movie playing at the time. My 7 year old did laugh occasionally, and my 9 year old cried and was upset about LOU.  I found the movie terribly hard to follow and BORING!!! I was trying very hard to stay awake. My kids only mention two things from the movie that they came away with...Mr. Tinkles and The Red Button....well, I guess that's something. I rate it 2/10. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I had to disagree with many of the people who said it was for kids or they wasted too much money on it. My sister who is 21 & My mom who's in her 40s laughed a lot at this movie. Especially about the scheming cat Mr Tinkles who is tortured by the crazy housekeeper. We laughed a lot mostly because it made us think of our pets who are just as hilarious. Actually that same week I had seen Dr. Dolittle 2 & sure it was better than the first but I found it quite boring & I barely did as much as a chuckle while watching it. But I did have to say the young boy definetly could've done better. I did notice the dog Lou went back and forth between a girl & a boy. But there are certain reasons for that. I just think that obviously the people who thought it was horrible either exagerated or they have a horrible sense of humor. "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  The opening sequence of this movie is funny, and initially, the novelty of the animals talking is fun. But this wears off very quicly, because there just isn't a good script and story to sustain it all. Even a kids movie needs to be quality. It just wasn't all that funny, in fact the dogs weren't funny at all, just cute. The highlight of the film is definitely Mr. Tingle. That white Persian could stare down a T-Rex, and Sean Hayes' voice characterization is great.  "},{"Title":"Great for kids, plus a few funny parts.","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This is a great children's movie, and one that the family can enjoy. Nothing really for parents to worry about in terms of violence or foul language.  So, that's a plus.However, if you are an adult who enjoys great humour from movies like Shrek, Toy Story 1 and 2, A Bug's Life, then you may be disappointed.It just isn't clever enough to make me interested.  Maybe when I have kids someday, I will lovemovies like this.There were some parts that I found quite funny, actually, but they were minor subtlties that added up to about 20 seconds of movie time.So, a big 5 out of 10 from me.  Just slightly better than Scary Movie 2 (I am comparing it to movies I have seen in the last 3 months). "}{"Title":"Better then Pippi Longstocking","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Better then Pippi Longstocking (which isn't saying MUCH!)Its hard to say what this movie was missing - but it just wasn't as good the preview made it out to be.There was like ZERO character development in this - and the gags, though funny at first, fizzled by the middle of the picture.Its clean wholesome entertainment -- if your looking for that, I guess its not bad - but if your looking for something like Toy Story, this isn't even close.For me, it killed an otherwise hot afternoon in Aridzona for $5.The best part of this film - the trailer - if you've seen that, save your $5 or whatever for something else.With choices like Stupastic Park and Dumb Raider, I choose this instead. I still think I made the right choice.  I had good company anyway.Wayno "},{"Title":"Big laugh at the beginning - then a lot of small chuckles","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I have to admit, the opening sequence was the best animal slap-stick-comedy-routine I have seen in many years.  It had me doubled over and howling &#150; and so was the entire audience.  Then we saw the rest of the movie.I expected a little more than what I was presented with.  The laughs were there, especially some of the sight gags between Mr. Tinkles (Sean Hayes) and the Maid.  Alas, they were not hearty laughs that were promised in the promotional trailers and the movie's laughter potential was never really achieved.  It was enjoyable watching cats operate motor vehicles &#150; but this has been done countless times before with kids, so you had the ...been there&#133;seen that... effect.Overall, let the kids enjoy this one at a matinee and if any adults want to see it &#150; wait for the DVD or Video.  "},{"Title":"Don't waste your time or money","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This was the most boring movie I've ever seen. That's the nicest thing I have to say about it. Jeff Goldblum had the strangest role I've ever seen him in - it made the remake of The Fly make him look like an Academy Award winner! And poor Elizabeth Perkins - she's a lovely actress, but in this movie her acting was very flat. Yes, of course the animals were supposed to be the main characters, but they were more annoying than funny. If you have a child between 3-6, wait until it comes out in video and rent it for them if they insist. Personally, I'd try to talk them out of it if I were you! "},{"Title":"Cute, Funny, and Original!","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"    I saw Cats & Dogs in the theater, and it is hilarious!!! Alec Baldwin and Jeffrey Goldblum are great! Also I love the talking cat! This film is hilarious!!! It is a Warner Brothers classic!!!!! I HIGHLY recommend this cute film to everyone! I give this hilarious film a 9 out of 10!!!!!!   ;) "},{"Title":"Miowww!","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Why has it taken the animatronics community so long to put a Bond cat in his own movie? For years in the 007 franchise the cat has been the only one to escape the final reckoning. Now we know that he, Mr Tinkles, was the brain behind Blofeld et al. This movie had effects which were fantastically well-integrated with the real animals. It is just a shame that the storyline was not quite powerful enough to sustain the duration of the film. The real ginger decoy cat in particular is a star!However, Mr Tinkles did not get the screen time he deserved &#150; he's one of the best screen baddies in a long while. Nor was the sexy Susan Sarandon doggy fatale character explored enough. It may be aimed at kiddies, but we still need to know something about Tinkles' sad life to know his motivations.I saw this at a press preview screening and many of us suspected (rightly) that the original ending had been tacked on after it tested badly on US audiences (what's wrong with a gritty, scary ending?). For shame &#150; the original more macabre ending would have played better with a European audience &#150; especially in France. We in Europe can only hope that the proper denouement will make its way onto the R2 DVD  "},{"Title":"Okay, but an overly long kids movie.","Date":"17 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Cats & Dogs starts off hilarious, and manages to put in some clever ideas throughout (such as the whole underground military base), but it just gets a little old. The animations for the talking animals was impressive (as was many of the animatronics), but the scenes with completely CGI characters (such as a lot of Mr. Tinkles) just looked way too cartoony. The movie felt as if it was stretched out, and could've had about 20 minutes shaved off of it. I was a little disappointed, but otherwise, it was entertaining.  "},{"Title":"Loads of fun if you like slapstick, cartoons, dogs (maybe cats) or talking animals","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  OK, it's a childish movie, but for fans of CGI, dogs (maybe cats), anthropomorphized animals or slapstick, it's a winner for adults, too. The visuals (including set design) are beyond what I expect from a movie of this genre and the CGI is a nice blend of Babe-like talking and Looney Tunes exaggeration. This movie also has some fun taglines.Anyone who has ever been owned and loved by a dog will appreciate the sentiments in this movie, and get belly laughs out of the secret lives our pets apparently lead. Two cat owners with me laughed as hard as I did (and harder than the 9 and 11 year olds with us). "},{"Title":"A fun Austin-Powers-style romp, just with dogs and cats","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  For starters, I am really appalled at some of the negative comments on this film.  One person is freaked because of a dog turd joke.  Another freaks because of violence against animals.  To the first I say, THIS IS A COMEDY!  LIGHTEN UP!!!  To the second, I can only wonder What movie were you watching? Didn't you notice that the violence against the animal was being committed by OTHER ANIMALS?  CATS AND DOGS is full of cartoon violence, the kind you can imitate if you happen to be two-dimensional and maybe a coyote!   And for the rest of the nay sayers, the ones saying you should only see it if you have kids....  I'm 45.  I just went to an evening showing with a 38 and a 35 year old.  Not a kid among us (except for our inner childs, whom we still keep in touch with).  Three adults, no kids, and we all laughed out heads off the whole flick.We came expecting a funny movie and we got a funny movie.  Sure it wasn't SHREK but if you take a look at the SHREK comments, you'll find many of the people blasting CATS AND DOGS are over there blasting SHREK.  I guess some people have lost any sense of humor.Oh, by the way, the soundtrack is fantastic, full of storm and thunder grand adventure tunes. It's a great super-spy soundtrack and I hope someone has the sense to release it on CD! "},{"Title":"Skitzo Plot Costs This Dog A Bone","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Perhaps the most frightening thing about Cats & Dogs is how good it could have been.  Nothing quite this unique has come along the pipeline of popular movie culture for some time, and unless the returns for this first outing are stellar, nothing else probably will.  As a movie-goer who has absolutely frothed at the mouth, with images of the sinister Mr. Tinkles shouting I'm king of the world and thoughts of insanely frenetic combat between the two greatest sidekicks to humanity dancing in my head, I had implored others to give the concept a chance.  The concept itself had to be worth a viewing, after all.  A mad Persian cat commanding a host of ninjas, bomb specialists, thieves, wiseguys, fishmongers, spies, warriors ... zeroing in on a group of dogs, it has to be movie gold ... right?I wish.  I really, really wish.  Upon viewing the product, I find that I feel vaguely indifferent.  And I think, when I examine the movie in review, it can  be traced directly to the indecisive nature of the plot.MASSIVE, REALLY BIG SPOILERS BELOWThe most painful aspect of Cats & Dogs is its few brief lapses into brilliance, where the film masterfully demonstrates just how funny it *could* have been.  The scenes featuring the actual takeover of the world, where the fanatic Mr. Tinkles takes on a Stalinesque demeanor but then calmly imparts the plan for world conquest to the army of mice, is fantastic- if you'll please turn now to page 3 in your world domination pamphlets ...  It's a single scene riot unmatched throughout the rest of the film, the one shining spot where the writers seem to be unafraid of taking the premise to its fullest potential.  Had the movie been filled with such surreal presentations, it might very well be the summer sleeper for 2001, if not beyond.But the movie only dares to cross the line once, (and perhaps also in the scene at the Canine headquarters), only stretches its creative might as the cats mount their final assault against the world.  (And even that scene became blurred by choppy editing and a tacky conclusion).The rest of the film is watered down by what I can only see as a useless plot involving the child and the father, and a nearly as incomprehensible plot involving the dog choosing to be a normal dog due to a chance encounter with a featured star.  I never once cared for the humans, and I never once wanted to see them on the screen; they only interrupted the real movie that was supposed to be taking place, or in the case of the dog and the child, de-rail it.  I don't want to ignore people that say this is a good family feature ... perhaps it is.  But I really think Cats & Dogs true potential was ruined by trying to make it a family movie.  That's formulaic. Nothing new.After the initial scenes, the writing fights back and forth between being spy thriller and a family matinee, never committing to either and ultimately doing neither a service.  And honestly, I don't think either of the human-related subplots were needed.  This film yearns to be a true spy classic ... no, it practically screams to be a true spy tale.  It has the characters to do so, it has the voice acting to do so, and reaches to be the animal equivalent of James Bond, only to then relapse into cliche family-friendly writing.  Since there are several scenes in the trailers (such as Mr. Tinkles on the statue?) that were not in the film, I can only conclude that the suits, or the bean counters, or whoever, forced the powers behind it to reshape it as such; there is no way that the writers who did the final scene could be so unaware of the injustice the first sixty minutes served.Instead of taking so much time to show us poorly edited hints at the strained family bonds, why not give us a glimpse of the cats' world?  Why not show the Cat Alliance's headquarters, or its operatives in meetings? Show the Black Russians in their cold Kiev bunkers, selecting an agent and negotiating with Mr. Tinkles on the fish it will cost to send a good agent? Or explain why Calico sticks by Tinkles, even though it's clear the cats in general think Tinkles a fool.  Give us reasons as to why this single Persian cat can control the legions of cats we see in later scenes, even as they laugh at him near the film's beginning.I mean, since realism is already thrown out the door, wouldn't it have been a treat to find out such things?  Imagine the humor that could have been written in if we had found out that, yes, Tinkles was indeed Blofeld's precious pet?  Or perhaps the son of that same line?  True, that's a throwback to another film, but still ... even that thought, that small scene would have been a treat and a half as compared to scenes of the boy forlornly kicking a soccer ball around.It is a shame that we are shown so very little in this film.  Only told, and expected to accept.Instead of just telling us that the cats are dangerous and powerful, why not spend time to build the cats into a credible threat?  Forget about the child and the silly premise that accompanies him, and take us on a joyride through the cats' world.There is little time at all given to explaining the cats, showing how they work and operate ... only enough time to vilify them as the plucky dog strives to gain his master's love and the others go through a tired poor choices in life song and dance.  I fully expected the puppy to break out in song at two points during the film, the way the plot was unfolding.  Maybe even a duet with the wise old Saluki.Had the film chosen to give up that dull road, and instead make this a true spy film, giving no air to humans and every minute to the animals, showing the full extent of the war between feline and canine ... believe me, I still love the characters.  I desperately want a full poster of Tinkles in front of the Forward To Victory banner.  I think the idea and its principles are a laugh riot.  And yes, there were several points at which I burst out laughing.    This ISN'T NASCAR!But I don't want to see the movie again.  Which is very sad, since it only reminds me of what Cats & Dogs *could* have been. "},{"Title":"Kids Movie.","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":" I walked into Cats&Dogs not expecting a brilliant film. I went inside and sat. The movies starts, with a chase scene and then we first see the real plot. Cats and Dogs is a story about a high-tech secret espionage war, and a new agent who comes into the war. The movie lags, in some areas , where they try to show the love between dogs and humans. The fight scenes on the other hand were really fun, but the sound effects and camerawork, you could tell were geared towards kids. Mr.Tinkles(the psychotic dictator) on the otherhand, was a hoot. His voice actor, Sean Hayes  does a brilliant voice. I was the only  one  in the theater who got his jokes. Adults might find the film boring, but Mr. Tinkles is a blast.Kids View Whoo hoo! Look at the dog Critical View SNORE "}{"Title":"Did I see the same movie as you people?","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  For starters, let's grant that this is a children's film, not high art. That having been said, I am amazed at the negative reaction the film is getting.  Having read the reviews, I am left feeling as though I went to see an entirely different film.  The movie has been described as slow and boring, but the only time I saw the film slow down was in scenes where the human characters were featured.  I've heard that the film wasn't funny, but I was laughing my fool head off most of the time.I think this may be a reflection on the audience.  I gather that the most of the twentysomethings that are panning it did not get most of the jokes referencing such television shows as Mission Impossible and Get Smart.  For those of us who were alive to see these programs, there were jokes aplenty for grownups.  Brings to mind a certain Bond villian by the name of Bloefeld.  He had a cat, you know, a big white Persian.The human characters were made flat and two dimensional to keep the audience's focus on the more interesting animal characters, and this didn't bother me in the least.  I didn't go to see a film about the eternal battle between cats and dogs expecting a lot of human screen time.A light, funny and faced paced film, I highly recomend it to anyone who remembers TV of the sixties and seventies.  You'll get the jokes, your kids will laugh, and you'll have a flocking good time. "},{"Title":"Lighten up people!  It's a cute movie!","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  If you are a dog lover, then you will enjoy this movie.  The dogs are absolutely adorable, especially Lou the beagle.  Those people who are so critical of this movie need to realize that it was made for fun, not to win the Oscar for Best Picture!  It is an entertaining movie for kids and any dog loving adult. "},{"Title":"WHEN DOGS HOWL AND CATS SCREECH - JUST LIKE THE CRITICS?","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  First of all, the horrible things I've heard about CATS AND DOGS over the weekend are melancholy, saddening, and sometimes understanding to me. I saw this film while vacationing in Lancaster, PA and was not thrilled with it's outcome, I must say. However, upon seeing it a second time, I must say that there was an unfolded reaction on my face. The movie's work on computer effects are basically very good, and the score fits everythign nicely. The actors are funny, when they have their moments, and I especially felt bad for Elizabeth Perkins, who played the yougn boy's mother, because she had not gotten much popularity in films since the revival of Miracle on 34th Street but everyone played a good job. The laughs were often hillarious and witty - but the plot often sunk down. I would recommend this to anyoen who is in the mood for witty laughter, mixed with family fun. "},{"Title":"Cute and funny for kids and adults","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  A new and James Bond-esque twist on an old idea, 'Cats & Dogs' is a little uneven here and there, but many parts are hilarious. The humans, who are little more than unsuspecting patsys for the animals in charge, are goofy and likeable. The animal effects are great -- you haven't lived till you've seen cats driving a stretch limo. ;-) The megalomaniac cat alone is worth the price of admission, and gets some of the funniest lines in the movie. No human actor could pull off a line like Evil does NOT wear a bonnet! and have it work!One thing that makes the movie so kid-friendly is that, even with all the espionage and intrigue going on, no characters get killed. (Heck, that made it *me*-friendly, too, and I'm 40! -) )Not a parent, and you'd feel silly going by yourself? Borrow a kid from one of your friends and have a good laugh. This is a funny movie that's worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Very few moments of fun","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I suspect that this movie will barely manage to entertain children. I laughed - out-loud - a handful of times. Unfortunately, the rest of the time I kept noticing missed opportunities. The characters of Ivy, Butch, Scott, and Prof. Brody are severely underwritten. These are characters that we're supposed to care about but I knew so little about them that when they were in danger, was so uninvolved I pondered the mechanics of the set, of the plot, of the actors' careers, etc. The script would have benefitted from even one more revision to add just a few details here and there. It wouldn't have been a great film then, but that would have been enough for a much better movie.Sean Hayes stands out as Mr. Tinkles. He does a such a good job of being funny and evil, I wondered how much of his lines were improvised. (Given how lazily the rest of the dialogue was written, his lines were much appreciated.)  "},{"Title":"Cute","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Although parts of the movie were dragging on, it was a cute movie, nonetheless.  I particularly liked Mr. Tinkles as he was sitting on the old man's head (my cat happens to sleep like that!!).  It was comical the way the cats and dogs were adamant about getting what they wanted.. regardless of what they had to do..  Makes one wonder what THEIR pets are doing when they are alone!! "},{"Title":"A fun movie for kids and grown-ups","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I took my kids to see Cats and Dogs today and am so glad that I did.  It is a fun ride with some laughs for grownups and lots of fun for the kids. Both of my kids enjoyed it and are still talking about scenes from it (ages 4 and 7).  Highly recommended! "},{"Title":"Funny stuff, that's not just for kids","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  A possible spoiler or two, but nothing big.Like Spy Kids, this past spring's surprise box office hit, Cats & Dogs is filled to the brim with, great visuals, hilarious lines and characters and an amazing amount of energy, though not as much as Kids. Alec Baldwin, Tobey Maguire and Sean Hayes lead a talented cast, who each voice a distinct animal.  The standout character here is Mr Tinkers (Hayes) a cat who is trying to get ahold of a scientist's dog allergy medicine, so he can use it for his own purposes.  Packed with a great sense for the audience type, since kids will populate most of the seats in the theater, the movie moves at a fast pace but it never loses its energy, until near the end that is. Overall it's a good film, that's pretty doggone funny. I give it ***1/2 out of 4 stars. "},{"Title":"dog people will enjoy it more","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I, for one, would have much preferred the cats to be portrayed more positively.  But that's just me.  Anyway, it's an enjoyable movie, but the predicability is annoying.  It seemed every two minutes, you knew exactly what would happen in the next two minutes, if not further along.  Still, the gadgets were neat, a couple of the characters were entertaining(such as the female dog and the Russian cat).  Besides, it showed the Harry Potter trailer, and I'll sit through anything for that. "},{"Title":"Cute, and hilarious!","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I went and saw this movie with friend.  It was everything we thought it would be.  Plus a little more.  This is plainly a pro dog movie, but I think that dog and cat fans alike with love this movie.Not a very intellectual film, it was definitely directed at younger kids, but my friend and I are in our twenties, and we both loved it. "}{"Title":"Better than Shrek","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Don't listen to those people who say that this movie is only for kids. If you enjoy satire and comedic absurdity, you'll really enjoy this film, which features the best villain of any film this year, Mr. Tinkles. And all the animal violence is cartoonish and broad, and while it's true that one dog gets kidnapped, he is not killed. Relax, America, and listen  and look carefully for the movie's comic gems. "},{"Title":"Perfect summer movie for the families with children in the age of 4 to 13.","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  My friends and I went to watch Cats and Dogs. There were TONS of people than we expected, mostly families with younger children. It was pretty funny when the animals like Mr. Tinkles and Lou where talking and doing funny stunts and so. The plot of the movie was pretty confusing! My friends and I was trying to find out what was the plot and narrowed it down to two plots. The animals where very cute and adorable and the voices and sound were cool. Most children there enjoyed it a lot even us, but we're just teenagers! So if you're a kid that likes movies that are closely related to Babe the pig and other movies with adventerous, non-realistic talking animals. Watch it! Remember, I'm just a teen so adults out there, i have NO idea what you adults would do but watch it, it might bring the kid in you! "},{"Title":"Fun for my children but only a few laughs to break up the tedium for me","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Some of the scenes were humorous for adults, such as the Ninja Cats walking on the ceiling but I could see most of the references to other films coming before the lame punch lines.  Children for whom the jokes were just silly fun enjoyed the movie, but when I asked which one they would rather see again Shrek or Cats and Dogs, the vote was resoundingly for Shrek.  If you can send your younger ones with a responsible 14 year old give the children a treat to be in a theater with out parents and go enjoy an adult film.  I wish I had. "},{"Title":"cute little movie","Date":"8 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  While it's not as funny as the trailer, this is a generally amusing movie that me, my wife and her sister all wound up describing as cute.  It's never hilarious but it's often amusing.  It's not a kids movie like Shrek that is as good for adults as for children, but it's also not something so painfully childish that you're desperate for it to end.  The pace was brisk, the story was fairly interesting and it was, all in all, well done. "},{"Title":"But the commercials made it look good for adults too...","Date":"8 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I went to see this movie with a few friends, expecting it to be as entertaining for us as 20-somethings as it would be for the kids.  Suffice it to say, I was wrong.  Although there are some very clever lines (most of what comes out of the Russian's mouth comes to mind), and the voice actors do well with the material, the story becomes very childish, (read as the interactions between the boy and Loser).  Frankly, I would have liked to see more of the cats, as they were far more entertaining and amusing than the dogs. And 2 final notes 1) Jeff Goldblum's use of the line Bad talking cat isn't as bad as I had feared. 2) Although the effects of making the animals talk and act like people are usually good, there are some parts that look very, VERY fake. "},{"Title":"The best movie I've seen this year.","Date":"7 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I tell you, I saw Crouching Tiger last night and it was okay.  It certainly wasn't as good as Cats & Dogs.  I'm not a ten-year old, but I thought the movie was awesome from beginning to end.  Sure, it was designed for kids, but I thought this was far more creative than A.I. or any other movie I've seen thusfar. "},{"Title":"What a waste.","Date":"7 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I've been excited about _Cats and Dogs_ since I caught the hilarious trailer months ago. Having now wasted a glorious Saturday afternoon (during Calgary Stampede week no less, when I could have been doing something REALLY enjoyable), I feel immensely cheated. The trailer reveals that the film has some good lines and that it entails an intriguing and pregnant premise. What the trailer doesn't show is the almost non-stop dreck that litters and ruins the rest of the film. I am talking about an unnecessary, distracting, obligatory and unconvincing sentimentality to the whole thing. Three cliched aspects are especially annoying1. The dad (Jeff Goldblum, absolutely sleepwalking) is a scientist who, despite the fact that he works at home, is apparently neglectful of his so. We know this because of his inattention to junior's soccer tryouts. This tension lends to some appalling resolution (sorry for the slight spoiler but if you can't see this coming you lack a pulse) that has nothing at all to do with cats or dogs and is not remotely humourous.2. Lou the beagle has not only to help save the world from the cats- he also has to earn the love of junior, who (in an unspeakably stupid and unbelievable scene) rejects the dog initially- as if ANY little kid would reject a darling beagle puppy, but the plot requires this kind of stuptidity. Why can't the movie focus on the battle at hand instead of attempting this sentimentality, complete with soaring violins? ICK!3. For no fathomable reason whatsoever, a stray voiced by poor Susan Sarandon shows up as the love interest for the grizzled head dog, Lou's mentor. Ah. So the general has a romantic past- WHAT was the POINT of that??I would add that there were some annoyances typical of a lot of family films that most viewers apparently accept uncritically but that set my teeth on edge1. The quirky scientist, with no apparent means of financial support and his realtor wife live in a house that is easily worth a million dollars, on a massive lot with impeccably maintained gardens. Doesn't this depiction of social class bother anybody but me?2. Susan Sarandon's stray is clearly a pure-bred- a saluki I think. Oh the idle rich- how dare they abandon a $3000 dog? Do Hollywood writers- who clearly themselves come overwhelmingly from the privileged classes- have any idea how real people live, especially how their purported characters might live?I have to add as a Canadian (one who recently immigrated here from the US) that I can never live down, or understand, the need for films like this one, shot in Victoria, BC has to be set in America- one of the first scenes shows a USPS letter box and one Russian cat maligns these American security systems. NOTHING in the movie hinges on American-ness in any way, so why not just set the damn thing in BC? So producers of these films believe that Americans would refuse to see a movie set where it is actually filmed? "},{"Title":"Not Excellent, but good ...","Date":"7 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I was expecting an excellent movie. A very fun movie. It turned up to be only fun. Not bad, actually... I just think that the whole daddy worries more about his work than about me stuff just crashed down the action... that must've added been because of it being a family movie (argh, I relate family movie to dumbed-down Disney flicks). I expected this to be something like a James Bond movie (by the way, did you notice that Mr. Tinkles is the SAME kind of cat Blofeld had?).It was entertaining ... its nice to see the cats and dogs talking and taking the lead roles in the movie (unlike 102 Dalmatians). The whole HQ complex was cool, though you don't get to see much of it. I hope that future animal movies follow this trend and not the 102 Dalmatians one (where human actors have more presence than the pets). "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Unspectacular","Date":"6 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  The most surprising thing about this movie was how normal it was.  The special effects were sometimes average and sometimes outright laughable. The plot was under-thought and seemed thrown together at the last minute. The characters were quite plain and gave no reason to care one way or another about them.  I guess that I was expecting something on par with Toy Story or Shrek, and this movie did not even begin to compare to those movies, which is a shame because there was potential there that was completely wasted on this film. "},{"Title":"GROW up and LIGHTEN up","Date":"6 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I'd been wanting to see Cats & Dogs for months. The very idea of something so original as a uber-goofy live action take on cartoons akin to Tom and Jerry had me squirming. So, needless to say, I saw it the day it came out.In the end, it was not quite as good as I had hoped, but close enough. Admittedly, some scenes were weak. But, this is also - generally speaking - a kids movie. However, the sequences involving The Ninjas or The Russian were just too incredibly hilarious and inventive that they far outweighed the bad parts.Part of the problem with the reviews Cats & Dogs is receiving is the fact that people just need to lighten the hell up. They think it's cool and trendy and admirable to act like jaded movie-goers with delicately refined tastes that allow them to walk all over anything they decide sucks. Cats & Dogs isn't fantastic, and it's not going to win any awards, but it does manage to be enjoyable, and at times, even smart. I think anyone could enjoy this if they just loosened up, took the over-the-top cheese with a grain of salt, and let themselves go to a light stab at a live action cartoon. "}{"Title":"if you're a pet lover or under 12 years old...","Date":"5 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":" ...then you'll enjoy this movie.  Otherwise you might want to stay away.The animals are cute, and the premise of the plot is cute. The humor was clever but only occasionally.   More often then not, it dipped down into slapstick instead.  Unfortunately, the action sequences really fall flat in this movie.  I saw it on opening day in a fairly full theater with a lot of kids;  the action got very little audience response.  It's just very blah action that's been overdone too much in Hollywood.I think that computer special effects really hurt this movie too.  The animals themselves, untouched by cgi, are much more lovable, entertaining and genuine than bugs-bunny-eyed, karate-kicking animation.To be honest, I nearly fell asleep during Cats and Dogs. "},{"Title":"Hey, I liked it!","Date":"4 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Alright, straight off the bat I will not lie, I liked this movie. It was something kinda different to me, but then again...kinda not. I'm sure when most of us were kids we probably had vision at one point or another that Cats and Dogs had this huge rivary, and this movies intentions were to bring that to life in a new way. Under ground railroad system leading to the Dogs Lair, and the whole dog diplomat thing was just great!PLUS! Mr. Tinkles, he so far is the best villian I have seen all summer sadly enough. I mean, come ON! Lack lusters like Lara Croft whoes villian dies with a very boring death (chop to the neck) or Pearl Harbors being a whole other nation....but that movie sucked so it really dont matter. Mr. Tinkles however struck a cord, whatever happen to the guy who wanted to rule the word. So be it, its a cat...But I guess this movie is one to be taken lightly. I mean, who couldn't help but laugh when the 'Russian' first speaks.....Ah man, I really cant give this movie enough good praise. My only flaw with the movie is the door to Goldblums lab...that to me is seemingly a little to Disney for my taste, and most live action Disney movie suck big time. Well, thats pretty much my intake. Remember, this is coming from a 15yr old who likes typical slapstick (people running into walls, fart jokes and so on...Scary Movie which is not a big thing on the IMDB happens to be what I think one of the funniest movies I have ever seen...)***1/2 out 0f 5stars "},{"Title":"Poor story line.  Made for ages 8-12, but violent. Boring.","Date":"4 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  It will be difficult for parents to remain awake through this one.  The cast (voices and faces) is first rate - but the movie turned out simply disappointing.  I had hoped that there was some adult benefit, but there was none.  It would appeal to children, but some of it was violent enough to keep parents from allowing children of the appropriate age from seeing it. "},{"Title":"It's a dog, all right","Date":"4 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Bad.  The first minute of this movie has some genuine laughs but they quickly level out and then plummet.  Poorly written, this film not only manages to mine every pet cliche you can imagine, it strip mines them. The acting isn't very good either.  Jeff Goldblum can be interesting but he's not even that here.  The actors supplying the animals' voices fare better. In fact, Sean Hayes does a nice job as the voice of the head nasty kitty. However, that wasn't enough to keep my interest.  I kept thinking this movie was never going to end.  The kids in the audience seemed out of it, too. One little boy kept playing with his shoes, the type that flash red when pressure is applied.  It was about the only bright thing in the theater. Even the adult man sitting behind me stopped laughing (he was conspicuous because he was the only one laughing after the first five minutes) and grew silent about mid point.  Watch the trailer.  It contains everything worth seeing.   Sadly, Cat and Dogs ends up a turkey. "},{"Title":"It's for the dogs!","Date":"4 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Only see this if you have children, because they're the only ones that'll find it entertaining!  There's a couple of good laughs for the adults, but they're few and far between. Good computer generated effects, but the rather cheesy puppets that appear now and again, ruin the whole feeling of continuity.  Altogether, it's a real mixed grill. "},{"Title":"Pleasantly surprised","Date":"25 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":" I was very pleasantly surprised with this movie. i am very surprised that IMDb gave this a 5.2 i would say at say at least a 6.1 from this site. but nonetheless this movie is one kids movie that i would not mind seeing over and over again. the film is about a secret society of cats and secert society of dogs that are always fighting against each other 24/7. Tobey Maguire does a great job as the voice of Lou but the person that steals the whole movie is Sean Hayes as the voice of Mar. tinkles who is one of the funniest characters in movie history. i say give this movie a definite watch.rated PG for animal action and humor 1hr 27min/87min ***1/2/**** "},{"Title":"A great family movie","Date":"13 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":" A great family movie.Improbable? Yes, of course the whole thing's a fantasy, but very well carried out with plenty of humour and it never takes itself too seriously. There's something in this movie for everyone - from juniors to adults - which is probably why it topped the US box office when it opened on Independence Day 2001. It still holds up 10 years later, and is often dragged out for a bit of fun by my family on a wet afternoon. I rated it 8/10. "},{"Title":"This movie makes living not worth it!!!!!","Date":"4 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":" I Hatteeeee This movie. I hate every retarded dog who thinks there some sort of spy or sh*t. Its disgusting and unnatural. I was forced to see this movie in theaters and i seriously was about to stick my face in my soda and drown slowly because it would be Way better then seeing this putrid movie to the end.Its not like this movie was bad enough but yet again The directors decides to make the dogs spy's. i Hatee spy dog movies.And why are the cats evil. last time i checked cats were houshold pets too not wild animals. And the humans in this movie just completely angered me off. If i found out my dog was a SPY. i would act just a little shocked which they don't. this is by far the WORST movie ever created. Don't Watchhh! . "},{"Title":"Cute, but purely for kids","Date":"29 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":" Cats and Dogs had bags of potential as a movie concept, there were many ways it could have panned out, but the film makers opted for the safe for kids version, and for its target audience it is a winner, i know my kids loved it.My criticism is that it could have been aimed at families, just like Shrek was - Great for kids, with adult humour running along side the charming and cute children's story; but sadly it didn't. That's not to say there is nothing here to entertain the parents, the fight sequences are quite funny and the evil cat has some amusing moments that most people can enjoy, just not enough of them.In Summary - kids will love it and the parents will tolerate it, but it could and should have been better 5/10 "},{"Title":"Predictable but nice for kids","Date":"12 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":" The beginning of the film is a bit hectic, later on the film get's your attention.. The voices of the animals are nice (for example. the french cat's voice is funny) and there is Some humor.. BUT .. at the last part of the movie it was hard to stay in the movie because it was VERY predictable... the kid cries, because the dog seem to be dead... and HEY he's not dead! Happy end. I think kids would like this movie, but parents... you better let the kids watch this alone, it's nothing for you! (nothing like 101 Dalmatians or so!) The animations are not very impressing, but they do the job. All in all.. nothing special, certainly not a movie to watch twice. (not even for the kids!) "}{"Title":"Might be good for kids, bad for parents","Date":"22 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":" Cats and Dogs is a bad movie. It isn't funny at all. The story is not well constructed, lacking funny scenes, and the main gags were taken from other movies. It wants to be a parody, but it isn't. It wants to be an entertaining movie, but it isn't. It's boring. Cats and Dogs having a huge arsenal of weapons and high-tech -> okay, it could be affordable if the story were at least funny. Poor Jeff Goldblum got a really crappy role, he shouldn't have accepted it. ( Although many celebs contributed with their voice to this movie, still isn't worth spending time on it. However for kids might be entertaining. For parents it's just a yet another family movie with talking animals and lots of animation. Score 5 out of 10 as it might entertain children. "},{"Title":"girls just wanna have fun","Date":"26 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":" cats and dogs fighting against each other for world power and control! haha this movie made me smile and laugh all day though i got to admit that i did not fancy the idea of cats being mean and evil. Being a cat lover and owning two cats i would be pleased more if the dogs were the evil ones. my friend on the other hand who watched it with me thought the movie was hilarious she did not mind if the cats were the mean guys (knowing that she owned a dog herself). so we started arguing about cats and dogs ourselves ) this is not a so horrible movie nor it is a very good movie this is a family movie to watch with your friend with some chips and crackers. "},{"Title":"The Alien vs. Predator of 2001.","Date":"23 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":" Cats & Dogs is a weird one. With no really recognizable names given to this movie, that hurts it as one point. Also the fact that the movie is revolved around much of the CGI of the cats and dogs themselves is horrible. This is really just a kid flick. With nothing appealing to adults, this film is weak and shows signs of breaking during any of its 87 minutes.Cats & Dogs is about the secret war between cats and dogs... oh how original (sarcasm). It shows how cats fights dogs all over the country as they wage war in the most bizarre ways possible. It's a lazy film with poor action or jokes, then again poor voice acting and poor CGI work do all that. The wars get into the real world while they are unwatched by the humans. It's truly just an impossible concept as the story builds and it becomes more and more impossible. There's nothing really good to say about this film.Overall, this is truly a kid's movie as they won't be able to understand how bad it is. It has some interesting parts but going into them, they become weird and bizarre in which you lose more interest. The film is horrible. I don't even know why I bought the DVD. Maybe it was worth the $5.99 at Blockbuster so whenever I'm stuck babysitting, I can pop this in to a DVD and the kids won't bother me. This only works so many times however... Just miss this and you won't lose any sleep however if you want to compare all sorts of versus movies, I believe this film could easily fit into that category.My Rating 3/10 (Very Generous)Eliason A. "},{"Title":"'Babe' meets 'Spy Kids'","Date":"8 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Being a cat person, I had a lot of problems with this movie.  A few of the cats were cute, but most of them were mean and ugly, and besides, they were the enemy.  Maybe this is wrong, but I always sided with Sylvester in the Tweety cartoons and Tom in the Tom and Jerry cartoons, though it was once pointed out to me by characters in a Road Runner cartoon that siding with Wile E. Coyote, as I did, wouldn't be right because, if he caught the Road Runner, what fun would that be?  Still, in this movie, I think the dogs could have been the enemies.  They were more realistic looking, which is not a good thing because most of them were not cute and cuddly, and I don't even like cute and cuddly dogs.Still, there were a lot a fun moments, and this movie was quite funny. As in 'Babe', this movie had what looked like real animals digitally altered so as to appear to be talking. I didn't care much for the human acting performances, though some of the voice actors were quite good.  Glenn Ficarra was quite intimidating as a Russian Blue who still sounded like he was to be feared by those living under communism.  Jeff Goldblum reminded me a lot of Wayne Szalinski in the TV series 'Honey I Shrunk the Kids' (not necessarily a good thing), but I was surprised to see an actor of his caliber in such a role.  The technology used by the animals reminded me a lot of 'Spy Kids'.Parents who don't mind their kids watching the Bugs Bunny and Tom and Jerry cartoons would find almost nothing to object to here.  Though there was plenty of cartoonish violence, and I was a little surprised Fox TV gave it a TV-G rating.  Especially after I thought I heard the word for ... gas.  It may have been another word.  There were some unnecessary bodily function jokes, but this movie was pretty tame.  "},{"Title":"Nice special effects, but only really funny for kids","Date":"6 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I didn't think I'd really enjoy this movie, it being apparently a kids movie, but I have to say the effects are pretty good, and some of the spy stuff is pretty good too. A very little part of the humor is good too, but I wouldn't watch it just for the humor(unless I was a kid). This movie *is* mainly a kids movie, with almost nothing worth watching for teens and adults, apart from the special effects and the spy stuff. Some of the humor that I could actually laugh at was *minor spoiler* the scene where a German Shepherd talks in German; I found that too be funny, and unexpected... I had never thought of that gag. Apart from that, I guess some teens and adult might enjoy the voices of the lead cats and dogs, which include Alec Baldwin, Joe Pantoliano, Michael Clark Duncan, Tobey Maguire, Sean Hayes etc. I especially liked Alec Baldwin as the veteran dog agent, and Joe Pantoliano as the tech dog. I guess some parents can watch it with their 7-10 year old kid(s), and most other people should skip this one. You want a family film everybody can watch and laugh at, you should check out Shrek. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Adults will love it too !","Date":"30 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This is a movie is a movie where most people think its just for kids.However I thoroughly enjoyed this movie and I think that any other adults would love it also.This movie is just so funny its unbelievable.The dogs are the good guys and the cats are the bad guys.Mr Tinkles who is the the main cat is funny because he is just so evil.Tobey MgGuire plays a loveable dog.Susan Sarandon plays a very nice and friendly dog.Alec Baldwin plays a tough guy kind of dog.I would strongly recomend this film for all ages****1/2 OUT OF 5 from me "},{"Title":"Funny and comical.","Date":"12 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Cats + Dogs has done very well to impress me The special effects and animation are imaginably excellent. The storyline of this films is good to and that is one of the many reasons why you should not miss this film if you have a opportunity to see it. "},{"Title":"Better than I thought","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  My wife dragged me to this movie one Saturday day. I have to admit this movie was a lot better than I thought it would be.It was very entertaining.  It reminds me somewhat of the campy spy movies of the late 60's (In Like Flint, etc) with the plot and spy equipment.  The dogs are the good guys and the cats play the bad guys trying to take over the world.Worth a rental in my opinion. "},{"Title":"Dogs really ARE Man's best friend!","Date":"17 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Ok, let me first get my age outta the way - I'm 20. There sorted, so you can expect what kinda review this is gonna be! I BEGGED my mates, or someone!!!, to come and see this with me at the cinema- it never happened. But now? With DVD/Video rental, I ran like a hungry dog to 'fetch' this film! And I 'rolled over' with laughter! (I'll stop the doggy puns now)This is an out-and-out children's film. It only just happens to appeal to older audience's due to the slick plot and title of the film! We have all wondered why cats and dogs hate each other, and this film (if you suspend your disbelief) attempts to answer this. Hahahahaha!!!!!!Mr Tinkles, is probably the best screen villain in recent years. No, really, he IS evil, you know sometimes when a cat looks at you with that ONE expression? well, what are they thinking? we'll NEVER know!The beautiful mix of live action and SFX are outstanding. The facial expressions had me rolling with laughter, and the one-liners just keep on coming!Lou (voiced by Tobey Maguire) is most probably the cutest dog I've seen on the screen, and he gets paid for it!!As I said, the plot-line might not be anything like one of Shakespeare's comedies, but the kids will 'lap' it up with relish, and us 'older' people, and the 'mature' people, will also enjoy this top rate kids' film.I would have given it 8/9 but the film really did start out making me laugh out loud, but then it suddenly lost momentum and I stopped laughing as much. Oh well.I award this film 7/10.DOGS RULE!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Almost good enough to be watched","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Cats and Dogs was a movie I knew was not going to be more thanjust a fun 90 minutes to waste.  It turned out to almost live up tobeing just an entertaining mediocre film.  Two things really kept itfrom reaching the average level.  First, I can understand allowingthe animals to have voices when talking to each other, but why didthey have to make it so the animals could talk to humans, it isn'timportant to the story, it just make the movie much worse.  Also,as a cat person I must ask, why are the cats the bad animals anddogs the good animals.  Oh well, unless you are big animalperson, this film will just be horrible and even the greatest animalfan shouldn't find this more than a decent movie. "}{"Title":"This is all really how i feel about Cats and Dogs.","Date":"21 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This is honestly the best movie ever! The plot is hilarious, dialouge insanely funny, the inside jokes were delightfully humorous, the animations were absolutely wonderful!! The russian blue ( Diemitri Kennelkoff) is my favorite characters accompanied along with the ninja cats. Though the writers were extremely biased ( dog being invinsible) and the Saluki Ivy not having a point at all, this is barely noticeable as the jokes being so witty and coming up so often and the animation being perfect.I say I wil never look at my pet the same way again! This movie is wonderfully written. I watched this movie over and over and over and i love it more and more every time!! I am an adult and I enjoyed this movie, my grandmother did, as my whole family, this is a film for ALL AGES!! Babe in my opinion was a terrible movie. no movie I have ever seen can compare to Cats and Dogs! (if you want to talk to me further about this contact me. THE BEST MOVIE EVER!! honestly. I could go on and on. This is the best movie !! "},{"Title":"Cute & furry, but predictable","Date":"18 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":" Kind of cute and funny in parts and good effects. Hey what if dogs and cats really are more intelligent than humans ... Well cats maybe! (And Dolphins & Whales are, definitely!)A fun movie to see if you are down, kids will probably love it. Be sure they don't take it seriously though. Dogs saved the Ancient Egyptians?? Yeah right!! I guess this is why they worshiped Cats... As a cat lover, I was a bit peeved that they made the cats the bad guys ) Hey, don't get me wrong, I like dogs too!Hope this doesn't put kids off cats! So the dogs saved the world (this time...), but still, as Mr. Tinkles said, Cats Rule! "},{"Title":"junk!","Date":"14 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I'm an animal lover.  I've been surrounded by pets my whole life - including cats & dogs.  I love all of them and all for different reasons.This is a movie made for people that love dogs and hate cats... period. There is not a single good or nice cat in the whole flick.  The tag line says who are you gonna root for but the movie doesn't give you a choice. Not only is this the most mean-spirited anti-cat movie ever made but it also extends it's dislike for cats to their owners; all of which are shown as disgusting, unlikeable human beings. I love my dogs just as much as my cats - just in different ways. This movie does for pet owners what Rush Limbaugh did for Republicans and Democrats - it sets them against each other and forces them to take sides. Aside from it's anti-cat agenda, however, it also happens to be a pretty bad movie.  Even had this been made with good guys on both sides, it's just not a very good movie. "},{"Title":"Is it over yet?","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  That's what my 5 year old daughter was asking about 25 minutes into this stinker.  She had seen all the previews during Shrek and other movies and couldn't WAIT for Cats & Dogs to come out.  Then I get that comment from her, that ought to be enough since I'm sure she met the target audience age.......................I don't think I'll even bother with the DVD, MAYBE as a previously viewed VHS..... naw... it's that bad. "},{"Title":"Really Funny","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This film is really funny.   I went to see it and it was a real laugh!  It's not just for kids, but everyone.  Brill "},{"Title":"Disappointing.","Date":"27 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  The thing that really makes a good family film is when it appeals to both children and adults. For example, you have Toy Story, Toy Story 2, Shrek, The Iron Giant, and even, surprisingly enough, lots and lots of Disney films. Unfortunately, the whole thing about technologically advanced domesticated animals who are also experts at tactical warfare is just too silly to be entertaining. It was fun to a degree, but when you see cats parachuting with night vision goggles or that damn underground subway system that the dogs somehow built, it goes too far. In one of Gallagher's stand-up comedy videos (Stuck In The 60s, I believe), he is making fun of those rugs that show a picture of dogs shooting pool or cats playing poker, and he quips, `You can't get a cat to sh*t in a box, you don't want him to ante in at your table.' I wish I could see his reaction to the behavior of the cats and dogs in this movie! I'm sure that Cats & Dogs is a fun movie for a much younger audience, but the scope of the film is so narrow that it can only really be enjoyed by kids. The movie was obviously not made by cat people, by the way, because of the fact that the cats are obviously the evil antagonists in the film, so if you have and love a cat or two in your household, it may be a good idea not to rent this one for your kids. There is some amusing dialogue and an interesting subplot involving Jeff Goldblum's attempt to come up with a serum to eliminate allergic reactions to dogs, but as a whole, Cats & Dogs just about falls flat.  "},{"Title":"Dear LORD...I worry for the next generation...","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Argh, I don't care that this movie was made for kids.  I'm sick of hearing that excuse for covering for a bad movie.  Kids are not the morons that the film industry (and the entire population above the age of 13) think they are, and this film is proof that the industry thinks they are dumber than doorknobs.Okay, let's start off-I LOVE watching really stupid yet still funny movies. I laughed probably once during the entire film (which was when they were dressing up Mr. Tinkles in the goofy outfits).  The rest of the time I rolled my eyes.This movie's biggest problem is that it takes itself too seriously.  Yes, we even have a heart-tugging scene where the kid is crying and saying You're not a loser, Lou and you're supposed to think Oh no, is he dead?  Look, this is a movie about cats trying to take over the world.  They should have just left out the melodrama and just reveled in the sheer insanity of such an idea.Also, the mom in this movie is an idiot.  First off, she brings home a brand new puppy, then keeps scolding it and throwing it outside every time that it goes on the carpet (which is a method used by the cats to stop the dogs). Seeing as how housebreaking a puppy takes a good six months or so, I wonder if the people who wrote this script even know how to take care of pets? Then, later, a cat spy (which is a Russian Blue kitten, complete with a Boris Badinov stereotype voice!) gets snuck in because the mom stops the car and sees the cat.  Her reaction?  She coos and takes it home.  Yea, never MIND that it might have rabies or that it might be someone else's cat.  She instantly decides to adopt it.  Elizabeth Perkins have must be pretty desperate to play this role.  And no need to elaborate how Jeff Goldblum is in yet another really annoying role in a bad movie.This movie will insult your intelligence, even you have the IQ of a rock. If you got some REAL cats and dogs to make a movie, it would certainly be much better than this sorry excuse for a kiddy flick.  I worry about the next generation when every form of entertainment seems geared towards dumbing them down. "},{"Title":"So much talent wasted in such a bad movie","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Don't bother. It is irritatingly bad. Every part is calculated to beeffective and isn't, every joke is designed to be funny, but it isn't.You can hear the machinery creaking and failing all along. Andworst of all no sense of fun can be found anywhere in this move. "},{"Title":"Painful Hour and a Half Watching this Stinker","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Although going in with pretty low expectations, I figured my seven year old daughter and her friend would enjoy this movie.Wrong!As an adult, this movie was painful to watch - and I enjoy GOOD children's films.  I think this film tried to be funny for both children and adults but failed on both counts.  The adult humour never came close to to making me laugh, while the kids seemed bored for practically the entire ( long ) length.  Don't bother, or at least wait for the video.  It won't take long.  What possessed Jeff Goldblum to get involved with this stinker?3/10  "},{"Title":"DANGEROUS message that violence to animals is funny and OK","Date":"6 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Cats and Dogs conveys what may be a dangerous, and I meanREALLY dangerous, message for folks, especially childrenViolence to animals, the movie says, is funny and OK!  I challengethis movie's message. Consider that while we adults know it is notreal peril, would a child?The violence towards animals in Cats and Dogs is not natural.It's not a lost cat in a tornado, nor a dog being chased by a bear, orwhatever events animals routinely face in the world. Rather, theviolence is volitional. Knives and bombs are thrown at pets. Atleast one dog is kidnapped and killed. The fact that the violencetowards animals is committed by other animals doesn't lessen it.In fact, I could see where it would make it worse. Since theanimals all talk, and all have human personalities, the probabilitythat very young viewers may identify with the animal aggressors ishigh.Some people argue that children aren't dummies, and they can tellthe difference between a cartoon or movie and real life. Althoughmuch research disagrees, and shows clearly that kids CANNOTaccurately tell the difference, the effect doesn't have to be total for itto be deadly. That is, a kid doesn't need to be deluded or 100%under the sway of TV or movies in order to replicate some of thosebehaviors in the real world. A child may only need to hit the familydog ONCE with an axe, or drop the cat into a pot of boiling waterONCE, for terrible consequences to occur. And FYI-- there are,indeed, thousands of such acts committed by real world childrenevery day, to real world animals. Besides the horror for theanimals, this can't be good for the kids, either.Also, the well documented effect of sensitization describes thatwhile seeing exaggerated stunts and gags may be funny the firstfew times, EVENTUALLY those scenes also create an impliedacceptability for the behavior. That is, we adults laugh today at astunt dog falling off of a building, but in three years (or whatever) itwill also appear to be OK, normal and acceptable behavior. Again,research shows that very young viewers cannot discern thedifferences between fantasy, theater tricks, and reality.So, stay away from this movie, and wait for someone with a moreactive or profound social sensibility to explore a similar theme. "}{"Title":"Not too great","Date":"6 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  The animals were very cute in this movie, but that's about all I have to say good about it.  I took my 3 yr old niece to see this and she didn't even like it that much either.  None of us cared for it too much.  I was pretty bored thru most of it.  Shrek is the one to see!!!  "},{"Title":"One dog's line sums it up Son of my mother!","Date":"5 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  By now you've heard that this movie is about the secret war between cats and dogs that is happening right below our noses...but do you really want to know?The movie is cute and the animals/animation/computer integration is outstanding, but its success relies on viewers' associations with two weak themes 1) dog is man's best friend and 2) cats are jealous of that and want to take over the world (they were going to do it anyway).Dog owners will bow (wow) out of this film first.  Cat owners will stay longer because they have seen those looks on their pets' faces before (they will look a Pussycat a little different when they get home).  This movie will NOT appeal non-pet people.  The lack of subtle adult humor (which could easily have been added) almost makes this movie unbearable for the Over Age 12 Crowd.Very PG rating -- a dog mutters son of my mother and dogs/cats seem to have their faces smashed up against glass windows a lot.As cat owners, we generously gave it a 4Cats Rule! "},{"Title":"Hilarious,fast-moving,cute and original","Date":"20 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Cats and Dogs is one of those films that are silly,but at the same time hilarious.The first time I watched it,I really laughed because I laughed at the general silliness of it.The second time some bits were not so funny,but it was still hilarious. Purrfect family entertainment. "},{"Title":"What were half you idiots expecting? GONE WITH THE FUR?","Date":"22 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This is quite brilliant.  Kids will enjoy it yes, but the script ensures that it is best appreciated by adults - one's preferably with either a cat or dog! Many reviewers (and I use the term loosely) make mention of the acting for Gods sakes! In a bizarre fantasy, one does not go looking for method acting and gut wrenching pleas of emotional dysfunctionality! This is a one-off flick sending up so many films its hard to keep track - did everyone REALISE that?  From ALIENS to GREMLINS and multiple war movies. You need a note pad handy to list them all.What CATS AND DOGS is in the wash up, is a technical triumph of computerisation. Have any of you (who complained bitterly) the slightest idea how long it takes to morph and correlate mouth movements to the dialog? Not to mention the linking of live and inanimate action. Duh?Terrific little movie - again though, its one you have to listen to! Rather reminded me of HOME ALONE for Pets towards the end. Leaves BRIDGET JONES DIARY for dead. (Just threw that in there to really stir up some viewers) I loathed that flick with a passion! "},{"Title":"Unfair to cats!","Date":"16 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  My user name is short for cats and collies; I am both a cat person and a dog person.  Frankly, I was appalled by the depiction of cats in this movie.  I thought the ongoing war in the movie would be between cats and dogs, not cats vs. dogs and humans.  Dogs want to protect us and cats want to dominate us, huh?  We haven't come very far from the selfish Siamese in Lady and the Tramp. (Walt Disney hated cats, by the way).  Oh, well.  What can you expect from a movie that names a tabby Scottish Fold Calico?!  More seriously, though, much of the humor in the movie relies on scenes of animals--both species--getting hurt.  That's just not funny. "},{"Title":"Unfair to cats!","Date":"16 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  My user name is short for cats and collies; I am both a cat person and a dog person.  Frankly, I was appalled by the depiction of cats in this movie.  I thought the ongoing war in the movie would be between cats and dogs, not cats vs. dogs and humans.  Dogs want to protect us and cats want to dominate us, huh?  We haven't come very far from the selfish Siamese in Lady and the Tramp. (Walt Disney hated cats, by the way).  Oh, well.  What can you expect from a movie that names a tabby Scottish Fold Calico?!  More seriously, though, much of the humor in the movie relies on scenes of animals--both species--getting hurt.  That's just not funny. "},{"Title":"booooooo","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Saw the trailer before Atlantis.  Must say they did a great job on the trailer because for some reason I really wanted to see it.  I think they must have had subliminal messages in it.  Took the wife and kid and I cant believe how bad this movie was/is.  Go see Shrek, go see Atlantis, but skip this one at all cost! "},{"Title":"Kids might like it","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Dogs battle cats who are trying to take over the world.  There's a human family thrown in (Jeff Goldblum and Elizabeth Perkins are shamefully wasted) for no good reason.  The special effects showing the cats and dogs talking, fighting and such are truly incredible and there are a few (very few) laugh out loud moments.  But the plot is ridiculous, most of the jokes are predictable and it gets tiresome (for adults) after 1/2 hour.  However, kids will probably enjoy it.  Despite the PG rating this is G rated material all the way (I assume the PG was for the comic book violence).  And the animals are adorable.  Also Sean Hayes lends his voice to the villianous Mr. Tinkles and he's hilarious.  His lines are done in an over the top manner that's great.  Still, this is primarily for kids. "},{"Title":"Is this a movie or trash?","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Geez...  this movie is the worst movie I saw this year.  It's on even par with Battlefield Earth.  The preview is all that is need to be seen for this movie flop.  I am going to hate myself for making myself go see the movie at the theaters.  It's not even worth a rental.  Stay away from this movie like the plague! "},{"Title":"I've seen and adored many kids' movies, but this one really let me down.","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  From the trailer, it really looks like a fun little movie.  I was expecting a cute adventure similar to Stuart Little or Toy Story.  Boy, was I in for it.  The only good parts of the movie were included in the trailer. Everything else was dry, slow-moving, and TERRIBLE! "}{"Title":"I regret that night going to the movie for this pure kid's movie","Date":"10 November 2001","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This is absolutely pure kid's movie, plain & simple plot, although the animation on speech is quite real, but some animation is like 1980's  robot movement (they actually use robot i presume), nothing interest me from the start to end... I'm really disappointed with all the advertisement about this great movie... but I realize that I'll never go to the movie for this kind anymore..  "},{"Title":"I expected a lot more","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Was that it? A cute little film for kids? Saturday afternoon Disney Channel stuff?Oh please... judging by the trailer I thought this movie will be ... at least FUN. But it wasn't.It was not as bad as Tomb Raider or Pearl Harbor or all the other major disappointments this summer but is wasn't very good.I have seen Budweiser commercials with the same special effects when it comes to talking animals, so nothing special here. Jeff Goldblum was annoying (wasn't his fault, he was pretty much the same as always; the script ruined it), Elizabeth Perkins looked good, nothing else, I hated the kid and the story lacked good ideas.Also, why did they have the lights on in the trailer when it comes to the Matrix cats, but had the lights OFF in the film, so you could hardly see anything?Again, I have to say this the trailers nowadays take too much away.What I like about the movieLittle. The music (John Debney) was an amusing odd version of MissionImpossible. Funny and pleasing. But why the hell did they have a piece of Chicken Run (John Powell & Harry Gregson-Williams) at the end?By the way, if you are about to see the film try to count the continuity problems. I gave up after an hour!'nough said   "},{"Title":"What a great premise - too bad they didn't take advantage of it","Date":"24 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":" When I saw the trailer I thought, that will be a great movie! I read critics all the time complain about a filmmaker not taking a film to its full potential. I usually don't think that, but I did with this film.It was still fun, but it seems to have been written is such a hurry that they didn't put into it even 10% of what they could have. It's a shame, because now you couldn't do a film with the same premise without coming off as a copy-cat (and dog). I get the feeling that the writer wasn't an animal person. Oh, well, maybe in time this one will be forgotten and someone will re-do it with its full potential. "},{"Title":"So...it's basically SpyDogs for the big screen","Date":"29 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":" Anyone remember The Secret Files of the SpyDogs? The 1998 Fox Cartoon that lasted one season, which featured dogs bent on protecting the world, and cats bent on conquering it? Sound familiar? Did I mention the high-tech gadgetry and inventive disguises featured in this cartoon? Again, sound familiar? The acting isn't horrible, the animation could be worse....but really, did they truly think they could make a successful film using a plot that couldn't even make a cartoon last long before the gags ran out? SpyDogs had charm going for it, at least. This...not so much. This may be a cute kids film, but for older audiences...well, I suppose if you're bored at 2 in the morning or need background noise, and there's nothing better on, you might enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Baah Humbug!","Date":"18 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":" When I saw the trailers I was expecting less but I gave it a chance on DVD. It's worth watching, ain't it?-No! This is one of the dumbest movies I have ever seen. Well, okay, there were one or two scenes I laughed but the rest was just bad. I just can't imagine why all those celebrity's signed up for that one. As a Kids movieOkay, watchable but there are plenty of better Kids movies. If you expect funny epic battle scenes between Cats and Dogs you're expecting too much. The Battle Scenes are just crappy and no fun at all. If you want to see Kids Entertainment movies with quality choose Ice Age! Cats and Dogs is just a waste of time. "},{"Title":"worse then where the heart is the movie","Date":"28 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":" One Sunday afternoon I decided that instead of watching heartbeat and eating roast dinner, that cats and dogs would be a nice cinematic experience. How wrong I was, I don't know how I didn't see it coming, but Cats and Dogs was an outstanding contribution to the turd film category. Unfortunately this was also the kind of film where you get some jax at that back of the cinema laughing hysterically every five seconds. After watching the film I actually felt depressed and annoyed with myself for spending the time and money watching it. However, i would pay good money to punch that ginger kid in the face.In conclusion, this is plopper "},{"Title":"Good for kids, but boring for everybody else","Date":"29 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":" Cats and Dogs is a movie that is good for kids to watch. They'll be entertained by it, everyone else will think it's lame. It seems to me that all of the movies involving animals are all about poop. I have nothing against poop jokes, they can be quite funny, but in these movies it is just randomly there and is expected to make kids laugh. Most of the gimmicks in Cats and Dogs are copied almost exactly from the old Looney Toons cartoons. And believe me they don't work in this movie. It seems that kids movies have gotten lamer and lamer throughout the years. In the '80's and early '90's there were good kids movies like Big, Home Alone, The Secret Of NIMH, The Neverending story, and Aladdin. Maybe your kids will like this, but everyone else will probably get bored by everything in it. "},{"Title":"Fun Movie -- A Little Long","Date":"24 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  It is easy to notice that digital animation has made animals much more capable of credibly expressing themselves in television and movies (Summer of Sam, for example).  One might hope that a movie commited to this new found ability in animals might be a lot more fun than this movie was.  Perhaps it is just a little too long.  Despite this, there are many funny moments that make it worth while.  Completely suitable for children. "},{"Title":"Horrible acting plus dumb humor makes this one a bummer","Date":"14 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This is squarely aimed at kids under the age of ten, but I didn't know that when I went to go see this. Goldblum is so bad in this and Perkins and Pollack are right behind him. Yeah I know a lot of people liked this but I beg to differ. Tobey McGuire does his best at his voice (same with Alec Baldwin, Susan Surandan, and Charlton Heston) but all of them can't help this movie at all. The plot is dumb and the real life characters are very bland. Here's the story After cats find out that a professor is trying to make a cure for people who are allergic to dogs, they try almost everything to destroy his lab. When a beagle is accidentally mistaken for a secret agent by fellow agent dogs, he is assigned to protect the household from these evil cats. If you really want to see Tobey McGuire act, see Spiderman.* out of **** "},{"Title":"One may say...","Date":"17 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I'd just like to put my two bob's worth in by saying that this is an extremely funny movie which *should* appeal to all ages.If you can see past the childish mask this movie is absolutely hilarious.My personal fave character is Mr. Tinkles.See this movie. "}{"Title":"It's a dog alright","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I almost wish I had seen this in the theater because it would have given me the opportunity to do something I have never done before...walk out after 15 minutes and demand my money back!I haven't got the words to describe how unutterably bad this movie is. Obviously I am not expecting high art from a movie like this, but I have occasionally been pleasantly surprised, even delighted, by 'kids movies'. Shrek comes to mind, as does Chicken Run.Even the Dr Doolittle movies are worth the price of the rental, but not this turkey.I'm not going to list it's faults in detail...that would take more time than I already wasted watching the first part of the movie.All this movie did for me was leave me wondering how they could lavish this much talent and money on something so utterly without redeeming qualities. The writers particularly should have been tarred and feathered, not paid, for their efforts on this one.I give 'Cats and Dogs' minus 5 out of 5.  "},{"Title":"kid movie","Date":"21 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  In fact, by the story itself, I give it only 3 points.  But the amusing comedy and the wonderful visual effect add to the score, especially that those cats and dogs speak with the form of their mouth conforming to the speech is amazing, I always wonder how it's made, can anybody tell me?   In short, it's just a kid movie. "},{"Title":"AN EXPENSIVE B MOVIE  **spoiler**","Date":"28 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  What a waste of time- at least for an adult.  I went to see this movie with a friend of mind.  She thought it was very good.  I thought it was stupid.  There was not one redeeming scene throughout the entire movie.  Oops, I take that back.  When the dogs spotted a human coming and they all decided to act normal. Now THAT was funny. Otherwise, I didn't even like the special effects.My rating 2/10 because of the funny scene mentioned above.Recommendation Play with your own cats and dogs.  They are more entertaining. "},{"Title":"Silly fun","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I hate to admit it because god knows what it means of my mentality, but this movie is funny. And Lou has got to be the cutest puppy! Voiced by Tobey Maguire no less! Mostly a kid movie (my mom hated it), it will not unite cats and dogs lovers as one local journalist said, but it will entertain you...provided you're willing to leave your brain at home.**possible spoiler** It disturbed me at first that cats are portrayed as evil fascists in this movie, but that big fat mean cat is so funny, I guess one would simply have to get over it.  "},{"Title":"Wait for it on video.","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  And then fast forward to the scenes with the evil cats, they are themost interesting. The humans are sadly wasted, Jeff Goldblum does a riffon his fun scientist from The Fly, but no one really gets to do much ofanything. A few dogs crack wise, but not very wise or very well, soyou're left watching the animation and marvelling at how they got themouths to move. Not worth it.        "},{"Title":"Could've been great.","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This is a movie that proves (along with Dr Doolittle) that there isnow the technology to do great talking animal pictures.Unfortunately, this is not that picture, unless you're 8 years old. Thescript is the weakest link I think, although the lead dog- voiced byToby Maguire- is so uninteresting and bland that it's hard to carefor any thing that happens to him. A few inspired moments, butother than that a tremendous waste of time and talent.            "},{"Title":"Whew, what a Bow-Wow this movie is","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"     Hard to watch! This movie is a DOG, and I don't mean that in a nice way! I was annoyed at how infantile and brain-dead ALL the adults are in this movie. As a scientist, I was especially insulted by the scientist-father character; it might make the child laugh, but who would want to grow up to be THAT? The humor is infantile and the jokes are contrived and forced. Expect all dog-cat stereotypes in this woofer.   I suppose that this movie was aimed at the very young. I fully expected to find dippers and teething rings on the movie house floor. This movie might be a little young and childish for the dipper set!       I give it 4 out of 10 because the special effects are well done- the animals do seem to talk and even act..  whew!NO Cats & Dogs 2! If i have to take my daughter to that one TOO, it isI that might have an accident on the carpet!   "},{"Title":"Stinks like an unchanged kitty litter box!","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  What do you get when you have a movie that isn't funny enough to be called a comedy, and too boring to be called an action movie?  The answer of course, is `Cats and Dogs' the movie.  For a film with a very humorous premise; and a trailer promising plenty of action; the film was curiously lacking in both.  I kept waiting for something funny to happen!  But aside from a few bones that producers threw our way the audience is kept waiting in vain.Watching `Cats and Dogs' was an excruciating process for me.  I can't stress enough how utterly pedestrian and tired this script is.  In fact, I can only assume it was later used to line a box of kitty litter.   Unless this is the first movie you've ever seen -- you'd find more entertainment value chewing an old dog bone than you would from watching this coughed up furball they laughingly call a comedy.  2 STARS OUT OF 5.    "},{"Title":"Go see Dr. Doolittle 2","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Several weeks ago I took my 7-year-old son to see Dr. Doolittle 2. Although a little corny, it was sweet and had a lot of heart.  I was expecting the same thing of Cats & Dogs.  I cringe when I see that it's currently at the top of the box office.  No message, no heart, barely a thread of a plot, ridiculous special effects, violence to animals in the guise of slapstick... about 15 minutes before the ending, I turned to my son and asked if he was enjoying the movie.  He replied No.  Can we leave now?  And we did.  Save your money. "},{"Title":"Beware, toilet humor afloat!","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Oh come on!  Why did they make this film.  The beginning is so nauseating and bloated with kiddie crap that this film must never be called a FAMILY film!  If you're gonna take your kid to a FAMILY movie, than go see Shrek (Which actually has clever dialogue)  This piece of trash is almost not worth reviewing! 1/2* out of ****. "}{"Title":"Utterly pathetic...","Date":"8 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  A free afternoon, a few bucks to go see a movie, some good friends by my side, and I made the regretful mistake of going to see Cats & Dogs.  As you have probably devised, I did not like the film...at all.  I found it overly childish, and frankly unbearable.  Juvenile humor is occasionally acceptable for adult viewers, but not in this case.  Cats & Dogs is really a must not see for everyone.  I gave it a well-thought-out 2 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Terrible!!!","Date":"5 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I must say that although I usually do not like movies of this nature, I looked forward to this one for quite some time.  This may be the reason for my complete and total disappointment.  This is a good CHILDREN'S movie, but it stops there.  I can't imagine anyone over the age of eight actually enjoying this. "},{"Title":"I can usually tolerate kids' movies, but ...","Date":"5 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I can usually tolerate kids' movies, but this was the exception. The dialogue was terrible, the plot was unoriginal and the acting was gross. I think it was supposed to be a comedy, but that could probably be debated. The fx were ok, but everything has special effects these days ... so it was nothing too spectacular. Take your kids to see Atlantis instead. "},{"Title":"Poor plot and quality...good if you are 5 or under","Date":"29 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Although the animated talking dogs in commercials are fun, it should not be enough to intice anyone to sit through more than the trailers.  I went to a screening with 50% of the audience under 10 yrs old.  Even they were bored. If you really love cliches of dogs and cats, you may enjoy a few special scenes.  (Dog driving a speeding vehicle and instead of his paws on the wheel, they are out the side window along with the rest of his upper body.) Yea, that was the best joke I saw.If you liked the Home Alone gags, if you love the flea commercials with singing puppies and kittens, AND you are under 10 yrs old, you might enjoy parts of this movie.  Personally I was ready to leave after the first scene. Good luck getting someone else to take your kids to this one!  "},{"Title":"This film is literally going to the dogs","Date":"20 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":" Can you guess why this movie, Beverly Hills Chihuahua, and Marmaduke are the same? It's because A) They featured cats and dogs B) They were made in the past decade C) They are a disgrace to the history of Cinema D) They have horrendous plots, god-awful special effects, and bland characters E) All of the Above If you guessed E, NO DUH!!! The plot is simple but abysmal there is an ongoing war between cats and dogs. The main villain, Mr. Tingles(What the heck?!) plots to eliminate the dogs by inventing cheese that makes people allergic to dogs. However, a team of dogs must foil Mr. Tingles' scheme and save the day. Now, doesn't that sound stupid to you? We're all familiar with this whole cats hate dogs and dogs hate cats routine in many cartoons(Tom and Jerry and Looney Tunes for example), but I think this movie is getting carried away with that concept. The CGI effects are especially full of bull crap and this movie obviously loves seeing animals getting hurt in the process. If the Nostalgia Critic were to see this movie, he would go crazy as an ape. Like I said, this movie is like Beverly Hills Chihuahua and Marmaduke because of the bland characters, despicable special effects, a pointless plot, and a ton of other things that make this movie very bad. Who directed this piece of dog and cat crap anyway?! What?! Lawrence Guterman?! Oh no, not him! Not that moron who made Son of the Mask! Not him!! Anything but him!! Get this piece of trash of my sight and throw it in the junkyard! "},{"Title":"Beware of evil talking cats","Date":"3 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":" The only reason this gets a 7 from me is because the dogs were cute. The idea was good, but it could have been done better. I'm a dog person so the evil cats didn't bother me. Don't get me wrong, I like cats too. I think the reason the cats were the bad guys was because of their cattitude. Dogs are loving, loyal, intelligent, and people's best friend and cats don't give a darn. I think the CG is awesome, the animals pretty much look like they're actually doing those wacky stunts. I hated when Mr. Tinkles told the fired factory workers to kick their dogs. That's just horrible. I found it hilarious when Butch the dog said son of my mother, I think that seems like something a dog would say^^ Well, that's about it. Avid cat lovers may want to stay away from this pro-dog movie. "},{"Title":"Cute for Kids","Date":"13 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":" Like many others, I was tricked by the trailer. The trailer was HILARIOUS. The way it was so flawlessly put together made me really want to see this movie. Hollywood lied to me again.It seems all the funny parts of the movie were thrown in that trailer. The story is OK(its based off of a Saturday morning 90's cartoon by the same name) for a kids movie but other than that its kinda...stupid. The kid in the movie ruined it. I think they tried to make the movie too human when,in fact, its meant to be about ANIMALS. I mean, he was the worst choice for the star. One part has a such a blatantly obvious attempt at subliminal advertisement when,after a long pause, it shows a quick flash of the kid drinking Hi-C. What the hell? Despite the abuse of animals and the thousands of cats killed in the process, I would recommend this movie for small children and PETA animal worshippers/ PETA high priest.Good Day. "},{"Title":"waste of time, money and talent","Date":"2 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I have seldom seen so much talent and sfx squandered as in thismovie. Cats and dogs play amazingly (if one can still be amazedby post-production tricks) but what about a decent plot? decentacting without the usual antics, wows and gas emissions? whatabout a decent line? One wonders what happened to AmericanCinema, that's wondering what happened to cinema at all. Andwhat Jeff Goldblum is doing in it? Nothing, believe me he hardlychanges expression. One of the hardest task of being a father is tohave to go to see these deadly movies and the kids didn't like iteither. "},{"Title":"One of the Worst Movies of 2001","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  If you're under 10, you might like this movie. If not, stay away. Cats & Dogs is about a war between our lovable house pets, centered on Lou the Dog (voiced by Tobey Maguire) that has been recruited into the canine army. Of course the entire movie can't be that cool. it has to stray into the dog-annoying kid relationship that gets really, really boring really quickly and the secret life of Butch the Dog (Alec Baldwin). The movie has a lot of cartoon noises as buggy-eyed cats & dogs kick that crap out of each other (any of which would constitute animal cruelty). As it's disconcerting to see a ninja cat round-kick a dog's face, sending it soaring through the air and landing with a resounding BOING! Since the majority of the audience is made up of children that actually think the movie's jokes are funny, it's totally possible that small children will begin to think that beating up small animals is &#145;funny'.In fact, the only thing this movie had going for it was the cartoonish voiced cats (did I mention they're evil?), certainly the evil cat-leader Mr. Tinkles (Sean Hayes), who reminds the John Lovitz voiced cat Calico `At what point did you forget that we are trying to take over the world!' Other than that, the movie is bad, bad, bad, bad, bad, bad. The actual acting is bad, the script is bad, and the jokes are bad (for example, a cat runs up a scrawny tree to escape from a pursuing dog, to which the dog catapults the cat through a window, barely missing a woman with a pie, to which the dog soars in pursuit, to, not surprisingly, sink the pie onto the woman's face). Jeff Goldblum plays a scientist working on a cure for allergies to canines, and really only makes appearances when he leaves his lock & key lab strewn with always stupid, and always changing pieces of lab equipment.The movie sums up as an excuse to create ninja-cats and secret agent dogs. Animals that will soon be turned into action toys, and I can already see a cartoon series on the WB in the works. The movie lacks in entertainment (well, after the first fifteen minutes) and repeats the tired old routine that has been played over countless times in order to steal parents' money. Good money that will be wasted to repeat the same process again, again, and again.   "},{"Title":"Fun for kids, adults will hate it","Date":"22 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This movie is imaginative, but the implication that all cats are evil while all dogs are good does a disservice to cats.  I guess the presa canario that tore out that poor woman's throat in San Francisco must have been a good dog, huh?This movie is strictly for children. "}{"Title":"On my top 5 worst movies list","Date":"5 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This movie was absolutely moronic. It wasn't funny, it wasn't cute and it wasn't even able to entertain our ten year old. Even renting this on video is a waste of money, your much better off with more standard family movies. This is strictly a personal opinion and I'm sure others will have different views. "},{"Title":"Oh, the potential ... alas, the stupidity","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  It is true that there are some good lines (Don't go wetting your paper just yet.), but the movie by and large was a ridiculous waste of time and money. The special effects were good in some cases but they were no where near strong enough to carry this movie. The dialog/script was extremely poorly written, and this is what really killed the movie. For example, if you've already wasted your time and money, perhaps you can answer this question whatever happened to the other beagles that were kidnapped by the dobermans at the beginning?Don't even bother. If you must see it, wait for the video release. "},{"Title":"This Ain't No Shrek... It's Dreck!","Date":"4 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":" This movie is appalling. There are loads of worthwhile children's films out there, so why would anyone waste time on this one? Having seen the trailer, I was hoping for much more. I was thoroughly disappointed. The plot is predictable, the gags are second-hand, the special effects were spotty, at best. Every sci-fi/fantasy film (what genre would this one be?) requires a certain amount of suspension of disbelief. But that should not mean that anything goes! A film must be true to the integrity of the world it creates. Hence, I was particularly chafed by the early scene in which the dog bends over a tree completely and sends a cat catapulting through the air. At least some laws of physics must hold true even in a movie as outlandish as this one. Otherwise, why would the pie fall on the woman's face. It could just as easily remain suspended in the air. I know this may seem like a minor harangue, but others have so thoroughly dissected this movie's major flaws, I just thought I'd add my two cents. Don't waste your time on this movie! "},{"Title":"A Cute Little Kids Movie!","Date":"1 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":" Cats & Dogs is about a dog named Lou who tries to become friends with his new kid owner Scott. During this a cat named Mr. Tinkles is trying to take over the world with all of the other cats. So Lou, Scott, and the secret agent dogs have to fight the cats and save the day from a world of cats. During this we meet the secret agent dogs, who take Lou in and teach him how to be an agent. The dogs in the end succeed in defeating the bad little kitties. My son enjoyed this movie not me. It was cute though. I thought for being a little low budget that it was a cute feel good animal comedy. This movie proves that dogs are the dominate animal in all of the world. The dogs are better than the cats. "},{"Title":"What is this?","Date":"7 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":" Spoilers within...though this movie is already spoiled. Cats and Dogs is like one elementary math equation. Animals+Bad Director+Bad CG-Good Lines+Predictability-Humor+Stupidity+Bad Acting=Cats and DogsI didn't bother to watch it all Occasionally I channel-surfed to see if there was anything better on (There was, but it wasn't interesting to me; I'm not a fan of Pooh Bear at this age). I went to the bathroom freely, got myself a soda, and didn't mind. Some parts that still stick with me (in my nightmares) areBad Matrix. Seeing terribly animated cats do the worst Matrix parodies is not high on my to do list. I also got a plot that I didn't understand. The 'bad' guy (of course a cat, all cats are evil while dogs are man's best friend) like crams it into one half of a sentence, the other half being perhaps the corniest laugh I ever heard. This movie also had little humor, if any. In fact, I don't think I was supposed to laugh at the parts I did laugh at. (like how it looked when the 'evil' guy's HQ blew up) Acting. We don't need no stinkin' acting. People make fun of how Jake Lloyd performed in Star Wars I. The kid in this...I wanted to see the opposite camera angle. I could probably read the cue cards. And finally, predictability. Okay, okay, I know that it's supposed to be sad, the little boy crying over his 'dead' dog. Had it not been for the fact that I saw it in a hotel and people might have been sleeping, I might have yelled, THROW THE STUPID BEAST IN THE SNOW, YOU NITWIT! HE'S ASLEEP! JUST LIKE IN THE MOVIES! THAT'LL WAKE HIM UP! And of course, the dog wakes up with a corny line. You're my best friend too. Thank God I hadn't eaten earlier, or I might have vomited all over the room. Eww. Basically, this film earns a 1. The only thing I regret is that the IMDb doesn't give 1/2 stars. "},{"Title":"In a word Awful","Date":"4 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":" This is probably the stupidest movie i have ever seen it is definitely one of the worst. The special effects are very incredible but stupid, to have dogs and cats talking like humans and fighting made this movie look absolutely ridiculous. Personally i am cat lover and to make cats the evil ones that is just not right. As i said the cats are evil and are trying to take over the world and the dogs are good and go into battle with cats to try and stop them. The jokes in this movie are stupid i never laughed once. I think i might have smiled on one of the jokes but that is it. I think most kids will enjoy this movie though i was a kid when i watched this and i certainly didn't I definitely give this a 1 out of 10 i have the DVD of this i have only watched it once and i wanted to shut my eyes while watching it it is simply awful, and i will certainly not watch it again.I would recommend this movie to kids but certainly not to adults! "},{"Title":"Worst Movie I've Ever Seen!!!!!!!!","Date":"23 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":" This movie was an absolute nightmare! My friend and I went to see Dr. Dolittle 2, but it was sold out. The ticket lady was all like cats and dogs is still open. After seeing this piece of garbage I understand why seats were there. It had a weak plot, that left my dazed and confused throughout the movie. Being a cat person myself I found it annoying how they made cats evil. Whats so great about a dog anyway. Sure man's best friend, but that doesn't make a cat so bad. It was also one of the most unrealistic and stupid movies i've ever seen. The humor was along the same lines as an old Hercules cartoon. With the villain hanging his butt over a cliff, almost a perfect target, for anything. They basically made a cat in that position. Some of the funniest parts include stuff like drinking out of toilets, and things like that. If you want to waste your money on this piece of crap, be my guest. I'm not watching it ever again, unless I'm in a sudden hurry to sleep or die of boredom. "},{"Title":"a user comments","Date":"7 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  i went to the cinema to see this film, thinking it would be a live action tom and jerry, at least, this is what the trailer implied.unfortunately, i'd put too much trust in the trailer ( you have to be careful, these days ).not since highlander 2 have i felt like leaving the cinema. i guess for a kid, it would be enjoyable.but for me, it was painful to watch, forced, cliched. very poor. "},{"Title":"Simply not a very funny animal film","Date":"6 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  The only good thing about this film is Jeff Goldblum. Too bad his talent is wasted here. The movie tries way too hard to be funny, yet it comes across as forced and idiotic. As a pet owner, it's much funnier watching your cats and dogs act like cats and dogs, rather than sitting through this moronic humanization of characters they portray in this film. Save yourself a buck and tune in to the Animal Planet channel if you really need to see animals at their funniest. "},{"Title":"Cats Don`t Deserve The Bad Press","Date":"19 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  There`s a train of thought that cats are evil creatures silently biding their time to replace mankind as the planet`s dominant species . Utter nonsense of course though I can`t help noticing that when a cat stares at a human it`s almost like the cat is reading the person`s mind . Slightly creepy . I`ve got to confess that I can`t stand dogs which is mainly down to the owners letting a dog do what dogs do naturally . It`s no joke walking along the pavements of a Scottish island watching where you put your feet as carefully as you would walking through the mine strewn countryside of Afghanistan or Bosnia . In fact you find yourself hating dogs and that people who keep dogs are the lowest form of species on the planet . This what I disliked about this film  Dogs = good . Cats = badThat said feline phobia was the only thing I disliked about CATS AND DOGS . Boy what a pitch that must have been  It`s about the pussy revolution that`s under way  The cats are taking over and only the canine commadoes can save us   Man I bet a few Hollywood shrinks had an emergency call at that sales pitch , but it`s nice to know that some producer managed to stop laughing long enough to consider making this film because CATS AND DOGS is a very entertaining family film . It`s also nice to see a film that`s not overlong .Just don`t confuse this movie with STRAW DOGS or there will be trouble  "}{"Title":"Avoid!","Date":"10 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Sometimes, when you have children, you are obliged to see films that you would normally prefer to give a miss but sometimes you are pleasantly surprised. This one, however, was a nightmare.The animals were largely unpleasant in their characterisations and the story was very unappealing and I have to confess that I became so bored so quickly that I made considerable efforts to fall asleep but I was in such agony that this proved impossible.When DVDs are released at full price, they sometimes drop in price quickly because good films that impose intellectual challenges are not necessarily popular with DVD buyers. This one probably holds the record for rapid price reduction - but only because it is a complete stinker.If you are thinking about buying it for your child or children, you should do so on the condition that you never have to watch it with them. "},{"Title":"Purrrrre Crap","Date":"13 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This is not a good movie.  It is more annoying than anything else.  Lots of it doesn't make sense either, with its numerous plot holes.  It seems as though the movie was made for extreme pet lovers.  These kinds of people overlook the stupidness of the movie because the doggy or kitty looks cute. Seriously though, don't subject yourself to this filth.  It ain't good. On a crap scale of 1-10 this gets a 10.  Trust me, DON'T SEE IT. "},{"Title":"Absolutely ridiculous","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This movie is unfunny!! I was so bored in this movie that I'd have left the theater if it wasnt because I was with  some friends. The plot is completely unreal. There are few jokes and those few are not funny.At least, at the very end, this movie does provide a very good laugh. But the rest is a disaster. "},{"Title":"What Would You Rather Do?","Date":"7 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":" (1) Watch this movie (2) Get hit by a car and die Hmmm...That's a hard question to answer. I am both a cat and a dog lover, and I absolutely HATE this movie! As you already know, all of the cats in this movie are evil and want to take over the world, and all the dogs in this movie are noble, kind beasts who set out to stop them. Could you imagine a Hollywood producer making a movie to portray all black people are evil and want to take over the world, and all white people as heroes, who try to stop them. Or how about one depicting homosexuals as evil, or how about women. Can you imagine an IMDb reviewer doing a review on how wonderfully cute these movies are? Not in a million years.Hate-mongering is a lucrative business. "},{"Title":"Cats & Dogs","Date":"27 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Family","Review":" I remember seeing this in the cinema, I don't know why actually, but I don't remember much of it at all, which may actually be a good thing. Basically there is a secret war going on in the world between cats and dogs, and it is going to peak when Professor Brody (Jeff Goldblum) creates a serum that can cure all humans of allergies to dogs. Cross in the cross fire is the Brody family's new adopted young beagle Lou (Tobey Maguire), trying to succeed as a secret agent. The dogs of course want this cure to be spread, while the cats led by Mr. Tinkles (Sean Hayes) wants to get it and make it work the opposite way, make the whole world allergic to dogs and take over. Also starring Elizabeth Perkins as Mrs. Brody, Miriam Margolyes as Sophie the Castle Maid, Alexander Pollock as Scotty Brody, Alec Baldwin as Butch, Susan Sarandon as Ivy, Joe Pantoliano as Peek, Michael Clarke Duncan as Sam, Jon Lovitz as Calico, Razzie winning Charlton Heston as The Mastiff, Danny Mann as Ninja Cat and Billy West as Ninja. I guess I would want to see it again to remind myself what happens and how awful it is, but I am very happy keeping my opinion and review the way it is for now. Pretty poor! "}]