[{"Title":"Tom Green, you sicken me","Date":"23 October 2005","Score":"30 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Freddy got Fingered is about a slacker cartoonist named Gord, Tom Green, who finally moves out of his parents basement to work at Hollywood in a cheese sandwich factory and try to sell off his cartoons for them to become a TV show. But when a big time Hollywood producer, Michael Anthony Hall, tells him he will never make it in life, Gord moves back home with his sleazy father played by Rip Torn. Gord's life is then turned into a big contests where he and his dad try to settle an age old battle between whether Gord should suck up and become a man or be a complete loser for the rest of his life.Freddy Got Fingered, should have been named Animals Got Fingered. I'll admit that I'm not a big Tom Green fan but by the way the trailers for the film worked it looked life it would be an okay movie. I was wrong! Tom Green proves right here in this movie that he can not act or direct. This film losses effort on every film making level but it succeeds in being a master in every bad level of film making. This film is a complete waste of talent and time with animal masturbation and blow job jokes. Plus the title, what is with the title? Sure Gord says that his father fingered his younger brother Freddy but that subject is only in the film for eight minutes top! Now the main character Gord must be mentally retarded. In one of the most sickest scenes in the movie, Gord finds a dead deer in the middle of the road. He remembers the words of Mr. Davidson telling him he needs to get inside his cartoon animals so they can be more lively. But to Gord he thinks he should literally get inside the deer! He cuts the animals stomach open and rips out it's insides. Then we see cute little animals roaming the forests to the sweet melody of a female singer only to be interrupted with Gord running around, shrieking like a retard and wearing the deers bloody body as as a coat. I was about to blow chunks after I saw that scene. Maybe this movie might be funny to some of you people if you like Tom Green licking bloody wounds, playing with animals privates, or swinging a dead baby around a hospital by it's cord you may laugh till you die! But people like me will just be disgusted by this movie. I only chuckled a few times in this movie, like twice! Freddy Got Fingered gets the low 1, if I could though I would give it a zero. Tom Green, you sicken me. "},{"Title":"A first for me in 30 years of movie watching","Date":"1 May 2001","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I saw Dude, Where's My Car.  I saw It's Pat.  I saw Wagons East.  I was entertained by all of these, at least minimally.  I have seen many very bad movies.  I've seen a few very VERY bad movies.  But up until last night, I had never walked out on one.I went to see Freddie Got Fingered with little expectation.  The trailer looked mildly entertaining and I've seen a few skits with Tom Green that were funny and thought he was pretty funny in Charlie's Angels.  So I went in figuring that there would be some chuckles and maybe even a couple of knee slappers.  If there were any after the first 30 minutes (past the swinging-baby-on-the-umbilical-cord) scene, I missed them.I watched, and kept hoping it would get funny.  Maybe it'll get funny after he guts the deer and wears the carcass.  Nope?  Maybe it'll get funny after he jerks off a horse.  Nope?  Maybe it'll get funny after he licks an open fracture on his best friend's leg.  *sigh*  Nope.  Maybe it'll get funny after he swings the baby around on the umbilical cord.  I'm not sure. That's where I walked out and went to see the last half of Joe Dirt. (Which I had seen in its entirety on the weekend before)  I felt better about switching movies but felt badly that I couldn't have taken my money back from Tom Green and given it to David Spade, Dennis Miller, Kid Rock and Christopher Walken, who actually made a movie that was both funny and entertaining. "},{"Title":"This movie so damn suck!!","Date":"9 October 2003","Score":"23 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The title sez all. Watch this movie and u will regret it for whole ur life because I do. Should have fill my time with more good film other than this. Avoid it at all cost. This guy tryin so hard to make ppl laugh at his not-funny-lame-stupid-joke. Friggin movie!  "},{"Title":"It spits on your grave.","Date":"11 March 2004","Score":"27 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  ***POSSIBLE SPOILERS***Freddy got fingered is a very rancid blend of the worst type of jokes around. One of the earlier scenes involves Tom Green w*nking off a horse and it's all down from there. This seems to have been made for the sole purpose of shocking people, at times it doesn't even try to be funny, it's more like it wants to put off and spit at anyone who's been foolish enough to spend their hard earned cash on it. I bet Tom Green is laughing all they way to the bank.To put it short this is a hideous abomination of a movie, which should have been instantly butchered at birth. The only reason that I don't give it a zero is because it's still not really as bad as Naken or Route 666, but that's not really saying much is it?1/10 "},{"Title":"No, he didn't and I guess that's the joke (if there is one)","Date":"7 April 2007","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Freddie is the main character's brother and, no, he didn't get fingered. No-one did as far as I can make out other than the movie-watching public.I'm okay with rough sex gags most of the time but writer Green's attempts to shock people miss the mark so badly, it is quite sad really. Compare Green's deer (elk?) scene (where he guts and wears a road-kill animal with antlers) with Jim Carey's dead cow scene in (I think) Me, Myself and Irene and you might get an idea of how different the two approaches are.There isn't a genuinely funny moment in FGF but there are more than enough cringe-worthy, awful ones. This might have made a great 15-minute short but, as a feature it doesn't even get to first base. Some will say it's 'off the wall' and that's why people don't get it. I recognise off the wall when I see it - unfortunately I also recognise moronic gibberish.Sorry to the makers of this film who think they are far to clever for mortals - they just got fingered. "},{"Title":"Worst movie I have seen in a long time","Date":"9 March 2007","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" If you find incest,child molestation,bestiality,sado-masochism and cannibalism funny then Freddy Got Fingered may be the movie for you.The first twenty minutes convinced me that Tom Green has a blood fetish, not a good sign for a comedy. Certain scenes were so appalling, for example the childbirth scene, that I felt extremely uncomfortable watching this movie. Some reviewers here regard Tom Green as a comic genius, but a comic genius has to produce laughs.What's funny about buckets of blood being thrown around? Monty Python could get away with blood and guts comedy, Tom Green cannot.Don't waste your time with this movie, I give it 1 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Pathetic!","Date":"6 November 2001","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Oh my God, where do I even begin when reviewing something as bad as this. How about to say that at a voter standing of only 3.7 out of 10, Freddy Got Fingered is the most over rated film in the entire IMDB.As someone who does like crude and gross out humor, when done right, I still found this to be the most pathetic attempt at a film I have ever seen. For a start lets begin with the plot. Tom Green leaves his parents home to become an animator. Tom Green returns. Tom Green and his dad get into many heated arguments - thats about it for plot. The rest of the film revolves around Tom participating in the kind of bizarre behavior that has made him famous - only this time its way more over the top. Masturbating horses - licking the bone of a friend's broken leg as he screams in agony, swinging a new born baby around by its umbilical cord are all part of the 'comedy' of Freddy Got Fingered. And none of this actually has anything to do with the 'plot'.Consider those above as deterrents instead of spoilers.The Tom Green show is funny for ONE REASON - and ONE REASON only. The joke is on the unsuspecting public. Tom Green's antics are only funny for his ability to carry them out in public and for his complete lack of embarrassment. In this film the antics are scripted. Those on the receiving end of these antics are actors. Therefore it is NOT FUNNY, as the only thing that makes this guy funny is canceled out. I still can't believe that the people at 20th Century Fox couldn't figure this out. The fact that they actually sunk huge amounts of money into this film is not only sad, but offensive. Did anyone involved in this movie actually think this would be funny?In short - the worst film I have ever seen. A lot of people use that term as a knee jerk exaggeration to describe a film they didn't like. This is no exaggeration. My previous all time worst film, Glam, maybe even deserves awards compared to this (OK maybe that was an exaggeration). Hopefully this is the last time that Tom Green will ever get to make a movie. If Fox gives the go ahead for Freddy Got Fingered 2, I'll trash the set myself. "},{"Title":"this is one sorry excuse for a movie","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Im ashamed to even acknowlegde Tom Green as a fellow Canadian, hes just one HUGE embrassment to the Entire country , for one im glad he left Canada and moved to the states.. but im more surprised that he was actually let in.. and he should be locked up in a mental instition.. i feel so sorry for poor Drew Barrymore..and this movie is a waste of film.. i would love to get each and every copy of this movie and destroy them all .. so no one would be subjected to such drivel and horrific things.. like having to watch him.. i feel sorry for his parents too .. it would shame the hell out of me thats for sure. i would disown him at the first chance i had !!!1 "},{"Title":"Did you walk out?","Date":"2 June 2001","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I normally am a Tom Green fan. I have watched his show on MTV and I think he is hilarious, but this movie was far from being that. From the opening scene to the last scene of that movie, my mouth was dropped to the floor. I was disgusted and yet amazed how stupid the movie was. I don't think I even smiled at it. On screen, Tom tried to capture that prankster style he has in The Tom Green Show, but was unsuccessful, horribly. His jokes were bad, his pranks were bad, everything about that movie was bad. The bottom line, Tom Green what the hell were you thinking making that movie? "},{"Title":"Money wasted....","Date":"21 September 2011","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Gross.Stupid.Annoying...and that describes the main character as well as the movie itself.I don't know who the idiot was that gave the green light on this pile of crap,but they should never work in movies again.An embarrassment for Rip Torn,Anthony Michael Hall and Julie Hagerty.I just hope they got a pretty good paycheck out of this..The movie is a series of unfunny/gross/childish slapstick and sight gags thought of by the star and director(if you call him either one of those)Tom Green..It deserved all of its Golden Turkey Award wins and thankfully,Mr.Green has never directed another movie again..I have never wanted to strangle a character like I did in the first few minutes and have never wanted a character to fail or get beaten up either.Maybe that was the point.I don't know..I'd rather watch Manos,the Hands of Fate or a Coleman Francis movie instead..Listen,Tom Green,just because you think you can direct and write a movie or even act in a movie,does not mean you should,OK? "}{"Title":"Tom Green makes a complete fool of himself and wastes our time...","Date":"28 April 2001","Score":"14 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I've been watching Tom Green since his show when he was actually funny.  In this movie he wrote with his friend Derek Harvie, there's a troubled character named Gord Brody.  Gord Brody is 28 years old an he still lives in his parents house.  His dad thinks Gord is a screw up (which from the looks of it you want to agree with Rip Torn's character).  Tom Green strives to sell his drawings for a cartoon, along the way he encounters animal penises, animal carcasses, a love interest and a ton of inside jokes.  Within the first 5 minutes Tom Green is laying on his bed laughing like a retard about a dumb drawing.  The excuse, some people loved it and some people flat out hated is not true.  I used to be a fan of Tom Green then I saw this piece of garbage where I'm embarrassed to be seen inside the theater.  Tom Green makes a complete a** of himself, you might get a chuckle every 30 minutes but that's about it.  I would stay away from this just like the country has already decided to do judging from Freddy Got Fingered's poor gross. "},{"Title":"I watched this movie with an open mind ...","Date":"11 August 2005","Score":"15 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I do not mind crude humour. I have even enjoyed watching some of Tom Green's other works. I find various other crude movies, such as Don't Be A Menace To South Central While Drinking Your Juice In The Hood to be hilarious, even with its plethora of tasteless jokes. I don't get shocked by fake or gory violence in movies, such as Hellraiser, Dawn Of The Dead or Natural Born Killers.But this movie was just bad. Very bad. Really very bad.I have no problems with the animal, violent, incest and other crude humour used in the film ... but it was painfully fake and simply not funny.It is very rare that I feel the need to fast forward through scenes in a movie, I have done so on less than a dozen movies in my whole life, but every couple scenes in this movie were so pointless, embarrassing or unfunny that I had to skip over them, for the sake of not losing 87 minutes of my life.Only one out of every fifteen or twenty jokes was clever or funny for me. Some of the jokes really were great, and I did laugh while watching this movie. But I had to fast forward more times than I laughed while watching ! This movie takes a proud spot in my top ten worst movies of all time. "},{"Title":"You would be better off spend an hour and a half in a coma!","Date":"30 April 2001","Score":"15 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Me and my son make it a point to see bad movies. This makes Battlefield Earth look like Gone with the Wind. Tom Green is abrasive and totally unlikeable as is every character in this movie.I should have known when the lady at the ticket window tried to talk me out of seeing it (a first).I hope this is Tom Greens last movie for all of our sakes. "},{"Title":"When is this stupid movie going to end?","Date":"30 April 2001","Score":"16 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I think FREDDY GOT FINGERED is a stupid movie. It is so far this year, the worst movie. I think it will not even bother to get any Oscar or Golden Globe, instead it is my least favorite movie.Tom Green is a stupid comedian and my parents will not let me mention him. Ever.It is not the Mona Lisa of all movies. This is easily the worst comedy ever.GRADE F "},{"Title":"It's Just Not Funny","Date":"30 April 2001","Score":"16 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  When I went to go see this movie, I thought that I was going to watch a 100 minute Tom Green episode. That is just what happened. 30 minutes is enough on TV but when you have to sit down for a long time, the jokes start to run out. I'm still a Tom Green fan. Every comedian can make one mistake. "},{"Title":"I'm speechless","Date":"15 January 2003","Score":"17 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If you think that child abuse, animal bowels and penises, child birth and paraplegics are really funny subjects, go ahead and watch this abomination of a 'film'. If not flee in horror. You have been warned. I had not, unfortunately. "},{"Title":"Heaping pile of Dung","Date":"1 May 2001","Score":"17 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Actually, it's not even that good.  It is more like the loamy layer of decaying excrement located under an old sun baked pile of hog dung.  I will reconstruct this car wreck.Movie Producer 1 - Let's give Tom Green a pile of money and let him make a movie, I hear the kids at MTV love him.Movie Producer 2 - You bet they do, but we can't edit or censor him because the kids like his honesty and in your face attitude.Movie Producer 1 - Okay then, here's a blank check and tell Tom to make up a movie this weekend.  By the way, do you know anything about Mr. Green except the fact that kids love him?Movie Producer 2 - I think he's Canadian!Movie Producer 1 - Like Jim Carrey!Movie Producer 2 - You bet.Movie Producer 1 - Well goddarn, forget the script, start shooting right now!  Tell Tom he's got the afternoon to think of something funny, he likes that improv stuff.  Make sure he gets in your face and outrageous.  If he gets stuck for ideas, give him this old Carrot Top movie script we were going to make when we thought he was funny.Hence we are left with Freddie Got Fingered.  On a scale of 1 to 10, 10 being Citizen Cane and 1 being a hidden toilet camera of a person defecating, this is a 0.9. "},{"Title":"Freddy Got Stupid","Date":"7 May 2001","Score":"19 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I love the Tom Green Show on MTV.  I think that Tom Green is one of the only personalities on TV who is both willing and able to push the envelope beyond the imaginations of everyone else.  He's easily the most creative talk show host since David Letterman first came on the scene.  But Freddy Got Fingered is beyond stupid; it's sick.  It's not even technically a movie, because technically, movies are supposed to have plots and Freddy Got Fingered lacks one.  This was just an excuse for Tom Green to get all of the stuff that the censors wouldn't allow on MTV to the public; I'm all the dumber for actually seeing it.  I'm scarred for life, in fact, after seeing an elephant...all over Rip Torn...oh, God, I have to go vomit....1 Star out of 10, but I couldn't give it 0 "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies I ever seen....","Date":"26 May 2002","Score":"20 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Yup. I seen a lot of movies but this one is one of the worst (maybe THE worst) I ever seen. Lame Jokes.... (and I'm a campus comedies fan so imagine how lame are the jokes!!) Avoid this movie or you'll be depressed for a week. "},{"Title":"We all got middle fingered by watching this one","Date":"21 August 2008","Score":"21 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" First things first, I have no problem with dumb comedies(Dumb and Dumber is my favorite) but I do have a problem with dumb so-called comedies like Freddy Got Fingered which try too hard to be funny and fail miserably. I'm amazed how Tom Green still has fans after watching this butt leakage on celluloid.Plot Say what? There is none. Tom Green plays an idiotic cartoonist who drives his father crazy and does a bunch of stupid things throughout the duration of this film.Opinion This is the worst dumb comedy next Bio-Dome, Baby Geniuses, Duece Bigalow European Jiggalo and Supebabies. Tom Green not only scrapes the bottom of the barrel to get laughs, he breaks through the bottom of the barrel to scrape the ground the barrel is on to get laughs and he still fails! You'll enjoy this movie and find it funny if you like seeing 1. Elephant semen being sprayed on Tom Green and Rip Torn 2.Rip Torn shaking his naked butt in front of his son while Eric B and Rakim's Microphone Fiend plays in the background. 3.Tom Green licking his friend's bleeding, protruding wound. 4 Tom Green swinging a baby around by its umbilical cord while blood splatters on Indian women beating tambourines. 5. Tom Green yanking off a horse. 6. An attractive women offering to give Tom Green skull every time you see her. 7. Tom Green wearing the innards of a dead animal on his head while getting hit by an oncoming semi truck. 8. Tom Green dancing around like an idiot in a cheese factory. 9. You get the drift. This movie is 100% laugh-free and is proof that you can make the most terrible film and IMDb reviewers will call you a genius. If you rated this movie higher than 1 star then you have no reason to pine about the awful comedies that have been released recently because you are partly responsible for their existence. Like I said, I have no problems with dumb comedies but when a comedy is stupid for the sake of being stupid I have to trounce the film. What more can I say? Do not waste time and money on this kangaroo dung on celluloid. You'll only encourage Tom Green to make more filth like this. This movie is too stupid for its own good and every lame joke and weak gag falls to the ground harder than Suge Knight(what, too soon?). Two thumbs WAY down. "}{"Title":"Totally, the worst piece of film I've seen.","Date":"1 July 2006","Score":"21 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I absolutely recommend everyone to avoid this movie, unless you love humour with really bad taste. I watched this one at my friend's house, and he actually thought it was fun, but also agreed that some of the parts were REALLY, bad.I was lucky, seeing this one at my friend's house, so at least I didn't have to pay for it. When about 10 minutes of the film had passed, I was like Seriously, I don't wanna watch this, change movie! I thought to myself; Who write's this kind of sh*t??!?!! And of course, after taking a look at the DVD cover I saw that it was, Tom Green himself, who directed, starred and wrote the thing. JUST,an AWFUL MOVIE! "},{"Title":"sick and retarded...","Date":"20 May 2003","Score":"21 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  this movies is nasty.not a single moment is funny in this movie. there should be a new category or jenre for this kind of movie,called 'retarded'. 0/10 "},{"Title":"Painfully horrible","Date":"12 April 2003","Score":"21 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Wow.  This movie is actually watchable because it's so bad.  You can't take your eyes off the screen because all you keep thinking is - someone read this script and greenlighted it?  Someone actually put their own money up to finance this movie?  Somebody actually thought this movie would make money?  It is absolutely the worst piece of trash I have ever seen since Men at Work with the Sheen brothers.  And I like Tom Green, but this is the absolute worst thing anyone has ever put on screen.  Don't wasted one minute of your time watching it. "},{"Title":"A disgrace to film!!!","Date":"17 March 2003","Score":"21 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is by far one of the WORST films I have EVER seen...and I've watched a few Steven Segal films in my time!! I love films like Road Trip, American Pie etc...but I found the only funny (ish) part of the film was the outtakes at the end. I feel robbed of 90 minutes of my life. Thanks for nothing Tom!!! "},{"Title":"The worst movie ever put on film","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"21 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  How did this so-called script get green-lighted? What was Rip Torn doing in this schlock? Does Tom Green really think this material is funny? These are only a few of the questions that don't have a logical answer for this s**t. Luckily I didn't have to pay money to see this. I was told by someone that this is really funny. I watched it in two parts. Why did I see the second half? Beats me. Tom Green will say or do anything for a laugh. The question is who laughs? Do people really want to see animal sex organs and excrement? This movie was just nonsense and tasteless and gross. It definitely deserved all the Razzies it won. Hopefully this will mean the end of Green's career in the entertainment industry. "},{"Title":"This is so bad, you wont know how bad","Date":"10 March 2002","Score":"21 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Wow, this is so bad. Although I had a few laughs at The Tom Greene Show at MTV, this I can't sit trough. He cuts open a deer, licks at the bone of a broken leg and eats 10 sandwiches at one time while he watches how two horses having sex. And that's just the first 20 minutes. One out of ten for this crap! "},{"Title":"Beneath contempt","Date":"13 December 2001","Score":"21 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A revolting, repulsive, putrid, mean-spirited, ultra-juvenile, brainless waste of film. To quote Homer Simpson, It was the worst piece of garbage I've ever seen. And that's not easy for me to say.Freddy Got Fingered has seriously caused me to reconsider what the term bad movie means. If the worst films of all time were tossed into a swamp and allowed to settle, FGF would be the crap UNDER the crap at the bottom of the swamp.Devoid of even one laugh and obsessive in its search for the lowest level of maliciousness, this flick is literally unsettling to watch. I tried to hang in there, not out of enjoyment but out of defiance. Alas, I gave up.Tom Green, who was once funny in very limited doses, is revealed as the desperate, untalented hack he is. He's like the six-year-old kid who eats poop at recess just for the attention. Only he's thirty.I actually felt sorry for the people in this film, except for Green himself. My guess is they'll repress the memory, much like a molested child might. Oh, by the way, the film does make fun of child molesting. Ha ha ha! Child molesting! Don't you get it?No, neither do I.1/10, only because there are no negative numbers to choose from. Don't say you weren't warned.  "},{"Title":"I feel fingered","Date":"4 August 2008","Score":"22 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Wow. Now I've seen my share of atrocious movies, including a test screening of the Brothers Solomon, but this is by far the worst piece of Elephant Semen, I've ever seen. Tom Green has made a career out of embarrassing himself. Embarrassing himself! Not to mention repeating himself over and over. This movie could've been 30 minutes long if he didn't repeat the same dialogue over and over. I seriously feel sorry for Marisa Coughlan who did not work much after that role. The things some people will do for a buck. Porn would have been less degrading to her family.Only see this movie if you find the following hilarious.-Rip Torn's bare ass -Cheese helmets -Someone's father being drenched in Elephant Jizz -Poorly animated Centaur cartoons -An annoying asshole on screen for and hour and twenty six minutes.Trust me, even if this sounds kind of funny, it's not. At all. Funny. "},{"Title":"Tom Greens Highly Anticipated First Starring Role Delivers Crap","Date":"16 February 2004","Score":"22 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie came out at about the height of tom greens popularity. I used to watch his show religiously and always thought that tom had a unique take on comedy. I rented this shortly after it came out on video expecting big things from green. Instead he used in plot so oversimplified and cliche that a small child would find it immature. And instead of trying to bring something new to the screen comically green attempts to recycle successful and controversial parts of his show. If you spend  even a penny to see this movie you're being ripped off. "},{"Title":"the money for this film could have been used for a lot of good things","Date":"4 February 2004","Score":"22 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  *contains minor spoilers* I noticed that when critics reviewed this movie they flirted with terms much like failed surrealism or they praised Tom Green for having the guts to do this movie even though it failed. But all that is completely unnecessary - the movie is abominably stupid and that's all it aimed at. I also heard that if you don't find this movie funny you need to be more laid back and get a sense of humour. I mean, I'm pretty sure I have a sense of humour, but the giggles this movie elicits mirror those of an elementary school kid who has just found out that sexual intercourse entails penetrating the vagina with the penis. Yet does jacking off an elephant, or severing an umbilical cord with your teeth and spraying the delivery room with maternal blood really bring out the child in us? As far as I'm concerned it doesn't, but one thing is for sure. Whatever laughs the movie gets (and I *believe* it is intended as a comedy) are laughs of shock. The movie shows us freak show style strangeness and we are so confused the only reaction we can come up with is laughter. And maybe the movie succeeds on that level. But I didn't find it that shocking, and I'm sure that in a few years a hundred other movies will beat its grossness and, sometimes, just plain sadistic ugliness. The movie is sadistic (I won't bother to describe the plot), and the main character enjoys tormenting other people. I don't know if this is what is supposed to be funny, but it certainly leads to no point and is more annoying than anything else. The whole movie, in fact, is just plain retarded. And I mean retarded in its objective, critical sense, not in any derogatory way. So I guess I don't recommend Freddy Got Fingered, unless you must satisfy your curiousity, your inner child so to speak. "}{"Title":"Why?","Date":"15 November 2003","Score":"22 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I have many chances to catch this 'film' on cable. I have had many times where I tried to sit through the entire film. In all of my attempts to watch this, I have to say this this is positively the worst film that I have ever laid my eyes on. Considering that I've seen PLAN NINE FROM OUTER SPACE, GLEN OR GLENDA, and Bob Guccione's CALIGULA--that's saying a lot.There are many vignettes in FREDDIE GOT FINGERED that I'm still trying to flush out of my head. The most odious is when Gordo births a baby, bites through the umbilical cord and whirls it around the hospital woman.From all of the things that went on during the production and during the time when some studio exec green-lighted the movie, I wonder about one thing did anybody think that this was funny?You know---I'm not being entirely truthful. There was one moment that amused me. It was when the studio exec played by Anthony Michael Hall commented to Goldo about his drawings You see what I mean...Doesn't make any sense....pretty f**king stupid...Why?Because it summed up the entire film.... "},{"Title":"This movie is a real nothing","Date":"6 May 2003","Score":"22 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I am the kind of person that always watch movies not in a snobbish way. I always try to find the good in a movie, I know that cinema isn't only Fellini or Bergman, sometimes you need that, but sometimes you just want to have fun with a trash b-movie (I love horrors, but even some stupid comedy can do). Then I find this movie, it looks like the demential comedy that has plenty of invention and think can be ok. It lasts almost 2 hours and I only laughed once! (the scene of the false navel). Beside that I couldn't find the movie funny. Maybe it's telling us something about finding a job and I am so happy a got one, cause on the contrary this movie for sure would have furtherly depressed me! I'll show it to some friends of mine to test their IQ. The one who laughs more won't be my friend again.  "},{"Title":"Much worse than getting fingered.","Date":"1 May 2002","Score":"22 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I've seen Road Trip, and this is supposed to be similar to American Pie and Scary Movie. The only similarities I saw were some recognizable actors doing cameos and some interaction with animals. The rest of the movie was Tom Green screaming and acting like a three-year-old having a tantrum. I don't think the other actors had to rehearse to give him the strange looks. I felt bad for everyone else in the movie, and the best part was when my wife told me that Drew had divorced him. After seeing this movie, I don't think she was acting when she was yelling at him in the animation studio. I post this as a warning Don't waste your time, unless you are really searching for a movie that tries to be funny and isn't, that tries to have bad taste but comes across as mediocre. "},{"Title":"I haven't seen anything like this...","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"22 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It isn't humanly possible to eat that much in an entire lifespan, as I had the feeling to throw up again after I had watched that movie. Films like 'Barbed Wire' and 'Anaconda' Are actually great virtuosity to soul and body compared to this film. I can't think of one thing, not a single one, that could make me watch that movie again, I'd rather be overrun by a heard of milk producing hoove animals!! If Tom Green ever gets another part in a movie I'll be surprised indeed... I loved him in 'Road Trip' for example, but his performance in 'Freddy Got Fingered' was mildly said despicable. I feel truly sorry for those people who has edited 'Freddy Got Fingered' their misery and agony must have been horrible and unbearable, at least mine was over after I had watched it one time, they had to watch the same scene again and again. "},{"Title":"Just look away and you won't be hurt.","Date":"25 December 2001","Score":"22 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If you think, I'm not going to turn off this movie, it just has to get better!!..... It doesn't. Just turn it off, the sooner the better.  Better yet, don't even allow your friends to be subjected to it.  This movie is so bad, the powers that be should pull the copies off the shelves to protect the innocent.  I forgive Rip Torn.  We all should be allowed to make mistakes. "},{"Title":"zzzzzz.... is it over yet? - typical Freddy screening","Date":"20 April 2001","Score":"22 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  At about 10 minutes into this film, I realized that I had seen all that I needed to see to get a clear picture of its worth.  After those 10 minutes, everything that followed failed to involve me in any way.  I didn't laugh. I wasn't shocked.  I wasn't angered by the audacious depravity of Tom Green's antics.Why?Because Tom Green is only funny (or shocking, or anger inducing) when his material is freewheeling, unscripted mayhem upon unsuspecting good ol' folk. For these elements, I enjoy his TV show immensly, both vicariously and intellectually.This movie has none of those elements.  It's a vacuum.  It plays out like one of those hyperactive, annoying 2nd graders who will try anything to get your attention.  For 90 minutes, it's like the screen is screaming Hey look at me!  I'm being naughty!!  Big deal.This movie must have looked great on paper.  It might have even worked had it been broken up into segments for his television program.  But now I know its all scripted.  And now I wonder if it all had been scripted before.  If it wasn't, the joke is (still) on the unsuspecting masses.  If it was, however, then the joke is on Tom Green.   "},{"Title":"only movie i ever fast forwarded through","Date":"24 November 2003","Score":"23 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I love tom green. that is to say, i love his old show, the one that got cancelled. after that, his humor got rather.. well, he fell off. he used to be funny with a sort of witty background to everything he did. yes, he was disgusting, but he wasnt just that. there was wit behind all of his actions, and thats what made it funny.this movie was awful. i remember that i laughed only a couple times. it seemed that tom had lost his wit at this time of his career, and stuck with the disgusting stuff instead. i fast-forwarded through parts of this movie, and i've never done that with any other rental. i just couldnt stand it.as ebert said tom is unable to promote his own movies anymore. and its kind of sad. he messed up. but, thats life in the spotlight. "},{"Title":"awful!","Date":"23 October 2003","Score":"23 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'll be brief, what was Rip Torn thinking about when he signed up for this - absolute rubbish from start to finish. It's obvious that Tom Green hasn't an ounce of comedy in his body, cringeworthy garbage - That's all I have to say. "},{"Title":"You have to be pretty messed up to really like it","Date":"4 August 2003","Score":"23 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The first time I viewed this film, I abhorred it. It is was too long, dull, and contained few laughs. I was actually expect something watchable. Then I watched it on cable again expecting nothing and it actually grew on me. Yes I acknowledge the fact that Tom Green has little talent and only works as a supporting character(Road Trip) But hey who cares? One thing If you are a normal, clean minded individual, DO NOT WATCH THIS FILM. If you are sick, perverted weirdo like me watch it and revel in such jokes as Look Daddy, I'm a farmer! and Get inside the Animal While this gags would sick, they were amusing. I DID NOT like to see that little kid getting constantly injured. Now as a sick weirdo, I can stand adults getting hurt, but with kids its just plain tacky.For Normal People 1/10 For sickos 5/10 (The plot needed serious work)  "},{"Title":"An exercise in horrible.","Date":"2 January 2002","Score":"23 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Freddy Got Fingered is amazing.  Amazing, in the fact that it is probably the worst movie I have ever scene.  I can enjoy the Tom Green Show from time to time, but this movie provided me none of the enjoyment of the show.The plot of the movie is non-existant, allbeit that the film belongs to a genre where a lack of plot is sometimes acceptable, typically when coupled with humor.  The humor in Freddy Got Fingered is however, as non-existant as the plot.It doesn't surprise me that Tom Green's movie is as bad as it is, but shame on Harlan Williams, Drew Berrymore, Anthony Michael Hall, and other actor that's produced an enjoyable film for participating in it.To sum it up...  This movie was soooo bad that it prompted me to post my first comment here on IMDB. "}{"Title":"Overrated!","Date":"21 January 2011","Score":"24 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Luckily, I watched this movie on TV and only half-way to the end, but that was enough just to find out how awful it really is.I was sitting there, on the couch, saying to myself Is there something wrong with me? This movie is supposed to be funny, why it doesn't make me laugh? Maybe it's because I'm Iranian, this must be funny to Americans.But as the time moved on, it got worse. Tom Green's character is totally annoying, and I mean ANNOYING. How on earth, could somebody be so dumb? The movie's logic is even worse. Literally impossible things happen (and not impossible in a good way, but in worst possible way).Although the score is only 4, I gotta say, it's highly overrated. I can't believe how some people rated it as 8 or even 10!Don't watch this movie, don't waste your time. "},{"Title":"So sick it's not even entertaining","Date":"6 April 2003","Score":"24 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I have seen a few sick films in my time, albeit they tend to be in the exploitation/horror category, but this movie is a disgrace to humanity. If someone honestly finds this movie funny or good at any level he seriously has some issues and I would hardily recommend a visit to the local shrink. Even if you take all the really sick & weird bits off the movie still is horrible, it is just plain stinking horrible, a total waste of anything applied on it except garbage bin.Avoid at all costs, watching paint dry is great entertainmet compared to this. "},{"Title":"Stupd","Date":"23 December 2001","Score":"24 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I thought this movie was horrible! There was absolutely no point to this movie at all!! It was just Tom Green being an idiot for over an hr! Do NOT rent this if your looking for a good movie or even a good laugh! Terrible! Even I thought Tom Green had more class than he showed in this movie! "},{"Title":"Why isn't this on bottom 100?","Date":"25 November 2006","Score":"25 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" First off, this guy is a FREAK. Hes not different, hes not unique hes a freak. This movie made me want to puke several times and I can actually say that Im a worse person because of it. Don't watch it!Now if your a true bad movie lovers you wont give a rats *bleep* whether I tell you to see it or not, perhaps you even want to see it more after my comment. So heres the very tiny storyline Basically hes some sort of a unemployed cartoon animator trying to get a job. Hes parents thinks hes a looser (who can blaim them?). He also have a brother who is doing fairly well but never gets attention from the parents (Everybody loves Raymond ripoff?) so hes like there sometimes looking sad or whatever. Then he goes to a office trying to get a job and on the way he sees a stud farm and jacks off the horse while moaning. Really thats torture. I was crying during this. Anyways he gets there and then he talks to Drew Barrymore (!!!!!) and then goes to see the boss of the company. He gets declined and after this its a tale about him trying to make it to prove himself to the parents and find love.And during that tale he whips a wheelchair bound lady, delivers a baby against the mothers will, jacks off several big animals, breaks other people legs and so on.This is a horrible movie, and please, PLEASE don't see it! Im telling you don't you will regret it! "},{"Title":"had i not needed them, i would have put out my eyes","Date":"3 March 2004","Score":"25 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  the fact that i even know the name tom green is proof that with the right publicity anyone could make a movie.  i never found his show funny, and saw this movie more out of morbid curiosity than desire to see a comedic genius. (to ensure that he didnt get a penny, i used a free movie pass).i have seen bad movies.  in fact, i love some bad movies.  traxx. hysterical.  uhf.  my tastes run far and wide.  but this movie was worse than i had ever anticipated.  the last time i laughed this little was first wives club.avoid it. don't rent it.  i know that i'm doing my best to avoid the memories of it. "},{"Title":"shield your eyes","Date":"21 February 2003","Score":"26 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Possibly one of the worst films I have ever encountered.  One should feel bad even referring to this disastrous collage of sickening images as film, since it is nothing more than a multi-million dollar budget used for pointless debauchery and shock humor.  Would not recommend to anyone....period. "},{"Title":"Oh god it's awful","Date":"21 August 2005","Score":"28 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Every minute I spent watching it, I rued the fact that I spent &#128;1 buying this DVD. Would NOT even wish it on someone I had a grudge against. It is just that awful.Jeez to think that 1&#128; I could have spent on something way more productive like a new drain-sieve...Just where to begin... misled by the clown's comment on the first page of this IMDb review, as well as a wacky description for the movie, and the fact that it was available for 1&#128; at a garage sale (the only movie in that collection, which tells ya, how others view this horrible flick), I made the error of judgment and actually bought this DVD.What followed were 1,5 hours of the worst kind of rubbish one can pass off as a film. Even Tom Green, I thought, had standards... well this movie put an end to those notions too. Ack, a day to lament, and this DVD, best used as a coaster. "},{"Title":"Tom Green show stretched out for ninety minutes","Date":"1 May 2002","Score":"28 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Pros NoneCons Bad humor, Crappy directing, overxposure of Tom Green, animal mutilation.The Tom Green show was funny in MTV because it only showed Tom Green acting like a jackass for thirty minutes. Imagine a film which basically stretches it out for an hour more and you have Freddy Got Fingered, quite possibly the worst movie of 2001. Gord (Tom Green) is a deadbeat cartoonist who lives with his parents (played by Rip torn and Julie Hargerty). He accuses them of fingering freddy, his younger brother hence the title. I can't believe Rip would be associated with this mess.I guess the message of this film is to believe in your kids even though they are approaching thirty, have no job, and still living in your basement. Tom Green basically whacks off an elephant and a cow and whips his disabled girlfriend in the legs violently. The joke is that she dosn't feel it and it is supposed to be foreplay to her. I guess the director(Green) thought we would all be laughing our guts out in the aisle of the cinema but he was wrong. It p***** me off to see such a golden opportunity wasted.I mean Green could have told the execs that he was making freedy, then go and make a decent drama or comedy but instead he makes dreck. Tom Green is not much of a director, an actor and thankfully, this could be his last venture into the big screen. All i want to know is who greenlighted this project and shame on them for releasing this nightmare onto unsuspecting moviegoers. Look for a Brief cameo by Drew Barrymore, who was married to him at the time but realized what a big mistake she had done and promptly divorced him.Premise Coming of age story about a cartoonist.Freddy Got Fingered took home numerous Razzie awards.Grade 1/10 (Godawful dreck) "},{"Title":"The worst movie of all time","Date":"21 March 2002","Score":"28 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is hands down the worst movie of all time.  Tom Green is a complete idiot.  Not one thing he says or does in this movie is at all funny.  It's just nonsensical shock humor with no thought involved.  It's not that the movie is offensive, it's just that it's DUMB.  Real dumb.  There is almost no plot whatsoever as it is abandoned 5 minutes into the movie in order for Tom Green to run around screaming and humping random things.  Basically, this movie couldn't possibly be any worse.   "},{"Title":"Calling this film GARBAGE is an understatement","Date":"30 January 2004","Score":"32 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  My Rating 1/2 out of ****.When Freddy Got Fingered came out it was consistently bashed by every critic. So one day I decided to check out Freddy Got Fingered on HBO. What a big F*ckin mistake that was. What a waste of film, money, and my time. I cannot see what anyone sees in this piece of crap.Before Freddy Got Fingered I did not hate Tom Green. In fact, I thought he was funny in Road Trip. So what drugs did he take to come up with this film? Green is the writer/director, and star of the film. It is actually rather easy to say which one he does the worst job at.Green's direction actually means nothing in the film, but it is rather blandly directed. Even though, Green's direction is lackluster it is unlikely that even an accomplished director could turn this into something worthwhile.Arguably, Green's worst job is that of a writer. The plot is meaningless in this film. It is just there for Green to do some stupid things that we are supposed to think is funny. How in the hell can people find this funny? Jacking off an Elephant? Biting an umbilical cord? Walking around with a deer carcass on? These are excruciatingly unfunny and stupid.The acting is nothing good. Rip Torn and Drew Barrymore are so incredibly over the top that its almost funny(almost but not quite). Julie Hagerty is completely forgettable (thats more of a good thing).Two things are worth mentioning in this s***hole of a film. First, Tom Green running around screaming in a building. Its just random but it is amusing. Also, someone mentioned an Apocalypse Now reference. I saw that and thought it was kind of clever. However, thats about two minutes in an 87 minute film. Freddy Got Fingered is a disaster and will rank as one of the worst films of all time. "}{"Title":"The most gruesome specticle ever created.","Date":"28 July 2003","Score":"36 out of 63 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is definitely one of the worst movies to ever have been filmed. It makes you wonder as to why Tom Greem isn't somewhere waiting tables. While he is sometimes funny on his own show, this movie offers nothing more than a disturbing spectacle of horror. There is no story, no plot, no intellectual signs of any kind, and surely there is no comedy, unless of course you find playing with a horse's privates is funny or skinning a deer and wearing its carcass is hilarious. The jokes are cruel, gruesom, and very sad. (1/10) "},{"Title":"Beyond bad.","Date":"11 March 2002","Score":"39 out of 69 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  To say that this film is bad would be an understatement. This film is probably the worst film I've had the misfortune of watching. It is so indescribably bad that no amount of criticism I could dish out could even remotely come close to describing the true nature of this insipid piece of putrid filth. Tom Green ,in my opinion, is probably the worst actor/comedian to ever appear in cinema. Heed my warning, avoid this turkey like the plague.  "},{"Title":"Ugh....","Date":"22 July 2002","Score":"40 out of 71 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This came on HBO while I was half asleep and I was too groggy to shut it off. Then my body went into a state of numbness as I watched what was transpiring. This was easily the worst movie of 2001, which says A LOT.Now if you've ever seen Tom Green's show, it's series of Candid Camera type skits where he harrasses people in public by doing gross and disgusting things to get a reaction. It's like a sociology experiment gone wrong. But in Freddy Got Fingered, Green's annoying antics and stupid babbling in a scripted movie just comes across as idiotic. Well, unless the joke is just to annoy the movie goers.... Some of the scenes are just plain dumb. The backwards man bit is just bad, like something out of the old Chevy Chase show used to stall for time. He also takes throwaway lines and develops them into plot devices to annoy us more. There is one funny skit, the restaurant scene, which is the only one that at least has some sort of semblence of a plot in it...... The movie is a bad as they say it is...just trust me. "},{"Title":"They should ban this universal war crime of a film, and now i want to die","Date":"25 July 2005","Score":"43 out of 77 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This film made me cry. But in a bad way. I was so upset that I watched the first 20 minutes of this film that I walked outside, and fell on the floor, and looked at the sky, saying to myself, why isn't Tom Green on Death Row? Tom Green has made the worst movie ever and he should have been arrested for this degoratory insult and embarrassment to film-making worldwide. Not only is it so offensive, but it is so expectionally dumb, so incredibly disgusting and so unacceptably mean and bizarre(that is all a description of Tom Green, and I am being more than generous.)There is nothing good about this film, and this film is a totally new form of abysmal film-making. In fact, this isn't film-making. This is a message from Tom Green saying, @#%! the whole world This is a waste of even a bad movie fan's time. I beg you, do not even waste 1/100 of a second on this atrocity of a film. Just let it die and rot a cinematic death it deserves. And that is being generous. This film is a good and much needed end to Tom Green's career on making extremely offensive garbage. This film is the worst film ever created by man. And that is saying it in the nicest way possible. "},{"Title":"Don't waste your time.","Date":"27 April 2001","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Can I put in a vote for less than 1.  This movie not only had no plot but it wasn't funny.  I normally like dumb funny movies but this was terrible. I felt stupider just having saw it.  (yes I know stupider is not a word but that is how I felt it was spelled after seeing this movie.)  If your tempted to see this movie tear up a ten dollar bill and then stare at a blank wall for 2 hrs and you will get more enjoyment out that. "},{"Title":"Worst Movie I've seen this year (alongside Dude Where's My Car)","Date":"26 April 2001","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  To fellow followers of IMDB, Last night, my friends and I saw Freddy Got Fingered and I must say I left the theatre in aw. . . aw for the lack of any point this movie had. I am a fan of Tom Green and enjoyed everything that he has done to date including his small cameo in Charlie's Angels (Is it the Mitch?). However, last night's debacle was a disaster for the cinematic art. I am not turned off by gross-out humor. However, the gross-out humor used in this movie was not very humorous. Maybe, in thought, the ideas behind some of the things were funny. When I was trying to explain some of them to my brother, I even chuckled; but, I was not chuckling in the theatre. Certain moments like jerking off horses would be fine if it had anything to do with the movie plot (which was non-existent). In the future, things like that should stay on the small screen and, at least, there these moments would be funny just because it's the Tom. I think that if Tom Green is to go on making films, he should consult other opinions first. Road Trip was funny; freddy is not. Be warned! "},{"Title":"brutal","Date":"26 April 2001","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'm the type of person who can laugh at almost anything.  I love going to slapstick comedy movies for some relaxation and mindless humor.  I can even handle the crudest scenes out there, but this was anything but funny. There were a couple parts that I laughed at, but I spent the rest of the time wondering how such a bad movie could have ever gotten this far.  I've seen Tom Green provide some funny performances in the past, but this wasn't one of them.  I can only wonder what in the world he was thinking when he made this movie.  I went there for some light-hearted laughter, but I really didn't get it.  The best word I can use to describe this flick is disturbing  All in all it was one of the worst movies I've seen in a long time if not ever.    "},{"Title":"fortunately I went to a matine (got a discount....)","Date":"25 April 2001","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This film has little to comment on and is not worth the effort. I could have tolerated the sick, gross out, Tom Green humor (maybe) if Green had any story to tell. But he doesn't have one. He occasionally tries to pretend that there's a story being told here. But the pretense usually runs smack into one of Green's sick tableaux and gets its brains splattered all over. It came to me while I was watching this stupid travesty. Some might think the audience is the victim of Green's psychotic jokes.But I thinks it's worse than that....Green uses his audience just like one of his props, and his entire career is a sick joke aimed at someone or something else. If Green showed the slightest genuine empathy for the human condition, his humor might be excusable. But Green is obviously either too stupid to know why his stuff is offensive, or he is too basically sadistic and exploitative to give a damn. "},{"Title":"This time you can't change the channel...but you wish you could","Date":"25 April 2001","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Complete and utter tripe. I like stupid physical humour as much as the next guy, but this was just pure crap. Rehashes of old Tom Green skits, no where plot, terrible direction. I'm surprised my eyes didn't bleed, at least I didn't have to pay to see it (Hurrah for VCD)... And the compulsory An hour or so of my life which I can never get back. "},{"Title":"It is hard to convey how bad this movie is without profanity!","Date":"24 April 2001","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is one of the few times I have felt less intelligent for watching something. The only other time being the pitifull  Talented Mr Ripley. This film could not contain any less point if it tried. What the F*** were they thinking when they okayed this rubbish. There are too many reasons not to see it to list in this forum so here are the selected highlights. 1. Not funny, 2. Very weak story,   3. Tedious. Save your money. Do not see this film. "}{"Title":"Do not see this movie, I joined just to send this message.","Date":"24 April 2001","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I joined this whole thing just to be able to vote on Freddy Got Fingered. Now do not get me wrong I used to love Tom Green's show, but this was nothing like his show. A guy breaking his leg is just plain not funny, nor is licking the protruding bone. Likewise raping a pregnant woman then taking her child, biting through the umbilical cord and then taking the baby and swinging it around by the newly cut cord, in a wash of gore is just not funny. Now I have spent time is some bad movies (I saw battlefield earth three times) and I am also the cheapest person this side of the Mississippi, but I actually walked out on Freddy Got Fingered. It can all be summed up in one statement I heard in the theater from behind me THIS SUCKS! "},{"Title":"This ain't no Road Trip folks","Date":"22 April 2001","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Let me start out by saying that I like Tom Green, that's why I saw this movie.  I also thought he did a great job in his supporting role in Road Trip.  Which left me wondering what to expect from a movie in which he wrote and starred in.  Well, after having seen it, I was profoundly disappointed in this film.  While the movie did have a few hilarious scenes (dad telling Gord to make him proud, Gord driving off yelling at the lady to get the f*** out of his way) it was more or less a waste of time.  Other than a few funny moments, I found myself constantly checking my watch, wondering how long the revolting, pointless, and mindless film would last. After watching this movie, I truely believe that Tom Green should stick to his improv street antics.     1 of 10 "},{"Title":"tom green robbed me of $8 and an hour and a half of my time","Date":"22 April 2001","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  this is the absolute worst movie i have ever seen.the movie was basically a combination of fraudulent retardedness, animal porn, and scenes that only 6 year old boys and immature people find funny.I have seen some pretty bad movies in the past, but never have i felt so swindled as I did that night after enduring one and a half hours of confusion and disgust.When I chose to watch Freddy i didn't expect the movie to be an oscar contender, but at the very least something that would be funny.Honestly, for a comedy, i have never heard so less laughs and so many groans of disgust in a theater in my life.this movie really deserves a negative rating    -3/10 "},{"Title":"Dear God, whats wrong with this country","Date":"21 April 2001","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  There are times in life when you say to yourself, Im Sorry.  When I think of all the things I could have been doing instead of seeing this movie, it boggles my mind.  Not only is this the worst movie I have ever seen, it makes other pieces of s**t like Dude Wheres My Car look like Gladiator. Don't get me wrong, I think Tom Green can be funny, but you can only be so stupid.  The worst thing that happened was this movie got an R rating, that allowed Tom Green to utilize the grossest and unfunny stuff his mind could muster, and the whole baby scene, i wanted to go see any other movie immediately.  I am ashamed of Tom Green, ashamed in myself, and came very close to demanding my money back.  This is hands down the worst movie ever made.  If you go see this, you are making the biggest mistake of your life. DO NOT SEE IT!  IF YOU SEE IT, YOU WILL HATE YOURSELF!  The only joy I got out of it was knowing that I was able to see the worst movie ever made.  If anyone knows a movie that is worse let me know, because I would like to hear it.PS  Note to Tom Green, Animal dick is never funny.  Ever.  Just a tip if you remain in Hollywood after this piece of garbage "},{"Title":"The Worst Of The Kind!!!!","Date":"20 April 2001","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Please Don't go to this movie as this is the worst movie of all the times,believe me. I went with my husband and later came back to see my hubby's temper going high. He's very choosy about movies and I thought that this movie might cheer him up as this was SUPPOSED to be a comedy...only later to find out that this was the most STUPIDEST..most ANNOYING movie,ever in the whole history of the filmland. Tom Greens thinks he's one the the finest actors' around but he'd rather live in the fool's paradise coz' nobody is gonna believe him,I really wonder what Drew Barrymore saw in him. I'd give 1/10 for this movie. "},{"Title":"Worst movie I never finished seeing....","Date":"20 April 2001","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I went to a free screening of this horrid movie.....I walked out of the theater after about 10 minutes.  This movie was THAT bad.Pathetic, pathetic excuse for a movie. "},{"Title":"Worst Movie I've Ever Seen","Date":"20 April 2001","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Oh my God, was this movie bad.  Is it supposed to be a comedy?  Nobody laughed in the theater I was in.  The National Post gave this minus one star, and that's bang on. Tom Green, you are disgusting. "},{"Title":"Easily the worst film","Date":"20 April 2001","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film has to be the worst film I have ever seen in my entire life.  It is inconceivable that a major motion picture studio would actually release this film after viewing it once themselves.Obviously, the feeling was that Tom Green ( who makes Pauly Shore seem like Sir Laurence Olivier ) could carry this with his popularity ( something I have never understood from the start ).Hopefully, this will be the last time this ever happens. "},{"Title":"More annoying than you could imagine","Date":"13 April 2001","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Okay, first of all Tom Green's schtick was getting lame and repetitive enough on it's own.  But second, he betrayed what I think was the main aspect of it's appeal - the fact that it was improvised (although he really doesn't have a knack for improv) & it took people by surprise.Here, he does exactly the kind of things people expect Tom Green to do on his show.  Mess with old people, play with animals and their corpses, run around screaming to get disturbed reactions from people.  The difference is, this was actually thought out and scripted, rehearsed and everybody involved was paid (aside from the mutilated dead animals).  Kind of ruins any fun that might be had with it, doesn't it?  Oh, and for no reason at all, there is a plot, but it doesn't matter.Seriously, this was the most annoying movie I sat through.  Yes, I did sit through it (it was free for me & I took *multiple* trips to the snack counter), hoping maybe at the end he would start telling his fanbase what morons they were and that this was all a sick joke on them and their willingness to consume anything he does in his lame, overdone style.  But really, he doesn't even have to say it, the movie really does all by itself...I just hope most people get that from it.  "},{"Title":"Excrement","Date":"20 November 2006","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" There is good humor and there is bad humor. Who can define which is which? But if you were to consume the good and bad humors, eventually your body would eliminate it as an inedible excrement of humor. That is pretty much what this film is Ecrement! ... albeit, excrement of humor.Genius does not excuse Tom Green for placing his excrement in our living rooms. That Green directed this epic crap was perhaps its downfall; a little creative restraint might have saved it. But given free rein, he smothers our sensibilities with his disgusting low aspirations. He seems to think it hilarious to skateboard through a hospital, knocking over geriatric patients. Well, OK. But then there are the matters of the horse penis, the caning of the cripple, and the licking of his injured friend's open bleeding sore. I could not watch the whole thing - one exits the latrine when the odor overwhelms.The movie boasts some actual pros, such as Rip Torn, Julie Hagerty, and Drew Barrymore (odd that the name Barrymore would be in any way connected to this piece of dung). These only mislead one to believe it a legitimate production.Perhaps modern folks, while aspiring to new highs, must also sink to the depths of new lows. When they get down to the very bottom of this outhouse pit, they will find Tom Green! "}{"Title":"Green forgot something--","Date":"3 November 2005","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Outside of taste and common sense, I mean. I've read several comments on this site to the effect that Tom Green, via this film, did what he wanted to do (as if that's a viable excuse for this pile of filth,) and continued his assault in American middle-class mores with this flick. What Tommy forgot is that it's primarily those middle-class types who buy theater tickets. There is nothing that requires them to like what he does. So if his goal was to give the finger to America's middle-class types who hated his brand of humor, while simultaneously damaging the credibility of 20th Century Fox, causing investors to lose a load of money and making himself appear to be a blithering idiot, I'd say he's attained his goals. Almost 5 years later and his film is still regarded with contempt. If the hope is that it will ever become a cult classic, the folks touting it had better hurry.Green can indeed do what he likes, but his defenders are fools for thinking his work is praiseworthy based on that. In WWII, Heinrich Himmler did what he wanted to do as well. It was also gory, sadistic, filthy, outrageous and sick. So, is his memory to be blessed and pardoned just because he did what he wished in violation of all civilized standards? It cracks me up how Green's supporters react to criticism of the film by accusing critics of being old farts, and/or lacking a sense of humor. One commentator on this site even said such people have an incomplete sense of humor. If that's the case, I shall leave my sense of humor incomplete. The result is like that Schubert Symphony and the famous portrait of Geo. Washington-- unfinished but still esthetically pleasing.I feel for Rip Torn and Julie Hagerty, that they ever immersed themselves in this vomit; Anthony Michael Hall (Michael Hall today) was rescued by TV's The Dead Zone. Green's career virtually collapsed after this was released and he has only staggered to his feet again in recent years.I wouldn't normally wish this, but I hope Green fails in everything he does for the rest of his life. It would prove that justice does, indeed, exist in our universe. "},{"Title":"King of Crap","Date":"18 March 2005","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Uhh, I cannot remember every single detail in this movie, it was a while ago. All I remember is, Wow! Disturbing and Demented Movie! This movie is probably the worst movie I ever seen. Actually, I didn't see all of it, just stopped in the middle, when Tom Green was whacking the girl in the wheelchair's foot. I couldn't stand more of the repulsive action of Tom Green. Tom Green acts like a total retard in this film. He skins an animal and pretends he is one by putting the carcass on the back. I could not watch this piece of crap.Bottom Line Don't rent/purchase this film. I rented it from blockbuster, and returned it the same night! "},{"Title":"Absolute Trash","Date":"27 February 2005","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This film is the most tasteless, disgusting piece of s*** that I have ever seen. Some films (such as American Pie) contain equally disgusting scenes but nonetheless make you snicker, although why anyone would want to see American Pie more than once is beyond me. If I don't remember too many details about this movie, it is because I made a deliberate effort to purge all images in the film from my mind; but, if I recall correctly, the last scenes of the film focuses on fellatio for shock effect alone without containing the wry (but disgusting) humour that characterizes such obsessions in other films. It is truly depressing that anyone can make money from such a piece of garbage, and Tom Green's success is a testament to the North American public's complete and utter lack of taste. I am truly sorry that he had testicular cancer, but it is also a shame that some benign virus did not affect part of his brain and incapacitate those areas which enabled him to speak on camera. "},{"Title":"What the #@#%$ ???","Date":"14 August 2004","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is my pick for the worst of all time - and I have seen some movies that are greatly despised. I had the misfortune of catching this demented piece in a first-run theater, because the newspaper I was working for at the time had free passes for it. After what was basically over an hour of Tom Green's comedy I was very disturbed. I left the theater wanting to go ask for my money back, even though I had seen it for free, because I didn't think it was worth that. I later saw commercials for it on TV and realized that some of the jokes that were in the commercial didn't even make the theater cut of the movie itself - I guess even the marketing people behind this piece were confused.  "},{"Title":"Just plain terrible, don't even bother.","Date":"27 October 2002","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I watched Freddy Got Fingered knowing full-well of all the horrible reviews and backlash this movie suffered, and it is all deserved.  Freddy has got to be the most horribly written and directed movie I've seen since Battlefield Earth.  To add furthur insult to an already doomed movie is a horrible acting job done by Tom Green, whose soul comedic approach is to make an ass of himself whenever the opportunity arises.  Why must Tom Green always wander into a scene, doing something stupid and making an excuse as to why he is doing it? Then repeat that lame excuse over-and-over again?Tom Green reminds me of that guy in class that did dumb things to get attention, and people laughed, which made him believe he was popular, he continued to do it, not realizing that people were laughing AT him.  But that's just my opinion.OK, the plot goes like this, Gord Brody (Tom Green) in an aspiring cartoonist who gets rejected by a cartoon company for his lame ideas, he returns home, lives with his parents and does a bunch of stuff.  That's it. Everything.  The fact that I summed up the whole plot in less than two sentences speaks for itself.The biggest fault that FGF has is the fact that it tries to shock more than it tries to be funny, many times it had me wondering why 20th Century Fox gave Tom Green a budget to begin with.  Jacking a horse is not funny, swinging a newborn baby by the umbilical cord with blood splattering around is just sick, if you enjoy this, then please go out and rent Dumb & Dumber and watch that, that is shock/bathroom humour done properly.  Not subtle, but not over-the-top, combine that with some talented comedians and a good premise, then you have a great film.I am being really harsh with this movie, so I will even everything out by listing some things I did like about it.  The shower scene with Green in a scuba suit looking for lost treasure was amusing, as was the animated Zebras in America sketch at the end.  The daddy would you like some sausage? scene could have been decent as well, if not for it being shown 234,213 times in the previews.  Other times, this movie failed to please or amuse.  The acting hurt most of all, Rip Torn is the only one whose performance was just as painful as the star, just seeing him show his bare behind while drunk and saying to Green **** me! will set back his career at least a decade.  I just wanted to reach through the screen and smack Torn upside the head for saying Yes to this project.Horrible, barely funny in any respect, if that was Tom Green's purpose, then he succeeded, but that does not equal a likeable movie.  The fact that there are Hollywood executives marketing THIS crap to my demographic, thinking we like it, is something I take great offense to.  Tom Green did waste 15 million of 20th Century Fox's money and 90 minutes of my time, hopefully we both learned from this disaster.  First Battlefield Earth and now this, the Razzies are going to have a fun time when they hand out Worst Movie of the Decade award in 8 years.0.5/10 "},{"Title":"No.2 from the bottom","Date":"16 October 2002","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The critical reviews were a lot more entertaining to read then watching this horrible waste of tape. To my great relief it got absolutely destroyed by the critics, most in very imaginative ways. They got to use their vocabulary to full extent. How me and my girlfriend managed to finish watching it is beyond me. We kept hoping that there were going to be some redeeming moments that would produce a laugh or two and it was going to get better, but all in vain. I should've turned it off when I felt the first urge to do so... which was 5 minutes into it. How a character like Tom Green remains at large is beyond me. How he became a Hollywood star I am not even going to attempt to explain. All this malarkey said here by people who somehow managed to like this disaster of a film that you need to just be really open minded and have a good sense of humor, not take yourself too seriously and you will like it is just that - malarkey. I am very open minded and have a very good sense of humor (and so does my girlfriend - we're some of the most easy going people you will ever find), but this movie is just plain unfunny, idiotic and disgusting. When one watches is it one gets a distinct feeling of disbelief that someone in Hollywood actually spent a lot of money on making something like this. That is even taking in consideration the fact that more then half the movies that are coming out of Hollywood are total crap. That is inevitable with the amount of films being produced, but this one is so shockingly bad that I just do not understand how anyone would provide funding for it. I guess it was justified because they figured that there would be enough people who would go and watch it. It is at least nice to hear that most left the theater before it was over. That is the good news. The other piece of good news that can possibly be found here is that if a talentless wackjob like Tom Green could become a star and get 20th Century Fox to pony up cash for a project like this anyone can become a star. So for all the brainless buffoons out there - there is hope for you people. If watching the most gruesome scenes ever conceived in absolutely horrible taste is your idea of funny than you will enjoy it. To each his own as they say and I'm not here to judge you. Yeah, right. To me you have to be a total tool to find anything good in this movie. Everything in  this flick just made us cringe rather then laugh. Some here said that this was one of the funniest movies they have ever seen. Perhaps this flick could be useful in weeding out complete wackos. I think it is pretty safe to take whoever laughs until their stomach hurts at this one, load them up on trucks and take them far, far away. We will all thank Tom Green for a service he has provided this way. Someone said that it should be commended for the strong reaction it produced. I love it how people try to reach to justify just about anything sometimes. To you I say this. When you step into a pile of feces while walking on the street it also produces quite a strong reaction, doesn't it? This one is right up there... or should i say right down there with Scary Movie 2. The only reason I would put it above that masterpiece is because as shoddy as it is Freddy actually has a plot with a beginning and an end.  "},{"Title":"AN AWARD WINNER.....","Date":"5 April 2002","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I am so happy to say that this film has actually won something that it deserves...A Razzie for THE WORST PICTURE OF THE YEAR, another Razzie for WORST ACTOR OF THE YEAR, another for WORST DIRECTOR OF THE YEAR, and another for WORST WRITTING OF THE YEAR!I am so troubled by the fact that a movie that shows a man REALLY masturbating a live horse, swing a newborn baby around a room by the umbellical cord, beat a handycapped woman's legs for sexual pleasure, sucking a raw cow udder like he was giving oral sex on a penis, etc... I just can't believe some people find this as entertainment.What has become of our morals?  What has become our society?  What the HELL went wrong with Tom Green's mind?  What is WRONG with this man? "},{"Title":"Stupifying","Date":"24 December 2001","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Freddy Got Fingered doesn't need a review, it needs a viewer's guide.  I don't know whether I just watched the worst movie I've ever seen, or some piece of insane genius that I am far too dumb to comprehend.  I don't even know what to rate it.  On the IMDb's 1 to 10 scale, I think I'd give this movie a V.I saw this film explicitly for the purpose of mockery.  Given its absolute dreadful reviews, I figured it was a no-brainer for the kind of crappy movie my friends and I enjoy getting together to watch and laugh at.  If I was expecting a bomb, I got a piece of fruit.  Or maybe I got a piece of a horse's anatomy, since that is actually in the film.  Twice.This is said by a guy who has watched, and occassionally enjoyed Tom Green's MTV show.  His sheer enthusiasm for pissing people off is something to behold, if not applaud.  And he was funny in his limited screen time in Road Trip.The difference between his television antics and his film antics, is that on television is he making people on screen uncomfortable and we are able to sit back and laugh at them; while in the movie we are forced to sit through Green's bizarre and often grotesque antics completely unfiltered.  There is no one to laugh at here.  On Green's show, he'd have put a camera in the theater where this thing is shown and let you, the viewer, watch the horror on the faces of those he'd suckered into watching it.That would have been hilarious.  This, instead, is uncomfortable in a truly unique way.  Green plays Gord Brody, an aspiring animator who has a highly strained relationship with his father Jim, played by Rip Torn, who matches Green's insane antics with gusto that's at once impressive and shameful.You wouldn't suspect it just by looking at young Gord, but his dreams reach far beyond those of a lucrative animation contract.  He also wants to play with a male horse's genitals, which he accomplishes on the way to Hollywood. He also wants to build a half pipe to skateboard on.  He does so, and when his friend goes for a first ride he promptly breaks his leg, and Gord suckles on the protruding bone and flesh while his father yells angrily. Oh, that wacky Gord.The film goes on and on like this; lord knows what PETA thought of the scene with Gord and a dead deer, just after he's received the advice to get inside the animals.Green's ability to direct and write (anything but disgusting material) don't rate with his knack for freaking people out.  To call this weird thing misguided is the unterstatement of a lifetime.  I don't know how this movie could have been made to play as entertainment for audiences who aren't totally in love with Green's offbeat persona.  For a casual fan, it just looks like the weirdest movie in a long time.  And I saw Pootie Tang. "},{"Title":"You'll have nightmaires,","Date":"3 November 2001","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  THIS MOVIE IS SICK! The sickest movie I have ever seen. It is sick, I was a friends house who got it as a free rental. I thought I was going to puke. AVOID THIS MOVIE! If you can do anything for yourself don't see this movie. This movie is so bad, so stupid, so terrible, I have no idea how it ever got made. This movie is purely for shock value and nothing else. Only a sick person would like this movie. I'd take Hannibal to this any day. And Hannibal was a sick movie. I give this movie rancid stinky green maggot infested slim out of 10. This movie doesn't diserve a 0. It's an insult to 0's everywhere.  "},{"Title":"PUKE!","Date":"28 October 2001","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I have NEVER stopped watching a movie before in my life, but I only made it 15 minutes into this film. I am a big fan of comedy, and am pretty liberal in what enjoy, but this movie was sick. Tom Green has, IMHO, gotten less and less funny over the years, but I am always willing to give someone a chance. Some of his antics are still funny, but this movie was just disgusting. I'm not going to waste time telling you WHY I hated it but I will say avoid this movie at ALL COSTS! "}{"Title":"Hollywood Has Hit A New Low","Date":"23 October 2001","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is the worst movie ever.  This movie makes Valentine look like an Oscar contender.  How can anyone find this movie funny?  I hate Tom Green and I don't why I rented it.  I had a severe lapse in judgment.  I think he was 100 times better in Road Trip.  I can't believe Rip Torn stooped this low for a part in this movie.  I don't like the idea of a kid being smacked around all of the time.  I think the decency level in Hollywood has reached a new low.  This is definitely the worst movie of 2001 and the most reprehensible movie of all-time.  I hope it sweeps the Razzy awards in 2002.  No a Razzy is too good for this movie, how does a public burning sound instead?0 out of 10.  How can anybody stand this movie.  It's an insult to moviemakers and movie lovers everywhere. "},{"Title":"And the audience got shafted.","Date":"26 April 2001","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is meant to shock and disgust. Fine. But I expected a laugh or two along the way. I didn't get a single one. The closest thing was the footage of the rocket powered wheel chair but by the time it shows up you are so numb from just staring blankly at the screen while Tom does his uh...thing that it has little effect. I'm usually a big fan of the absurd and comedy on the edge but this movie is so far from the edge that it couldn't even find the edge with long range radar.Unfortunately it is even further away from comedy. Andy Kaufman was funny. This is just a gross out fest. What is funny about a running gag of a small child getting his face smashed complete with copious amounts of blood and teeth? What is funny about cutting open a deer and playing in its entrails? What's funny about watching Tom play with a horses penis? Fun for the horse maybe but what was the audience supposed to get out of it? The only reason to go to this movie is if you are curious about just how far Tom will go. That is settled by this movie. He has no limits just like he has no taste, no heart, and no comic timing.I'm glad that many other fine talents have come from Canada. If all we had was Tom Green I would be all for closing the border.  "},{"Title":"The real title should be, Tom Green's Sick World of Bestiality","Date":"21 April 2001","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Let's face it, people.  For some odd reason, there are losers that find the Canadian-born Tom Green funny.  Why?  He has never made an original joke nor done anything remotely hilarious.  Tom Green has severe mental, social, and sexual issues.  I didn't laugh once during the whole movie...I laugh at anything too...I even laugh during serious drama sometimes!Remember that kid in your classroom in Junior High that used to flip his eyelids or that kid that used to make milk come out of his nose?  He is probably funnier than Tom Green.  What about the kid that used to sexually pleasure animals for his own amusement?  Oh no wait, that's Tom Green!  Tom Green is a sick individual who actually pleasures animals.  No, that's not a joke.  He REALLY DOES do that in the movie.  I don't care if anyone says, Oh, they're fake or it's acting.  The cold hard fact is that Tom Green is a demented, perverted, bizarre individual who would prefer messing around with a horse instead of a woman.  When I look at Tom Green it makes me sick to see what Canada has produced and excreted on us.  What did we do to deserve this, Canada?  It's too bad this movie was released to the public, it would be better used to induce vomiting for lab rats or use the movie as a documentary on why not to procreate.I suggest you flush this movie or destroy every copy of it you can find.  If a future civilization ever finds this, it just makes all of us look bad.The worst part is...people find him funny?  I pity you pathetic fools who have never seen a real comedy...go watch a good movie like Slap Shot, Dumb & Dumber, Airplane, Bean (extremely underrated), Austin Powers, Ace Ventura, The Naked Gun, Meet The Parents, etc..  This is going to be on the Bottom #100 in no time...otherwise, hell is freezing over... "},{"Title":"My new Worst Movie of All Time","Date":"18 April 2001","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I think I need to state that I do like comedies I loved Airplane, giggled myself stupid at American Pie and know most Monty Python skits by heart.   That said, I got home from the sneak preview of Freddy Got Fingered over an hour ago, and still am at a loss for words.  Maybe a bit of my history with Tom Green - the Howard Stern of the comic set - will help put things in perspective.  I first saw Tom Green on MTV years ago and remember only that I turned the channel after a few seconds.  I next saw him in Road Trip where I shuffled uncomfortably in my seat every time he came on screen.   I did however find him mildly amusing in Charlie's Angels, so when a friend invited me to the premiere I decided to give Green one more chance.   Having endured an agonizing hour and a half (during which I checked my watch literally every ten minutes) watching Green's latest effort I can now state unequivocally that I dislike Tom Green more than any comedian I have ever seen past, present and probably future.Warning  possible spoilers ahead - not that anything could spoil this film...Gord is the ultimate slacker a 28 year old skateboard riding half-wit, he leaves the security of his parents' basement, to take a job in a cheese sandwich factory with aspirations of being a professional animator. When his dreams are dashed, Gord returns home in disgrace, moves back into the basement and endures his father's jibes.  Gord soon becomes involved with a beautiful woman, and sets out to prove his father wrong.Suffice it to say that scenes with Green shaking a horse's penis, swinging a baby around by the umbilical cord and jokes made at the expense of the handicapped are bad enough.  But when you mix in child molestation humor, more swearing than Scarface and animal masturbation, I have to draw the line.  I sat speechless during this hideous mess of a movie astounded at its spectacular stupidity and phenomenal unfunniness.  What made this experience even more unbelievable was that some people actually laughed repeatedly at this film.  This movie is by far the worst, most disjointed film that I have ever seen (at least I laughed during Battlefield Earth ) and makes Tomcats look like Shakespeare.  Okay, maybe that's going a bit too far...To think I could have gone to Beautiful Creatures if only my co-worker had called me five minutes earlier...  Remember, brain cells are a precious thing, and if you feel like killing some, have a martini, at least you'll enjoy the experience..  DO NOT GO TO THIS FILM!!!!!!!!!  "},{"Title":"An abomination","Date":"16 April 2001","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  To sit through this entire movie was one of the most excruciatingly uncomfortable experiences of my life. I could not wait for it to end. The gags were disgusting to the point of being offensive; worst of all, they weren't funny. I didn't laugh once during the movie. Usually, I'm all for gross bathroom humor. I liked American Pie. I thought Road Trip was hilarious. I even caught myself laughing hard at Scary Movie. But Freddy Got Fingered goes beyond where a movie should go. Scary Movie pushed the envelope, but squeaked by due to some hilarious scenes. Freddy Got Fingered, however, doesn't have any clever or funny gags to lean on. It falls flat. Why talented and proven actors like Rip Torn and Julie Hagerty would take roles in such a terrible movie, I have no idea. Very disappointing.The movie is boring, annoying, stupid, and unfunny. Tom Green needs to crawl back under the dead moose that made him so popular. No Stars, no thumbs up, no chance of me seeing it again. This isn't a review; it's a warning! "},{"Title":"Daddy, would you like some sausage?","Date":"19 November 2009","Score":"13 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Proud winner in five categories at the 2001 Razzies including Worst Picture, Worst Director and Worst Screenplay; an undisputed fixture of Wikipedia's 'List of films considered the worst', and recipient of notices like quite simply the worst movie ever released by a major studio in Hollywood history, Canadian Tom Green's puke-party is one of the most vilified movies of all time, owing to such non-sequential set pieces as Green masturbating a horse - then an elephant - to issue. Green presumably thought he wasn't so much pushing the envelope, like some Andy Kaufman-esquire visionary, as folding it into a paper plane and floating it off a cliff. It would perhaps be more accurate to say he was really just defecating into a plastic bag, setting it on fire and then dancing around it naked with a rock-hard boner. Anti-PC power Face-melting. Vicar-baiting potential 110. Scat-factor Crimson. Blasphemy/sacrilege/profanity Indeed so. "},{"Title":"Awful","Date":"29 May 2009","Score":"13 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I personally think that Tom Green overdid the humor in Freddy got Fingered. His bizarre antics just really didn't pop with me and the movie grew boring very quickly. Anyway Tom Green is Gord Brody, a slacker cartoonist that tried to go out on his own, but went back to live with his parents and brother Freddy (Eddie Kaye Thomas). His father (Rip Torn) tries to push him out, but Gord spreads rumors of his dad sexually abusing Freddy, which pretty much solidifies him staying with them. I just never really found the plot, the humor or the way the humor was executed funny. Tom Green just really tried too hard to make all of us laugh at his expense. So really if you are a die hard Tom Green fan then you can check this out, but otherwise don't even bother. "},{"Title":"This movie sucked the life out of me in 1 min of watching it.","Date":"27 September 2006","Score":"13 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Time like this you have to ask why in gods name did something like this get made I fill so dumb to ever think about watching this movie and I'm the type of person who likes just about any movie but this is the worst movie ever made by a human well I take that back it was made by some really dumb monkeys and the king of the dumba!@es was the star tom green should never be able to make other movie ever. I wish I could talk about the plot by there was no plot not one thing about this movie was good if your think about renting this movie have someone hit you in the head with a baseball bat because its a lot more better then this movie. "},{"Title":"So lame it's not even funny","Date":"27 August 2005","Score":"13 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" What's next? Andy Milonakis The Movie?! This is one of those films that only the stupidest of MTV whores could find entertaining. Tom Green tries too hard to be retarded throughout the whole film, and although this is the point, it just makes Freddy Got Fingered infinitely more tedious viewing. I was amazed I got through the whole movie without getting cancer. I'm not even going to go through the plot, it is simply not worth your time. What I will say is that the film comprises of Tom Green prancing around the place, further degrading himself along the way. Rip Torn isn't much better either. I'm pretty sure this ruined his career too. Although there are some who like this film ironically, the film just screams kick me in the shin, and I wonder, is this film awful on purpose?!Definitely the worst film I have ever seen. The saddest part is, we're going to see more of the same junk from the likes of MTV. Brace yourself, we have already entered the Stupid Ages. "},{"Title":"My Brain could not function afterward","Date":"24 March 2004","Score":"13 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"    This is the worst movie ever made in the history.  Tom Green is the worst actor ever!  He deserves to rot in hell and be raped by the dear that he cut open and danced around in in this movie!  The jokes and humor were both sick and un funny, This movie had the worst acting ever, and the characters were soooooooo Anoying!!!  All thoughout that movie I wanted to take Gordo by the neck and just strangualate him!  Gord also made this awful animate dshow called Zeebras in America, which was disgustingly awful!  And he thinks its the best thing ever made! Ohhh I hate Tom Green!  He is Retarded, Unfunny, stupid, and a terrible actor!  The only thing in this movie that did not make me commit suicide after watching was Rip Thorn, Gord's dad, but even he was not enough to save this utter trash!  "}{"Title":"A test of endurance.","Date":"6 July 2003","Score":"13 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Freddy Got Fingered makes a militaristic boot camp in the backwoods of Tennessee look like an all expenses-paid holiday to the Caribbean. This movie STUNK. It stunk like eight-day-old projectile vomit. All Tom Green manages to do throughout is violate the bodies of dead animals, swing newborn infants by their umbilical cords and (surprise, surprise) make animals ejaculate for his own hedonistic pleasure. The title of this movie is based on a mere 20 second gag, it really has nothing to do with the movie as a whole. Oh, I am sorry... Did I use the word movie? I meant to say embodiment of hell on earth. Who is Green's audience anyway? Who is he speaking to? I like to imagine Tom Green in an adequately padded room, safely tucked away from other human beings, writing the source material on walls using only a rusty nail and laughing until he wets himself. Then, twice a day they slip plates of moldy English muffins under the door even though he refuses to touch them because he prefers the sanguine taste of the dead flies he traps. It is the only explanation for Freddy Got Fingered. "},{"Title":"Utter trash","Date":"30 December 2002","Score":"13 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Gord (Tom Green who also directed and cowrote) is a 28 year old loser who moves in with his parents (Rip Torn, Julie Hagerty) while trying to become a successful animator.  His father is constantly swearing and screaming at him so he tells a counselor that his father sexually abused (fingered) his younger brother Freddy.  This is played for laughs incidentally. Basically, this is one of the most disgusting comedies ever made.  It's vile, unfunny and just has the most horrible sequences I've ever seen.  They include an old man in a walker being knocked down; Green masturbating a horse; Green cutting open a dead deer and wearing its skin (!!!);  horses having sex; a little boy getting hit by a car with blood all over him--he is later hit in the face with a baseball, over the head with a bottle and chopped up by plane blades--all for laughs; a man falls down, breaks his leg and, while he's screaming in pain, Green licks the bone sticking out of his leg; Green helping a woman give birth, biting off the umbilical cord and swinging the baby around sprewing blood all over...this is all within the first half hour!!!  It just gets worse and worse with tons of disgusting humor, loads of swearing and talented actors like Torn, Drew Barrymore and Hagerty struggling to maintain their dignity.  Torn especially has it bad--at one point he bares his behind for laughs.  Sad.There are two good performances--Anthony Michael Hall as David Davidson and Marisa Coughlan as Betty--a woman in a wheelchair who gets sexually excited when Green beats her feet with a bamboo stick--this is shown three times. The whole movie ends with a truly desperate, pointless ending which tries to throw in a little moral lesson!I almost stopped watching five times out of pure disgust but braced myself.  This is a truly offensive, sick and revolting film.  Every print should be locked in the studios vaults and never let out.  The worst comedy EVER!!!!! "},{"Title":"what in the hell?.....","Date":"19 November 2002","Score":"13 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Seriously people, is this supposed to be fun? I have always been into extreme humor and any other kind of humor that makes me laugh. This doesn't not even close. There is no plot, no point no nothing, it's just a guy who is pretty good at acting braindead, at this he does a great job. When it comes to making people laugh, he doesn't! This is 90 minutes down the toilet... can't change the channel? WATCH ME! "},{"Title":"Terrible Terrible Terrible!!!","Date":"18 November 2002","Score":"13 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Why would anybody pay to see this? I know I didn't and I still feel robbed. This was, without doubt, the worst attempt at making a movie in the history of movie-making. I rated this film a 1 because I could figure out a way to give it a zero!! Yes, it is that bad! Aside from it being poorly scripted and it being drowned in Tom Green's stupidity, most of the scenes were quite repulsive and incredibly pointless... just like the entire movie! If have had the pleasure of not enduring this catastrophe yet, please do not even entertain the thought of eventually seeing it.    "},{"Title":"Don't stop, Tom!  DON'T!  STOP!","Date":"23 April 2002","Score":"13 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Wow, this is really off the charts, and if that approach had worked I'd be celebrating. But apparently everything has been thrown on the screen and a pattern was supposed to have emerged, or maybe even a movie..No reason to list all the cinematic low-points, but trust me, they are there.But who can be glad about this mess of a movie..its virtually unwatchable, almost always unfunny and a disgrace to the human race.  Its intended audience - 11 year old boys - are unable to see it due to its rating, so that makes it all the more puzzling.  Maybe someone owed Tom Green a favor.  Maybe someone black-mailed Rip Torn and Julie Hagerty and Eddie Kaye Thomas. Maybe someone should explain the mental state of the executives that okayed this as it is.I did laugh once or twice but it was accidental, a mistake.  1/10 and that is because I am feeling very generous.   "},{"Title":"Would have to be one of the worst films I've ever seen.","Date":"16 January 2002","Score":"13 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Everything you've heard about this film is true. Yes, it is total garbage. Tom Greens style of humor is so crass, disgusting, confronting and confusing that you can't help but be shocked and disgusted by it. It contains unbelievable scenes where Tom masturbates a horse and another where a sprays his father with elephant semen. Do yourself a real favor and skip this utter piece of crap. It's just not funny. "},{"Title":"Vile","Date":"1 November 2001","Score":"13 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'm not easily shocked or revolted. I've sat through all sorts of gory horror films (I recently saw Audition and Battle Royale) and hardly flinched at all but I found this so called comedy utterly repulsive. The scene where Gord (Tom Green) delivered a baby whilst the mother screamed in fear& pain was grotesque. His character was utterly vile and so was the film.  "},{"Title":"Bad, Worst and Bad","Date":"17 December 2005","Score":"14 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I think this is the worst movie ever. It did not have a point, it was not funny, it was nothing.. i watched the movie with the biggest question mark ever.. and the question was who made this? why? why, would you unleash something like that?...Absolutely terrible...I thought that Tom Green was a funny actor, honestly i did.., but after watching this DISASTERPIECE i think that nothing he does can be called acting...If you want a pointless way to spend 1,5 hours of your life.. than please be my guest watch this movie and you'll thank god that you haven't seen it before... "},{"Title":"This movie is sick and has nothing to do with comedy at all.","Date":"28 October 2004","Score":"14 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" OK, can someone please tell me what is wrong with me? I don't like this kind of humor. What's so cool about running with a dead dear over your head, licking an open wound, ... Am I really that old-fashioned?I don't like this kind of humor at all, but apparently this is what many people consider as comedy. Not so long ago farting was considered as original and the very best of what humor had to offer. But then all movies started to use it so they had to come up with something new to cross the line. Well, Tom Green certainly succeeded in crossing the line. I don't even think he can still see it. This movie seems to be the work of a mental patient. I'm not saying Tom Green belongs in a mental hospital. Why not? Well he's clever enough to exploit this kind of crap. He knows there is a public for it and that MTV is willing to pay a lot of money for this nonsense, so he makes it.I guess this movie will only be loved by 12-year old kids who think they can shock their parents just by watching this kind of crap or by people who suffer from severe brain damage because they have been smoking too much dope or drinking too much alcohol. All the others better leave this movie on the shelf. It isn't worth more than a 1/10. "},{"Title":"What the...?","Date":"24 March 2003","Score":"14 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  How could anyone rate such a travesty of a film as a 10? That's one thing that highly puzzles me. What's so great about a man wearing a dead animal? This so called movie is no more than an immature parade of filth that should have never been made into a movie. Can you think of all the other better things that the money used to make this could have been better spent on because I sure can. "}{"Title":"omg..","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"14 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Some people say it's a landmark in modern comedy... Some people say Tom Green is a genius, who looks to provoke..Well.. It might be.. I just don't think so..This movie consists solely of a rabid, strange person and his weird behaviour. The jokes are old, the movie is generally less entertaining than looking at a wall and you're left with a wtf was the POINT in that movie anyway?..I mean, usually, movies have plots.. some underlying theme of some sort, even the comedys... Even Ace Ventura has one.. This one don't. There is no point, no plot, no intelligent acting, no anything..I don't know what's most scary. That Tom Green actually makes money of doing that.. uhm.. acting.. or that some people actually seem to enjoy the movie... "},{"Title":"My money got fingered","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"14 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  One of my best friends recommended this film to me.  He is lucky that I am still talking to him.  I hate to slate any film but this one STINKS.  Had I read any of the reviews before I rented it (how could anyone ever buy it???) then I probably would not have bothered but the 'friend' that recommended it USUALLY has sound judgement.  Let me say that his judgement has been severely blackened by this film.  Tom Green was admitedly funny in Road Trip but this was one of the most dissappointing films I've seen since Very Bad Things (another dreadful farce that those who like Freddy Got Fingered will probably enjoy).  If sick jokes with no storyline serving the ego of an over-rated comedian (and I use the term carefully) is what you like then you will love this.  If you have a more normal sense of humour then save your cash. 1 out of 10 because there is no 0. "},{"Title":"One Of The Worts Movies Ever Made","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"14 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Dont make the same mistake I made, dont watch this movie, IT STINKS. I generally like The Tom Green Show, and I sorta hoped I was in for a treat, when I rented this movie. Boy was I wrong. I am amazed that this movie ever got funded, seeing as how it is only a repetition of his usual routines, which can be quite funny in small amounts, but which definately isnt suited for a movie as long as this (83 min. is 75 min. too long). There is no real story in this movie, no plot, no characters with whom you can relate to, there is only Tom Green and his own demented ideas of what is funny, and that simply isnt enough to keep you interested for more than 2-3 min. tops. And I cant understand that any actors would be affiliated with a movie as bad as this.But then again I might be wrong, and this might be a masterpiece, but if that is the case, I guess I am just too old to appreciate it properly. "},{"Title":"The worst movie I've seen in my life!","Date":"8 February 2002","Score":"14 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If you've never seen this movie I want to warn you now - and you will thank me for it - DON'T see it! I don't know how I made it through this movie because it really is the worst movie I have EVER seen (and I hope nothing else will top it because it was much more than just a waste of my time, it was PAINFUL!).I agree with some of the comments here, Tom Green is quite funny (at times) on The Tom Green Show (I saw one of the Tom Green Show videos long before I saw this movie and that's what made me decide to see FGF - his 'Burning Feet Man' scenario is hysterical and so is when he gets his dad's car spraypainted with a half naked woman in particular...). I also saw the preview for FGF and my friends and I had a good laugh at him with those sausages. I didn't want to spend my money on a ticket at the movies so I waited until it came out on DVD and my boyfriend and I sat down expecting an Ace Ventura kind of movie/story - pretty nuts but very funny all the same. Fifteen minutes into the movie we were wondering if there was going to be a plot... thirty minutes in we were wondering if Tom was on drugs/mentally insane (or both)... one hour in we were cringing at the disgusting scenes (the scene with the deer/deerskin is the most disgusting thing I've ever seen - if you thought Jim Carrey in Me Myself & Irene was bad you don't want to touch this movie... the scene where he helps a woman give birth is the second worst...) and from there on in we KNEW there was no plot.I will NEVER see this movie again, I won't even see The Tom Green Show again, it was just SO terrible! The 'jokes' were not jokes, it's like Tom is in his own universe where cutting open a deer and running around with it on his head is is funny - they are just digusting, pure and simple. I urge you to take my advice and steer clear of this movie.  "},{"Title":"Terrible, terrible film.","Date":"5 February 2002","Score":"14 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Upon reading twenty or so critical reviews of Freddy Got Fingered, of which 90% gave it a ZERO rating, i decided to see for myself how bad this movie was.After watching it, I realized that the critics were going easy. Freddy Got Fingered is the worse movie I have ever seen. It is the worse movie I will ever see. It is the worse movie my children will ever see!This movie was disturbing, boring, and NOT FUNNY. I'm sure animal masturbation and child abuse are very humorous subjects to some...I'm just not sure who these sick f*cks are. This subject matter belongs in some underground porn magazines, not theaters across the nation.For being a comedian, Tom Green manages to be very very very not funny. It seems as though he is simply tying to top all of his previous antics (along with those on Jackass, which overshadowed his show), and the results are disastrous. With a work like this, it's no surprise that he has completely dropped out of the public eye (except maybe when Drew Barrymore divorced him).This film is not a surrealist piece (although if it is, it still sucks). It is simply a comedy that tries to shock, but ends up making you want to kill Tom Green.I would recommend seeing this movie if you want to see the worse movie ever produced! "},{"Title":"What were they thinking?...","Date":"30 April 2001","Score":"14 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It always amazes me when a studio gives money away for various projects that don't pan out, I always figure that the original vision was far better than what translated onto film, so I don't feel too bad about it. But with `Freddy got Fingered' that surely cannot be the truth.This film, to be blunt, is vile.I ask you, is animal masturbation funny?  Is masochism a topic for laughs? How about falsely reporting incestuous fondling (from whence the movie title comes)?Tom Green apparently thought so.  More proof that the man is just an idiot and the sooner he's out of the public's eye, the better.Drew Barrymore is cast in this film, surely only to repay for Tom being in `Charlie's Angels.'  Her talents are wasted here, and in fact, if I were her, I'd feel insulted even having been close to the set!Rip Torn, who has done some great things in the past, somehow became convinced that this role was a good idea!  Perhaps the money was worth it, but the end result is more than disappointing.Drew, Rip&#133; what were you thinking?Was the script that much better, only to have the genius removed by the editor?  I cannot believe so. This film cannot, ever, have been good, not in its conception, not in the stages of writing, not in development. I'm appalled, amazed, infuriated.There is no plot. There is no value. This is a waste of time, effort, money, and air.Tom Green, your 15 minutes of fame are over, please exit stage left&#133;and don't come back!I am personally hoping this movie never EVER makes a profit, so as to send a clear message to the producers that garbage is not welcome, especially when we, the viewing public, have to pay for it. But I have this feeling that the lowbrow, sophomoric, humor will appeal to the morons of society, and they will somehow manage to make it an instant classic, ranking Tom Green as either the luckiest man on earth or the new inheritor to the cinema estate once held by the Three Stooges.I don't feel that I have successfully described the lack of value of this effectively. It is indeed unfortunate that I am forced to give this a rating of `1' simply because a `0' isn't allowed!Tom Green needs to be deported back to Canada as soon as possible, the producers need to be fired, and we deserve our money back.  Other reviewers call this the `Mona Lisa of movies' and `The funniest movie in over 5 years.' Apparently, these reviewers haven't a clue what makes an actual good movie, such as plot, value, and humor.I want my money back, I want my time refunded. I want Tom Green to be exorcised from media forever.I despair over anyone who liked this trash. "},{"Title":"Freddy Got Fingered","Date":"5 January 2009","Score":"15 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I liked the lead actor in Road Trip, if I'd realised how sick and horrible this film was, I wouldn't have watched it. Basically Gord Brody (twice Razzie winning - for acting and directing - Tom Green) is an unemployed animator, and hopes to get one of his creations made into a show, but rightly so, a Hollywood cartoon creator tells him his ideas are stupid, and he needs to improve them. So back home, he is still living with his not too kind father Jim (Razzie nominated Rip Torn) and nice mother Julie (Airplane's Razzie winning Julie Hagerty), and he also has fallen for paralysed nurse Betty (Marisa Coughlan), who doesn't want real romance, she just wants to suck him off, and get her legs beaten (for pleasure) with a bamboo cane. Gord is seen by a shrink, but to get away he lies and tells her that his father has fingered (like the title suggests, I thought it was like a criminal conviction thing) his brother Freddy (American Pie's Eddie Kaye Thomas). So he has the house to himself for a while, but he manages to come up with a great cartoon idea, called Zebras in America, based on his own family, and the cartoon guy is only convinced when Gord's father shows up being rude, and he earns $1,000,000. Also starring The Breakfast Club's Anthony Michael Hall as Mr. Davidson, Heroes' Stephen Tobolowsky as Uncle Neil, Razzie nominated Drew Barrymore as Mr. Davidson's secretary and Shaquille 'Shaq' O'Neal. The material of this film, supposed to be funny, and obviously deliberately shocking, is some of the sickest I have ever seen in my life, there's jerking off a horse and an elephant (which does explode its load), babies being swung by the umbilical cord, cutting open a dead deer and wearing it and a zebra cartoon where a bottom jaw is ripped off, it's up there with Pluto Nash and the remake of Psycho as one of the worst films I've ever seen, or, in history. It won the Razzies for Worst Picture, Worst Screen Couple for Green and the animals he abuses and Worst Screenplay, and it was nominated for Worst 'Comedy' of Our First 25 Years and Worst Picture of the Decade. Extremely poor! "},{"Title":"Worst Film Ever","Date":"22 April 2002","Score":"15 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I never thought that any film could Hudson Hawke or Showgirls as the worst film ever created, until I suffered through Freddy Got Fingered. This film not only left me with an incredible sense of dread for the 80 minutes of my life wasted on this repulsive experience, but filled me with a desire for revenge to certify that its producers would be publicly condemned, its actors never hired again, and Tom Green hoisted high above the Hollywood skyline to signify that decent humans would never again allow his menacing psyche and disgusting imagination to pilfer our society again. I pray for all that is good in filmmaking and our culture that Tom Green disappears from the public spotlight and never resurfaces.  I'm sure that Drew Barrymore filed for divorce the day after she saw this film.  Further, I'm positive that Green's public acceptance of the Razzie for Worst Picture will be the pinnacle of his misbegotten career.  Good-bye Tom Green and good riddance. "},{"Title":"worst movie ever","Date":"9 April 2002","Score":"15 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Rarely does a movie come along that has me absolutely speachless. this is one of them. i think that tom green should be brought up for crimes against humanity for making this. you owe it to yourself to see how bad this movie really is. if you can survive it you can consider yourself a hero. "},{"Title":"The Worst Film Of 2001! And, that's putting it nicely.","Date":"26 October 2001","Score":"15 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  First of all, let me just start off by saying, yes, I HATE Tom Green! To be honest, I really don't understand why the few people who do like him do!? What's the appeal? I'm speaking honestly right now. I'm not trying to seem like a snob, or insult people who like him, but, why? How can you feel what he does is funny? I'm not going to just bash him and his movie, I'm going to try and be fair in my review and actually try to discuss this movie, if such a thing is even possible. I think there is a story somewhere lurking behind all of this, about a grown man, he leads the life of a loser, and while yes he knows he's a loser, and seeks the acceptance of his father. It in a way is a coming to terms with one's self type of movie. But, in order for ANY movie to work, especially these types of movies, the viewer has to connect with the lead character, in this case, that would be Tom Green. How on Earth do I connect with this guy! How can I feel sorry for the way someone treats him? I think they're too easy on him! If I did even half of what this guy does to his family, let me tell you, I wouldn't be here right now typing this! I don't feel sorry for him, but instead I felt more sorry for the father. But, then again, can you really take a movie by Tom Green serious? Probably not. So how do I view this movie? Do I just try to lay back and enjoy it? Just take in whatever the movie offers? OK, if I do that, then I think this is one of the most tasteless, pointless, mindless, moronic, senseless, boring, dull, long, crude, disturbing, offensive, vile movies I've seen. Second worst to Pink Flamingos, which is the ultimate king of bad movies! I could go on and keep on writing trying to prove my point, but, who cares, bottomline STAY AWAY FROM THIS FU#$@^& PIECE OF JUNK. Here's a serious question for everyone. Should people like Tom Green be able to walk among the normal? ZERO out of **** "}{"Title":"Random unfunny waste of celluloid","Date":"7 June 2005","Score":"16 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This 'movie' is so bad that after the 90 minutes of endurance, I'm actually wondering why I'm wasting a few additional minutes of my life writing a review for it. I guess it's to warn humanity that time can be better spent, or so. Seriously, this movie is bad in a bad kind of way. There are movies which are so bad that they become good again due to the way in which they fail, but this is not one of them. This movie has 1. a storyline which is as elaborate and interesting as the manual for a teaspoon; 2. attempts at jokes, so miserably failed that they had to resort to downward embarrassing things like animal sex and splattering blood across a hospital room; 3. bad acting.I did laugh at about 3 points in the movie, but I think I laughed more in other movies which were supposed to be thrillers, while this is advertised as a 'comedy'. If the whole cast would have been vaporized by a nuclear explosion at the end, I would have laughed once more.My whole impression of the movie is that it's completely random. Randomness can be funny, but there still has to be some sense in the randomness, like in Monty Python movies. Here it's total randomness. The main person in this movie could be best described as a lunatic, and the movie depicts the acts of this lunatic. That's a better description than the plot outline or the title, which by the way only refers to something happening during about 5 minutes in the second half of the movie. The fact that it happens doesn't matter much, since the whole script is mostly random anyway.My advice only watch this stinker if you really, really are certain that you have nothing of marginal usefulness to do in your life. I guess the people who really like this, are people who would even see interesting patterns in the snowy noise of an unconnected TV set.Edit I have heard from other people that this movie was designed to be bad. As an attempt at the worst movie ever, I give it a near 10. But this means that as an enjoyable movie, it has to get a 1. I assume that other reviewers who give it a high score, use the reaches its goal interpretation. But I suppose the average person is only interested in the enjoyable interpretation. Unfortunately this proves that the rating system is as ill defined as was the above comment useful to you, which seems to be considered by most people as did this review give you that warm happy Prozac feeling of forced politically correct positiveness? "},{"Title":"By far the worst movie EVER!!!","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"16 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I wish IMDB's rating system would let you pick something lower than a 1 for a movie like this. Like maybe there could be an icon you could pick instead of a number....like a skull and cross bones, or a dead chicken, or something that could indicate to movie viewing audiences that this is the worst movie ever and you should not watch it! I would describe this movie as arsenic for the eyes and ears. Not only was it not funny, but if anything, it made me angry at how idiotic Tom Green was. It was also boring too, I fell asleep about 3/4 of the way through it. I know it was trying to be like a Dumb & Dumber type of movie, but it failed everywhere that movie succeeded. In fact, you could take that one scene from Dumb & Dumber where Jim Carrey makes the most annoying sound in the world, loop that for 2 hours, and you still have a better film than Freddy got fingered.  "},{"Title":"Definitely THE WORST MOVIE EVER MADE","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"16 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  What were they thinking letting this moron make a movie. Its hard to believe, just hard to believe that anything could be that terrible, that stupid. Rip Torn must have been very desperate to sign on for this piece of crap too. Never have I wanted to turn off a movie so badly, thank god I didn't pay money to rent this, just caught it on hbo at night. Saw all the reviews, heard how bad it was, and thought it couldn't possibly be that bad, well it was worse. Tom Green is an idiot, don't EVER let him near a movie again, his career has got to be over with this one. Worst Movie Ever Made, what a waste of the film it was printed on. Somebody lost their job for letting this get made I have no doubt. "},{"Title":"Awful, Unfunny, Disgraceful, Horrible, Repulsive, Disgusting, Vile, Trash","Date":"23 April 2002","Score":"16 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  How 20th Century Fox could back such a tasteless production is beyond me. This movie was so bad, I could not even bring myself to smile at any part of any scene. This movie lacked any kind of human decency and anyone associated with it should be ashamed. "},{"Title":"comedy as anti-comedy","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"16 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  There are people here who have argued that Green, in essence, intended to make this movie to anger critics, or disgust the audience without subscribing to even the most basic principles of humor.  And that the effect of making a commercial flop and garnering numerous Razzie awards was precisely the goal Green was trying to reach from the beginning.I wonder, if this were the case, that the production companies involved would have knowingly forked over fifteen million dollars to him.This movie is not funny on any level. Just because something is offensive does not automatically make it humorous.  Just because something is bizarre or off-color does not mean it is genius.Sometimes bad is just bad.  And this is the worst. "},{"Title":"Puerile rubbish","Date":"9 February 2005","Score":"17 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I've never been a great fan of Tom Green although certain sketches from his comedy show have made me laugh. Having heard from various sources how bad this film was, I decided the least I could do would be to give him and it a chance. All I can say is this has to be one of the worst films ever made. The plot, and I use this term loosely, consists of Green playing an aspiring comic strip artist and writer who goes to Hollywood in order to fulfil his dream. When this doesn't work out, he returns home and the rest of the film mainly concerns the conflict between himself and his father. A lot has been made of how sick this film is. Where there are parts of it that do border on good taste, that's not what bothered me. The fact is that this film just isn't funny, except maybe to a ten year old boy. Maybe it's me but someone acting like a mentally ill person and shouting a lot doesn't really get me laughing. The 'comic' situations are tired and lame and I can't think of anything positive from this film whatsoever except maybe at under an hour and a half, it's thankfully short. "},{"Title":"Worst idea in human history!!!","Date":"14 November 2004","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" If there is a class action lawsuit to make Tom Green give people the 87 minutes of their lives that he STOLE with this piece of crap, SIGN ME UP!!! I know that telling people not to watch the movie won't stop them from doing it,therefore, let me give you some movie watching advice that may save your life...DO NOT WATCH THIS MOVIE WITH A LOADED FIREARM OR SHARP OBJECT NEARBY!!! The temptation to end your suffering by either shooting yourself or gouging your own eye-balls out may be too great to resist. Anyone who believes this movie is REMOTELY funny should seriously seek psychiatric help. The bright side is that George Lucas can finally take the Star Wars Christmas Special off the #1 spot of the most awful incident caught on film. Not only the worst movie of all time, but possibly the WORST IDEA IN HUMAN HISTORY!!! "},{"Title":"I give Freddy the Finger","Date":"29 October 2003","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I have sense of humor, really. I love SOUTH PARK and THE SIMPSONS. I watch JACK ASS and used to watch THE TOM GREEN SHOW. And laugh. And laugh the next day when I thought about what Tom did on the show the night before.But this movie sucks. Sucks, sucks, sucks. I hope that Tom will find a better outlet for his unique sense of humor. Maybe he'll get a break, like Jack Black did with School of Rock.  We can only hope ... "},{"Title":"An Atrocity to the Art of Film-making","Date":"23 June 2003","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Freddy Got Fingered is neither clever, nor entertaining, and is certainly not anything more than the masturabatorial direction debut of a fool with a camera. The film has no arc, no genuine plot development, and not a single character is likable (not to be confused with the Byronic-Heros of films like A Clockwork Orange,). The vast majority of the scenes serve no purpose at all in the film. Those who claim that the film is not just a 'gross-out' comedy are sadly mistaken. There is no second interpretation of an elephant masturbation scene. It does not 'portray' anything remotely deeper than the superficiality of it's repulsiveness. Those who claim that this film is similar to other shunned films at their debut (references to A Clockwork Orange and The Shining) are using inaccurately transitive properties. It's like saying that since slavery abolitionists of the 1800's were initially unpopular, yet now are heroes, that neo-nazis should be held as heroes since they are presently unpopular. Not to mention that the films cited above were unpopular because they filmed scenes that were supplemental to the plot, yet appeared graphic, and ultimately enhanced the social commentary. THERE IS NO SOCIAL COMMENTARY IN A BABY-SWINGING FILM. And don't try and claim that 'individuality' angle. Charles Manson was 'individual' too. In conclusion, do not watch this film. If you are thinking about watching it because you heard so many bad reviews and think it would be entertaining in it's awfulness, go no further. This film deserves no respect. It is a stain on the art of films.  "},{"Title":"Worst movie of the year","Date":"10 July 2002","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Although this was the worst movie of the year you have got to hand it to Tom Green he is a genious for making this movie. Critics hated it, it bombed at the box office and he was even the first person to show up at the razies to accept his award for worst actor, worst direction and worst movie and he wouldn't want it any other way and because of this he probably gained more fame than he already has. From start to finish this movie has no plot, no story and basically no point at all. It is pretty much Green doing what he does on his show but here it isn't funny because we are so used to him acting like an idiot to unsuspecting people, him acting like an idiot for no reason isn't all that funny. It also takes the term gross out comedy to new levels as Green masturbates a horse and elepant, bites through an imbilical cord and so on. This film goes against everything movie making stands for and even though it was an international flop in Greens mind it was a success because what happened is just what he wanted. Do your self a favour and skip this one is you want to see Green doing something funny stick to Road Trip. "}{"Title":"Was that last review sarcasm?","Date":"1 May 2001","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Freddy got fingered was awful and not funny.  There seems to be this invisible line that film makers must cross before the audiences can consider it funny.  Seriously though, was that previous review about Freddy Got Fingered taking in awards just a joke?   "},{"Title":"Worst Movie Ever.","Date":"29 April 2001","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie was without a doubt the worst movie I have ever seen. I like Tom Green's TV show a little bit. I loved the episode with Monica Lewinski. But for this review I'm forced to quote the wise and all knowing Comic Book Store Guy Worst Episode Ever.Don't get me wrong, I like comedy. The Simpsons have entertained me for over a decade. I loved movies like Election, Wag the Dog, Monty Python and the Holy Grail, Tommy Boy, Clerks and Chasing Amy. However you will notice that these movies I have mentioned were funny, while Freddy Got Fingered is stupid. Cutting open a deer and laying around it's major organs is not funny. Swinging a baby around is not funny. Masturbating a horse is not funny. All-in-all not a funny movie at all. In fact, an insult to the word comedy.Tom Green think up something half way funny for your next movie, if any. "},{"Title":"Tom Green is funny..but. Shoot him next time he wants to write a movie.","Date":"25 April 2001","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I went into this movie, expecting to see Tom green at his best. Absolutely insane. The problem here is, they try to weave plot into it. This doesnt work. This is the worst movie I have ever seen in a theatre. Its gross to the point, where I am disgusted. I watched american pie without a Quam. This movie is a waste of 7 dollars. I should of went to see Crocodile Dundee III. At least I can count on paul hogan to have a few good jokes in the movie. This movie is all about Tom Green trying to gross out the Audience. On tv.. this works. As a movie. It sucks. I dont recommend anyone watch this movie. Ever.  "},{"Title":"Don't pay to watch the movie... just watch the TV show.","Date":"21 April 2001","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I am not a fan of Tom Green.  I rarely watch his television show. However, when I do watch the show, I consider it a guilty pleasure.  But what makes his type of humor work on television is the fact that he is interacting with real people in real situations.  FREDDY GOT FINGERED is not real.  It's a MOVIE...  In my opinion, that defeats the entire point of Tom Green's style.  It just doesn't work.As for all the criticism of this film, I'm sure it's exactly what Green expected.  At least it wasn't pretentious.  It was just plain awful. "},{"Title":"Now maybe he'll go away.","Date":"20 April 2001","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Dear Lord, Please let this movie fail miserably at the box office. Let even the most staunch Tom Green fans snooze soundly through every contrived, irritating moment. Let the bad people who allowed him to direct and star in this piece of crap see the error of their ways and lose their jobs so that I never have to endure such hell again. Let the person who encouraged Mr. Green to go from screaming at strangers in parking lots to playing a person who screams at family members and peripheral characters on film to go straight to Hades, even if it is Drew Barrymore. I thought that his stint in Charlie's Angels was painful, but Lord, if I have to see Tom Green attempt to act again I just may have to pour acid on my eyes and cement in my ears to block out that image. In Jesus' name, Amen. "},{"Title":"Save your soul...","Date":"20 April 2001","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Imagine your average Adam Sandler fart joke humor taken to the extreme.  Or just imagine Tom Green.  This movie is horrible.  I can't possibly imagine how this movie got made.  I would like to know just who is in charge of deciding which movies get made and which don't.  They obviously saw a different script(?), perhaps with some depth , or character development, or something.  Certainly not the one for this movie.  Ugh... "},{"Title":"You've Been Warned...","Date":"20 April 2001","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Let's face it....if you're going to see this movie, you probably think you know pretty much what to expect...but you'd be only partially right in your presumption.  Tom Green has said in interviews that in making his feature film debut with Freddy Got Fingered, he wanted to shock audiences and make them uncomfortable, just as he did on his MTV show bearing his name.  Well, after viewing this movie, I can only say....MISSION ACCOMPLISHED on that goal!  Unfortunately, even his fans will probably be let down by what transpires on-screen.  The movie is a smorgasbord of disgusting, gross-out  humor built on beyond-tasteless subject matter...child abuse and sexual molestation of animals, just to name two.  It's like Green is trying to out-Farrelly the Farrelly Brothers, but he's so eager to bludgeon us with his audacity, that the gags fly by with surprisingly little outrageousness and even less comic payoff.  I found myself grimacing and groaning more than laughing at the non-stop spray of blood, bodily fluids and sado-masochistic gags.  I suppose this is Green's schtick, but it's a one-note affair that quickly grows very wearying.  Even though I don't consider myself a fan, I'm willing to give Green the benefit of the doubt.  He's clearly not untalented, but he's likely to wear out his welcome fast if he continues unvaried on this track.The basic premise could have made for a very amusing film.  Green plays a bizarre, childish 28-year old man who winds up moving back into his parents' home after repeatedly failing to make it on his own, driving both family and friends to exasperated distraction with his antics, especially his disapproving Dad.  Comedian Chris Elliot mined  a somewhat similar idea to MUCH better effect with his under-rated sitcom Get A Life several years back, melding his smart-aleck persona to inventive absurdist comedy and childlike whimsy.  Green uses the storyline here as little more than a vehicle to get from one tasteless set-piece to the next.....no style, no flair, no laughs.I'm a big fan of gross-out humor (I busted a gut at movies like American Pie, Road Trip, and the Farrelly Brothers films) and even gruesome black comedies (call me sick, but I think Peter Berg's Very Bad Things is an absolute classic) but Freddy Got Fingered just left me cold.  A YECCH!! fest without the yuks.  My rating  * star   "},{"Title":"Really, Really BAD","Date":"26 April 2001","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Sigh. I can't believe I saw that movie. It is, of course, the worst I've ever seen. Humor, by its nature, works using circumstance and relationship to cause laughter. While these are not necessary for humor to be present, they are quite helpful. If this movie had a coherent plot, and tied together some of the scenes, the gross-out jokes could actually be quite funny, because we as an audience would develop a relationship with the characters, and their persistent humiliation onscreen would mean more to us.As it is, we care about no one in the movie. The penises and blood and death, shocking and in some ways funny though they are, don't really mean much. The majority of the movie I spent groaning through stupid scenes that I didn't understand, most of which didn't even have shock appeal. The movie is just bad. It's not that you can't make a disgusting and funny movie with this material. It's just that they didn't.  "},{"Title":"Like a root canal, but without the anaesthetic","Date":"4 October 2009","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I honestly hated this movie, and this is coming from someone who did give it a chance. I didn't find it funny at all, it was vulgar, crude, offensive and very unsubtle. It was truly awful and one of the worst movies I have ever seen. It made the Farrelly Brothers look like choirboys, okay I may be exaggerating, but instead of laughing, I was literally crying with disgust. I will admit it starts off promisingly, but after the first five minutes, it falls rapidly downhill, into complete disaster. Some parts of the film were excruciatingly painful to watch, like when Gord cuts the dead deer open and starts wearing and dancing in it, I felt as though I wanted to be sick. The script was just puerile, it didn't feel like a script at all, it actually felt like the actors were improvising the whole time. Most of the time I do not like Tom Green, here he overdid the humour and mugs embarrassingly, and Gord's drawings by the way are awful. Rip Torn, an actor who I respect, and deserves more recognition, deserved much better than he was given. Although he was without doubt the best actor in the movie, he was let down by a abysmally-written script. Everybody else failed to rise above the material. I understand if anybody loves this movie, but I will be honest, I did not. I am sorry, I did have to watch this in chunks, pausing either to cry or to vomit. An example of a film that was like a root canal, but without the anaesthetic. This also happens to be the first really negative review I have written in ages. 1/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"The Backwards Man","Date":"13 August 2007","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I have seen Plan 9 From Outer Space, AND Santa Claus Conquers the Martains, AND Beyond the Valley of the Dolls, AND Fair Game, AND Body of Evidence, AND Showgirls (twice), but, for the first time in my film-going life, words fail me!Was this supposed to be a missive on the state of Western Civilization or what constitutes art or a challenge to the conceptions of the cinematic form or was it just an excuse for Tom Green to commit unnatural acts without getting arrested?!Why is Gord such a retard? Why is Betty an even bigger retard? What made Rip Torn, Drew Barrymore and - for The Love of God, NO! - Shaq sign up for this? More importantly, why are sick, depraved f***s like Green and Eli (Hostel) Roth allowed to walk the streets?Freddy Got Fingered should be a beacon of hope for those who aspire to become film makers. If Green and Roth can get their garbage bankrolled, then you, too, can get your little opus off the ground! "}{"Title":"Wow.","Date":"9 September 2002","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie was terrible, horrible, disgusting, and just plain bad. Even Manos The Hands of Fate is better than this movie and that's saying a lot. The fact that this movie isn't #1 on the bottom 100 disturbs me about what people think of movies. I can't believe anyone would give this movie more than a 3 out of 10.If this was supposed to be a comedy; I wasn't laughing. Even the Apocalypse Now reference was pretty stupid. There was a lot badness to go around. Rip Torn; who's usually pretty good as Zed in MIB wasn't even trying to act. Julie Hagerty was probably just there to get a paycheck. Shaq? I suppose this is a step down from Kazaam. Eddie Kaye Thomas looked really bored. And Tom Green was horrible like always.Nothing worked in this film. The comedic timing was off on everything. I'm sure with the right director and some writing improvements; it still would have won the Razzies; but it wouldn't have been this bad. I'm glad this movie was on Showtime, so I didn't have to pay for it. But I think I should get my wasted time back. "},{"Title":"Are you CRAZY?","Date":"2 September 2002","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  not nearly as horrible as you've been led to believe????This was so bad that I not only want my $6 back, I want my 2 HOURS BACK!!!SOMEONE keeps greenlighting Tom Green's projects. Shock-treatments might take care of this problem.According to the video jacket, the NY Times said this was the funniest movie of the summer. Wow, then we're in for a lot of trouble, aren't we. I can only imagine the rest of the review, funny how selective the studios are.It should have read -If you're under 12, never read a book and think Drew Barrymore is the one who lost out, then you'll agree that this was the funniest movie of the summer.I agree that comedy is subjective, but horrid is horrid. "},{"Title":"It doesn't get much worse then this......","Date":"25 July 2002","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  SICK, SICK ,SICK, SICK, SICK, SICK, SICK, SICK, SICK, SICK,....Thats what this movie is, it's so HORRIBLE SO BAD SO AWFUL. I wanted to throw up afterwards. If you want a good HORROR movie watch this, it's scarier then ANY Horror movie I have ever seen. Terrible, with a capital T, the fact anyone would make this into a movie is scary, I'm shocked this was even considered. This is the most overrated movie on the hole IMDB.com, I would much rather be put through Manos And the Hand of Fate, Glitter or Niight Train to Mudo Fine, they might be STUPID and BAD, but at least they are watchable trash and easy to make fun.OUT 10 stars this gets 1 frozen dead guy and an 20 day dead Skunk and 2 maggots "},{"Title":"I am not easily offended, and this movie offends me.","Date":"28 April 2009","Score":"13 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I am not easily offended. In fact, I like things often deemed 'offensive.' However, there is a line. I've always had a hard time telling people what the line was, and what was beyond it. Now, thanks to the -sarcasm-brooding genius of Tom Green -/sarcasm- I can issue an example of something that crosses the line. No, it doesn't cross the line. It flies 10,000 miles past that line and crashes another 10 miles further.This film can be called a 'dark comedy,' there's a lot of violence and gore, but none of it is funny. You could also call it a 'shock comedy.' But none of it is funny. At least it did succeed at being shocking, but there should not be the word 'Comedy' following the 'Shock.' Don't believe me? Well, tell me if this is funny Tom Green licking the open compound fracture of his best friend.Shooting gallons of elephant ejaculate into his fathers face.Murdering a baby while its still in the womb, only to slam it into the walls afterwords.Skinning a helpless animal and dancing around inside its skin.Are you laughing yet? No? Didn't think so. Tom Green, you have just been hung on the lowest rung of society in my eyes. That makes you worse than Hitler. Until you destroy every copy of this film and erase the minds of every poor soul who saw it, you will remain worse than Hitler. "},{"Title":"Not only tasteless trash, but totally unfunny trash as well","Date":"13 February 2005","Score":"15 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Gordon is an unconventional genius cartoonist who leaves his home town to sell his ideas to Hollywood. After being told his ideas are worthless even by Hollywood standards, he returns home, much to the annoyance of his less than kind father, Jim. Without a job the only good thing in Gordon's life is his new girlfriend Betty who is disabled and enjoys nothing more than being beaten with a cane and giving oral sex. After yet another major fight, Gordon and his parents visit a physiatrist where he accuses his father of abusing his younger brother.Having seen Elektra at the cinema last week, I was pretty sure that a film couldn't fail quite as totally as that one and in a mood of how bad can it be? I decided to give this film a try. First of all, this film is in really bad taste and it is a struggle to get into it because of that reason. However this is not to say that it can't be funny &#150; plenty of film push the taste barrier and still manage to be funny; although I do acknowledge that jokes about sexual abuse and child violence is not so much pushing the bounds of taste as it is crashing through them. The problem with the film is not just that it is in horrible bad taste (for that it is) but also that it is simply not funny at all; no, not even once. Outside of the shock value of the subject the film falls flat at every possible opportunity with material that can surely only appeal to the most juvenile of teenage boys. Outside of this audience I doubt many will find it funny at all because it is just dumb to the point of being puerile.The vast majority of the blame for this must lie with Tom Green &#150; a man who I have yet to see a funny vehicle; I'm assured this man has fans but I have never met one and, to be honest, hope I never do. As writer and director he is responsible for the film failing as spectacularly as it does but this is to ignore the part his actual performance plays in the failure. As an actor he is horribly over the top &#150; favouring mugging and stupidity over wit, timing or genuine humour. Rip Torn amazingly manages to do this film without looking embarrassed, which shows how good an actor he is because he really must have been crying inside. Coughlan is awful, although a big part of the problem is her character, which is offensive from start to finish. Thomas is handed some horrible scenes and at least has the decency to look ashamed. Hagerty must wish she could get another Airplane and Drew Barrymore must really love Green to have gotten involved in this film (although not enough to talk him out of it in the first place).Overall this is a terrible film. The material is crude and tasteless throughout and shocking and sickening the audience seems to have been the whole aim here. This in itself is bad but the real death of the film is in the fact that it is simply not funny at all, with every funny scene totally misjudged and generally offensive. It is very rare I say this, but I regret watching this film. "},{"Title":"Truly fascinating crap.","Date":"17 January 2003","Score":"17 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I found myself at a loss when attempting to vote on this movie. It is both retarded and subversive at the same time. If you're hoping for a Dumb and Dumber type comedy, stay away. You will be horribly disappointed. But if you want to see something you've never seen before, check it out.The movie is so perfectly frustrating because, as a viewer, you want it to conform to your idea of what a movie is. And it never does. It teases you with it--beginning a scene with a conventional set-up, and ending on Mars (or Pakistan).If I had to compare it to another movie, I'd say it's a little similar to Amazon Women on the Moon. But even that flick's short-attention-span antics don't compare. It's also a bit like Ren & Stimpy. So picture Amazon Women on the Moon spliced with the bad taste of Ren & Stimpy, and you'll have some idea going in. It still won't prepare you, though.I ended up giving Freddie a 1, even though I think it's very near to being brilliant in a diseased sort of way. "},{"Title":"Quite simply...","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"18 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The worst movie ever created. I would gladly sit through repeats of Hulk Hogan's Santa with Muscles than watch this flick all the way through. I shall not waste any more effort describing how many scenes were utterly pathetic, but leave it instead as a general description of the film. And I thought that masturbating the horse was the low point...What a waste of film.  "},{"Title":"Putrid Film","Date":"12 September 2006","Score":"19 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The Joe Cool Review Freddy Got Fingered(2001)Starring Tom Green as Gord, Rip Torn as Jim, Marisa Coughlan as Betty, and Eddie Kaye Thomas as FreddyPlot Gord wants to be an animator, so he leaves his crazy family and goes to LA to work in a cheese factory and pursue his dream. Eventually things don't work out and he comes back to drive his family even more insane, particularly his father.Openers This movie has a lot of negativity attached to it, doesn't it? When recommended to me I was told it required some drinking. I still don't get Tom Green's appeal, but I watched this movie anyway. The Good Um...Marisa Coughlan is attractive...I guess. Plus I'm a fan of Anthony Michael Hall so seeing him was good, even if he didn't do anything.The Bad Where do I start? First of all, it's unfortunate for me I didn't have some mind-altering substance with me to handle this thing. There is no redeeming factor to this...well I'm not sure I can even call it a film. It's like every bad sketch on the Tom Green Show(So, you know, all of them) wrapped up into one big movie. I can appreciate stupid humor(kind of have to if you laugh at Jay and Silent Bob or Adam Sandler) but this was mind-numbing. I can honestly say I didn't laugh once. Tom Green's perverted sense of humor doesn't appeal to me at all and it just made for a disgusting, boring and dumb movie that I regret ever having the misfortune to see. The Ugly Let's see. Does swinging a baby by it's umbilical cord count? Well how about masturbating a horse? Or wearing a dear skin while dancing in the road? Rip Torn's ass? Masturbating an elephant until it sprays semen on your father? Licking the open wound of a broken leg? How about pretending to masturbate a large sausage in a cheese factory? Did I mention this movie had a lot of masturbation?Final Verdict With this I just want to say, screw you Tom Green. You're not funny, and this movie took away hours of my life I will never have back. If you want to do disgusting acts with animals, go do it on your own time. Don't pollute the cinema with it. Rating 0 of ***** "},{"Title":"Revolting and un-funny","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"19 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  As I've said many times before in comments on this site, I'm a fan of bad movies. Sort of a sick hobby I have. So, if I hear really, really awful things about a movie chances are I'm going to rent it. That was the case with Freddy Got FingeredI've seen many terrible films. There are many different ways to screw up a movie, from the obvious crime mystery film, to the not-scary horror movie. I think all the very worst films are genre films that fail at that genre's defining quality, and Freddy Got Fingered fits that bill - perhaps the worst type of film there is, a comedy that isn't funny.I admit, I was one of those who for a month or two enjoyed the Tom Green Show fad on MTV. However, as we all knew deep inside, staying power wasn't an attribute that this poor-man's Jim Carrey possessed. (could anything be worse than being called a poor-man's Jim Carrey?)Anyways. Road Trip was nothing special, but funny and inventive at times. Tom Green has always been one who thrived on pushing the limits of decency as a way of getting you to laugh. Freddy Got Fingered (written and directed by Green if I recall) certainly attempts this, and there were quite a few times where I questioned whether the R rating was severe enough. So, preface this review with the general idea that Freddy Got Fingered is a push-the-limits comedy that isn't funny.Basically, half of the film (and indeed Tom Green's career) revolves around this comic premise First, Green touches, does, or places in his mouth something revolting. Second, he repeats some jibberish over and over. Third, he continues repeating the jibberish louder, while making faces a 3 year old would be jealous of, while running around the scene flapping his arms or rolling on the ground.The other half of the scenes are built around this joke Green does something stupid. His father swears at him like a drunken sailor. Green swears back. Not funny the first time, let alone the 20th time.There, basically I have summed up the plot. Oh, there is some bit about his dream to be a famous animator and having his own cartoon about a cat with x-ray vision, or centaur-looking zebra things, but if you remember that after seeing green masturbate a horse, chew through an umbilical cord, suck on the bone protruding from a compound fracture, gut a road-killed deer to wear its corpse like a fur coat, or beat a paraplegic senseless, then you are a much hardier moviegoer than I am.These things are supposed to make you laugh, but after several episodes of his TV show, and his first movie, seeing him lick something gross and scrunch up his face while babbling incoherently just doesn't do it for me anymore. I laughed one time during this movie, when Green is getting off a plane and someone in the awaiting crowd held up a sign that said when is this movie going to end? or something to that effect. It was almost a cop-out, as if to say the makers of this film threw that in hoping people would think they meant the movie to be this bad.There are no redeeming qualities to this film. There are no reasons to see it at all, because (A) it's not funny, (B) it will probably make you sick, and (C) no one needs to spend money on this type of crap, because it only encourages hollywood to generate more.0 out of 5 stars, with a rude gesture to those responsible. "},{"Title":"Truly Truly horrible","Date":"18 May 2002","Score":"19 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I could not finishing watching this film, its just complete and total crap. I didnt even get close to smiling through this few minutes.Sure, im into semi-sick humour (Toxic Avenger, Riki-Ho The story of ricky), but this takes it to far.W***ing horses and screaming like a toddler inside a dead deer skin is far from funny. "}{"Title":"Freddy Got Fingered, and We Got Screwed","Date":"4 April 2002","Score":"19 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Never in my life was I so glad to see a movie end, as this was just 88 minutes of sheer hell.  Tom Green not only made the worst movie of the year, he made the worst film of all time.  Wont waste any more time on this film, any more thought would be giving it too much of my time. "},{"Title":"As entertaining as standing in a long line at the DMV","Date":"27 August 2002","Score":"22 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Gross out humor does not offend me so much as the assumption on the part of the producers that the audience are a group of ADDHD juvenile idiots.Cheech and Chong did stupid gross out humor years ago and we all thought it was silly but nver really hated them for it.  Tom Green, on the other hand, lambasts us with 90 minutes of nails scraping a blackboard.  Not that I lasted 90 minutes ...I think it would serve the Western Hemishphere (both by raising the average expectation of movie goers and by raising the average IQ) to drop Tom Green in shark infested waters.  It'd be the ultimate gross out joke and sooner or later some poor fool is going to go for the gold medal of low brow humor.It seems that this 'movie' has served to kill Mr. Greens career -- Fine by me.  I am sincerely perplexed by the fact that actual actors read this script and said Ok -- that looks funny, I'll do it.  What are they smoking in Hollywood these days?  "},{"Title":"Quite possibly the worst movie ever.","Date":"2 July 2002","Score":"22 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I have seen a lot of dumb movies, and sometimes I enjoy them. Never have I seen such a stinking pile of crap as Freddy got Fingered. The fact that Tom Green thought that this was a good idea for a movie makes me wonder if that when they took out his cancerous testicle that they also removed a large chunk of his brain. The fact that a major movie studio would even release this movie is beyond comprehension. The fact that they let Tom Green direct a movie that he had written is also beyond comprehension. Seeing Rip Torn, a respectable comedic actor, with his pants down was awful. And I knew this was the worst movie ever when I heard a girl in a wheelchair ask for sexual favors. Disgusting, stupid, NOT FUNNY are the only ways to describe this film. I feel dirty giving this movie a 1 out of 10 because that is too high. And what makes this ironic is that I loved the movie Road Trip, which had Tom Green in it. In that movie, he was not the main character, and his character fit into the plot pretty well. Tom Green, take some advice that Kevin Costner never took Act, dont direct. "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies ever made!","Date":"9 December 2002","Score":"27 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is what happens when too many people start believing MTV's hype. Tom Green should have never been able to have the opportunity to make a movie.  His 15 minutes of fame ended 14 minutes and 59 seconds ago.  I really feel bad for Rip Torn, Anthony Michael Hall and Harland Williams, because they have to have this poor excuse of a movie on their resumes. The plot was weak and most of the time, it was completely forgotten.  When the plot was momentarily remembered, it was quickly pushed aside so that Tom could do another childish, and I have to add not in the least bit funny, skit.  Yes there are a few funny parts, but they are completely out weighed by stupidity.  My advice to you, save your money and about 90 minutes of your life, you can afford to miss this one. "},{"Title":"Make it Stop!! Make it Stop!! Make it Stop!!","Date":"31 August 2012","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Whoever made this movie must have been high on LSD! This movie is like Bio-Dome, The Titanic Animated Trilogy, and North. Why did I say that you might ask? Because it's one of the worst movies I have ever seen in my entire life! No, the worst movie I have ever seen PERIOD! Tom Green stars as a wannabe cartoonist who is as disturbed as a pedophile watching Toddlers and Tiaras. To be quite honest with you, Tom Green is like the Orson Welles of messed-up comedians who should have stayed in the House of Psycho-Maniacs!! The jokes all involve private parts and pedophilia. One of the most disturbing moments I have ever seen is when a pregnant mother gives birth to a newborn baby and this psychopath of a cartoonist takes the baby by the umbilical cord and swings it around like a f-----g(Due to the fact that there might be kids reading this review, I'm not going to use explicit cursing in it. I apologize for the inconvenience) yo-yo!! That's not comedy!! That's a mix of Cannibal Holocaust, Last Cannibal World, and Bio-Dome thrown in together!! If this movie were a Girl Scout, I'd shoo her away! If this movie were a barking dog, I'd ignore it! And if this movie were on trial and if I were a judge, I'd sentence this stupid, disturbing, and unclean movie to death by decapitation and by a firing squad!! This movie is so horrible, so gruesome, and so disgusting, you would need years of psychological therapy to recover after watching this movie! Whoever said that this is a good movie should be locked up in an asylum!! "},{"Title":"I Feel Fingered After Watching This","Date":"22 July 2012","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Tell me the last time you told your mother to be promiscuous or you whacked a horse off. No? Tom Green has already done that so don't even bother with such immoral suggestions. I don't hate shock humor but I detest attempts to use a feeble story to justify irrelevant acts of bestiality, child violence, and Tom Green stunts suitable for MTV reality shows. I excuse Jackass for their mind-boggling antics being that it is their careers to pull stunts like shooting fireworks near their butts. No story needed. But there comes a point in time when you must ask yourself during a movie What's the fu**ing point?Gord Brody (played by Tom Green) has goals of being a cartoon animator but the best job he can get is a job at a Hollywood cheese sandwich factory. Unsatisfied with his job and failed ambitions, Gord moves back to his parent's Portland home to continue his already annoying behavior. Very unbecoming of his antagonistic father (played by Rip Torn), who is the only character I could sympathize with for dealing with a black sheep. To our astonishment, Gord manages to score with a rocket scientist (played by Marisa Coughlan) who is wheelchair-bound and orgasms when having her legs whacked. So there you go, the basic points in this movie, the rest is about Tom Green performing unnatural, random crap. Oh, you want to know the meaning of the title? Fine. At some point, Gord decides to exact revenge on his dad for breaking one of his possessions. How? By falsely accusing him of sexually molesting Freddy (played by Eddie Kaye Thomas), Gord's younger adult brother. He's a full-grown man and he's sent to an institute for sexually-abused children. Do you want to know the sad part? The subject doesn't come up again.I'll make a couple of confessions in this review. First, I want to admit I love hating this movie so much. Second, just because I may laugh at some scenes doesn't mean I like, admire, or enjoy what I'm seeing. The only thing I genuinely laughed at was when Rip Torn cracked a cripple joke. I feel ashamed for it too. One last confession this is a movie which made me so mad I impulsively blurted F**k you near the end. I know you'll understand why after seeing the elephant.None of the stunts in Green's movie make logical sense to his character's objectives. Instead, we see the sporadic actions of an animal-abusing, spoiled, socially and mentally-retarded moron. God, I sound like Keith Olbermann but bear with me, please. Should I rig my fingers with sausages on strings while playing keyboard music to be more creative in this review? What may work for Gord may not work for me. From showering with scuba gear to swinging newborns by their umbilical cords, Gord's sickness doesn't deserve any pity and can only isolate viewers from rooting for him.If you think I'm going to be merely offended by broken teeth and animal masturbation, you got another thing coming. The cast generally has mean, heartless roles to support the dismal, annoying performance of Tom Green. His performance serves only one purpose it challenges us to deal with his immaturity for an hour-and-a-half. I honestly cannot name one performance that wasn't awkward, annoying, or embarrassing. And don't even go there with Rip Torn; you're more likely to laugh at him than with him.Even Green's direction sucks. Don't believe me? Look at the trailer of Gord in the factory with a cheese-helmet and you'll notice that the movie doesn't even show his stunt until we see him with a zoomed out shot of it on the conveyor belt. Instead, the scene plays out during the rolling credits. That's how lousy and inept this movie is. I'm impressed how the status of Green's movie has changed over time but it still won't affect my opinion. An awful movie is an awful movie. I really don't care if this movie has obtained a cult status or people understood Green was deliberately intent on destroying art, Freddy Got Fingered is the ultimate shame of comedic cinema if not one of the worst movies I have ever seen.My Rating 1/10 "},{"Title":"Oh please someone tell him he's not funny","Date":"23 February 2003","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film is by far the worst I've seen for some time. Tom Green is not funny. He's an adolescent misogynist who pretends he's 'challenging conformity' when in fact he's reinforcing all the reactionary stereotypes which he presumably disapproves of .. or does he. Avoid at all costs, this film is never funny and worthless in almost every respect. "},{"Title":"Tom Green is a non creative sick pup!","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Are you kidding me?  Really? I am supposed to buy in to some of the opinions that this movie is art?  That Tom Green is some kind of creative genius?  I am suppose to believe that critics who panned this movie were actually hurt by this movie because Tom Green got their goat?  The critics didn't get the joke?  Tom Green is ahead of his time?I have a hobby of late.  I read critics picks then rent the WORST reviewed movies to see how often the critics are uptight because they refused to laugh.  Examples include Dumb and Dumber and Tommy Boy.  These movies were panned by the critics because the critics tried to understand them.  What was there to understand?  They were just funny, silly, dopey movies.Then I came across the blistering reviews of Freddy Got Fingered.  I had to rent it for myself.  I soon found that yes, the 'Fingered' in the title refers to what one does to another's lower body orifice.  How funny.I am hardly a prude.  My wife and I occasionally rent from the adult racks to maintain a creative and stimulated relationship. I loved Pulp Fiction because of the creative writing and how the story turned full circle.  That was a violent film, yet riveting.Freddy Got Fingered is a truly disturbing movie.  Let me be overly kind and give the writers a pass on plot and even the bizarre nature of the main character.  We often give a pass to Chris Farley and Adam Sandler for their obnoxious and often times mentally disturbed movie personalities.  We often give their plots a pass as they are merely vehicles for humor.However, with Freddy Got Fingered, the humor (I use the term 'humor' loosely - and I should preface it with 'attempted') is just plain jaw dropping.  There is nothing and I mean NOTHING creative or funny about Tom Green.He must be an arrogant guy who truly believes in his own greatness.  Why else would his character stop a car in the middle of a highway for no apparent reason, hop a fence and grab hold of a horse's penis?  And I mean a full fledged, fully erect horse penis.  I am 38 years old and have never seen a horse's penis, nor did I know what one looked like.  But thanks to Tom Green's creative genius I now know. That scene could only be toped by an elephant ejaculating.  Tom Green delivers! HUH????Tom goes on to gut a road kill and carry the blood soaked skin on his back for no apparent reason.  Nice image.  Oh, and you got to love the child birth scene where he spins a fetus around his head by it's umbilical cord as blood splatters all four walls of the room.  Lovely.I have never heard of Tom Green.  When I first read the review I was wondering Who is Tom Green, how can he be a director already, and who would finance his movies?  Well, I am sure he has some cult following somewhere and some long haired pointy head round rimmed dope smoking college kid who thinks his work is pure genius!Hardly.  Give me $1,000,000, a few cameras, and a technically sound crew, and I can 'create' the same rot gut as Tom Green.  He is a legend in his own mind. "},{"Title":" Tom Green needs to get a life!!!","Date":"14 February 2002","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I do not see how anybody can see anything funny about this film!!! It sucks even as a shock film. Hell I think even John Walters would be disgusted with this piece of crap that no one with an IQ over 6 would find funny. As a film student This film actualy makes me more confident. Confident that anybody could make it in Hollywood especially if big studios like 20th Century Fox are actually willing to throw down cash for retarded trash like this!!! If you want a good shock value movie Id recommend Pink Flamingos (This crap makes PF look like Gone with the wind.) The only good use for this DVD or Video would probably be as something for my dog to crap on in substitute for a newspaper whenever we go on walks!!  "},{"Title":"Stupid","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie was stupid and sick. People told me that it was stupid and sick, but i decided to waste my money and see for myself. I wish i would have listened because this was probably the worse movie of 2001, let alone just by itself. I would give it 1/10. Drew Barrymore even made a camo in the movie. Tom Green was horrible. I can see why they are getting a divorce. But if you like sick stuff like that then this is your movie.  "}{"Title":"I tried... I really tried... but it's NOT funny!","Date":"15 January 2002","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I have to say that I didn't know who Tom Green was, or his reputation... or what was the movie about. So I was open to anything. I started watching it... after a couple minutes, I was thinking It HAS go get better!... it really doesn't! I'm perfectly capable of watching a very stupid movie and enjoying it, but the problem with this one is that I didn't find anything funny in it!I feel like Tom Green only wanted to shock people in this movie... The only thing that shocked me was that I payed money to see that...Harland Williams is an amazing comic... but his talent was incredibly wasted here! Too bad! "},{"Title":"Worst Film I've Ever Seen!!!","Date":"10 May 2001","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'm sorry, but I cannot believe the other comment written about this film. This is surely the most UNFUNNY film I have ever had the displeasure to watch. Really. I only came onto this sight to read how much the film got slated and couldn't believe the comments of the other poster.  DO NOT PAY TO SEE THIS FILM.  TRUST ME.  I am not humourless.  I love a decent comedy film but this is not one.  Green's sense of humour is obviously so off the wall and extreme that only he himself could find his material funny.  Surely the directors/producers/extras could have said 'hey, stop this now - it's crap'. If you think you would be amused by horses erections, elephant semen, dressing up in a bloody dead moose, wheelchair-bound S&M, constant references to sucking cocks etc. then watch this film, but it is NOT FUNNY.This is the only film I have ever posted comments about.  I feel that strongly. Please Trust Me. 0 OUT OF 10 and that's generous!!! "},{"Title":"More Fun Than Dying! (Not a guarantee)","Date":"10 May 2001","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I have seen many movies.  Furthermore, I have seen many bad movies.  Many atrocious movies.  Many horrible, horrible, horrible movies.  Though, I truly believe that not one holds a candle to the waste of film that is Freddy Got Fingered.Now, you're probably thinking This guy's a turd.  Well, I loved Airplane!, Naked Gun, Scary Movie, South Park, etc.  These films had what we call jokes.  There are two things I liked about Freddy Got Fingered Nothing.  Nothing at all.  I saw people around me laughing as a grown man's knee cap was cracked and created a bloody bone to splinter from the flesh. This was only topped with further laughing after Tom Green HILARIOUSLY and INGENIOUSLY licked the bone.  This man is a genius.  How funny do you get?And then there are those who argue, So what?!  He's just pushing the envelope!  After all, Citizen Kane was controversial in it's day.  Well, this movie is not Citizen Kane.  This movie is the cinematic equivalent of being impaled onto a 10 foot rusted nail, head first.  Although, perhaps head first is too quick a death...Also, I apologize for sounding like a critic, but animal ejaculation just never did it for me as comedy.  Maybe I'm just a jerk.  Or possibly, I'm not a %$#@ing idiot.  I award this movie 0 stars. "},{"Title":"Hello, Im the target audience.  I hated this movie.","Date":"26 April 2001","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Hi There.  I'm an 18 year old middle class male.  You'd think this sort of movie was target at me.  Well, if it is, I feel sorry for everyone who was drawn to this movie.  Quite simply this was the worst movie I've ever seen in my entire life.  I've sat through a LOT of bad ones(Spice World, Scary Movie, Urban Legends 2 Final Cut) but this movie was utterly worse than any of those combined.  Tom Green's sick humor didn't even touch base with me. IT'S NOT FUNNY.  I enjoy sick humor, but this movie was downright insulting. It's like Tom Green is holding some sort of sociological experiment to see what is too far, and will people laugh at it.I only wish critics could rate movies with NEGATIVE STARS.Please do'nt support Tom Green by seeing this movie, if you have to, purchase a ticket to Crouching Tiger Hidden Dragon and then walk into Freddie Got Fingered.  Please don't put money into Tom Green's pocket by supporting this monstrosity.  I HATE THIS MOVIE. "},{"Title":"Please Mummy make it stop.","Date":"5 June 2006","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I'd been aware of this film for a while, even toying with getting it out of the rental shop. After all, something that's upset so many people must be worth a look. And then, this weekend, it was on the telly. Early morning, BBC1 (hello from England). So I set the timer and went to bed. Now, when I watched this I was stone cold sober. It may be that lots of beer, or even the odd Moroccan Marlboro may have been required. I haven't taped over this yet, so I could try an experiment where I alter my consciousness and then see if I like the film. But this isn't going to happen - firstly because I'm never watching this again and secondly, well, there aren't enough drugs in London to make this funny. I've never encountered Mr Green before, and hopefully never will again. This was an astonishingly bad film. Inept, inane and something else beginning with I. All in all, a kind of cathode-ray Jonestown massacre. I'm not objecting on the grounds of taste. Bad taste has never bothered me. But being gross just for the sake of grossness doesn't work. This is the equivalent of a child smearing its own excrement over the walls and then running to fetch Mummy to show her his work. You see, dumb humour can be hilarious, but there has to be an integral cleverness behind it. When nothing makes any sense (characters change their personalities in almost every scene, how come our hero hasn't been institutionalised? etc.)Look at something like Beavis and Butthead. And then look at this cavalcade of toss. No contest. I hesitate to say that this is the worst film I've ever seen, but it's certainly the worst comedy I've seen. Mind you, the bit where he smacks the disabled girl in the face was quite funny. "},{"Title":"Worst movie ever!","Date":"28 March 2004","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I liked the Tom Green Show, I enjoyed his deranged sense of humor.  But this movie was the least entertaining and most unpleasant film I have ever seen, without a doubt.  It is the viewing equivalent of slipping and falling in a puddle of vomit.  I needed to take a shower after watching this mess.  I can't believe this movie was so awful unintentionally, it is my opinion that this was a deliberate attempt by Tom Green to create a film so unredeemable, it would almost be art.  If that was his intent, it fails at that level, too.  Another possiblity is Green was looking to break a contract, or something similar, and just basically threw the movie.  Or maybe, the whole thing is some warped sociological experiment, meant to demonstrate that no matter how horrible a movie is, there will be someone to tell you how great it is as long as they truly believe they can make a buck from it. "},{"Title":"Beyond awful","Date":"24 August 2003","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is without a doubt the worst and most unfunny comedy I've ever seen. I raised a smile once throughout the movie, everything else was terrible. Don't get me wrong I like teen and gross-out movies but this one was beyond the pale. How can jokes about child abuse be funny? The only character I liked was his dad, and I was hoping he'd just smack Tom Green so the movie would finish. I've seen some real shockers in my time, but this is the worst. Avoid this movie at all costs. "},{"Title":"Words cannot describe how awful this movie is...","Date":"7 December 2002","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is hardly even worth the time of a review.  There is no concept to this movie and the entire hour and a half is one stupid and senseless gross out gag.  It would be more productive to have a farting contest than to watch this movie.  Tom Green has never been funny and never will be.I think this website should allow users to give movies a rating of 0 just for movies this abhorent.  Yet, I will go along with most of the other users and rate this movie a 1/10. "},{"Title":"Horrible, horrible, horrible","Date":"30 September 2002","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is almost an hour and a half long, or should I say too long. Without doubt it has moved into my top 3 worst movies ever seen list. Please, if you have a chance to rent this movie, do so - to burn it. "},{"Title":"Truly Unwatchable","Date":"14 September 2002","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is probably the worst film I have ever seen.  It's not just so bad it's funny, like an Ed Wood film.  It's so bad it's not funny.  I am 16, which is the core demographic they wanted, and I watched this film with a roomful of others my age.  We couldn't even sit through the whole movie. If the sight of a grown man walking around in a deer carcass is supposed to be funny, what have we come to?  I'm no crusader for morality, either.  My two favorite things are watching wrestling and listening to AC/DC.Rip Torn must have been real desperate for money to have taken this film. I only hope it doesn't do any real damage to his career.  Is the sight of his exposed butt in any way supposed to attract teen male viewers?  This is one truly god-awful film, and is actually physically painful to watch. "}{"Title":"This movie is too much Tom Green","Date":"10 September 2002","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'd like to think I was prepared for the things I expected to see in Freddy Got Fingered. Well after seeing Mr. Green put on a dead deer skin-suit, cut an umbilical cord with his teeth, lick an open flesh wound, and ejaculate an elephant, I realized that I had thought wrong. Nothing in this movie is funny. The plot centers around Tom Green's character, which is ultimately the main weakness of the movie. Other movies with Tom Green have worked because his character has not been the only element that drives the plot. Eddie Kaye Thomas (of American Pie fame) is in this movie, but his talent goes unused by Tom Green the director. And one final thought about this terrible movie. Is Shaquille O'Neal trying to set some sort of record for appearing/starring in more hideously-awful movies than anyone else in history? "},{"Title":"Are Tom Green's 15 minutes at least close to over yet?","Date":"22 June 2002","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Are you like me and can just picture the studio executive who green lighted this one.  Hmmm, the kids sure love this Tom Green show. And then the unaware old man quickly retreats back to his fantasy world where his opinion on what sounds like a good idea is still meaningful.  He then calls his secretary on the phone and tells her to get a movie deal ready for Carrot Top, cause he hears he's a pretty happening cat as well.Tom Green's show was hillarious because it showed the real reactions of people to his insane stunts and pranks.  It isn't funny when the people reacting are paid actors and Tom just includes as much crude, disgusting humor as he can to prove that he is still on the cutting edge of comedy. Tom, go back to what your good at and get out of Hollywood while the kids still think your funny.   "},{"Title":"Sucks, big time!","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Hey movie fans, this film is just awful. There is barely a story line to follow, the movie just tries to focus on Tom Green doing stupid things. I thought some parts were funny, like when he has the suit on backward, the cartoon, the boy who gets hit by stuff and the woman in the wheel chair. But most of the other things that he does are just sick or not funny. Rip Torn is crap in this as well. Maybe some people will like it, well some of my friends did, but to any serious movie fan just don't waste your time, go watch dumb and dumber instead because that is proper comedy. Tom Green is going to have to work harder to claim the top spot comidien position. He just doesn't measure up to the likes of Carry, Sandler or the late John Candy. Comedy films in my opinion are becoming to focused on grossing people out instead of being funny. Well i've rattled on enough DON'T WATCH!! "},{"Title":"Very bad","Date":"12 May 2002","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  One to avoid like the plague. how anyone would give tom green the money to make such tripe is a mystery. Tom Green goes for shock value but only manages to bring cringe after cringe from any one foolish enough to sit through this rubbish. one of the worst movies of the last 100 years.  "},{"Title":"Probably the worst movie ever","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I have actually watched and enjoyed the Tom Green show and thought that I would therefore like the movie.  Boy, was I wrong!  I laughed twice in the movie Once when he (Tom Green) smacks the crippled girl with te bamboo cane and the second time when he gets kicked by the elefant.  Other than that the movie is unfunny and downright embarrassing. On the commentary track, Tom argues that the birthing scene was inspired by Monty Python, but somehow he manages just to make me cringe and shut my eyes in disbelief.  There is nothing remotely funny about it. Movies with idiots can be good (Dumb and Dumber, Forest Gump, Shine) but this one isnt.  Dont waste your time.   1/10 "},{"Title":"Another implication that movies are going to hell.......","Date":"23 April 2002","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It goes without saying that everyone is aware that a guy like Tom Green, is a total idiot. His schtick was funny at first because for the first time no one had ever seen a grown man get away with humping a dead moose, causing a ruckus in a supermarket via a motorized cart, or causing an uproar in whatever place he can. But now the inevitable has come, Tom Green has secured the movie deal to basically...play himself. In this hour and a half crapfest, of which Razzie honoree Green proudly picked up the awards, Green plays an unemployed cartoonist who moves back in with his folks and causes upheaval within the household. Rip Torn plays his less than loving father who is fully aware that his son's a total idiot. It went without saying that 2001 was the worst year for films in general, with movie studio product getting a whole lot worse from the likes of Tomb Raider, Joe Dirt, Pearl Harbor, and Domestic Disturbance amongst the dozens of other horrible films ever to disgrace the silver screen. Tom Green challenges his audience, or better yet, grosses us to look at him jack off a horse and an elephant, watch a young boy get slaughtered gruesomely by airplane blades, and the sight of Rip Torn's bare behind. It's not a pretty sight.Now, don't me wrong, I was dumb enough to plop down the $3.99 it cost to rent this movie because there's no way in hell I was going to pay to see it on the big screen. But I gotta admit, there are standards to comedy, and Tom Green has kicked them deliberately in the balls repeatedly. He'd put Lenny Bruce and Redd Foxx to shame with the kind of crap that he visually demonstrates without restraint. His comedy plays off like a scripted television show that takes things up to the next level that television won't let him get away with. This is supposedly a remake of Roberto Benigni's The Monster, but I don't think Benigni's film revolved around a guy licking someone's very open knee wound. It's a shame that such a good cast like Torn, Eddie Kaye Thomas, Julie Hagerty, Anthony Michael Hall, and Harland Williams would even consider being associated with this. Let this movie sit and gather the dust that it deserves. Unless you want to use it as a college drinking game a la Glitter, then I suggest going on with it.Grade Not even an F would describe how bad it really is  "},{"Title":"Unwatchable","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The least entertaining film I've ever seen.There are not enough synonyms in the English language to properly express my disdain for Tom Green regarding this film.  I felt as if I were robbed of my ticket money.  This film is the anti-comedy.  It has no entertainment value whatsoever.I watched it in vain for some glimmer of comedic value and there was none to be found.  I was formerly a fan of Tom Green's modified version of Candid Camera until this movie.  The only quote worthy of the movie is the executive's statement to Gord when he appears as a policeman (a British Bobby uniform) in the restaurant to pitch his animated cartoon idea, This makes no sense, it IS NOT FUNNY.From there on it goes even farther downhill.  There are big problems with basic continuity (leg casts being kicked in and unbroken in the wide shots, fish being eaten then played around with uneaten, skateboarding on a ramp with nails sticking out of it with no nails visible in the long shot and then the nails popping back in closeup, etc...)  The gags don't have any aspect of humor unless you consider the world insane.  It appears to be a sad result of one man's cocaine binge with little oversight on the studio's part.  The only remarkable thing about this film is the first appearance of an actual horse's penis (the elephant's penis was fake) in a non-porn film.  "},{"Title":"Terrible, terrible film.","Date":"8 February 2002","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I have read many a review, and other user comments regarding the monstrosity that is Freddy Got Fingered. Perhaps the fact that 97% of all professional reviewers gave this movie a ZERO or ONE rating is some sort of sign of the movie's quality. This movie (and I use that term loosely) is the worse piece of filmmaking I have ever seen. It is the worse film I will ever see. It is the worse film that my children will ever see (if I cannot prevent them watching this trash).This movie is not funny. There are absolutely no scenes which invoke any sort of humor. Not even the animal masturbation, child abuse, and impromptu surgery could make me crack a smile.Since this is obviously not a comedy, I am not sure what it is. It simply appears to be a shock film, in which Tom Green tries to top all of his previous stunts, as well as those seen on Jackass, which eclipsed his show on MTV. There is little surprise, that after this travesty, Tom Green has disappeared from the public eye completely (except when he was dumped by Drew...what a shame).This movie is worth seeing, only so that you may say you have witnessed the worse, foulest, most worthless footage ever committed to videotape. It's great fun to mock, except for the fact that it constantly sickens you. I completed my viewing of this horrible thing wanting to kill myself...only after I killed Tom Green. "},{"Title":"pathetic","Date":"4 February 2002","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  the worst movie ever. tom green has gone crazy. nothing makes sense. i started watching this movie thinking that it wud be a slap tick comedy but it looks like a product of a very sick mind. it has just physical comedy which gets really boring as the movie progresses. "},{"Title":"Absolute worst film ever","Date":"23 January 2002","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is absolutely the worst movie ever made.  Nothing redeemable can be taken from this.  The only good thing I can say about it is I didn't pay to see it.  Tom Green's humor works only when interacting with real people. It isn't funny when reactions are already planned.  To quote the comic book guy Worst Movie Ever! "}{"Title":"this was a waste of film but most of all a waste of my time and money!","Date":"17 January 2002","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie sucked! I'm sorry but Tom Green blew chunks in this movie i would of rathered watched fly's eat my dogs dung. Also i would rather of payed too see paint dry on a wall then of watched this rotten disgusting movie. I could go on and on about how bad this movie was but i wont . I totally thought he went over board when i seen him touching animals privates. "},{"Title":"Stupid, Stupid, Stupid, Worst movie ever!!!","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Tom Green is the worst actor ever and this is the worst movie ever, I couldn't even stand to finish it, it wasn't worth my time.  Don't waste yours, it stunk.  This movie is just another moronic effort by Green to act, and it didn't pay off.  Any studio would be wasting their time and ours if they keep this guy.-4 stars / 4, Give it up Green, we (the audience) don't want you!!! "},{"Title":"Rated it a 1 because 0 was not a choice","Date":"12 January 2002","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This amazingly awful waste of film tries to be gross-out humor, but it is not funny, its just gross.  Unless, of course, you think masturbating large animals is funny. The only possible target audience, young teenage boys, should not see this R-rated dreck.  Any adult who would have brought a teenager into this movie should be arrested by the good taste police. Compared to Freddy Got Fingered, the worst Adam Sandler p***-fest is sophisticated, urbane humor.  Compared to Freddy Got Fingered, Drowning Mona is a hilarious, light comedy. Don't waste your time watching this.  It isn't worth the wear and tear on your senses. "},{"Title":"One of the worst ever...","Date":"9 January 2002","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Let me start off by saying that I am a fan of way out there movies.  That being said, this one went way too far.  I was o.k. with the movie until it started making jokes about child molestation.  I can laugh at a lot of things, but I don't see any humor about children getting fingered. Don't waste your time with this movie. "},{"Title":"the worst waste on film in history","Date":"2 January 2002","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Sure, my one line summary is a tad harsh. Sadly, it's also true. Tom Green may be a brilliant comic (to some), but his writing, directing, and acting leave MUCH to be desired. Rip Torn, amazing in Larry Sanders and Men In Black, should fire his agent. Only Anthony Micheal Hall comes off with any sort of respect left. Skip in on video. Skip in on pay cable. Skip it on TV. NEVER WATCH THIS MOVIE!! "},{"Title":"Guess what Freddy Got Fingered and a vacuum cleaner have in common...","Date":"21 December 2001","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Good Gravy this movie was a waste of time.  I even liked Tom Green's show on MTV, I thought it was hysterical.  However, I wasn't sure how his style of comedy would produce laughs in a motion picture.  After seeing this movie, I realize that it doesn't.Freddy Got Fingered is unlike any movie you've ever seen.  However, that's not a good thing.  Weird does not equal good.I'm even a big fan of 'gross-out' humor.  Baseketball, South Park, There's Something About Mary, Scary Movie, Man Bites Dog;  None of those movies offended me.  Freddy Got Fingered however, did offend me.  It offended me by not being funny.Before I saw this movie I genuinely liked Tom Green.  Now, after he stole 87 minutes out of my life.  I long for his career to end. "},{"Title":"Quite possibly the worst movie of all time","Date":"15 December 2001","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'm all for low-brow entertainment, but this doesn't even qualify as entertainment. I don't know if Tom Green was trying to make some artistic statement with this movie, but it is completely unwatchable. I felt sorry for all the actors in the movie, including Green. He would benefit from simple screen writing and comedy writing classes. I'm sure that after the success of his MTV show and the movie Road Trip he was given a long leash to do whatever he wanted. Unfortunately, he made a multi-million dollar bad home movie.  "},{"Title":"No.. it is as bad as they say..","Date":"9 December 2001","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The Farrelly brothers have a black sense of humor sometimes, but I get it, it's still funny.  This is just plain moronic.  I have to doubt there was even a written script for this, what would be the point. Either way, I don't recommend. "},{"Title":"Why must Tom Green torture us?","Date":"7 December 2001","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I just saw this movie on pay-per-view, and I'm have to say that it's the biggest waste of money ever.  Freddy Got Fingered is the most disgusting, pathetic movie I've ever seen in my entire life.  It is so brutally awful, it makes Troma's movies look like Citizen Kane!  I know people think that Tom Green is just jerking the audience's chain like Andy Kaufman did, but when Kaufman did it, it was actually FUNNY.  Kaufman didn't have to resort to vulgar, sickening crap.  I had a friend who loves Tom Green, and even he says the movie sucks.  What does that say about it?To paraphrase the Comic Book Guy from The Simpsons Worst movie ever. "},{"Title":"May as well turn out to be the worst movie ever made","Date":"25 November 2001","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Judging by poor reviews from critics, poor box office numbers, and a particularly bad user rating here at iMDb; Freddy Got Fingered may as well turn out to be the worst movie ever made! I'm not exaggerating either. The sick twisted sense of humor from Tom Green is put on the big screen. BAD IDEA!!! There was one man in this movie that saved me from walking out of the theatre, Rip Torn. He was a hoot in this movie. I must admit to see him smack around Tom Green like that is satisfying. However, I think he is at the lowest point of his career and not even he can save this pretty sorry movie. I did laugh a few times like some of the cameos that this film has and of course Rip Torn, but it was too gross to be called at least a chuckable experience. This movie does have a loyal audience following and about 90% are Canadian. Let's face it, Canadians have different senses of humor than Americans. They think this movie is hilarious. Oh, wait o they don't! ( BEWARE!!! Like the tag line says, This Time You Can't Change The Channel!, but you can walk out of the theatre and demand your money back!      "}{"Title":"Some studio head got fired for this movie...","Date":"3 November 2001","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"       Upon its' release, many critics gasped at the extremeness of Tom Green's gross out comedy, &#145;Freddy Got Fingered'. Yet, all I have to say is that those critics simply blew the situation way out of proportion. Yes, the film is crude, offensive, vulgar, and most of all &#150; just plain awful. But then again, what the hell did they expect from Tom green? Some executive at Fox must have heard that Tom Green was the new hot thing and decided to give him a contract to write and direct his own movie. That man is certainly fired as of now.       This film is silly and morally offensive. Yet, surely it is all in good fun. The only thing is that it isn't fun. Besides a running plot gag having the same child getting injured in an extraordinary set of circumstances every thirty minutes, this film lacks laughs and is merely aiming for shock value.      Furthermore, classic actor Rip Torn loses all credibility as he turns in the worst performance of his life as an alcoholic drunk father who apparently molests his youngest child, hence the title. And Tom green does not play the title character. Yet, the craziness does not stop there. I did not mention the plot yet.       This film works on the notion of Green's character; Gord, returning home after a failed attempt in Hollywood to search for employment as an animator for his own series of cartoons. Shortly after his dream fails, he moves back home only to engage in caning a paraplegic for her sexual pleasure, masturbating a horse, sucking on a cow' udder and opening the carcass of a deer only to prance around in it and use it as a fashion accessory. And that is only the first 20 minutes.       This film contains the most bizarre humour and even when it tries to develop a serious tone for the sake of progressing the ridiculous plot &#150; it cannot be. It simply is a bad film that contains the silliest climax ever. The only good thing about this film is when it ends. Giancarlo's Rating * "},{"Title":"Blechhhhh","Date":"27 October 2001","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I think I may have gotten 1/3 into the movie before I hit the off key. Let me see if I can think of a few words to describe this movie...STUPID, GROSS, VULGAR, and totally without any socially redeeming value. How did this even get made? I have seen some pretty bad movies in my life, but this takes the cake. I had seen Green's other movie, Road Trip and found it worth some chuckles, but Freddy falls so far into the gutter that that that...trust me stay away from this one. "},{"Title":"I got to see this movie for free but I want my 90 minutes back.","Date":"26 April 2001","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I saw this as a sneak preview and got to see it for free.  Even so, I want the 90 minutes of life I spent on this movie back.  Besides Road Trip, this is the only thing I have seen Tom Green star in.  Why anyone would find him funny is beyond me.  This movie has no plot, and is absolutely disgusting. I feel sorry for Rip Torn and all of the other established actors for being seen in this movie.  Hollywood has reached a new low. "},{"Title":"A waste of time.","Date":"23 April 2001","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'm not going to even spend that much time on this, so I will say what I have to say and be done with it.This movie is terrible, horrible, gross, and very UN-funny.I believe Tom Green shouldn't even be in show business; marrying Drew Barrymore and french-kissing his father is one thing, but swinging a baby around in the air and which is also still connected to the womb is not even funny.  I'm not going to be some protestor and say this is wrong, that would be a waste of time, but for the sake of admission Do Not Watch This Movie.If I could recommend a movie to watch besides this?   Showgirls ) "},{"Title":"A New Low in Cinematic History","Date":"26 June 2006","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" There is no other way to put this other than this film is just plain terrible. I was a fan of the Tom Green Show, although I've only watched a handful of episodes, so I was slightly interested in the film and saw it for under $5 at wal-mart or something...so I thought I'd just buy it and check it out. Let me also note that I like just about everything, and most films have something good to offer...there are of course a few exceptions. After watching this film I can say beyond a shadow of a doubt that Freddy Got Fingered is absolutely in the 10 WORST FILMS I've ever seen, no question about it!!! This was TERRIBLE!!! It is absolutely devoid of any redeeming qualities. It really isn't that funny either, it's got a few laughs, but most of the time it's just moronic and sick. It is truly rare that I would recommend someone NOT see a film, but I strongly urge you to spend your time doing something else or watching different movie, any movie. I'm actually considering throwing my copy of the film away, cause I'm sure I'll never watch it again.-LebowskiT1000 "},{"Title":"Never have I turned off the telly so quickly...","Date":"23 June 2006","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" So the question my friends, is as follows...Would you define 'humour' as shouting something about an animal's penis over and over and over again, louder and louder and louder - presumably until someone laughs, cries or leaves the cinema?Is cutting up animals or waving their genitals in the air funny?What on earth did the RSPCA make of this?Does waving your arms wildly in the air and shouting the same line over and over again, pass for comedy these days?Can you have someone committed by virtue of watching their screen persona?So many questions / such a bad film.Peter "},{"Title":"quite simply the worst film i have seen for a long while","Date":"3 June 2006","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" oh my god. i just watched the film late last night and couldn't believe it. is the guy a retard or something he just does dumb and unfunny stuff randomly. tom the director is a jackass if he thought this film would be a success. the film has no particular plot. apart from a dumb guy doing dumb unfunny stuff.the dumbest bit is when he is working in a cheese sandwich factory and randomly jumps on the conveyor belt and pretends to have a huge knob by holding a big sausage around his crotch. the dumbest thing is that the other workers have no reaction to his stupid joke.i'm sure many people will agree this film is just one big joke and should not have been passed as a film, but a dumb excuse for a comedy. Matty "},{"Title":"Avoid","Date":"2 June 2006","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" having read a review on this from fugu_286 i felt the need to make this my first ever review.If reference to that comment, the joke is definitely on us, that somehow we've been duped into watching this drivel. Tom Green clearly made this movie just for himself, (read the fugu_286 review for more detailed evidence). just because it's a supposed joke on all of us doesn't in any way make it a good movie (I'm still in shock over the 10/10). A plot doesn't have to be necessary for a comedy, but this doesn't even have any half decent jokes. This has been so crap, I'm now wondering if it would have been better to watch those rubbish late night quiz shows that we have in UK instead.... go figure...Don't waste your life on this "},{"Title":"bloody awful","Date":"28 May 2006","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Garbage. The whole point of this film seems to be Lets make this as shocking as possible and it simply ends up as the most boring piece of rubbish ever put on film. It isn't in the slightest bit funny, it's attempts at shocking wear thin after the first 10 minutes and in the end I gave up 45 minutes into it deciding that I wasn't going to waste any more of my time watching it. I've only seen the first half therefore unless the second half vastly improved or got even more depraved I'm probably not qualified to give an honest review about this film. Someone at work said this was the funniest thing he'd seen and I'm seriously worried about him now. This film is pants, complete and utter rubbish and I hope Tom Green falls off his perch and just buggers off. Absolute Shite. "},{"Title":"At least excrement has substance.","Date":"13 January 2006","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" One of the worst comedies I have ever seen. Freddy a 28 year old unemployed and arguably insane loser wants to become an animator so quits his job as a sandwich maker, meets a paraplegic nymphomaniac hospital worker and being disgruntled with his parents accused his father of fingering his brother at a family therapist meeting. The difference between this and other other crude but talented comedy such as Me, myself and Irene and Bad Santa is that the comedy was carefully executed and well thought out. This movie on the other hand decided to through a bunch of filthy skits together and hope for the best. Some scenes left me thinking what the hell was that all about? and, or I felt soiled be witness to it. Started off with some humour but very quickly went down the slippery slope, if this were an animal you would be compelled to have it put down. "}{"Title":"0.5/5 Awful. Don't Bother","Date":"1 December 2004","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Starring Tom Green, Rip Torn, Marisa Coughlan, Eddie Kaye ThomasPlot Synopsis A 28 year old unemployed slacker still living with his parents decides to do something with his life.Its a sad fact that the American cinematic depression has stooped to such a low level that tripe such as this is not only made, but also distributed. Crass, crude, and repellent, Freddy Got Fingered is evidently targetted at the lowest common denominator. This isn't really a film as such, but rather a vehicle for Tom Green to display his state of arrested development Quite sad, as we see enough of it on TV.The plot isn't really a plot but rather an excuse for excess, the writing is childish, and the attempts at humour are forced upon the audience with no tact whatsoever - a baby being swung like a hammer-throw by the umbilical cord is evidence enough. I just pity Drew Barrymore for appearing in this scatological excursion. Gross out comedy has its place in cinema, but only when the emphasis is placed on the 'comedy'. Unfortunately, it appears movies like this will continue to be made in the current cinematic climate, as there is a market for this sort of trash - generally pre-pubescent boys and everyone else afflicted with a similar 'tom green' condition. "},{"Title":"Arguably the worst film ever!","Date":"14 August 2003","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  As I watched this perverse excuse for a film I had to wonder why some studio heads greenlighted this? Did they think that Tom Green was the new cutting edge comedy sensation? Didn't they look at his script? Story has Tom Green as Gord Brody who dreams of being an animator but he's 28 years old and living with his parents so time is clicking. He decides to go to Los Angeles and meet television producer Dave Davidson (Anthony Michael Hall) and try and show him his drawings. Davidson doesn't like them so Gord goes back home and try and get a regular job. He meets Betty (Marisa Coughlan) who is a nurse and handicapped and he starts to date her. His father Jim (Rip Torn) is sick of his son not growing up and getting a decent job like his brother Freddy (Eddie Kaye) who works in a bank. They fight and argue and Gord lies to both his parents and Betty about having a job until he tries again with Davidson and after a big fight in his office with his father, Davidson gives him a million dollars to produce a cartoon with his drawings. This wretched film doesn't have one chuckle in it. During which scenes did Green expect us to laugh? When the little boy keeps getting his face smashed to a bloody pulp? When Gord gets turned on from an excited horse and he grabs hold of the horse's penis? When Gord takes a new born baby and swings it around his head by the umbilical cord? And afterword when he eats the cord? If your going to have gross humor in films at least have a reason for it like American Pie or Animal House. Green directed and wrote this abomination and he makes his own character so stupid and obnoxious that you don't care what happens to him. Did anyone feel better when Hall's character wrote him a million dollar check? I felt like he's an idiot giving that money to a bigger idiot and then we watched him spend it on totally inane things. Torn's character is this unsympathetic father but could you blame him? Green was so over the top idiotic that its a miracle that Gord wasn't committed to an insane asylum. Poor Drew Barrymore makes a cameo in this mess to support her (Then) husband. Could she really have loved him? What's her problem? This is easily worse than Plan 9 From Outer Space and if Ed Wood were alive he would probably say, See! I'm not the worst filmmaker ever! He would be right!  "},{"Title":"Worst movie I've seen! ever!","Date":"22 April 2003","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Make yourself a big favorite, don't go see this movie. I usually like Tom Green weird humor, but this movie, doesn't have even this, it just sucked. Bad story, bad acting, bad directing, BAD humor, definitely not the TV Tom Green. Spend you money someplace else. "},{"Title":"I love Tom Green, BUT UGH!!!","Date":"31 March 2003","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I love gross. I love guts. I love the stupid and the weird. But man oh man... this movie was sooooo bad! I forced this movie on myself and I'm very sorry! Self, please forgive me! The best part was the end when the credits rolled. I give this movie zip-zed-zelch...Nothing out of 10. Not one star. It is my new low. I'd watch roadhouse before this. Stinky...peewhew!   "},{"Title":"I got more laughs out of Dune...","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Tom Green makes buckets of cash out of pushing people's buttons, and 'Freddy Got Fingered' seems to be expressly designed to just do that. I honestly can't see any other reason for its existence. Now, I come to bury this movie, not praise it, but NOT because it is offensive or gross or horrible or those other words most people who hate it use. Frankly that aspect of this movie isn't a problem for me.  Maybe someone who think the Farrelly brothers or 'American Pie' are pushing the envelope might be shocked at Green, but someone who has watched 'Pink Flamingos', 'Nekromantik', 'Salo', 'Thundercrack!', 'Gummo', 'Tetsuo', and 'La Bete', to name a few examples of cinematic extremism, this is a yawn. Not all those aforementioned movies are presented as comedies of course, but 'Freddie Got Fingered' is, so judging it as a comedy is all I can do, and it fails miserably. Personally I couldn't care less whether a comedy is PC or not PC, sophisticated or crude, as long as it makes me laugh, and this movie didn't. Not even once. End of story. "},{"Title":"Tom Green is funny?","Date":"20 June 2002","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  At first, I refused to see this movie, since I've hated everything Tom Green's been involved with so far.  But a few friends just wouldn't shut up about it (someone even said it was brilliant), so I watched it on cable one night.  Rather, I tried to watch it.I started having trouble paying attention about five minutes after it started.  It wasn't interesting or in the least bit funny.  It really doesn't make any sense, either, even if you overlook the fact that, in real life, anyone as stupid as Tom Green's character would've been institutionalized.  I'd say his father went easy on him through most of it.Really, after seeing Gummo, I figured I'd witnessed the absolute bottom of the cinematic barrel.  While Freddy Got Fingered wasn't quite as close to the bottom as Gummo, it was close enough to keep it company. "},{"Title":"One of the worst films ever!!","Date":"15 May 2002","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I like gross out comedy's as much as the next immature guy but this really takes it too far. The film is so depraved its unbelievable, how the hell did they get away with this stuff. I don't particularly want to go into the sordid details but lets just say the RSPCA must have sickened by some of the antics Tom Green got up to, for example climbing into the skin of a dead moose after cutting it open as well as sexually assaulting a horse and an elephant. All this film is, is a 90 minute display of Tom Green acting like a toddler making stupid noises. There are no funny jokes, the film is like its been made up as they went along because I doubt anyone would have written such rubbish. There is no plot, no point, no funny jokes, there is not one moment where you can honestly say that they deliver a genuinely well thought out joke. The film just doesn't flow, because there is no point. Tom Greens character for instance drives along in his car and then for no apparent reasons schreeches to a halt, gets out, jumps over a fence into a farm and precedes to toss off a horse! That is not funny its sick and uncomfortably perverse unless youir a fan of animal farm and I don't mean the classic, were talking the one shot on a home camcorder with a budget that was enough to buy a few bottles of johnsons baby oil.The film is so bad it is funny, I did laugh but not for the right reasons, and most of the time I felt uncomfortable watching it. "},{"Title":"lucky kids dont get rich","Date":"3 April 2002","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  it's the sort of movie most 14 year old boys would make if they had $1,000,000.it's purile rubbish, sets out to shock (not very well) and it's not even funny ;-(dont bother "},{"Title":"Quoting two remarks made by Anthony Michael Hall in this film, give you all the info you need","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  1.This is fu..ing stupid2.This makes no sense.The question is though, did I laugh? YES I DID. Because it was funny and I laughed at it, no I laughed about the sickness that is Tom Green. He is really an idiot. I laughed, but it was not funny, it was crude and stupid (the horse scene, the dead deer scene and so on). Fu..ed in the head.1 out of 10  "},{"Title":"Are you people CRAZY??","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If you laugh at stupid schlock like this, something is seriously wrong with your Gord (get it?).  This is truly one of the most abominable pieces of filth ever invented for any purpose of any kind.  Words have not yet been invented so that I may properly ravage this movie to the degree it deserves. Tom Green is probably the least talented, least funny, and least adept entertainer I have ever seen.  This dreck was excruciating from start to finish, and the supposed jokes would offend anyone with even a remote moral conscious.  I've read some pretty favorable reviews of this film from the people here on IMDb, and I have to say that I am seriously frightened. This isn't original or ground breaking stuff, this is absolute filth.  "}{"Title":"Blame Canada. *SPOILERS*","Date":"9 November 2001","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Freddy Got Fingered is utterly vile, rancid, nauseating garbage.  Watching it was the most depressing cinematic experience of the year - I haven't felt this queasy after a movie since the last time Cobra was broadcast on TBS. I felt sorry for the supporting cast, the crew, even the extras.  Hopefully everyone involved, besides Tom Green, will quickly put this ugly stain of a movie behind them.Since there's no plot worth repeating, let's just run through the litany of what constitutes humor in Tom Green's diseased mind1.  Manual stimulation of a horse.2.  The gutting of a deer.3.  Swinging a baby by its umbilical cord.4.  A handicapped woman reaching orgasm by being beaten with a stick.5.  False accusations of child molestation.6.  Elephant jizz.7.  The licking of bloody wounds.8.  Rip Torn's rear end.9.  Unintentional physical abuse of a child.10.  Sucking a cow's udder.A screenplay with these elements got major studio backing of $15 million, while, say, the glorious Hedwig and the Angry Inch received less than half that amount to create its fabulous splendor.  How in the name of God is that possible?!?  Find me one person whose mind is enriched by FGF.  (WHO ARE YOU PEOPLE??)  On second thought, don't; leave them under their rocks and we'll all be better off.A side note to Drew Barrymore  Honey, what's happened to you?  You were once a delightful screen presence, even in movies I'm no fan of (The Wedding Singer, anyone?).  But you starred in and produced Charlie's Angels (the worst movie of 2000), and now your appearance in FGF ensures your involvement in the worst movie of 2001.  Please have a serious talk with your agent before you complete the hat trick.  Sugarbabe, you haven't appeared in a watchable movie since Never Been Kissed, so maybe it's a blessing that E.T. is being rereleased this year to remind America of what a treasure you are.I'd love to write more about Ms. Barrymore, and we'd all be happier if I did, but this commentary is about FGF, so I press on.  Other comments here compare this swill to Godard and Bunuel, for God's sake.  Puleeze.  Don't bring those masters down to Mr. Green's level.  Some say this movie has merit because Mr. Green set out to outrage critics and audiences.  So, by this rationale, should, say, an openly racist film warrant respect just because it provokes a similarly vitriolic condemnation?  Others say we've never seen anything like FGF before.  (I'd say that anyone familiar with John Waters' early work has seen it all and then some.)  And the metaphors that some are trying to shoehorn into this mess?  Take another look of what's listed above and realize that a movie has to work on its own level before it can be seen on another.  FGF is, first and foremost, a vomitorium of debauchery, and any attempt to inject a coming-of-age interpretation into any discussion of it can cause no other response than incredulity.FGF is billed as a comedy yet made me laugh only one (1) time.  To spare everyone the cost of a rental, let me spoil the joke  a comedy is in desperate trouble when a cameo by Shaquille O'Neal is its sole highlight. (And yeah, the title is funny until one realizes that it was chosen only because it's funny, therefore rendering it unfunny.)  On the other hand, I was on the verge of tears at least twice, and those weren't tears of joy. I almost wept for everyone whose resume is tainted with this filth, for Julie Hagerty's career, for the millions wasted with nothing to show for it, and for the embarrassment of an industry who produced this trash.Now, although I prefer independent cinema to the usual Hollywood crap, I'm no film snob.  Even though I'm no fan of gross-out humor for its own sake, I find movies of this type done with finesse enjoyable.  Kingpin, Return of the Living Dead, South Park, Dead Alive and Ravenous get nothing but praise from me.  All these movies possess a style that Tom Green cannot possibly understand or emulate.In all honesty I must admit that I have never liked Tom Green.  His MTV show was as stunningly unfunny as Road Trip was.  But I came to FGF with an open mind, hoping to be converted into a fan (I've always loved The Kids in the Hall and Canadian humor in general).  But if I was more of a hero I'd race into all my local independent videostores and snatch FGF out of all unsuspecting or curious renters' hands and replace it with other comedies on the New Release shelf that actually are funny (Best in Show comes to mind). I mean, we all gotta do our part to keep America beautiful, no?  "},{"Title":"I want to die now.","Date":"26 May 2014","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Hello.I have come to write the whole community a message. Months ago I wrote a review for Cats and Dogs The Revenge Of Kitty Galore. I declared it to be the worst movie of all time. But now, I have seen something that is even 100 times worse. It actually traumatized me. I had to speak to a friend on the phone in order to calm me down and keep me from killing myself. It was that bad. So bad I kept crying and threw the VHS tape of this film I bought at the flea market in the garbage. I have never done that in my life before.The Director/Actor of this movie, Tom Green, should be killed. I sound like lots of Friedberg/Seltzer Haters while I am writing, but now I know why people hate them and Tom Green. I never wanted this to happen to me. I thought it would get better and I kept watching. It never got better. It was The Devil's Movie.Freddy Got Fingered. Why was this movie even made? To show that Tom Green can be extremely frightening and unfunny? To show that Rip Torn looks like a pedophile? To show that constant abuse of children was hilarious? No. It was made because it was. There was no point in making this movie.There is no plot. It is a bunch of sketches of Tom Green and Rip Torn screaming which becomes very frightening. But not only that, but it is an exercise in offending everyone ever.Here are 10 things that happen in the movie that are not funny 1. Tom Green Skins a deer and wears it with a huge amount of blood on it and gets hit by a truck. Animal Abuse is not funny.2. Tom Green starts licking a bloody wound from his friend after he falls on some nails. ITS DISGUSTING! 3. Rip Torn tries to kill Tom Green's Friend and acts like a psychopath the whole entire time. We feel extremely uncomfortable all the time around him.4. Tom Green bites an umbilical cord of a baby and swings the unconscious body around by the cord as blood spills everywhere and the baby is miraculously conscious again.5. Tom Green starts whacking a stick on the legs of his Nymphomaniac Handicapped Girlfriend for pleasure. This makes no logical sense whatsoever. Shouldn't that be extremely painful if you were not handicapped?! 6. Tom Green whacks off a horse as he says LOOK DADDY! I AM A FARMER! How is this funny in any way?! There is no punch lines at all! 7. Tom Green makes up lies that his Father molested his younger brother Freddy (Who is about 23) and screams so much that I and the audience become scared.8. A Kid gets hurt in many ways that could kill him. He even at the end runs into a propeller of an airplane. CHILD ABUSE = NOT FUNNY 9. Tom Green sprays Elephant Semen on his Father in India. Again. NO PUNCHLINES! 10. Tom Green gets crazy when a guy asks for more cheese at a cheese sandwich shop putting ridiculous amounts of cheese and screaming at him. WHAT.... I.... AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAGH! There is no punch lines in these jokes! You can't even call them jokes because they are excessively violent and gross. Scary Movie and American Pie worked as Gross Out Comedies because they had some sort of structure to them! This doesn't! It goes way to far and people will have to go to therapy which I will be doing after they see this film.Some people like this film. Why? Because they think its art. OK. How is this art? These Are Sketches. Art is something like The Wizard of Oz because it is metaphorical and deep! Art is Lawrence Of Arabia because it is about the characteristics of man! This is just a huge pile of trite that should not be seen by anyone because no f@#$s were given into this movie and it made me extremely frustrated, angry, furious and sad at the same time.Do not watch this film. AT LEAST WITH CATS AND DOGS 2. YES. At least with Cats and Dogs 2. It was a clich. The movie is a clich which helps because it borrows from other films and elements to make a structure! Tom Green must die for making this film. It is the worst movie of all time. I am not even going to give it a single digit number out of 100. I am just going to give it a zero because they gave zero effort into this film.0/100 If you dare to watch this, you will be traumatized. Watch at your own risk. The best way to use it is to either throw it away or use it to interrogate terrorists. "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies","Date":"8 March 2012","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I really wish I could Vote this movie as a 0, but 1 is as low as they allow me to do so. It's unbelievable just how bad this movie is, it really truly has no redeemable values to it. Even average or worse movies I try to find some good thing about them, I can't even begin to do that here. This is a movie for people with basically no standards and even less intelligence. It's basically Tom Green acting like a retard for 90 minutes and not much else.Tom Green is best used in movies like in Road Trip where he is used just in small dosages. He's fine as comedic relief but he clearly doesn't have the skills to carry a movie by himself. And to say he doesn't have any acting skills is an understatement. "},{"Title":"It sucks.","Date":"5 June 2011","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Didn't bother finishing it (although it was almost over).Some parts are half funny, and most would be funnier if Tom Green wasn't in them. The main flaw of the film is that Tom Green isn't any good. He lacks real comedic timing, and his jokes are just flat. You can almost see the humour underneath it, but he fails time and time again to deliver. Rip Torn is the only actor displaying anything approaching talent here, but his efforts are largely wasted in this bizarre and unfunny film.The story is average. The jokes lame. The gross elements are likewise unfunny. It all adds up to a dull film. Tom Green might have been trying to challenge the established canons of art, thought and morality, and while that's all well and good, the end result is dull. It lacks originality (other than an abundance of stupidity, but as if there's not enough of that around), humour and talent. It's a mish mash that results in meaningless babble. Maybe that's what Tom Green wanted. If so, he succeeded admirably.I had to give it one star as I couldn't give it zero. "},{"Title":"Neds Only","Date":"6 July 2003","Score":"18 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A conversation I overheard in Rothesay on the Isle Of Bute1st Ned  Wassa film called man ?2nd Ned  Freddy got fingered man . It`s f***in` brilliant man . You should watch it man , it`s a good laugh manWhat`s a ned ? It`s a common expression in Scotland . It should actually be written in capital letters since it`s an acronym for Non Educated Delinquent Scum ( NEDS ) . It`s a sort of Scottish version of redneck scumbags , though I do hope that the worst redneck scumbag has more critical awareness when it comes to cinema , in which case rednecks won`t want to see FREDDY GOT FINGEREDThe film actually starts off very well with Tom Green skateboarding through a shopping arcade pursued by security guards . The reason this scene is so good is because it has been totally inspired by TRAINSPOTTING . The film decides to then go its own way ( Bad move ) and the audience ( Well the neds in the audience ) are treated to some classic hilarity like Tom Green pulling a horse`s plonker , Tom Green running around with a deer carcass around him and Tom Green eating a sandwich while watching two horses get it on . Oh and did I mention every single scene has foul language and Tom Green speaking in a bloody stupid voice ? Well every scene does so don`t say I didn`t warn you , and to think I slagged off SMOKEY AND THE BANDIT 3 in a previous review , compared with this garbage SMOKEY AND THE BANDIT 3 was the masterwork of a comic geniusTHE TOM GREEN SHOW is also utter crap so I`ve written two reviews for the price of one and if you`re reading this Tom Green why don`t you come and live on the Island Of Bute for the rest of your life on welfare ? You`ll be in good company amongst the neds and the rest of the human race won`t have to put up with your brand of so called comedy  "},{"Title":"Unforgettable","Date":"2 December 2014","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Having seen the film only once upon its thankfully short theatrical release - even being heavily intoxicated can never erase the horrors of Freddy Got Fingered. Tom Green clearly set the bar as low as he could for his first studio directing film and it seems his mission was to not only push the boundaries of bad taste, but pummel those boundaries. On that criteria, Freddy Got Fingered is an unforgettable success. There's not much of a plot to speak of, just a mostly loose or disconnected series of episodic scenes involving some sort of bizarre behavior with the obnoxiousness cranked up to an 11. I can't say I've ever seen or was expecting a horse randomly being jacked off or an elephant being jacked off and ejaculating all over Rip Torn, so for all of this film's faults, being predictable isn't one of them. I would loved to have seen Fox executives' faces while viewing dailies and how this survived the test screening process, went into wide release and was screened for critics (if any film should have had no press screenings for review, it's this) is one giant mystery. A decade later and Green is threatening a director's cut - I can't imagine what was forcefully removed from his edit - I really truly can't. "},{"Title":"The Definition of Pain","Date":"29 June 2014","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I wouldn't normally review a film of this nature; one that is universally thought to be the worst film ever made. Watching it for 15 minutes it is easy to see why it has garnered so much hate. Everything in this film is in plain view and completely obvious, there are no subtleties or hidden meanings/context embedded within it; even implying so would be an insult to much better comedies that respect their audience. Freddy Got Fingered cannot even do that.The film is comparable to the kind of crude jokes a five year old would offer their friends (toilet humour), yet there is more insight to be gained from a toddler than what Tom Green shows us here. Alas this statement cannot describe how awful this film is, so unfortunately it falls upon me to elaborate, (oh how I wish this was not the case) upon the film. So many of the excruciatingly painful (allegedly) comedic set pieces demand scrutiny, but naming just one of these you will get the picture and the point of it &#x96; there is none. It exists solely to steal your money and is the most cynical piece of film making I have ever had the misfortune to befall upon.The road kill sequence is a stand out for the film. I do not mean it stands out as a highlight as would normally be implied &#x96; oh boy no, it stands out as the most unfunny, crude, repulsive, disgusting and cringe worthy sketch I have seen. It stands out as one of the sole low points. The film involves Gord Brody, who wants to become a comic book artist. He starts making drawings of a cat that has superpowers; he shows them to the person he looks up to in the industry. Who gives Brody some advice that he takes a little too literally &#x96; you have to get inside the animal. Brody then drives down the road finds road kill, cuts it open with a knife, immerses himself inside of it and dances around like a mad man. You don't have to be a scientist to work out this is not funny. Anyone who laughs in this sequence I would advise to stay the hell away from. I can only stare at the screen in antagonising pain at how this scene was ever allowed to be in a film, and surely the people who made it didn't think it was funny? Oh, I don't think they care.Unfortunately, for the viewer, the whole film is filled with sequences like this &#x96; with no meaning and a lack of laughs. Rip Torn is present, so does he redeem the whole affair? I doubt that the likes of DiCaprio, could stop this sinking headfirst into the mud. My only explanation as to why Torn is here is that the studio made him an offer he couldn't refuse.The absurd thing is that films that are not classified as comedies are funnier than this sad excuse for film making and they barely try. At every turn Freddy Got Fingered is irrepressibly bad. Avoid this like the plague, unless you want to know how it feels to be depressed for a very long time. It is nothing but shock humour; it attempts to get laughs by shocking the audience with its crudeness and vileness. This is exactly what film was never intended for. "},{"Title":"This Film is the Middle Finger to Intelligence.","Date":"4 June 2015","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Freddy Got Fingered (2001) Dir Tom Green / Cast Tom Green, Rip Torn, Julie Hagerty, Eddie Kaye Thomas, Marisa Coughlan Title has no central focus although it refers to Tom Green informing a social worker that his father fingered, or molested his brother. Green is twenty-eight and still living at home. He desires to be an animator but his insane tactics to achieve this is to storm into a restaurant dressed as a cop and petrify the man he addresses. The rest of the film regards his off and on battle with his father that arrives to a conclusion where he sprays him with elephant semen. Green directs and stars in this disgusting garbage and he proves that he cannot do either. Unfortunately he is on screen in nearly every scene. He guts a dead stag on the road and wears it before being hit by a truck. He also flogs a horse for all to see. His girlfriend gets aroused when Green beats on her leg with bamboo. Rip Torn and Julie Hagerty play his tortured parents. Eddie Kaye Thomas plays Freddy whom suddenly becomes the target of untrue information that lands him in a therapy session to speak of the accusation. Marisa Coughlan plays the moron girlfriend whose taste in men is as low as it gets. There are a few visual moments that are amusing despite their sickening placement within the film, otherwise this is an absolute disgusting piece of garbage at its lewd lowest that should be burned. Score 1 / 10 "},{"Title":"don't even bother.","Date":"24 August 2013","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie is just s**t. I hate this guy. worst actor ever seen. I only registered to say how much I hate it. Is awful. Is bad taste, but not funny, just bad taste. Is disgusting and sick. Weak history and senseless. Is demeaning to watch it, makes me want to kill him. hate him from the first minute. A waste of time. Make me want to become an animal activist, just to put him behind bars. don't even like him on any other movie. Is immature even for an immature comedy movie. I have never review any other movie cause even when I see a bad one I think it's not that important, but after seeing this I must say it... is really bad. I'm watching every movie in the comedy lists I get from this page and this is the only one I want to say is really bad and I don't like it. I have seen like 180 movies this last weeks, and although there are really bad ones, this is the one that push me to give my opinion. DON'T EVEN BOTHER. "},{"Title":"Immature, pointless, and disgusting.","Date":"19 July 2013","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Was this supposed to be funny? Yeah, I guess some people would consider it amusing. Admittedly, I would have found Tom Green's juvenile antics hilarious when I was twelve, not just in their own right but for the look of utter shock in my parents' faces after recommending the movie to them. But that was ages ago, and now that I'm an adult, what am I supposed to think when I see some idiot rubbing a horse's cock? Add 90 minutes of infantile humor to this sort of crap and you get an unadulterated bomb.The only positive things I have to say about this movie are that it's one of the few I can unequivocally tag as an absolute zero and thereby cover the full spectrum of the ratings systems on various movie sites, and that now that Tom Green has produced this abomination, nobody else has to do it. "}{"Title":"Tom Green's attempt to establish himself as the king of stupid, gross and offensive films...","Date":"30 March 2016","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A few years ago, I saw one of the most unfunny and offensive movies of all time, Vince Offer's The Underground Comedy Movie. It was god-awful, nasty and just not the least bit funny. In Freddy Got Fingered Tom Green pretty much decides that he can be MUCH more obnoxious, crass and unfunny...and he actually succeeds.The plot is supposedly about a super-stupid, vulgar and gross guy who wants to move out of his parents' basement and have his comic strip published. However, rarely does the film actually stick with this threadbare plot and mostly it consists of Green being super- stupid, vulgar and gross...but never funny. If you see this film, you'll get the magnificent opportunity to see his character deliver a baby and then bite off the umbilical cord, play with a horse's penis, watch horses have intercourse, accuse his father of sexual abuse just for laughs, lick the exposed bone on a friend's compound fracture, beat a disabled woman with a cane and much, much more. The problem with all this isn't just that it's unfunny and gross but there is no attempt to make the character likable, have a soul or a conscience or even make any sense. No human being acts like this...ever. As a result, the film is almost 100% random and Green just goes from one stupid situation after another where he often hurts those around him because his character simply has no regard for anyone. It's just a long, meaningless and self-indulgent film. Most 8 year-olds could probably make a better film...but that really isn't saying much!Now please understand...I can enjoy a comedy based on a really stupid character or set of characters. Talladega Nights, Strange Brew, Waterboy and other dumb comedies can be very, very funny. So it's not that I am expecting a film to be a work of genius to be worth seeing. One of the worst comedies I've ever seen and it truly made me hate everything about Green...everything. I also have serious worries about anyone who actually enjoys this sort of brainless and nasty mess...since it apparently tells us that child sexual abuse and animal molestation is supposed to be funny. A thoroughly worthless film in every possible way. "},{"Title":"This Movie Gave Us The Middle Finger.","Date":"30 December 2014","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" An unemployed cartoonist moves back in with his parents and younger brother Freddy. When his parents demand he leave, he begins to spread rumors that his father is sexually abusing Freddy.When it came out in 2001, Freddy Got Fingered was universally panned by the critics, with many saying that it's one of the worst movies ever made. Over the years, it has somehow begun to receive more positive praise. I don't see how it managed to get that, as I just watched this movie, and it was absolutely horrendous. Freddy Got Fingered is a disgusting movie without a single ounce of hilarity and without a single good gag. Most the gags rely on gross-out humor and the like (which I usually have nothing against), but in this movie, there was just way too much of it. Among them include a guy breaking his leg on a skateboard ramp (and it's very graphic by the way), Tom Green swinging a baby around in a hospital, not to mention Tom Green spraying his father with elephant semen. However, a lot of this is relatively minor compared to some of the worse things in the movie, although I won't name any of them. Why? Because it really is that disgusting and vile. Seriously Mr. Green, what it heaven's name were you thinking when you made this picture? Tom Green plays Gord Brody, a man who moves back in with his parents to become a cartoonist. Rip Torn (who I can't even begin to think of why he agreed to this movie) plays Gord's father, who constantly insults and belittles him. By the way, on a side note, I was actually on Jim's side a couple of times, Gord's drawings were awful. One another side note, there is a scene involving the following, see if you can make any sense out of it Gord plays an organ poorly while eating sausage and saying Daddy would you like some sausage? That scene was pointless. I guess that they decided to throw it in after a lot of gruesome scenes to give us a break, but it didn't help much, as we were already so grossed out by what we had seen, that this wouldn't do any better. Another message to Tom Green Just because you can direct a movie, write the screenplay for a movie, and star in a movie doesn't necessarily mean that you should.All in all, don't believe the positive things that you may have heard, this movie is still an absolutely disgusting and unfunny movie that is totally and completely devoid of laughs. What possessed Tom Green to think that this was a plausible idea for a movie? I have absolutely no clue, but I will say this, it flat out sucks. I believe that it is safe to say that we all got the middle finger from this movie, meaning that we had to endure a lot of gross out humor that wasn't funny. Although I could have just turned it off, I wanted to see where it would go, hoping that it would get better, but unfortunately, it didn't. In short, Freddy Got Fingered is definitely not a movie to watch if you want to watch something funny. You are better off watching some classic comedy, like Abbott and Costello or The Three Stooges. Anything, but this drivel.BOMB/10 "},{"Title":"Simply one of the worst movies ever","Date":"11 March 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" 15 years after first viewing this movie I finally get to write what I think of it...and it ain't good.I'm exactly this movie's audience I was in my 20's in the 90's and I was an alt-metal listening, cool kid, Bruce Campbell loving, screw the man, smoking and drinking, Tom Green watching, alt-comedy going, deconstructionist humor, surrealist loving, MTV 120 minutes, Liquid Television &, Oddities loving guy. That's shorthand for I get where this movie is coming from...and it's still completely awful. Green's surrealist take on humor, using awkwardness and being frustratingly obnoxious has always struck me as desperate and this movie is no different. It's 2 hours of him ad-libbing obnoxious, pathetically desperate, unfunny behavior around a loose plot of parents that hate him, basically mirroring his own life. Here's some of the unfunny stuff he does-Wearing a bloody deer carcass (that's not funny, not because poor deer, but because there's no comedic content to wearing a deer carcass) -Running on top of a production line with a cheese on your head and plant in your mouth and buzzing like an insect (c'mon, dude.)-acting like a retard (sorry) and yelling clippity cloppity and other nonsense about the zebra family cartoon you drew.-tying sausage to his hands and nonsensically playing the keyboard while singing a little song to his father (in fairness the trailer for the movie played that clip before I saw the actual movie and it really made me laugh. I thought it was brilliant. Nope. Turns out it's only brilliant if you just show that 5 second clip, not the surrounding material, which the trailer editors seemed to instinctively understand. Little tip comedies come together in the editing.) The only bright spots are Rip Torn, who is great as usual, and Marisa Coughlan who is lovely, despite repeatedly being made to say she wants to 'suck Tom Green's c*ck.' (It's good to be the director. I hope she got paid a lot to say that.) The movie ends as it began badly. Really, don't bother. I'm amazed that anyone has ever liked this movie and that it was green lit at all, but some people can fool the world, at least for a while. Green was so unique at one point and there was such a need for interesting new stuff on TV, that the world actually thought he was was funny for a minute, instead of just awkward and annoying. Thank god we woke up. The Jackass crew and the likes of Workaholics, Larry David, Adult Swim, Broad City and various UCB grads have made a lot out of awkward and annoying cringe comedy, but Green did it first...and worst. "},{"Title":"His funniest movie made D","Date":"3 March 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" How can you idiots give this a 1? I went through every single review and every one of them is a 1? C'mon this is fixed. Some people had to like it or give it a 2 or a 3 or a 4? A 6? Everyone out of 3,000 reviews all gave it a 1? That's bs and impossible. Even the fake review people on here still have it a 1? Myself and 6 guys recite the lines still to this day. The only gross not funny part was when he did the wake your baby scene and cut the umbilical cord. I was kinda grossed out. But the chemistry between his dad and him was hilarious. The shower scene wasn't funny? Even if you hate tom green there was funny parts in this.... The sausage song, cheese sandwich part? Wow. This is like the movie office space. That movie was great. Again I can t believe 1 person didn't give this a 2 or higher. This crap is fixed by a robot that wrote these reviews. "},{"Title":"Not for everyone's tastes but has a certain mad genius","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"     Rating *** First off, this is the most disjointed movie that I have ever seen. There is no build to any scene, no narrative flow from one scene to another. The whole thing comes off as a random series of visual gags loosely based around a sick, semi-autistic manchild and his warped view of the world. However if you turn off the rational and moral parts of your psyche, taking in the stream of consciousness lunacy as it comes, you might find yourself laughing.     Referring to Tom Green as an artist on par with Salvador Dali or Luis Banouel might be a huge stretch. He was not intending to be a surreal artist. If you listen to the DVD commentary, it is clear that he just put together a deliberately stupid movie with elements based on his television show, his real life, and his bizarre sense of humor. Mr. Green is not even smart enough to be pretentious and that is part of what makes this film so great (so to speak.) The end product is a personal comic vision not unlike Andy Kaufmann reading the entirety of  The Great Gatsby onstage. This is art in _that_ sense, in the personal integrity sense, as a few other critics have pointed out. He is doing stuff that he finds amusing and doesn't give a s*** what you think.   But does it all work? Is it funny? Depends on your sense of humor. Many of the gags would have faired better in my view had they some kind of build. Yet giving the movie any kind of routine structure would have spoiled the chaotic lunacy and would have made it just another young adult gross out comedy. We need something like this to balance out the endlessly calculated likes of Tomcats and Scary Movie 2.  If Tom Green decides to do another film, I hope that he works his ideas into a coherent narrative in order to bring out more of the humor in them. Until that day ever comes, I will enjoy the neo-Kaufmann in this offbeat little gem.  "},{"Title":"Kind of genius, totally hilarious; The dumbest well-made movie of all time","Date":"25 March 2016","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Let me start by saying that I genuinely love this movie and think it's good. It's also completely retarded. But that's kind of the point. I was one of the few people that actually saw this in theatres on opening weekend back in 2001. Looking back on it now, 15 years later, it still holds up, and almost gets better with each viewing. People will scoff at this movie and describe it as infantile, moronic, unnecessary and offencive. And the truth is, it's all of these things, but that's partially what makes it so good. If you took any one scene or set piece out of this movie and put it into a different film, I would instantly hate that film for that very scene, but somehow in this movie, a collection of these hate-inducing scenes all work. And they don't induce hate, but rather, genuine laughter and joy. This may be a brilliant work of art. It may be a total piece of Gonzo filmmaking shite. It may be in on it's own jokes. It may not be. Either way though, it makes me laugh like a 15 year old every time I watch it, and that is a priceless and rare feat. "},{"Title":"Cult of cults.","Date":"27 June 2013","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Easily one of my favorite movies ever. A film that truly gets better, and more appreciated, with time. Tom Green was unbeatable for me in the early 2000s. I ate up everything he created, and I still do to this day. The progression from extremely low on the IMDb Bottom 100, to well, not, is a testament to this films genius. Every scene has a classic line or sight-gag. Rip Torn is at his finest, and Julie Hagerty is right behind. The Shaq cameo, golden. One of the most re-watchable DVD commentary tracks ever. Deleted scenes galore. I only wish they had made a full Director's Cut Blu-Ray. My wife, brother-in-law, friends and co-workers all have a blast discussing every aspect of this masterpiece. My wife and I watch it monthly, and we never tire of it. Tom Green I love you. "},{"Title":"The ultimate comedy film.","Date":"16 June 2013","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I'm a big fan of the Tom Green Show. Can't get enough of the strange, but unique gags involved. I must admit, I was reluctant to watch this movie, mainly due to the extremely negative reviews and the ' sick, disgusting stuff' inside. I was totally wrong not to.I shall not go into the storyline because you can read all about it on the main page ). I honestly can't believe how underrated this film is. OK, there are a few errors, but I would classify this as a true comedy film. Nowadays, comedies try too hard, and get themselves involved in the same - old story lines that wear out about half way through.This film does not take itself too seriously, and the funny thing is, the story is about an aspiring cartoonist, and the film itself is like a cartoon. Critics really 'bullied' this film mainly due to the weird humour. Some called the movie 'sick' and 'offensive' but failed to plunge into the mind of Mr Green and understand that he did not aim to make the 'weirdest, most manic film ever', he just plays the part in his comedy to make us laugh. I do not approve of the title though, as you cannot mention it in public without being given strange looks.In the end however, it unfolded itself to be quite a nice film about acceptance. Also, the Raspberry awards for worst actor e.t.c were completely unnecessary because they were just trying to find a film to hate that year. I thoroughly enjoyed the film, and I hope folks will stop copying the critics and actually make time to watch and understand this comic, uber- surreal gem of a film.Final Verdict  Not quite Airplane or Dumb and Dumber standards, but the place after these two. 10/ 10! "},{"Title":"Best Worst Movie Ever Made","Date":"2 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Last year, two films emerged as contenders for the worst comedies ever made. The first of these was Freddy Got Fingered written and directed by MTV wacko Tom Green. Michael Rechtshaffen of the Hollywood Reporter wrote that it has the dubious distinction of being quite possibly the worst comedy ever made. Gene Seymour of the Los Angeles Times called it an airless vacuum while Owen Gleiberman of Entertainment Weekly declared it to be a disaster. The other film contending for the worst of the worst is Say It Isn't So, inexplicably starring Heather Graham, Chris Klein, and Sally Fields (how much did they pay HER to be in this movie?) This film, written by the Swallow brothers and directed by the Farrelly brothers was declared quite possibly the worst comedy of all time  by Roger Ebert. Maitland McDonagh of TV Guide called it a bucket full of sludge and Owen Gleiberman of Entertainment Weekly characterized it as vicarious serial punishment. Both of these films have been identified as possibly the worst comedies ever made. But the reviews making these allegations have to be taken in their chronological context, for none of them actually compared and contrasted the two films in question. So, the issue remains, which one of these films is actually the worst comedy ever made? Freddy Got Fingered is by far the more bizarre of the two. Tom Green has taken off-the-wall antics to a new extreme, and mixed that with completely inexplicable gross-out humor. His character is somewhere between avant-garde, disgusting, and brilliant wrapped in a thick blanket of stupidity. Freddy Got Fingered is not just a wacky gross-out comedy but also an absurd satire on the entire comedy genre, as if The Marx Brothers had done a feature length version Un Chien Andalou. Just the fact that some producer at some studio ALLOWED Tom Green to make this film is absolutely extraordinary. It's so bad it's almost good. Say It Isn't So is yet another stupid tasteless Farelly Brothers comedy where most of the humor lies on the premise that nothing is sacred. This film is entirely powered by taboo subjects such as incest, as well as poking fun at stroke victims and legless cripples. But Say It Isn't So is a film that has no higher cause or purpose. This is not a satire of itself or it's genre. Unlike Freddy Got Fingered, it aspires to be nothing more than a sick comedy. And while Freddy Got Fingered feeds off the energetic absurdist stupidity of Tom Green and the rough cynicism of Rip Torn, Say It Isn't So is mercilessly dragged along by an uninspired cast who probably regret taking the job. While both of these films may be difficult to watch, particularly for art house film snobs, Say It Isn't So is clearly the worst comedy ever made. While Freddy Got Fingered may be excruciatingly painful, it somehow manages to become absurdist art. Say It Isn't So, on the other hand, achieves nothing but tiresome schlock. Whereas the world might be a better place without Say It Isn't So, there may actually be some social and cultural value in Freddy Got Fingered. It offers hope that young people today will embrace the absurdity that defines our everyday lives, and teaches the importance of satire and irreverence in an open democratic society. Further, Tom Green's incongruous oeuvre encourages the young people flocking to his films to look beyond the snobbish European art house cinema to appreciate a home grown art form nourished on it's own excrement. Freddy Got Fingered, though tasteless and stupid, is an artistic work of unparalleled courage. "},{"Title":"A brilliant indictment of modern comic cliches","Date":"25 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Let me make one thing clear, before I go into this film.  IT IS NOT A COMEDY!  DO NOT GO TO THIS FILM EXPECTING TO LAUGH!  Freddy Got Fingered is a severely disturbing satire of the common cliches of modern comedy.What Green succeeds at doing with this film is reveal the ugliness, violence, sexism, and hypocrisy that lies behind such comic films as Happy Gilmore, Joe Dirt, Road Trip, and any of the other films that have been released in the same grain.  As with all of these films, the main character is acceptable to the audience, though not to those in the film world.  The audience relates to and understands the character, and eventually the other film characters do also.  The final cliche is always We love you Joe Dirt, Happy Gilmore, Little Tramp.Green's character is so utterly confusing and disturbing that it is impossible to understand him.  You hate him by the end of the movie, and walk out speaking just like all of those villainous characters from the cliched comedies.  Lovable Loser comedies always have the moral of acceptance of all others, yet we will not accept Tom Green?In addition, the film reveals the gruesome violence behind comedy, stemming back to the Three Stooges.  The violence in comedies is humorous and without true effect or pain.  A character will fall down a flight of stairs, crack a witty joke, and walk it off.  Not in this film.  Characters who get injured, get injured gruesomely.  Violence does have consequences, and Freddy Got Fingered forces those consequences into your face.Most importantly, the viewer must realize that this film is not a joke to be laughed at.  The joke is on them.  I find that Tom Green is very similar to Andy Kaufman in the fact that he is a performance artist, not a comedian.If you choose to attend this film, prepare to be disturbed.  However, if you keep a strong, analytical mindset, you can find that the viewing experience will be remarkably rewarding.Drew Eisenstein "}{"Title":"Hilariously, crappy movie with tons of gems","Date":"29 January 2015","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" If you can't stand Tom Green, don't watch the movie. It's sad that I even have to mention that, but people seem to be shocked that they dislike a movie starring Tom Green when they hate Tom Green.In my opinion, the best part of the movie isn't Tom Green, but Rip Torn, who plays an excellent father, tired of his son's erratic behavior.If you're overly sensitive to strong language and bizarre humor - don't watch it. If you enjoy some sick humor, odd/uncomfortable situations and cheap special effects, this movie might be for you. Any movie critic that blatantly bashes this movie, should seriously consider a different job. It only means that you're a simpleton who lacks the ability to enjoy films that differ in odd ways you might not be able to grasp. Perhaps your egocentric personality is blocking your way? This movie is definitely much better than the majority of all the cookie cut, clich movies that comes spewing out of Hollywood, with huge budgets, lots of special effects, cheesy lines, thin story lines that anyone with half a brain can guess the plot while watching without much effort.Sure, this move is cheap and embarrassing at times, and that's part of its charm. It's definitely no Oscar material for best movie, actor etc. But that's not what I'd ever expect from a movie like this. It takes skills to put aside your normal high quality expectations and enjoy a movie for its quirkiness and uncomfortable, crude, sexual and bizarre humor. I've quoted parts of this movie many times, in different socioeconomic tiers, and many times found people laughing and finishing the quote. "},{"Title":"Underrated Anarchist Comedy Masterpiece","Date":"22 May 2014","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Me and my friends always loved this movie since we first saw it in 2001, and to this day we burst out in laugh just mentioning scenes from it. I recently decided to see it again and it still makes me grab my face, crying and screaming in laughter.Afterwards I went to IMDb and was shocked to see its low rating. I consider the fact that so few people get it to be a tribute to how rebellious and anti-establishment this movie is. It is a movie that is not supposed to make you feel good, or have a coherent storyline. It is just pure, mad silliness. It doesn't even kick downwards in a mean way, it just messes with authority. The fact that some audiences get offended just proves that point and makes it even more funny. "},{"Title":"Really Funny movie!","Date":"12 September 2010","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" My brother and his friend Jake suggested this movie and i saw it in the local video store top 50 and i decided to rent it out.My mom said the movie was really weird which is good cos i really like weird movies.I also was a fan of the Tom Green show way before watching this.I didn't get it at first like in the first 20 minutes and then I started to get it and started to laugh and laugh throughout this movie.It had a lot of really funny scenes and I had a very hard time picking my favorite scene.I enjoyed this movie so much I watched it like 10 times.Anyone who hates this movie must be too serious and doesn't have a sense of humor as it was too funny.Please don't think the films title Freddy got fingered must be a terrible movie cos it was a really good movie.I am definitely buying this movie 9/10. "},{"Title":"A fine film! A follower of Artaud, Tzara, Harpo Marx, and Andy Kaufman!","Date":"7 February 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'm a big fan of Tom Green. I consider him to be one of the few comedians today whose work transcends comedy. I think people don't understand his aesthetic. It's not REALLY about specific gross-out jokes... it's all a social commentary about the society that has created a young man who absolutely refuses to conform to any social (or comedic) conventions or expectations. I highly recommend the movie. I believe he will be more and more appreciated through time... simply because HE'S NOT REALLY A COMEDIAN. His jokes and sequences are NOT INTENDED TO EVOKE LAUGHS, RATHER THEY ARE INTENDED TO EVOKE PUZZLEMENT AND DISCOMFORT WITH NON-CONFORMITY. Green's non-conformity is present in both the form and content of his work. The entire form of the movie is commentary on narrative conventions. The content is a commentary on the life of an individual who rejects societal convention. It's a very well balanced work of art. Look, he's not a genius or anything like that... but he's definitely misrepresented by the entertainment industry and completely misunderstood. I consider him to be more of a performance artist than a comedian. He's more like Andy Kaufman than most people realize. I consider Green to be follower of Artaud, Tzara, Breton, Cocteau, Harpo Marx, Bunuel, Allen Ginsberg as well as The Three Stooges, Pigpen, Jughead, Animal (from the Muppets), Andy Kaufman, and Cosmo Kramer.Using offensive and childish antics are merely Green's mode of puzzling and offending his audience. But the purpose of his work is not to gross people out or make them laugh (although such responses will certainly occur). Green's purpose is like the purpose of any other artist to make his audience reflect upon the nature of life. 10/10  "},{"Title":"hysterical got love the green thats going to bring in the green","Date":"20 April 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If movies like hannibal were excepted, scary movie had no trouble, and everybody loved me myself and Irene, why are people freaking out over Freddy Got Fingered. Tom Green is to comedy, what Andy Wharol was to modern art in the 70's (plus they both pushed societys buttons, i admire that). It almost seemed that Green was trying to slip in a point to story amongst all the HALIOURS gags and FUNNY jokes, life is hard no matter how old you are, it should be exceptable to date people in wheel chairs and other physical disabilities, and to be who you are. I do admit when he whacked off animals it got a little gross but i still loved this movie it was HALIOURS "},{"Title":"Check the O.R.","Date":"21 April 2001","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Having seen the film six hours or so ago, I can't help but thinkIf it was screened outside the context of a multiplex and all the baggage that they attatch to a film... If none of the performers in the film were famous... If it were shot in 16mm and circulated in underground film circles...Maybe it's just because I just came from a party full of Hollywood folk, but Freddy Got Fingered might be considered an opus for the guerilla satire or the cinematic anarchy set.I really didn't think it was bad at all. In fact, it was quite good.Then again, I also think Chris Elliott's Cabin Boy is one of the most important films ever made. "},{"Title":"If you could handle it","Date":"26 August 2011","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Freddy got fingered is a masterpiece and it never holds back one bit. Comedy like this should be celebrated and respected. Forget typical formulas for once and join this hysterical amusing work of art. Of course because it was directed and written by tom green, this film will not appeal to conventional mainstream audiences. This film has it all and does not compromise or respect anybody. Ladies and gentlemen behold this is the boldest comedy in the last decade. If you could handle the first 10 minutes, then brace yourself for a nonstop,hilarious,unexpected and shocking approach to comedy since the late great Andy Kaufman. For the ones that already have seen this, I know what you are thinking...huh?..yes I am talking about the same movie where a baby swings from a umbilical chord like a helicopter propeller in a hospital room splattering everyone in sight. Way to go Tom, way to go. "},{"Title":"comedy for the mentally unstable","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I have to admit that I find the Tom Green show to be extremely funny. I've seen a few episodes and find most of the gags and lunacy toward the conservative stone-expression public to be hilarious.  I had heard about the film but put off seeing it in theatres.  I bought it used on DVD because of the show and a curiosity after all the publicity I heard.All I have to say is that I laughed the whole way through, whereas the three people who watched the film with me only elicited groans and a desire for me to turn it off.  I am a huge fan of foreign cinema and my comedic tastes wane a broad spectrum.  Most Hollywood comedies bore me with the same tired clichs and too-witty-for-their-own-good punch lines.  Finally I get a refreshing break with something that is apparently an individual vision. Tom Green is the main star, director and has a hand at the writing of this obscure gem.I can completely understand why the critics hated this film.  It doesn't follow the tried-tested-and-true formula of most mainstream comedies. Instead, Tom Green stays faithful to his personality from what I've seen of him on the show and expands it to a feature film.  I am not saying that it isn't so called stupid or poorly made; I'm just saying that I really enjoyed it and I'm not afraid to admit it.  I doubt Mr. Green really cares what the critics say anyway, after showing up to receive the Razzie and having some quotes from the worst reviews printed on the liner notes of the DVD.It has appeal, it is spontaneous, exciting and it really did tickle my funny bone.  Maybe I have a sick sense of humour, as the people who watched the film with me couldn't stand it.  I was the only one laughing.  Maybe that says something about me.Anyhow, kudos to Tom Green for giving a middle finger to the critics and Hollywood practises and for standing up, not caring what everyone else wants; just going for the independent vision.I won't state all the details of the plot since most of the reviews here already have.  I'll just say that you should see this with an open mind and it might just surprise you in some way.Don't listen to authorities and idiotic critics and try something different for a change.  Sorry to all the folks that went to see a film with a name like Freddie Got Fingered written, directed and starring Tom Green, expecting to find high brow comedy you can chuckle through your nose at. I mean, really, go see something else.  For people like me who love the spontaneous, bizarre and genuinely different with no holds barred or real consideration for the conservative usual, have a good time.  I know I sure did.  "},{"Title":"beautiful","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  this is the finest, funniest, smartest and slickest film ever made. The critics have got it in for him because he's 50 years ahead of his time. THe film WORKS. If you can;t see that, you're blind. If you cant laugh, you're dead. If you don;t get it, you're dumb. Trust me, I;ve seen over a hundred films and this is the best film ever made. I take my hat off to this guy, he;s the greatest. Only joking, it's sh*t, isn;t it? "},{"Title":"beautiful","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  this is the finest, funniest, smartest and slickest film ever made. The critics have got it in for him because he's 50 years ahead of his time. THe film WORKS. If you can;t see that, you're blind. If you cant laugh, you're dead. If you don;t get it, you're dumb. Trust me, I;ve seen over a hundred films and this is the best film ever made. I take my hat off to this guy, he;s the greatest. Only joking, it's sh*t, isn;t it? "}{"Title":"Not so much terrible as a waste of time","Date":"13 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I had to get this one out from BlockBusters just to see what it was like, after being universally panned as the worst movie ever made. It doesn't live up to the hype, as far as I can see; what it does have is the semblance of a pretty limp movie, similar to SNL spinoff/David Spade crapola, but with Green suddenly going crazy in odd places, in not particulary funny or even cinematic fashion. It's really odd, almost da-da'ist in the way it does this. It's easy to see why most all the critics barfed at this movie, presuming it to be gross-out comedy just going lower, but I don't think it's as simple as that; I think it's just inexperience on Greens part. What does seem to surprise me is the lack of studio production review that must must have accompanied this movie.As with all limp movies purporting to be aimed at the kids, it punctuates the story with vaguely contemporary band music. If I was a 16 year old I'd be highly offended by the general quality of stuff coming my way.The opening title sequence is actually really well done, and Drew Barrymore looks great in it (in her brief appearance).   "},{"Title":"freddy didn't get fingered!","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  the story of a 28 year old trying to make his mark in the world.  our lead character gord wants to be an animator and to prove to his father that he is not a worthless piece of trash.  gord heads off to hollywood but when mr. davidson gives him encouraging pep talk to keep trying, he heads back home for more inspiration.  gord is fed-up with his father's and brother's nonstop harassment.  our hero is down on his luck, but with the help of his girlfriend she keeps him focused on his goal of becoming an animator.many will say this movie is crude, horrible, ridiculous, (other derogatory comments) but they just don't get it.  this movie is just what you'd expect from tom green and also what you won't expect.  sure he does some of his gimmicks from the tom green show but there's more to it.  enjoy it for what it is, a very unique story with a controversial ending that will make you think what the hell just happened as the credits pan down. "},{"Title":"ONE OF THE FUNNIEST THINGS I'VE EVER SEEN!","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I CANT BELIEVE SOME PEOPLE DIDNT FIND THIS FILM FUNNY! OK it is rude and crude at times, but i dont understand why you watched this film. The title speaks for itself. This film is not for the moral of feint hearted, but for people who have very good senses of humor. Tom Green does himself justice in this film.I watched this with 7 other people and for the last two weeks we havent been able to stop talking about it! If you like Tom Green and his work go see this film! Its a must see! Daddy would you like some sausages? "},{"Title":"Forget all that negative cynical crap","Date":"2 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Freddy got Fingered was one of the funniest movies BY FAR i've ever seen, all these uptight people were so offended over a simple comedy that doesn't conform to everything else that gets lame, like Adam Sandler's repetitive material. It's nice to see a stand up comedian like Tom Green have some balls. People take things like movies so seriously that they forget it's only a movie!! My god!! I understand that the movie had only a little plot but that's exactly what Tom Green wants!! That's what make him so good is that he's not afraid to go below the belt, Tom Green All the Way!!! "},{"Title":"Insane, Funny, and Stupid","Date":"29 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I can't believe what I just saw!  Tom Greene has made a movie that is outrageous, disgusting, and stupid.  It was also very funny at times. True Tom Greene fans should enjoy the movie.  He has created a movie to annoy and gross-out the audience.Tom Greene plays Gord Brody, a 28 year-old unemployed aspiring animator that lives in the basement of his parent's house.  Gord's father, Jim, played by long-time great character actor Rip Torn, is going crazy because Gord does not have a job and won't move out.  For some strange reason, Gord accuses Jim of sexually molesting his younger brother, 25 year-old Freddy, hence the name Freddy Got Fingered.  And for some strange reason, the psychologists and the police actually believe him, so they take Freddy away to a hospital for sexual abuse children.  Sound pretty stupid?  It is.Melissa Coughlan is terrific as Betty, Gord's girlfriend.  I think Betty was the best character of the movie.  She is a paraplegic that is unexpected funny.  While the rest of the cast had straight-man roles next to Tom Greene, Coughlan's Betty actually had Gord in some uncomfortable situations. It was a pleasant surprise to see the tables turned on Tom Greene.I do have to applaud the sheer insaneness of some of the scenes.  Tom Greene reminds me of the late Andy Kaufman at times.  You could also draw comparisons to Monty Python.  I could not keep from laughing at things you should not laugh at.  The humor is crude and offensive.  In this day and age of the gross-out comedies, Tom Greene has outdone them all.  I just wish that the plot and script had been more intelligent.  Freddy Got Fingered is a some funny scenes that Greene tries to pass off as a movie.  There is also cameo appearance from a well-known professional athlete that is great. 5/10  "},{"Title":"how far we can go to get a laugh","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie will do anything to get your laughs except be funny. This is humor as a form of torture. Many of your silly conventions, anxieties, and phobias are dissected for humorous potential. Humor here is finding something that discusts or abhors people and then purposely doing it. The only judgement required by the creators is in deciding how far is going too far, what absolutely cannot be touched (literally too). Hence it is a new tendril (or finger as it were) probing the ever-changing landscape of social inhibitions as they loosen and spread out. This movie is definately a post-internet movie post alt.binaries.grotesque, post alt.binaries.erotica.bestiality,-bondage,-torture etc. etc. It is not porn, it is not horror, and it is not funny, yet you will be titillated, grossed out, and occasionally (to your own discust) amused. "},{"Title":"Not as Bad As you may Think","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Well, i decided to watch this film, because after watching Road Trip and Charlies Angels, i decided that Tom Green comedy, was something that made me laugh.To say the film did not shock would be a lie. But it made me laugh, quite alot actually. The critics were not fair at all on this film. Because of the bad taste they straightaway decided to mark it very low.I think Tom Greens humour works better with an British audience.I laugh out loud many timesA good film, maybe even a Cult Comedy  "},{"Title":"Farm yard animals your thing baby?","Date":"15 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  SPOILERS AHEADI like to try and keep an open mind about the films I watch, but no matter which way I look at this film I struggle to see many positive elements at all in this film.American comedies in recent years have taken special interest in trying to push the boundaries of bad taste in the name of humor and have experienced wide acceptance and success in most cases. I have learned to try and not take movies and myself too seriously and let myself laugh for the sake of laughing.While in normal life a person being publicly humiliated or hurt might not be funny I can see the funny side in the context of comedy and while crude sexual situations might offend some in reality most can laugh knowing the nature of the film is to have a good time.Maybe I'm missing the point with my small, brainwashed and closed mind but I fail to see the humor in a grown man holding a horse's erect penis while yelling I'm a farmer for no apparent reason. Ok I was disgusted and that is what Tom Green wanted right?  What is so funny about disgusting someone, it takes no skill whatsoever to offend or disgust another person so how can this be comic genius?Maybe Tom Green has some sort of fetish for animals as that is just the first of several sexual jokes with animals. We later have the privilege of seeing two horses mate.  Nothing shocking about that sure just turn on Discovery channel but what place does it have in a comedy film.......is that funny?I suppose the pinnacle of excitement must be when Tom Green's character fends off his father by 'stimulating' an elephant to the point of ejaculation and hosing his father to the ground.If this is the sort of thing that you would like to see please race to your video store and grab a copy or perhaps you could find some farm yard animal website to try and disgust you because that would be hilarious wouldn't it.  "},{"Title":"Very Very Funny, A stroke of genius","Date":"6 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I agree this film is sick and disturbed it is also a stroke of genius.This film cleverly satirises the tiresome 'gross out' comedy genre by taking it to the max.  There are also some very funny p*** takes on the traditional studio fodder that the Hollywood studio's keep pumping out.  I don't want to read too much into this film because it is made as a comedy, and a very fine one at that, and not as a satire.Take a long hard look at every other film featuring gratuitous blood and guts, tits and arse films and tell me that they are not more offensive than this film.Only a mind like that of Tom Greens could come up with the insane, brilliant and funny scenes such as the backward man and sausage song.This comedy obviously doesn't appeal to the masses but stop bagging this film and allow us to enjoy this piece of 'champagne comedy'. "},{"Title":"I really had to try.","Date":"15 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Green is a freak!  I think with the soundtrack and the skateboarding he could suck the teenage youth in from the get go.  Perhaps the animal dicks and excessive use of the f word play into that audience too...I don't know.  An older audience will get a kick out of the handwritten sign towards the end of the movie that says When is this movie over?I am not sure I would have ammunition to refute this being the worst movie of all time.  If this is put to a vote, I am afraid it might take the prize.Its pretty far out.  If I thought I could make a more-creative and funny movie, I would agree it is the worst of all time.  I can't though, so I think it deserves some credit.  There are some things that are clever.In the future, I don't know how many movies written, directed, and 90% starred in by Tom Green I can take.  This may be his first full length feature done in such a manner so maybe he will get better.Green is a great deal like Chris Elliot.  Its kind of an acquired taste.That is as nice as I can be. "}{"Title":"The funniest movie I have ever seen","Date":"8 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I never volunteer my opinion since I feel it is a waste of time but I have made a concession since this is the funniest goddamn movie I have ever seen. I wouldn't expect the general population to like it simply because the general population enjoys watching garbage. Most people in this country eat garbage, purchase garbage, learn garbage at school and teach garbage to their children. It is no surprise to me that this movie would not appeal to them since trite filth such as Titanic has such mass appeal. People would rather see some contrived romantic comedy of the year laugh, cry, and be touched then go home and eat an entire cheesecake because they know that they'll never look like Julia Roberts and they'll never date Brad Pitt. They live boring and depressing lives, which doesn't really concern me other than the fact that it means that Tom Greene will have a hard time getting his next movie funded. "},{"Title":"AN OFFENSE TO DECENCY AND CHRISTIAN VALUES","Date":"7 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie (which I hesitate to call it) is offensive to the mind, body, and soul. If this movie were a cake, then rape, incest, and child abuse are the humorous topics contained within this disgusting mix, with bloody gore as the topping. I have never been so offended!   I have read that Mr. Green is similar to comedians like Andy Kaufman. I have never actually seen Andy Kaufman, but I bet he knew the same comedy things I know Tell a joke about something funny. HOME IMPROVEMENT now that is funny, Tom Green making animal noises or insulting incest victims is not funny. Hanging bloody meat on your head is not funny. Deer are for hunting or perhaps eating not playing. This is not a good movie for children to see! Take my advice!!!  "},{"Title":"It grew on me","Date":"17 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The very first time I watched this movie I absolutely hated it and never wanted to watch it again.  It was sick and wrong on so many levels and for a long enough time I kept my vow to never again witness it.  But then I met a girl and fell in love, and she mentioned it as being one of the funniest movies she'd ever seen.  So I gave it a second chance.  Now that I knew what to expect it wasn't so bad, but still nothing I'd really watch over and over.  I went back on that too, and bought the DVD.  I decided to watch the movie with Tom Green's commentary turned on, and you know what?  After hearing everything he had to say about it I started to love this movie and appreciate it for what it was.  There were a few parts during the commentary where I actually felt sorry for Tom, when he mentioned that the movie basically failed at the box office, where he mentioned that most critics hated it, when he was worried that he was ugly, and most of all when he swallowed his coffee stir stick.  The first time I saw it I didn't think there was a plot to it, but after multiple viewings and listening to the excellent commentary I can pick up on the many themes of it.  So I implore those of you who hated it, hell, even those of you who loved it, to pick up a copy of the DVD and listen to the commentary as you watch, it's a WHOLE new experience. "},{"Title":"Steamboat Bill Jr. for the today's audience","Date":"2 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Despite the gags that work AND the gags that don't, this is a story about a son's desperate need for his father's approval much like Buster Keaton's film Steamboat Bill Jr.  It's certainly not as refined as Keaton's effort, but that is the foundation for the story.  It even has the old house falling on the hero but doesn't get hurt because the window crashes over him gag. I'm not praising this film.  I did laugh quite a bit, though.  I applaud its bold don't give a s**t if the audience likes it attitude. Try finding that attitude in a Julia Roberts vehicle. "},{"Title":"My thoughts on a film that was much better than it should have been.","Date":"17 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Man!  What is there to say about Freddy Got Fingered, the latest offering by our strange Canadian friend, Tom Green.  It's vulgar, offensive, brutal to the senses, shocking, thought provoking and most importantly, one OF THE FUNNIEST films I have ever seen in my life!!!  The movie stars, of course, Tom Green as Gordon Brody.  Gordon is a 28 year old guy who dreams of being an animator, although his characters are shall we say, a little unusual. As the movie starts, Gordon is finally, to the thinly masked delight of his father Jim (played snarlingly by Rip Torn), leaving home, saying that he plans to work in a Cheese Sandwich company in Los Angeles.  However that's just an excuse to persue his dream of cartoon animation.  As the movie progresses, it's classic Tom Green zaniness.  The Scuba Gear scene had me in tears, I was laughing so hard.  Along the way, Gordon has many adventures.  Meeting the girl of his dreams (who just happens to be a rocket fanatic in a wheelchair), delivering a baby (complete with a unique way of severing the umbilical cord), Having security guards sicced on him by Cameo Appearance Of The Year, real-life wife Drew Barrymore, and inadvertantly breaking best pal Harland Williams' leg.  This is an excellent movie.  It shouldn't have been.  It should be taken with a grain of salt, because, despite its many offensive moments (the I'm a farmer scene), it has many zany off the wall perfomances, one of the most notable being that of Eddie Kaye Thomas, who plays Gordon's younger brother, Freddy.  You may remember him as the guy who, did Stifler's mom from American Pie. Anyways, friends, the point is see this movie.  It was written better than this review, I'll give you that.  See this movie, or I'll be under your bed tonight, and I'll bring X-Ray Cat and a bag of buffalo eyes with me! "},{"Title":"A masterpiece... for future generations.","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Freddy Got Fingered is not a good movie, by any means.However, make no mistake, Freddy Got Fingered *is* a masterpiece.  And Tom Green *is* a genius.  How so, you ask?  Tom Green made exactly the movie Tom Green wanted to make.  He got a substantial amount of money from a studio to make a film, created exactly his vision and had the studio aggressively promote and subsequently release it upon the world.  (Probably not by coincidence a similar situation befalls Tom's character, Gord, in the final act of the film).Unfortunately for Tom Green, the world was not ready for him.  But look back on this movie in 10 years (hell, 5 years at the rate we're going) and you will see he was way ahead of the game.  This is the future people, like it or not.  Somewhere Andy Kaufman is smiling.A surreal comedy full of unsympathetic characters and disturbing situations - even I, a die-hard Tom Green fan (and by no means easily offended), left the theatre feeling like I had been hit with a baseball bat (although admittedly I was laughing a lot at certain points in the movie).  I just pray Tom can get away with making more movies - I believe that if he tones it down a bit (especially the animal stuff, which he always has had an affinity for) then he could have a long and fruitful film career.  However, if wants to continue in this direction his film career will be over very soon, and he'll have to wait 10 years for a sizeable audience to truly be able to appreciate his work. "},{"Title":"Gross out comedy tooken to the extreme.","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Sometimes I ask myself, why is this guy makin cause, all he's doing is out of his way stuff just to make you churn in disgust. Tom Green is playing himself who works in a cheese sandwich factory but, wants something better in life.  At that he still lives with his parents.  Of course he's driving them crazy.  No story here at all.  You'll find out how the movie got it's title which I felt made any kind of sense at all.  This is not a movie really not to be really takin' seriously or for tryin' to spot out comedic and non-comedic moments.  It's basically an all in fun movie. "},{"Title":"The Remote Doesn't Work in The Theater!","Date":"2 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This Time You Can't Change The Channel! I couldn't agree more, and as much as I wanted to while I was seeing it, I couldn't. This movie is horrible, plain and simple, no matter how much crude humor you THINK you can stand...this movie will shock you. Its gross on every level. I'm a HUGE fan of The Tom Green Show (its not the green tom show..da.da.da) sorry.  Anyway, I expected this movie to be like his show, which leaves you Laughing on the floor.  But this movie was WAY worse than ANY episodes of his show.  This movie showed that Tom Green has some sick things going on inside his head , and he couldn't put them on TV. (Thank God) If you can get by the crude humor, the acting is horrible, I usually like comedies, but this should not be in that genre.  It's crap, pure and simple. I didn't enjoy myself at all, I wanted to walk out, but the small hope of it getting just a little bit better kept me in my seat. But that Small hope turned out to be misplaced. For good writing/acting/humor never came.  I don't suggest this movie to anyone, you wont get anything out of it. There is, like I said, no writing, no acting, no humor, no drama, no plot, no NOTHING! However, I was pleased to see that America did not enjoy this movie either, it did horrible at the Box-Office, all the reviews say, and I quote It Sucks.  Everyone talks about how kids in America and the world like this kind of sick humor, I'm glad that this movie proves we don't! So let this be a lesson to all. "},{"Title":"The most bizarre movie I have ever seen...","Date":"30 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'm gonna start off by saying that if your're not a Tom Green fan, then you will hate this movie. It doesn't really have a plot, it's like segments of the Tom Green show and put them together in a movie, so it's very hard for the viewer to follow the plot. But as I enjoy watching the Tom Green show, then it didn't feel like a waste of money to see this one. The movie is ok, it has some funny scenes too. But some scenes go a little bit to far and are a little bit too bizarre and disgusting. Like when Tom shakes the horse's member, and the childbirth scene... These scenes went a little bit too far...The most annoying thing about this movie is the scenes that haven't anything to do with the plot. The horse member shaking scene is a great example. He was driving on the road, and then he saw a male horse (ready to procreate) and he jumped over the fence and...Hmm yes...But the movie wasn't bad either, but it wasn't good either... But if you have invited some buddies over, then this movie could be a good one to watch. It's sort of a test who can stand disturbing and bizarre humor. But be prepared that this movie has an really bad plot, and I don't recommend seeing this if you hate/don't like Tom Green just a little bit... I would give it a 7/10. "},{"Title":"i am the only person that liked this i think","Date":"15 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  call me nuts...call me stupid...call me whatever you want, I LIKE TOM GREEN!!!! and furthermore, i liked his movie.  it was genuinely funny although it was typical green antics like just about everything done to his on-screen father, rip torn.  yes, rip torn.  enjoy the sausage song...enjoy anthony michael hall...enjoy shaq...enjoy tom green!!!rating-  6 sausages out of 10 lebarons. "}{"Title":"Beautiful. Stunningly Beautiful.","Date":"12 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  RATING **** out of ****Tom Green's Freddy Got Fingered is a masterpiece that all future movies must follow. It's one of those rare movies when you walk out of the theater and say Wow! That was the most moving experience of my life.  We follow the tragic and moving story of Gordon Brody (Green). Young Gordon has just left the nestled bosom of his parents to venture off into the real world. His overbearing father Jim (A Horribly Nasty Rip Torn) does not care about his son's future and just wants him to get a job. Gordon wants to a famous animator but his Satanic father just wants to him to get a job. After an ill-fated attempt at animating, Gordon goes to a cheese sandwich factory and quits and goes back to his evil parents.A great thing about the movie is that it's symbolic. In a late scene, when Gordon rubs an elephant male reproductive organ and sprays his father with it's semen, the semen represents all of the evil that the father has done to Gord over the years. Symbolism is terrific. I love a movie that is symbolic. Kudos to you Green...kudos. "},{"Title":"believe it or not but i like this movie","Date":"8 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I like the Tom Green Show and when I heard that he is making Freddy Got Fingered I wanted to see it. I went to a midnight showing of it, and when I left the place i said `that was crap.' The next day i seen it again but with my friends then when i left the place i said `pretty awesome movie.' this is the reason i like it, if you take all the bizarre stuff Tom Green  did away and just watch the movie as it is meant to be then you will see why i like this movie. lighten up viewers this movie had a good plot.  "},{"Title":"Im sorry but I liked it","Date":"3 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Its very simple really, people who have watched Tom Greens' show and liked it should see the movie.  People who find him obnoxious and rude should get a restraining order.The film is basically a series of sketches, Gordy (Tom) is placed in a variety of settings unto which he can do crazy actions.  Thats it, thats the movie.Some people say he isnt as funny when its not 'live' and have actual peoples irate responses to his behavior towards them.  Thats the part Rip Torn plays in the movie, he is there to get upset and yell at Gordy every step of the way.I gotta admit I like this kind of stuff, if it doesnt have Adam Sandler, ugh.  Dumb and Dumber is a classic to me.  Sure some of the jokes fall flat but the rest is just so outrageous that Ive gotta laugh. For instance while driving he stops suddenly he he sees an excite horse, he plays with its member and the scene ends.I can see how some older folks might not like it, heck I'd be very VERY uncomfortable if I saw it with my parents.  It is also a good movie to take your girlfriend to see if only for the reactions she expresses to certain scenes.It lets down a little at the end and the Daddy would you like some sausage part should have been longer.  I still feel as though there seems to be some backlash towards Green that explains the poor rating and box office.I give it an 8 of 10. "},{"Title":"Refreshing...","Date":"2 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I made no hesitation before watching this film, despite it's TOTAL lack of support by critics nationwide. I don't believe that Tom Green's humor is for everyone, as humour is the most subjective topic film goers discuss. However, I am also convinced that many of the reviews on this film were based only on individual P.O.V's, and certainly lacked any hint of objectivity, which us 'ignorant' movie watchers need from the all knowing critics. I absolutely loved this film. I loved it for one reason. Because Tom Green isn't acting, he's genuinely funny, though periodically in a different time zone altogether. There are three instances in this movie which demonstrate Green's uncanny ability to gross us humans to the brink of nausea, which consequently turned most of his adult viewers right off. I myself, would have preferred Green to omit these scenes as I found them neither interesting nor funny. Yet I wasn't bothered by them either, which separates my viewership from the majority. The movie DOES have a storyline, and it does make sense in a comical format. I recently watched Canada's #1 Comedy...Bridget Jones' Diary. I enjoyed this film as well, but certainly not for it's humour. Bridget Jones' is a snickering comedy, whereas 'Freddy' was outlandish. I think we need to loosen up and accept that comedy comes from different angles, not just one straight line everytime. Don't be influenced by others, go see this movie for yourself. You decide whether Green earns your laugh, don't let others tell you what TRUE COMEDY IS! "},{"Title":"Follow your dream, even if people think you're a stupid dummy.","Date":"1 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I had to see this movie twice... and even after seeing it the second time, I have to say that there are so very few people whom I would recommend this to... who wouldn't I recommend it to?  Here's a quizDo you like Tom Green's work? If not, don't see the movie. Do elements of South Park offend you? If so, don't see the movie. Are you under 18 and have to take your mom with you? If so, don't see the movie (it is restricted, after all). Can you see through a thick layer of offensiveness to get to the gem that is at the heart of a brilliant, and arguably auto-biographical, film? If you've gotten this far, I think that you may enjoy this movie.There were times in this movie that I was shocked someone actually did some of those things that everyone else keeps locked away in the recesses of their subconscious.  Tom Green will do it, and he will do it in an extreme manner.  I have been watching Tom since he was walking the streets of Toronto with his Camcorder... and I have to say not all of his work is funny... but Tom had a dream; to break all the rules of normalcy, and make HIS movie in Hollywood - and he did it!  He didn't back down when people thought he was an idiot, he went to the beat of his own drum.  This movie isn't about how gross it would be to be inside the carcass of a deer, it's about following your dreams because they're YOUR dreams, not what society says you should do.If you're grossed out by crude (and often dumb) humour, you won't see the forest for the trees.  But if you're the type that is a little left of what others refer to as normal, then you may just enjoy this flick for the treasures that lie below the surface...I give this movie a 9 out of 10 but would only recommend it to those who I know would appreciate the unusual.  "},{"Title":"Critics need to chill out","Date":"1 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Ok, this movie is not the funniest thing I've ever seen.  But it has some good laughs in it, and clearly Tom Green is pushing the envelope about as far as it can go...and sometimes it works.Critics follow each other like lemmings, and soon people were calling this the 'worst movie ever made'.  All I can say is that this movie made me laugh, which is more than I can say for a lot of the so-called comedies out there.  Instead 'seasoned movie buffs' will point you to a movie like 'Meet The Parents' as a clever, thinking man's comedy.  And throw some big names like Stiller and DeNiro in there.  You spend the whole time watching, with this stupid grin on your face waiting for the funny parts to build....it was just awkward.My recommedation...wait until it hits video release, rent it, go get a six pack, invite over some of your less refined friends, make a pot of chili, and you'll have a hoot watching Mr. Green. "},{"Title":"Well...","Date":"30 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Parts of this move were hilarious, and parts were really dumb.  You can tell Tom Green had a part in writing this movie.  I'm not sure he would be a good actor if he had to act out a normal part.  But hey, there are always going to be actors like that and movies like that.  I really didn't agree with the casting of Rip Torn.  I thought he was the worst one in the film.  A lot of times you could not understand what he said, or he was just acting really bad.   So I'll rate this one in the middle of the scale. "},{"Title":"Not this time Tom","Date":"30 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  For the sake of his cinematic career Tom Green had better hope for a Road Trip 2. He looks unnatural interacting with programmed responses to his silliness instead of the unpredictable reactions of real people in real situations. Though the movie has its funny moments, it isn't a laugh-out-loud riot as had been advertised. I'm sure that in making this movie, Green was snickering to himself making silent predictions on how many people would leave the theater either out of disgust or from nausea. If you're a true Tom Green fan then go ahead and see this one. If not, save your money. "},{"Title":"What do you expect?","Date":"29 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If you go into this movie expecting a family comedy, you deserve to be shocked and appalled.  Everyone knows that Tom Green is not your conventional comedian.  If you want to see take my wife please type comedy, stick with what you are used to.  If you want to see a cutting edge movie, see this.  I have never really laughed at a movie like I laughed at this one.  The beautiful thing about it is, I will be able to play this movie over and over to unsuspecting friends and family and watch the expressions on their face.  Overall, Freddy Got Fingered is a very funny film and I think Tom Green will be around for awhile.  Look out Davis Spade, Chris Rock and all of you other run-of-the-mill comedians, Tom Green is the innovative leader of alternative comedy. "},{"Title":"Tom Green At His Worst","Date":"29 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  What was funny about this movie? Nothing. Why? Because Tom Green took his humour just too far. I mean, let's review what wasn't funny He gave a horse and an elephant a h*ndjob (What was worse was that the elephant came), the camera showed two horses doing it, he bit off a baby's umbilical cord, he swung the baby around by the rest of its umbilical cord, he licked his friend's compound leg fracture, and he wore a bloody deer skin (Well, that was kinda funny). The only funny parts was the abuse his neighbor's kid took, and the episodes of clean humour in the movie (The Backwards Man skit was the best in my view, but the Daddy, would you like some sausage part was rather a disappointment). What also wasn't funny was that I had to drag my mom along to see it, since I am not 18 yet.Tom Green, you forgot that there is a fine line in comedy between humourous stuff that can make us laugh our *ss off, and obscene, incredibly sickening material that happens when you take that humour and expand on it in the wrong direction. Your movie went in the wrong direction. Personally, I almost felt like leaving the movie after the first twenty minutes because it became too extreme. Tom, you should have made your humour applicable to teens of all kinds, but you only made it applicable to the sick-minded.What would've been better about this movie? Here's a rundown on what would've made it better 1) Tom not directing this cr*p, 2) Tom not co-writing this cr*p, 3) Getting rid of all the gross scenes as mentioned in the non-funny things list above, and 4) Getting rid of the plot. Tom's act is heavily worsened if it has a plot to it.So, to summarize, Freddy Got Fingered was a waste of my time and money. Tom's act is better suited for TV. What he did on TV was funny. This movie wasn't funny at all, like I said. This movie should be a sure-fire candidate for a lot of Razzie Awards in the future. No mistake about it. This was the worst movie in history, and its fate is sealed as perhaps the box-office's biggest bomb ever.To those who haven't seen it, don't see it. Ever. Keep watching Tom Green's show, where you can laugh at clean humour.VAMPIROK  "}{"Title":"Glad I stayed away!","Date":"28 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I can't see why anyone would want to watch, let alone enjoy, Freddy Got Fingered. From the reviews that I've read in newspapers and other comments I've heard about this movie (a term I use very loosely), I can't see how this was allowed in the movie theaters. The World Wrestling Federation never would consider stooping as low as to use gags about incest, rough handling of newborn babies, etc. The only people I could conceivably see watching this moronic tale is perhaps juvenile delinquents and gang-bangers. A sane person, such as myself, will be staying far, far away from this movie. BTW -- how did Freddy Got Fingered ever become the third-highest grossing movie during its opening weekend? "},{"Title":"Freddy in America","Date":"26 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Freddy got Fingered is the first effort by Tom to direct, write, and star in a feature film, and he succeeds wonderfully! This movie leaves the entire audience laughing, grimacing, and wondering how this wasn't rated NC-17. It's just too bad that it's become hip for film critics (I use that title very loosely) to bad-mouth movies that aren't Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon. (These are the same people who watched the movie alone, and think the Farrelly's are brilliant.)Hey, maybe the next movie Tom makes will be subtitled, then I'm sure the critics will love it! Crouching Tom, Hidden Bullard, anyone? "},{"Title":"The Joke is on the Audience","Date":"26 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Freddy Got Fingered was one of the worse movie I have ever seen. There was so much wrong with it it is hard to know where to begin.The story, or what I assume was trying to be the story, is about Gordon a 28-year-old cartoonist who is still living with his parents. He struggles with acceptance from his father and he is discouraged that he will never become an animator that makes money. This loose plot threads together a lengthy procession of unfunny scenarios, which Tom Green tries to apply his over the top humor.The first rule in story telling is Thou shall not bore. Freddy Got Fingered through that concept out of the window and had a herd of rabid cows relieve themselves on it. The humor was dull and not very funny. It consisted of Tom Green making a butt out of himself for 90 minutes. Tom Green's humor is improve and only funny in real life. When applied to movies it comes off gross and dull.Secondly, there was no real story and no explanation as to why Gordon was such a spaz. He just ran around doing horrible gross things, from swinging a baby around from an umbilical cord to spraying his father with the semen from an elephant. All the time we are asking, Why? What is the point? Unfortunately, there is none.Finally I would have to say, stay away from this film. It is a waste of time and money. If you are in a mood for a good laugh rent Dumb and Dumber or Tommy Boy. They are exponentially more interesting and funny. "},{"Title":"Some people are so uptight!!!","Date":"26 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  First off, several comments on this board come from people who never liked Tom Green to begin with.  So why the f*** did you see this movie anyway!?!? Did you think he was going to change his entire comedic style??  Animal dick is funny....swinging a baby around is funny....face it....anyone who rips this movie either doesn't like Tom Green (why did you go see it then?) or has no sense of humor.  I'm sorry it didn't live up to your Oscar expectations.   "},{"Title":"Forget the critics! See it for yourself!","Date":"25 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The critics are probably the same ones that said the Blair Witch Project was a scary movie! Bottomline this is a very funny movie. There is a definite method to Tom Green's madness. It is absolute comedy. Comedy in it's extreme form. While it won't win any Oscars, you will laugh. If not, you may need to get out of the house more! "},{"Title":"Realistic Slapstick","Date":"25 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  One of the main components of this movie is slapstick with blood.  This is something I'm not sure if I've seen in many movies (except maybe things like *Santa Sangre*, but certainly not mainstream American movies).  This movie comes from somewhere else, and people who aren't used to this somewhere else should be happy for it.Tom Green is smarter than you think.  He analyzes comedy; he knows what makes it work; he knows what comedy was put on earth for in the first place. If your life is not messed up enough to appreciate Tom Green's first movie, then something sort of amusing or entertaining like *American Pie* might be enough for you.  But if you feel like you have some deep-down demons to exorcize, then *Freddy Got Fingered* pulls them out, and it does it through the brain as much as the butt or the crotch or the stomach.Here are some steps  (1) Someone getting hit in the head is funny.  (2) A little kid getting hit in the head is funny, but slightly more shocking because he's a child.  (3) A little kid getting hit in the head and coming up with blood covering the side of his face, screaming in pain, his father trying to help him, everyone involved panicking just as in real life... this is even more funny.  (4) Step three is even better when there isn't any music or bright colors or clever camera direction telling us this is supposed to be funny.So I loved the movie.  I thought it was really smart.  I just think if you're not used to it, you should work your way up the ladder. "},{"Title":"The funniest movie in over 5 years","Date":"25 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Ignore the damn critics and see this movie. I cannot tell you how many times I laughed out loud during this comic rush. Always something funny is going on. The expression/reaction that Green has when he first sees the horse is priceless! And the sandwich scene (when he spots the two horses while eating a large sandwich) is one of the funniest scenes ever presented on film.You're obviously thinking I bet the movie has no plot. I say to you Who Cares?!!!. When a movie can make you laugh like this (and that IS what a comedy is meant to do) who needs a plot?-Dammers. "},{"Title":"Should You See Freddy Got Fingered?","Date":"22 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I have made an easy graph for those of you who are questioning whether or not to see Freddy Got Fingered.You Love Tom Green ---------------You have already seen and loved it. You Like Tom Green ---------------You will probably chuckle. You Are Indifferent---------------You, too, will probably chuckle, but will gain nothing from the experience. You Dislike Tom Green-------------You will now hate Tom Green. You Hate Tom Green----------------You are now contemplating killing Tom Green.So, for us Tom fans out there, here's the movie he made for us and I can proudly stand behind him and his shocking little movie, that is definitely NOT the worst movie ever. Batman and Robin, for God's sakes! But, everyone loves to exaggerate and get caught up in hype, both positive and negative. So, this is NOT a movie for everyone. It's a movie for those who like Tom, a niche movie, and it did it's job. "},{"Title":"Sick, crude, and generally appalling.  I liked it!","Date":"21 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Gordy, a 28-year-old slacker who lives with his parents, drives to Hollywood in search of someone to convert his bizarre drawings into an animated television series.  After a number of let-downs in California he returns home, much to the dismay of his father.  Green's writing/directing debut really delivers, succeeding in shocking even the most jaded viewers while making them shamefully guffaw at the film's gruesome sequences.  The attitude of this punk rock flick was what really won me over, however.  It was clear that Green wasn't trying to make the movie anything it wasn't there are a lot of open-ended situations, unresolved conflicts, continuity errors, and plot holes; but the mortified audience doesn't care and neither does Tom.  It's just Tom Green doing what Tom Green likes to do, whether you like it or not.  Also, the fact that such a crude, tasteless, and stunningly offensive film starred big-name actors, was distributed by a major studio, and only got an R rating from the MPAA simply astounded me.  And I thought SCARY MOVIE was bad! "},{"Title":"Very Sad and disturbing","Date":"21 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If anyone acutally looked at the comments already made about the movie on this website, you'll know that there has been alot of outrageous anger towards it. Now I admit that I enjoyed watching his show and chuckled at some of his skits. Anybody else would probably want to vomit on this movie after seeing the first few minutes. Even the biggest die hard fan of Tom Green would realize that he went too far in his sick idea of a slapstick comedy. I'm only 14 years old and even I could tell this movie is immature and tasteless. If there was a contest to have the biggest gross out film, this would be the winner. Most people actully laughed at it, (and you would have to be on some serious drug to laugh at it). Child molestation is not something you joke about. I even noticed that they took a really good joke out about the cheese helmit and replaced it with a penis joke. (did I mention this movie has more animal penises than a animal sex porn site). Tom here has played a rotten april fools joke in making you see this movie to earn some cash and better yet expect you to laugh. This movie makes Me,Myself and Irene look like Disney. I only giggled a few times at some ofthe jokes where he annoys people by putting too much cheese on someones sandwich, going scuba diving in the shower, and the ever so popular sausage organ and thats about it.I BEG OF YOU ANY TRUE TOM GREEN FAN TO NOT WATCH THIS FAILURE. I COULD NOT TOLERATE HIM FOR 2 HOURS. MAYBE ONLY 30 MINUTES OF HIS SHOW. I WOULD PREFER YOU TO JUST STICK WITH THE SHOW OR SEE HIS SMALL BUT HUMOUROUS ROLE IN ROAD TRIP. FOR ANYONE WHO WANTS TO BE BRAVE AND TAKE ON A MOVIE THAT TOOK SICK HUMOUR TO GREAT LENGTHS, I WISH YOU LUCK. BUT THE OTHER PERCENT CAN JUST STAY AWAY FROM THIS MOVIE. "}{"Title":"Oh my God was this movie funny","Date":"20 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This was a hilariously funny movie. (This review discusses the themes of the movie you might think that some of them are spoilers, I suggest everyone see this movie first as it will certainly spark a reaction, good or bad, and any reaction even extreme disgust should be worth the price of admission) This was a hilariously funny movie. Admittedly I think that Tom Green is a very funny guy, I like his show and think that he does not get the credit that he deserves. I think that Tom Green will be spoken of in the same sentence as the great(he is not really dead) Andy Kaufman. But that is not what this movie is about, it is not just a ton of short scenes of Tom Green style observational humor. This is a movie that addresses Tom's very real issues with his Dad and his successes and failures. If you read an interview with Tom Green about this movie he is very serious about it. It seems to me that this is a movie about what Tom, and his friends, thought the perfect life would be like you would be able to follow your dreams, you would have the perfect girl friend(inspirational if a little over enthusiastic) And you would be able to make all of your family problems better. In the tradition of Something about Mary, there are many parts of this movie THAT ARE NOT PLAYED FOR LAUGHS, you might have to think to enjoy this movie. So go to the movie for the shock value, and it WILL shock you, but appreciate the real emotions behind the outrageousness  "},{"Title":"Freddy Got Me Smiling","Date":"20 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  OK, since every uptight, snooty, hypocrite critic is bashing this movie let me do it the justice by saying that Freddy is Fabulous. Tom Green plays Gord; he's an aspiring animator that also has a big hobbie for skatebording. The movie follows Gord through his attempts to break into the animation world and find love, while finding acceptance in his brutal father and raising havoc to be the Tom Green we all adore. Not only does Tom Green do an excellent job of balancing the plot with some of the most absurd and gross antics I've ever seen, but does an excellent job with the directing and editing of this film. The plot's pacing and use of angles with the camera were genius. Although the films antics were extremely gross they were not sexually offensive to the point of pornography as in Scary Movie or American Pie. It's all good gross fun along with an deeper message of the pursuit of happiness for everyone. No matter how strange Green may seem to we who don't masturbate animals, we all have our own little quirks in life that sometimes allow us to question our potential. Kudos to Tom Green and Kudos to Freddy Got Fingered. "},{"Title":"Wow, that was dumb.","Date":"20 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This was one of the dumbist movies that I have ever seen.  The jokes that Tom Green made were the same that he always makes which are sometimes funny but other times are just disturbing.  This was also one of the most disturbing movies that I have ever seen.  Almost all of it was really disgusting. "},{"Title":"alcohol optional","Date":"19 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  yeah, it was pretty funny... in that demented tom green sort of way.  mr. green just does things that other people might think of for less than an instant and shoves them in your face.  sure... you'd like to touch a male horse's genitals, but you would never tell anyone that or actually do it -- thats mr. green's job. "},{"Title":"If you take this so literally, you won't have fun...","Date":"14 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Tom Green's shocking, funny, uncanny and grotesque flick Freddy Got Fingered is one of the most underrated and most hated film I know in the film universe. I'd first off say that I loved this film! Sure, there are a few discontinuity errors, the film's plot hardly hasn't anything to do with the title and the characters are dumb fun, but who cares! It's Tom Green for f8#% sake! Material like this I'd say would align perfectly with other mindless fun such as Jackass or even American Pie. It's not supposed to be the most well-made, r award winning piece ever. Here's why I think this film is so great (also why I think Tom Green should have made more films like this afterwards as well as this film not getting the total credit it deserves).The film mindlessly contradicts itself back and fourth. We have so much happening in here which consists of sexualisation on animals, pregnancies, cheese sandwiches, cartoon drawings, music fused with food and angry fathers who are accused of molesting their sons. It's never ending in this twisted fun! I had a lot of fun as I found many great moments in the story. Some include when he pretends he's an underwater diver, when he crosses his fingers, when he rides the skateboard. Even the restaurant scene is priceless! Tom Green professionally went out and did something he wanted to do. If people take this film too seriously and decide that it's too shocking or gross for their taste, then they're not going have fun with it. Sure, we can't see everything we like. I sure didn't like every scene in the film, but for the most part it kept me intrigued.As I mentioned at the top, I really wished Tom Green could've made more sickly (gooping) comedies like this after Freddy Got Fingered Overall, I enjoyed the film's acting, tenacity, majority of scenes and explicit crude humor which Green dished out left, right and centre. This film should have received more recognition for these factors. My verdict, see it - 8/10 "},{"Title":"Delivers its shocks, which I'm sure was intentional, but with no laughs, shock humour can be atrocious!","Date":"24 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The other day, when I rented the 1943 version of The Phantom of the Opera, along with this film, co-written, directed by, and starring Tom Green, a guy behind the counter at the video store laughed and said, What a combo! Even though I had never seen Freddy Got Fingered before, and had only seen a bit of Phantom of the Opera, I knew what he meant, since I don't think I have to explain how different those two films are! Anyway, before I saw this 2001 comedy, I knew to expect shock value and probably a lot of immaturity as well, which wouldn't have been a bad thing if it were actually funny, but it's not. In fact, sometimes, it's actually quite repulsive! Gord Brody is a 28 year old goof-ball who lives with his parents in Portland, Oregon, but his ambition is to become an animator. He leaves home and drives down south, hoping to be able to sell his cartoon ideas to Hollywood. Sadly, it doesn't work out. He is told how stupid his ideas are and how he has to rethink them. After this, Gord soon finds himself back with his parents, unemployed, and is often mistreated by his disappointed and insensitive father, Jim. He does find himself a girlfriend named Betty, who loves being beaten on her paralyzed legs with a cane and giving oral sex, but the wannabe animator continues to have family problems. Eventually, a psychiatrist gets involved, and Gord lies to her about his father molesting Freddy, the younger brother in the family! Around the beginning, it seemed pretty much mediocre. I did sort of like the sequence with Gord skate boarding through the mall, but I think that's just because they used a Sex Pistols song for it. I still wasn't finding anything very funny, and the first really bad gag I found was when he's on his way to L.A. and enthusiastically stops at a farm to masturbate a horse! Soon after this, we see the character dancing and holding a wiener on his groin, saying, I'm a sexy boy! Ding dong! On his way back home, we see him cutting open a deer carcass on the road and wearing it! After this, the film features many more extreme gross-out gags, sometimes involving a lot of blood, such as a kid getting severely injured more than once with blood gushing from his face! I'm sorry, but scenes like that are about as funny as concentration camp footage! There are lots of other really lame jokes, such as the sexual molestation ones, and it seems to be just for the sake of shock value, without being funny at all! Another song I heard and recognized much later in the film was Moby's Natural Blues, which also fit the scene it was used for well (a melancholy scene), but a couple songs I liked obviously couldn't make the film for me.Not only have I seen this movie, I have also seen some clips from The Tom Green Show, which were lame, so I'm convinced Tom Green is one talentless hack! He is known to use crude humour and shock value, but there are plenty of others in the comedy business who like to use the same kind of humour. However, probably almost all other comedians I'm familiar with who are known to really push the envelope are more talented than Green. Since Green isn't funny, he probably has to shock in order to get attention, since it doesn't take any talent just to shock people. Watching Freddy Got Fingered was a lot like watching Borat, except I didn't laugh. I got both shocks AND laughs (often maybe both at the same time) from the controversial 2006 blockbuster, but with this 2001 Tom Green film, I just got shocks! Now, I'll admit, I did smile occasionally, which I believe is the only reason why I'm giving this movie more than a 1/10, but the smiles were rare. One of the parts where I couldn't help but smile was when a cheese sandwich customer asks Gord what he's supposed to do with all the cheese, and he answers, You could shove it up your bum-bum, but that must have been the kiddie side of me coming out! For the most part, this film is simply awful, and while Jason Friedberg and Aaron Seltzer may do slightly worse, Green is still a major disgrace to modern comedy! "},{"Title":"If You're in the Right Mindset, This Isn't the Trash You Expect","Date":"21 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Gord Brody wants to be an animator, but his father is too authoritarian and the head of the animation studio says he has no future. So, Gord moves back home and wreaks havoc on his family, including the accusation that his brother Freddy was fingered by his father.Many people think this film is horrible. Certainly, the Razzy Awards thought so. I, also, didn't think much of it when I first saw the movie. Tom Green is more annoying in this film than he ever was before. But the movie also grows on you, and if you can get the right mindset you might appreciate it. (Not unlike Napoleon Dynamite which is either stupid or genius based on how you approach it.) I watched this with two people (Jason and Matt) who thought it was the greatest comedy ever... I wouldn't go that far. Though, I think if it was slightly different, the same plot with the same jokes could have been hilarious. (I can't pinpoint exactly what's off) The supporting cast is helpful, with Harland Williams being funny and the best role going to Rip Torn as the father. Torn entered something of a Renaissance in the mid-2000s, which I wouldn't doubt it related in part to his work in this film. Would he have been chosen for Dodgeball? I have my doubts. Drew Barrymore is decent in her small role, and Anthony Michael Hall was excellent (and hardly recognizable to those of us who remember him from The Breakfast Club).What makes this film noteworthy is the real push into both absurdity and obscenity. Cow udders and horse penises do not usually get placed in feature films, nor do keyboards rigged to pulleyed sausages. There is something beautiful about this. While I find gross-out humor awful (this is my biggest beef with films like Van Wilder and American Pie), many like it and this film really paved the way for films that would come out after it (though was by no means the beginning of gross-out). And I can think of no film as absurd.And it just increases as the film goes on. Small jokes like the must have experience with cheese sandwiches really make me chuckle, and the big scenery change towards the end just goes over the top in a way few films, if any, have thought to do before. Tom Green is either a complete genius or mentally retarded man with very lucid dreams. I'm not sure which.Underneath it all, under the stupidity, absurdity, obscenity and poor acting... there is a message here. Something about rocket-propelled wheelchairs and shooting the moon, achieving your dreams. Maybe the presentation was a little untraditional but it works. Be prepared to give this film a second chance, it's not as bad as you remember. "},{"Title":"if you thought that the movie is crap...","Date":"25 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" ...you should jump off a bridge and die. The rest of the readers may continue.first of all, why this movie is so good that it explores the inner sanctum of a brain of an artist. An artist sees the world differently, and this movie shows just what this world is. And, what this movie does is that it shows not only the shiny side of life, but also all of the people with their perversions and such.now the plot. Our artist is living a life the easy way - doing absolutely nothing and making the most of it. Gord, being fed up by his family (father constantly yelling on him for being... well... himself and his brother always bragging about his job) decides he will find himself a job.from getting a rather interesting girlfriend to earning a million bucks, the life of Gord Broody won't be so dull afterall.9 of 10 "},{"Title":"AHHHHHHHH!! after the first 10 minutes! I couldn't watch any more!!","Date":"24 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I can't really totally review this movie? Cos i only watched up to the horse bit!!! My god that was a real horse!! Not a stunt horse!! That was it for me. I thought it might be OK,it didn't seem cheaply made and i like some of the actors in the film but that is not my kind of humour and if it's your then you must admit it yourself that you've got a sick sense of humour. It made no sense either??Was he mentally retarded and no-one realised or something. It's one of those things that you see on the internet that you can never get out of your head. I suppose it's called being traumatised!! Thats me?? Is it 10 lines yet. Thats a stupid idea. I have the skill to say what i want without all the waffle but then this thing forces me to put a load of needless padding in my comment!! Laters peeps. "},{"Title":"weird, compelling and utterly insane","Date":"26 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Okay, the first time I saw this movie was a few years ago, and to be honest, I thought it was the worst attempt at comedy ever in the history of film making.However, after a few at a friends house, we bunged it on again and I simply laughed my head off (particularly the sausage scene). There are a few priceless moments in this film and you just need to leave your morals at the door and prepare yourself.If you've seen it once and didn't enjoy it, I sincerely recommend watching it one more time. You might get it.Sure, it's toilet humour, but to this day I laugh when people do squeaky farts. And this is a major fart on film making.Screw American Pie and a million of these other modern comedies, because none have made me laugh as hard as this. Not one. "}{"Title":"I got what I expected","Date":"9 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" FREDDY GOT FINGERED is a crude, raunchy and funny film. It is one of my favorite guilty pleasure movies and I laugh every time I watch it. Anyone who did not like this movie was obviously expecting something more serious than what they watched. They shouldn't of. TOM GREEN is in top, gross out mode in this movie. From delivering a baby and then swinging the baby around by the umbilical cord as blood flies all over the place to, well, helping a horse get off. RIP TORN is great as TOM's dad, the one who TOM accuses of fingering his brother FREDDY, hence the title. I will admit that this movie is not for all tastes. That is true. But, giving the fact that this is a TOM GREEN movie, I damn sure got what I was expecting. "},{"Title":"I don't get why people hate this movie.","Date":"8 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" this film is not half as terrible as people say it is. In short, if you enjoyed green's show on MTV or Canadian access, you will like this flick. Sure, its sick. Of course it's obscene. It's Tom Friggin Green, and anything else from him simply does not work. The scene with the soap on a rope, the scene with the cheese, and the scenes between rip and tom are absolutely priceless. Also, I admire Tom's gusto for making this movie in the first place, and also accepting his razzie. Yeah, hes the first one to do that, and it served as a slap in the face to all those yuppie punks in Hollywood. In short, the only people who didn't like this movie probably didn't get it or weren't familiar with Green, and were as such unprepared for him. Oh, and the final product for Zebras in America is one of the funniest things of all time. "},{"Title":"This is a fancy restaurant!! This movie rocks","Date":"7 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I love Tom Green. He's hilarious. A genius? maybe not, but his comedy is thunderdome. ANd this movie is a gem. People hate this movie because they are dumb. There's no secret, meaningfullness to this comedy. There is no relating to the characters. There is no oh i get it in this movie.This is simply a vision into the mind of Tom Green. He is raw, raucous and unbalanced and that is funny to watch. The dialogue is great. SOn,you're not taking that bus to Los Angeles. But you bought me a ticket on this bus to Los Angeles HAHA, its like poetry. Its a Lebaron! Ahh Its refreshing to see a dumb, stupid fun comedy that is meant for nothing else but laughter. To see Rip Torn actually act and read from Tom Greens script in this is worth the 12 bucks for the DVD alone. Their chemistry is awesome. The part where Gord is in the shower with the wet suit and Jim busts open the door and then throws him through his own glass shower door is great. This whole movie is like one big funny part that you repeat or reenact with your buddies. There is never a dull moment. How bout him as the English Bobby in the restaurant. Such a little side part but it serves the purpose of the Tom Green's intent. I think I'm gonna go watch it rite now. I'm a cop by the way, not some sadistic creep as the opposer's of this film would like to think we all are. "},{"Title":"funniest film ever!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"7 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" this film is the funniest and most original film ever! every time i watch it it just gets funnier. tom green is a genius, i don't know how he comes up with such funny actions and comments. every line in the film is a stroke of genius and SO catchy. I saved the day Betty, i saved the day! what you doing to that horse? look at me daddy I'm a farmer! i say Geneva you hear Helsinki! your fired bob! I'm looking for Dave Davidson, are you blond? Japan four!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!! !!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!! !!!!!! !!!!!!!!! !!!!!!! !!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!! !!!!! !!!!!! !!!! !!!!!!! !!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!! !!!!! !!!!!! !!!!!!!! !!!!!!! !!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!! Daddy would you like some sausages? "},{"Title":"Tom Green reminds me of that irritating kid in every junior high school that tries ever so desperately to be the class clown...","Date":"9 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is a truly horrible film. Most of the gags are just meant to shock us, gross us out, and many, many other things that words can't even describe. It's a miracle that anyone could like this film. 20th Century Fox should be ashamed of themselves because of the release of this truly awful film. Tom Green needs acting lessons. The plot is completely pointless. This film's gags are just way too bizarre to be funny (i.e. the horse dick scene and the dead deer scene) and are absolutely appalling. I laughed AT this film, not with it. I laughed at it because it is a pathetic excuse for a film, and all that money was wasted and could have been used for a film that could have changed the world - in a good way. "},{"Title":"Unbelievable!","Date":"18 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This, hands down, is the worst film I've ever suffered through. Actually, I lied. I suffered through some of it-until I realized I was experiencing irreparable brain damage, and left the room to lie on my bed and stare blankly at the ceiling for rest of what was, up to the start of this major mistake, a fine evening. My friends and I were doing shots, and they put this movie on. Fine. I've never drank more than a pint of whiskey at a time. I killed a fifth before the night was through, hoping to REPLACE some of my lost brain cells. The humor...um...lack of it, was nothing short of disgusting-not worthy of human consumption. How in Darwin's world could someone finance this? How could someone RELEASE it? Please, for those of you who haven't seen this film, do not torture youself, for you too (if you have an IQ higher than one tenth of your age) will suffer brain damage. Just as an aside, I train standardbred racehorses for a living. If the president of the U.S. himself did to any horse what Tom Green did, I'd personally smash his face in. So AWFUL there are just simply no words to describe it. "},{"Title":"wacking cripples and jacking off elephants","Date":"26 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Not as bad as i'd been led to believe. And, to be honest, I was strangely fascinated and occasionally entertained. Yes, it was vulgar and wacked and grotesque, and mr green is obviously trying to push some sort of societal boundaries to some degree (masturbating animals for eg. wacking cripples...), and yes, the movie is devoid of taste, the characters are completely flat and the movie seems to exist for the sole purpose of showcasing tom green's psychologically repressed weirdness masquerading as comedy... but i still laughed at times, and i still sat through the whole bizarre creepshow. And it was surprisingly well-produced and made me wonder what type of Hollywood execs would greenlight such a project So, after the trauma of masturbating an elephant in Pakistan and making it jizz all over my dad, I was thinking they could have a real heart to heart.... But it happened, strangely enough. No, it's not a good movie. It has no pretense to art. Yes it is devoid of any sort of integrity but the fact remains that i was strangely fascinated and occasionally entertained. Go figure.  "},{"Title":"Some people will just never understand.","Date":"4 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  You have to be a certain kind of person to appreciate a movie such as Freddy Got Fingered (or even appreciate director/writer/star Tom Green's sense of humor). I've found that the sort of people who enjoy this deranged, out of the ordinary and flat out insane movie are actually quite normal. There's a reason why Roger Ebert and every other critic panned this movie they are not normal. They do not lead a normal life. They obviously don't have to put up with the stress and absurdity that the average working man (or woman) deals with on a regular basis. Sometimes we all just need a release. A real raw, and edgy movie that makes no apologies and does not try to cover up what it is. Freddy Got Fingered is this movie. It is hardly a guilty pleasure. I don't think I could feel so guilty about loving a movie that has given me so many laughs and memorable moments. Freddy Got Fingered tells the story of Gord (Tom Green), a 28 year-old aspiring cartoonist with some crazy ideas and ways of life who still lives in his parents house and gets under the skin of his father (the brilliant Rip Torn). In his efforts to improve his cartoons to impress the head of an animation studio (Anthony Michael Hall), Gord falls in love with a crippled, rocket-scientist/nympho, accuses his dad of molesting his little brother Freddy (Eddie Kay Thomas), makes cheese sandwiches and has all kinds of other off-color, off-beat and offensive mis-adventures. For all the insanity displayed on here and all the tastelessness that this movie can withstand, at the core there is a good message, and it is quite simple. Gord isn't a bad person, he lives his life his own way, never compromising and it ends up working out for him. Sure, you may not be able to see that through all the blood, cheese and sausage on-screen, but nevertheless, a good story prevails. Tom Green does a great job all around. This is his movie, all the way. His directing (first time) is seamless, his writing is right on the mark and he truly gets inside his character. If you have the guts to check it out and aren't afraid to laugh (honestly), then you too will find something you love in Freddy Got Fingered.10/10 (and I'm serious!) "},{"Title":"Does not belong in the all time bottom IMDB 100!","Date":"12 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Freddy Got Fingered tells the story of Gord Brody (aka Tom Green) who is a 20-30something loser who lives with his parents.  He dreams of becoming an animator - but is rejected by a Hollywood bigwig when he gets there. This movie is not all bad - I admit - I'm a Tom Green fan and he does have a strange warped sense of humour which is not for all.  So if you don't think violating stud horses, roadkill deer, whacking paraplegic nymphomaniac legs really hard and getting busy with elephants funny - then don't bother! This isn't Tom Green's finest hour - but there are some fantastic scenes in here - Zebras in America, the newborn baby, the Freddy got Fingered revelation...  This movie (like most comedies) overstays its 83 minute welcome - but if you are a Tom Green fan - check this out... This movie doesn't belong in the all time bottom imdb 100!  I can think of bigger piles of toot than this!  "},{"Title":"Damn...","Date":"2 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  and this isn't in awe of a masterpiece. I did not find Tom Green's show particularly funny, especially since he doesn't know when a joke stops being funny (or making stupid noises/sounds start aggravating people instead of boosting the humor), but I did enjoy Road Trip, so I gave Freddy got fingered a shot. It missed by miles. Several jokes are funny to me (the baby-thing for example), but he brings it badly and stretches it for too long, making it once again annoy you.Please Tom Green, stop trying too hard. There is hope however, he isn't as bad as Andy Dick (yet).  "}{"Title":"Funny","Date":"16 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  OK so many people lambasted this film but personally I think its a pretty funny effort from Tom Green. Hilarious scenes such as the Pakistan one and the deer carcass on the road are what make this film so excruciatingly funny and watchable. You may not agree when you see it but I'll leave that up to you readers. Anyway I think its good so thats why I recommend it "},{"Title":"How Not To Make a Movie","Date":"6 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I guess Tom Green achieved his goal of making a bad movie.  In a way the whole movie is like a prank from his television show he actually managed to get a studio to make this stinker.  The trailer to the movie is funnier than the movie itself.  Still, I don't hate the movie as much as most people.  It's gross and stupid, but I think that's the point.***Spoilers***Best parts #1 son, restaurant scene, soap on a roap, sausages song, japan 4, and get inside the animal.Worst parts rip torn's butt, the zebra cartoon, the last 15 minutes, and the parts with the kid getting injured. "},{"Title":"Funny yet disgusting, not for the romantic comedy fans!","Date":"30 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I saw this movie on cable,and before seeing it I just thought Tom Green was stupid ,and not funny at all. However I changed my mind at the first minute in the film, it is hilarious (of course I say this knowing it's not for just any sense of humor). The point is it has no barriers, it is appropriate for people as myself, who like southpark, jackass, wayne's world etc.This movie is for a young liberal audience (meaning guys who smoke weed will definetally appreciate it. lol) so I guess I wasn't surprised it's not in the best 250, but for me it's one of the funniest comedies. Proooooud..... hahahhaha. It's worth watching if you are an eclectic person, not easily impressed with some idiotic impossible situations in a humor flick. ?)  "},{"Title":"funny piece of garbage!","Date":"17 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  i watched this and man did it stink. i did find some of tom greens stupidity being actually pretty funny, and i know that is a sad fact to admit, but that is the truth whether you like it or not. i found that the performance of the dad was quite the funniest too, but he didnt have to (**SPOILER**) wear a dead deer, or watch animals on the farm. all he had to do was nothing, and still had me cracking up. so actually, the man that played the dad was the best actor out of this garbage... so that is why i gave it a two. oh and by the way, for those who read the left corner panel that have awards and nominations. i couldnt believe that it was nominated for awards...but i looked and they are all won for the worst movie and the worst everything. so this movie didnt remain unpunished.  (F F-) "},{"Title":"Mass temporary insanity...","Date":"5 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Why do people allow Tom Green to make and distribute such....filth? Animal genitalia, bare behinds, moronic behavior, etc. do not a good movie make. Granted it did make me laugh at times.  But, there were many instances when I just could not understand why anyone would want to film such acts?  If you find his show despicable, do not bother watching this movie.  On the other hand, if you think his comedic brilliance is underrated, then this is the movie for you.I gave it one star.  This is what happens when you send a teenager in with the rental card and money and say,  You get to pick.  I should have known! "},{"Title":"Could almost be called 'The Tom Green Show The Movie'","Date":"7 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I've seen The Tom Green Show on tape (watching five or six of them in a row really puts you in a weird headspace), thought some bits were funny, wished Tom Green would give up his fascination with dead animals, and overall thought that it was original but pretty mediocre. I thought pretty much the same thing of the movie since it featured the same kind of stuff, although woven into a story of sorts. Freddy Got Fingered had it's moments but it was largely mediocre. Unfortunately the scene where I laughed the hardest I interpreted wrong; in the skateboard scene I thought Brody's friend had cut himself on a nail because the skate ramp was so shoddily constructed, instead he had just mysteriously broken his leg from not even a hard landing. Marisa Coughlan delivers what must be some of the toughest lines a serious female actress has ever had to deliver. As forgettable as the film is I still find myself wanting to yell FORTY MILLION F***ING DEUTSCHMARKS!!!!! YOUR FIRED!!!!! FORTY MILLION F***ING DEUTSCHMARKS!!!!! on occasion. "},{"Title":"tom green you're fired","Date":"14 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Gord Brody (Tom Green) a 28-year-old slacker who aspires to be an animator of Hollywood cartoons. After his dreams of working for studio mogul Dave Davidson (Anthony Michael Hall) temporarily wash out, along with his thankless job at a cheese factory, Gord returns home to live with his parents, Jim (Rip Torn) and Julie (Julie Hagerty). Jim wishes that Gord would simply grow up, move out of the basement, and get a real job like his younger brother Freddy (Eddie Kaye Thomas), who works in at a bank. When the battle of wills between Gord and Jim heats up, Gord devises various stunt-like schemes to drive his father bonkers, including the bogus charge that their father molested Freddy as a youngster. Freddy Got Fingered was pretty bad, Tom Green should quit making this kind of trash, but you gotta love Rip Torn though, he is cool. "},{"Title":"This movie is extremely underrated!","Date":"29 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I would understand why people wouldnt like this movie. It is extremely gross and shocking in parts. But aside from that, this movie is great. Tom Green shows that he is not only a comic genius, but he can direct better than most of the crappy directors making movies today. Sure, a lot of the things Tom Green does in the movie are rediculous and dont make any sense towards the plot, but the story as a whole is well written and progresses throughout well. As for the humor, I guess you would have to be more into obscure stuff than normal. The acting is also much better than average and isnt distracting.So if you like Friends and your sense of humor is dried up like a lump of dog crap, steer clear of this movie. Otherwise, you have to see this movie! It was definately better than most of the movies I saw in 2001. "},{"Title":"Funny and entertaining","Date":"14 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I was initially reluctant to watch this because I had heard that it was rubbish but my partner persuaded me to watch it and I am glad that I did as I really enjoyed it.  It was very funny and I laughed all the way through. I would recommend that people give this film a chance they may be pleasantly suprised, it may not be the best film made but it is a switch your head off entertaining film. "},{"Title":"Ashamed at myself for laughing, I laughed some more.","Date":"30 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" 100% stupid, offensive, funny, and mindless.  All at the same time.  And, in some ways, brilliant.  This movie is funny because of how unfunny it is.  That is a rare achievement and I believe was the actual intention to begin with.This is the strangest movie I have ever seen, yet what made it so strange was the fact that no movie I have ever seen before it has ever been so successful in its ability to cross the line, then come back around and cross it again.  This is a movie for people who know how to not take anything seriously.  Everyone else is sure to be offended.  This movie was obviously not intended to be taken as serious humor, yet some people seem oblivious to this.  It was my early understanding of this fact that led me to watch it a second time with some very uptight friends.  The humor of the movie had long since worn off for me, but I could sit and watch their expression, causing me to fall out laughing all over again.  I found myself laughing and simultaneously ashamed at myself, which made me laugh even harder.  You begin laughing out of shock at some of the scenes.  Did I actually just see him get out of his car on the side of the road to give a horse a hand job?  Should I keep watching this?  The movie was not funny.  The REACTION to it is what's so funny.  Not unlike most people, I want to smack Tom Green, yet I can't help laughing.   I must confess that he has my dream job getting paid to act like a complete idiot.My favorite scene  (no, I don't recall their character's names), though indescribable, involved Tom stringing up sausages to the ceiling, tying the string to his fingers, eating the sausage, while trying to play the keyboard, while singing Daddy would you like some sausage?.  Absolutely freaking stupid.  I am sure many humorless people trying to be funny have thought up similarly stale and bizarre stunts, but how rare to see one actually act them out with such wild abandon.Spoiler Another part I was especially fond of was when Tom spends the last of his million dollars to relocate his father's house to Pakistan (all in one piece), drug him during the relocation, so that his dad finally wakes up, unaware of the relocation until he opens the front door to a desert full of roaming camel jockeys.  If you don't laugh at stupid jokes because of how stupid they are, you are not going to like this movie very much.    If you feel it is worth your time to actually analyze what made this movie bad, you are not going to like this movie (and probably need to do something more productive). "}{"Title":"Good For a Few Laughs, Bad for everyone","Date":"9 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Like to laugh?  Well this may or may not be the movie for you.  If you like to laugh at raunchy over the top skits then this is the movie for you.  Yet some parts can offend people to the biggest degree.  I guess it just depends on who you are.  Teens who are big fans of Tom Green will enjoy this movie, but I doubt anyone else will. Now none of the acting is good in this movie.  Seriously, all of the acting is horrid.  I think the only person with a shred of all right acting in this movie is Eddie Kaye Thomas who plays Freddy.  Tom Green isn't even really acting.  This insaneness he presents is how he acts all the time.  And Rip Torn who plays Jim the dad just got on my last nerve.  And I did like Marisa Coughlan until this movie.  She really did pick the wrong role.  Maybe she thought this would make her a bigger actress because she was alongside names like Tom Green and Rip Torn.  Sorry sweetie, it did nothing to help your acting.  It only hurt it. I did like how Drew Barrymore was in this film.  She did an excellent job being comedic without being overly raunchy.  Very nice indeed.  But she always does a good job at that.  It always amazed me how she was married to Tom Green, and it amazed me more that he divorced her.  Weird but true.  Anyway, good cameo by Ms. Barrymore.   Overall, this movie stunk.  I guess if you are high or drunk you might like this movie, or if you are a teenager.  Or maybe all of the above.  I did enjoy laughing, and this movie made me laugh.  It made me laugh not because of the jokes but because of how dumb of a movie it was.1/2 a star of **** "},{"Title":"side-splitting","Date":"17 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Absolutely hilairious. I was laughing for 5 minutes at some points, I felt like a grown-up who had discovered cartoons again. The laughs came thick and fast, Tom Green's imagination for pure wackiness is brilliant, chaos humour at it's most brilliant. Don't bother thinking about anything when you watch this movie, just watch him turn everything upside down. Farrelly Brothers watch out, you've been outdone! "},{"Title":"Dumb yet surprisingly effective","Date":"30 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  When I first heard about this movie (it had been awarded several Golden Razzies prior to the Oscars) my initial reaction was where is Hollywood coming to? Is there really a market for crass, gross-out humour? Thankfully, having identified the film's content, I braced myself for the worst and found that while it was genuinely offensive, it was also, at times, rather funny. Sure, Tom Green has deliberately made a bad movie, but it's bad (and stupid) for the sake of taking the p*** out of other movies that contain tired cliches and sentimentality.Sure, it has some very vulgar moments, but you have to approach it with an open mind. I believe believe worse movies came out of Hollywood in 2001 - plenty of which have attempted to be stupid for the sake of it only to fall way short. "},{"Title":"This is why artists are starving.","Date":"26 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It's not the film 'Freddy Got Fingered' that is the supreme failing here it is the films primary artistic creator Tom Green.  The film is really very average, and yet it really shouldn't be.  With content that includes the handicapped, the mentally ill, sexual abuse victims and animal masturbation there is certainly a large volume of material to make a truly funny movie.  Only Tom Green really is not the man for the job.Tom Green just isn't funny, this is not, I should mention, a subjective point of view.  It is a universal imperative.  Firstly he tries far too hard.  With some comedians this over zealous effort can turn into truly hysterical routines.  With Tom Green you stare at his set pieces and wait for some truly funny climax, and then it's over, and you're left with nothing.  I guess it is a little like modern impressionistic art, if as the creator you repeat something that is wacky or bad enough times and stand by it, and continue to stand by it, people, some people will start to take you seriously.  And if you get enough of the right people taking you seriously then you gain respect and credability.  This persistence is Tom Greens greatest strength, not his humour.The film is just not very clever......or irreverent, or alternative, or anything, it's just a couple of overpaid knuckleheads trying way too hard. "},{"Title":"Is there something wrong with me?","Date":"25 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  How can so many people possibly hate this movie? I loved it. So what if you could pull something better out of your ass? You didn't and Tom Green did. The lack of effort is half of what makes this movie so funny. Some of the humour sinks to the lowest level just to get a chuckle but it's really worth it. If you find this movie funny it doesn't mean you're an idoit...it probably just means you're a guy...I don't know many girls that would like this movie. This movie is stupid but that works in it's favour. I mean the cheese sandwhich part at the restaurant makes me laugh out loud everytime. And how can people be so hard on Tom Green. This man grabbed a horse's schlong just for your entertainment, doesn't that deserve even a little respect? So what I know this isn't a good movie...but it has a place in my heart...and hopefully it'll find a place in yours. ) "},{"Title":"Thought provoking and challenges convention","Date":"24 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If you view this movie only at face value it is easy to be offended by it. The jokes are sick and there is not much of a plot.  However, if you look slightly deeper you can see that what is offending you is your own conventions and conditioning (morals?).  (Possible spoiler approaching) Once you can see that, the joke is your self imposed restrictions that prevent you laughing just because the subjects are unusual, e.g.disabled people or other politically incorrect subjects.  Tom Green has deliberately challenged us to see beyond our kneejerk emotional reactions. "},{"Title":"a comedy masterpiece","Date":"24 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  to say that this film has no humour through the random and outrages acts of comedy throughout the film, is just plain wrong. the film has a ton of all time lows, but  not without making the viewer laugh uncontrollably.yes this film is infact stupid, and lacks in the area of making much sense, but that is what makes it one of the funniest films of all time. unless you a really uptight person or enlgish i would seriously advise watching this film. "},{"Title":"Stupid Humor","Date":"8 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If its possible, I feel as though I lose IQ points whenever I watch Tom Green.  I can stand him in small doses best, he's much better to watch in Road Trip than in this movie.  His gags are the of the variety that some of them are so stupid they're funny, others are just plain stupid, and still others are so stupid they make you cringe.If you're able to just turn off your brain completely you may be able to enjoy this movie better.  You'll definitely hurt yourself if you try to think while watching this movie. "},{"Title":"Do the Freddy!","Date":"3 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  All right, I confess! This has to have been one of the funniest movies that I've ever seen! Now, that isn't saying that Tom Green is a genius; in fact, it is the sheer stupidity and audacity of this film that allows it to click for me. I don't usually watch comedies to think deeply about the problems of the human existence (unless, of course, it's an exceptionally well-crafted mix of drama and comedy, such as the Michael Moore documentaries or Kubirck's Dr. Strangelove). My maxim is this if it makes me laugh, it's good enough for me. The movie doesn't even require a decent plot or even decent actors. It helps to be weird, sick, twisted, and, nonsensical. Sheer anarchy reigns in Freddy. The movie essentially takes the loser seeking to fulfil his dreams plot and twists and contorts those cliches to grotesque levels that the lame Saturday Night Live movies could never in their wildest dreams hope to accomplish. Even Amelia Bedelia-type puns are toyed with. For example, when the cartoon producer advises Green to get inside his animals, who would have expected that Green would not only get inside of a deer skin, but would have the audacity to take out a bowie knife and skin a stinking hunk of roadkill, with its guts making a sqeauling noise as they spill onto the road, all to the tune of some corny Coca-Cola ad? Yes, this is not funny, you all may say, it's sick! but I think its Greens willingness to cause the audience to wretch that's funny, rather than the sick pun itself. The beyond-belief stupidity also adds to the movie. That Gord's girlfriend's favorite hobbies include constructing rocket powered wheelchairs and flipping coffee creamers is too weird not to at least be snickered at. I must say, the romance between Gord and his girlfriend clicks they're both equally crass, moronic, and surreal. Hell, it's far more believable than the wooden romance between Darth Vader and his geisha girlfriend in that new Star Wars movie. The strange, unbelievable plot turn at the end is also so poorly-conceived, that it's funny. I'm still baffled that all throughout the movie idiocy reigned supreme, yet Green makes an obscure geography reference to the Thar Desert, which is on the India-Pakistan border. This geography reference would probably be rather obscure to most people. Hey, there's a reason to recommend Freddy learn South Asian geography! I suppose part of the reason people despised Freddy was the fact that Gord, the protagonist, was a selfish, despiciable personage, always willing to do harm to his family and friends to get what he wanted. In many of the other so-called potty humor films, the characters get into gross situations, but they always mean well and have kind hearts; there's none of that with Gord. He only cares for himself, and is willing to destroy the good name of his father and straight-laced brother to get what he most desires. Gordon Brody is definitely the devil-child that Chris Farley and Adam Sandler are not in their movies. Still, I think that Green's evil anti-hero is a breathe of fresh air to the good-guy personas we often see in these movies. This movie is no classic, but it may someday achieve some sort of cult status amongst Green fanatics and people who like totally weird movies. Freddy may have lost the battle with the critics, but it may end up winning the war with a following of Green-iacs.   "},{"Title":"Awful, Awful, Awful, Hilarious!","Date":"21 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The acting was terrible, the plot was terrible, the script was terrible, the movie is f**kin hilarious! Tom Green is one of the funniest people I know and this movie is him in his purest form. The movie describes him sick, twisted, and funny. This movie starred Anthony Michael Hall, better known as Rusty from National Lampoons Vacation, Julie Hagerty, Elaine from Airplane!, Harland Williams, Kenny in Half Baked, and Rip Torn, Zed in MIB and MIB 2, for those who want to know a little about the movie. "}{"Title":"It's Tom Green","Date":"7 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Now I know where Andy Kaufman went. Andy's final joke was to be reincarnated as Tom Green. Only Andy Kaufman and Tom Green make me feel uneasy with their comedy. Tom Green can annoy and disturb the best of us and only from a sick and twisted mind could this film come. With that being said, Freddy Got Fingered is a really funny. Yes..it IS sick, but to see Tom Green disembowel a dead deer/elk/moose and wear it's skin is worth the price of a rental. It is a sick and twisted movie but it is very funny and had me in tears(from laughing too hard. See it on an empty stomach and draw your own conclusions.  "},{"Title":"Tom Green = Legend","Date":"16 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If you buy this and expect to see a film, you'll be pretty annoyed.  But it's so funny who cares.  This is basically the tom green show with some vague attempt at a story line.  it's so stupid that it's fantastic.  none of it makes any sense and it pretty much offends everyone, but it's so funny that i couldn't care less.  if you don't have a marrow crammed up your bum and go 'oh this is so politically incorrect' then you'll see the funny side, otherwise, get bent. "},{"Title":"Sick for some, hillarious for others.......","Date":"8 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  and yes i am one of those people who couldn't stop laughing all the way through.  I think Tom Green is a comedy genius.  He's just so stupid.  Being a fan of MTV's comedy programme The Tom Green show i loved this film.  Tom up to his usual tricks again just playing a different person.  it's so stupid its funny.... 9/10 "},{"Title":"Well done filth","Date":"29 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It has been said that true art always invokes an emotional response.  With that definition, Freddy Got Fingered is a pure masterpiece.  That's not to say that it's good; it isn't.  It does, however, warrant at least some praise for having such perfect timing and craftsmanship for eliciting pure disgust and anguish on its viewers.At its heart, it's a test.  A test to see how much of an assault to basic taste, human dignity, or just about anything good in this world can be made before a person's stomach turns.  For me that took about 15 minutes.Challenging the boundaries of good taste is nothing new.  But while an avant-garde artist may defecate on a canvas and hang it on the wall, Tom Green would be more likely to take the feces off the wall, eat it, and then vomit it up on to his own mother.I think that explains the variety of opinions of this movie.  Either you enjoyed it for it's ability to display a perfect sort of depraved insanity that stands as an affront to any sort of coherent goodness, or you hated it because there really is no way to take pleasure in watching something like that.So I have a difficult time calling it a 'bad' movie.  It did exactly what it set out to do, and then some.  It exceeded any and all expectations regarding the subject of filth.  And the only adjective I can think of that truly describes it is simply 'evil'.  Very well done evil, but evil to the core nonetheless. "},{"Title":"Brilliant...","Date":"16 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Freddie Got Fingered is obviously a love it or hate it movie... Personally I thought it was the best comedy I've seen since 'Flying High'.The thing about this movie is that its not actually serious. And its not some American sitcom comedy movie. So what if the movie doesn't have much of a solid plot with a big twist at the end. Who gives a s***. Mr backwards man made me almost lose control of my bowel functions. That scene in the restaurant did make me lose control of my bladder.The struggle with his father throughout the movie is hilarious.People on this board say you'll only like this movie if you're a Tom Green fan.. Thats crap. I'd never heard of Tom Green before watching this movie and I thought it was brilliant! 10 outa 10  "},{"Title":"Only for die-hard Tom Green fans","Date":"15 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Before I saw this movie, what I had heard about it was comments comparing it to porno in the sense that the storyline is only there to provide some kind of back-up to Tom Greens vulgar feats. Although it is not too far off, that description is a bit harsh in my opinion. The film concetrates on the storyline which consists of Gord Brody's (Tom Green) struggle to accomplish his dream of being a pro animator. Currently he is nothing but a 28-year old sandwich-flipping loser still living with his parents.Since this is Tom Green we are talking about here, he flips out into obscenities even more frequent then he is flipping cheese. Everything you would expect from this guy is here, difference being that this time he exposes his fellow cast members instead of regular people like in the Tom Green show.I am not a fan of Tom Green although he does occationally give me a laugh or two, but I cannot stand his constant screaming aggressions which makes him look more of a mental patient than a comedian in my eyes. But if that is your cup of tea, then there you go, he does not stop the screaming on the big screen, I tell you.Even though I think Tom Green is OK, this movie really told me nothing. In fact, it is almost entirely forgotten after just a couple of hours since my viewing. But if you're a fan of Tom Green, then give this movie a go. "},{"Title":"brilliantly bizzare","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Slap-stick of a perverse nature.  Original ideas, insane but original.  A must see movie to get a glimpse into the mind of a creative genious/lunatic. Not for the faint of heart.  Timothy Leary would have been moved to tears. He would have understood. "},{"Title":"Should have been called Betty the Perfect Woman","Date":"22 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I can't stand most of Tom Green's work, but for some reason I found this movie amusing.  Some movies you watch because you know you'll see something silly  How High, Road Trip, etc.  This movie falls into that category. Nothing profound, it mostly addresses the frustration of failure. "},{"Title":"SICK SICK SICK ... It's GREAT!!!","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'm a fan of MST3k movies, so i wanted to see The Worst Movie of 2001(tm). but instead of MST3k where the comments on the movies makes the movie funny, Freddy Got Fingered is funny by itself. It's so gore, sick and dumb that it becomes funny. I gave it 9/10 because it's the first movie I saw that shocked me in a long, long time. The acting is bad, the script sucks, but that's no problem for me, you can't rate this movie good or bad because that's subjective for this movie.by the way, Glitter is The Worst Movie of 2001-) "},{"Title":"true comedy, most people just live sheltered lives so they think this type of movie is sick.","Date":"31 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  ok i loved this movie. never before have i seen such true comedy. with true i mean VERY original also some of it was believeable as with the skate boarding accident and just some of the dialoge. the one person who actually gave this movie a fair rating said it the best when he wrote, tom green made this movie to p*** people off, and judging by all the bleeding heart liberals with as much sense of humor as Al Gore, it seemed to work just fine. at least it had no hollywood influence (wink wink Pearl Harbor, Titanic, E.T.C.) it was totally original and very funny. if you think that the academy awards arent political dont see this movie. if you think a little boy getting smashed in the face with a baseball and screaming and bleeding lol then by all means run and buy it. haha. jeez i hope i get some hate mail for this and with all the liberals in hollywood who dont know how to have fun i most likely will.... 10/10 stars. great fun at the movies. "}{"Title":"Still Confused","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  **1/2 out of ****Whether you like FREDDY GOT FINGERED or not, you will, after turning the film off, be saying to yourself I've never seen anything like that beforeFREDDY GOT FINGERED has no real plot, but here it goes Gord Brody(Tom Green)  loves to draw so he decides to move to hollywood to try and shop his drawings for a TV show.  Not surprising, no one is interested.  So Gord moves back home, much to the disliking of his father, Jim Brody. (Rip Torn) Jim hates his son, and does everything he can to get him out of the house, even going as far as to smashing his beloved wheely board ramp as Jim calls it.I think the funniest thing about this movie is that it's dead serious. Every joke is set to a bleak backround or classical music.  For instance, there's a running joke about Gord's little brother Freddy being molested by his father.  This isn't a funny idea, but the way it is played out by the actors is what makes it funny.Funniest moment  Gord's face when he's waking his girlfriends legs with a bamboo stick.This film proves that bad taste can be good, much like Pink Flamingos did in the 70s.  But if you ever have to choose between the two, go with Pink Flamingos. "},{"Title":"This film is not for everyone.....","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"   This film was critically panned, this film has been voted as being the worst of 2001, hardly anyone likes it..........but I did! I like to think of myself as someone who likes really decent films, someone who doesn't go and watch the money making block-busters, I hate Star Wars, I hate the 'big films' I like intellectual films from good directors, good imaginitive films...  So why did I enjoy Freddy Got Fingered? I can't answer that.  Yes, parts of this film were just stupid, yes there were unbelievable bits of it, but it was tongue in cheek.  One thing you must get straight if you hate Tom Green then this is definitely not for you, He can at times be VERY OVER THE TOP and quite annoying, but some of the things he does are hilarious, this is not exactly a life changing film, put it that way, the story doesn't matter, it goes off the subject, but its harmless fun.  Tom Green is funny he does things you wouldn't dream of doing, who can say they didn't find the horses' penis scene funny? most of the skits are very bad taste, the baby being born, the girlfriend in the wheelchair etc but its worth a look.  People are disgusted by this and slamming it at every chance they get, but perhaps thats what Tom Green wanted a reaction, its still being talked about now, and hey, theres even a very welcome cameo from the great Anthony Michael Hall.   "},{"Title":"A fairly ordinary movie with some hilarious moments","Date":"20 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie has no artistic merit, and most of the time doesn't even make sense. But it was never supposed to. The story isn't really worth mentioning, it's all just an excuse for Tom Green to molest various animals and see little kids get hurt, and that's what life is all about really, isn't it? Call me old-fashioned if you must, but to me there's nothing funnier than seeing a little kid run headfirst into a car door and then run away crying with blood pouring from his head. But if that's not your cup of tea then so be it, don't watch this movie. To those of you who say this movie is the worst movie ever, go rent Tomcats, I dare you. The scene with the testicle is equally as repulsive as anything in Freddy Got Fingered, and yet somehow, it manages to make it not funny. Anyway, to sum up.. if you like to see a grown man do stupid/weird things, see Freddy Got Fingered. If you don't.. then go watch Pearl Harbor or something. Also, kids getting hurt is funny (This is the movies, people, it's not REAL). "},{"Title":"The cinematic equivalent of bowel cancer.","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Never in my life have I wanted to go out and lie down in the middle of the motorway to await the arrival of a 10 wheeler than the moment the closing credits rolled on this cinematic abortion. 'But wait!' I hear you cry ' If it was THAT bad, why bother to see it through to it's conclusion?' Truth be told, I don't know. The closest thing this movie equates to in real terms is a road accident, and one involving liberal quantities of disabled children, puppy dogs and the ebola virus. Therefore it exerts a kind of perverse fascination over the viewer; you want to turn turn your head away from the carnage, but an inner compulsion draws you back.Tom Green doesn't really get much air time in the UK, although his exploits are pretty well documented in various magazines and so it's easy to work out that his own particular style of comedy involves little else than behaving like a complete imbecile. Why spoil a tried and tested formula, and waste a carefully honed characterisation when making that all important conversion from quickfire TV sketches to a 90 minute feature? Green does not seem to realise that the two mediums are rather different from one another, and that a succession of revolting sight gags do not entertain solely on their own merits.Don't misunderstand me. I am no stranger to bad taste, in fact it's what gets me out of bed in the mornings. Gross, trashy, sleazy, disgusting, visceral and offensive material is all we have against the commercial propeganda machine that is the mainstream media, and has the potential to be infinitely more affecting, informative and entertaining WHEN IT'S DONE WELL. Shock material used contextually and judiciously has presence and power, whether comic or horrific. Green's film is however simply childish in the worst sense of the word, something so lowbrow and juvenile that it cannot help but simply become tiresome very, very rapidly. It's curious it think who Green's target demograpic was for this jejune bilge. Who, except perhaps lobotomy outpatients, could possibly want to see, or be entertained by, a grown man tossing off a horse/elephant, tongueing an open wound on someones fractured leg, gnawing through an umbilical cord (already done, my friend, by Dan Akroyd), wearing a freshly removed animal skin like a raincoat or (very dodgy, this) beating his paraplegic girlfriends legs with a stick in return for oral sex? Not to mention a few jibes at child molestation (big comedy area that, I don't know why anyone hasn't mined it before).What's amazing is the quality of the cast. Rip Torn disgraces himself thoroughly by  basically appearing in the movie, though he tries hard with the material, and agreeing to bare his arse and be basted in elephant love custard in two of the flick's most (comparatively) gratuitous moments. Eddie Kay Thomas (the weird one in the American Pie Movies) is wasted here as well. BUT, and this is the most appalling waste of all, the criminally underrated and underused Julie Hagarty, she of the 'Airplane' movies, 'What about Bob?' and 'Lost in America' appears on our screens for the first time in God knows when and it's in this dreck. It's like asking John Gielgud to participate in 'Billy Madison'.I know this was lambasted by the critics, and as someone else has mentioned, this is probably exactly what Green was aiming at a film that so sincerely and consistently strived to be the polar opposite of any definition of the words 'entertaining' or 'acceptable' that, once it's intentions were laid bare, would simply become critic proof. Negative reviews are simply water off the duck's back to the makers, but no-one should have to suffer the ordeal of wasting their precious time or money on this. I don't agree with censorship at all, nor would I want to censor this; a film this poor doesn't need any more publicity or attention paid to it, with any luck it will die a quick, lonely death, much like Tom Green's career.Excuse me, I think I hear a bus coming.     "},{"Title":"Under rated gross out gem","Date":"12 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film has to be a diamond in the rough, ignore the critics, finally a 'gross out' film has appeared that is not actually afraid to gross people out.This is not one of your gross-light teen movies with barely a vomit bag in sight.  Instead this movie is truly disturbing, funny and sick.I urge you if you love good bad movies see this now! "},{"Title":"Pretty horrible","Date":"11 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Horrible movie with one or two funny moments. Green getting kicked by an elephant is probably the film 's highlight. What does that tell you? There is actually a story, about a father-son relationship, and it's fine when it sticks with that. Lowest of the low points Green prancing around in a bloody deer carcass. "},{"Title":"This is NOT the worst movie of the year...","Date":"23 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Scatalogically speaking, this might be the BEST film of the year. You have Tom Green, starring as an aspiring animator who goes from one tasteless menagerie to another. Among the film's highlights (or lowlights, perhaps) are Green cutting open a dead roadkill dear and wearing it over his back, Green giving a hand-job to an elephant, and Rip Torn screaming to his son, played by Green Do you want to f*&k me? as he pulls down his pants. Without giving away too much, I would say that if you do not enjoy being disgusted, this movie will not be for you. However, if idiocy and bathroom jokes (a la MTV's Jackass) are what makes your motor run, Freddy Got Fingered might just be worth a rental. Just don't hold me responsible if you hate it. "},{"Title":"A summary can't describe it.","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I wonder what goes on through the crazy mind of Tom Green. He's not funny, he is a crazy big silly head. This movie had a little bit of a story line. But if you ask me. This movie was just an excuse to act crazy and for some shock humor that would make the Farrelly brothers blush. Rip Torn is the only one funny, has Tom Greens nutty Father. For some viewers do not see this movie if you're not into shock humor. If you are looking for a good screwball comedy see There's Something About Mary instead. "},{"Title":"Depends entirely on the viewer","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  As evidenced by the comments here, people are completely polarized by this movie. I saw it last night with some friends and I have to say it was one of the most entertaining movies I have seen in a long while. The jokes aren't technically funny, and neither is Tom Green the genius that some make him out to be. However, if u take a step back and look at what's happening it's hilarious. For example, when he makes the accusations about his father and throws the statue through the window, it seems dramatic and moving until you realize how screwed up the chain of events that occurred is.In addition, one thing has always mystified me. Is Tom Green actually messed up in the head? Or is he simply a marketing genius who has worked out a gap in the entertainment market and filled it "},{"Title":"I love this guy","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Tom green reminds me of Andy Kaufman, he's misunderstood, but no matter what, i bet you'll enjoy his movie, you'll still get big laughs out, i didn't enjoy the ending as much i did enjoy the first hour or so, but overall the movie is quite good. Hope to see more of Green's work on the big screen. "}{"Title":"Sick twisted trash!","Date":"22 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  There are some who believe you can make a joke out of anything.  Generation after generation has succeeded at making unfunny things funny.  Laurel and Hardy temporarily lose someone else's multi million dollar fortune in 1937's 'Way Out West' but get it back and save the day and in 1964's 'Dr. Strangelove', nuclear war is the subject of satire.  These things are funny because the humour, while non conventional, is lampooning greed ('Way Out West') and incompetence among politicians ('Dr. Strangelove'), two things everyone loves to hate so why not make a joke out of it?!  And these things are done with a thought out plan for excessive appeal.  'Freddy Got Fingered' is one man's (Green) forced obsession with gross and tasteless comedy who thinks others will find it funny.  Tom Green disgracefully shows cruelty to animals, puts inner human body parts in his mouth, splashes his father with animal sperm and as much as I am against censorship, this film should have gotten an X rating when it was released.  It is not funny for a second and I truly believe there is something wrong with the sick minds who acted in this and brought it to the screen.  Studio execs couldn't have read the script and probably took a chance on Green without knowing what he is truly about.  Hopefully, he will go away and become a low paid morning radio announcer in some minor market where no one will know his name. "},{"Title":"Tom Green is a poor, misunderstood soul","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Tom Green is one of the most misunderstood artists of our time.  Reading through the several reviews written by angry christians who apparently thought it was their duty to see this film, even though they KNEW it would offend and disgust them, I became rather infuriated and decided to voice my own opinion. Tom Green is a rather brilliant man for making Freddy Got Fingered.  I'm pretty sure he was not looking for worldwide acceptance of the film, but rather wanted to make a bunch of people angry and please those of us who are capable of individual thought. There seems to be quite a bit of obsession about the fondling of the horse and elephant phallus in this film.  Perhaps everyone who was offended by this have repressed sexual feelings geared toward such animals and are just jealous because Mr. Green is being allowed to act out their own fantasies.I really don't see what the problem with the film was.  Tom Green is a unique individual and his work should not be compared to anyone else's.  From what I've read, no one is able to identify with Tom Green and thus do not understand him.  Because people do not understand him, they feel it is necessary to make idiotic comments that they believe to be clever.  If you do not understand something, it is best to either find out what it means or just not pay any attention to it and hope that those who do will not ridicule you if you show signs of ignorance.   Congratulations, Tom Green, on making such a delightful little romp for we eccentrics to enjoy.  Keep it up. "},{"Title":"Sick, Sick, Sick... BUT WE LOVE IT!","Date":"21 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  OPINION&#133; this is nothing more than an opinion because while classic movies and traditional action/thrillers might get similar ratings amongst the audiences-   as harsh as it sounds &#150; people will almost certainly either love this movie or hate it. It IS one of the most surreal and original films made for years- with Tom Green acting his usual, disturbing self- but also playing it cool in the director's chair. Personally, I really enjoyed this film, it was so fresh and original, loaded with absolutely jet-black humour &#150; PLUS, I'm a big fan of Tom Green. But I could predict where someone else would be turning off the tape or looking away in disgust. Tom Green's proven his great comedy style and sense of strange humour in his appearances on `Saturday Night Live!' and his more recent films such as `Road Trip' &#150;by the way, if you've seen `Road Trip' and thought he was weird in THAT , you have no idea&#133; J. Some audiences may be offended by the scenes of Tom G `stroking' horses and elephants (yeah, not the normal stroking) and while I've seen critics ditch it for it's repulsive humour and childish jokes, you HAVE to applaud TG for having the bravery and balls to see the project through and give it his best shot. For those of us who are fans, this is a landmark in modern filmmaking, whether you sat through it or not- it's one of a kind. "},{"Title":"Gross, Sick, Warped and hilarious comedy for the South Park generation","Date":"14 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Okay. So I can see why this film has got such a bad rap. It's truly sick, twisted and some of the scenes will leave you more than a little shocked. But isn't this the point?I hadn't seen any of Tom Green's work before this, but this film made me laugh - hard - on more than one occasion. It's definitely not going to appeal to every one, but I for one feel that sometimes comedy is at it's best when it is at it's most outrageous. That's not to say the film is perfect however, not by a long way.Some of the scenes are simply too bizarre to be amusing, and some feel they have just been included for there shock value, and seem to add no value to the 'plot' or flow of the film (a couple of scenes involving 1) a horse and 2) a dead deer spring to mind). Also some of the humour is in such bad taste that you will find yourself shifting uncomfortably in your seat.The film does redeem itself though, with some truly hilarious scenes, and a kind of South Park 'I think I've learned something today' ending. The bottom line is that this film is either going to appeal to your sense of humour, or it isn't. I for one am glad that Hollywood are prepared to release films that aren't going to conform to everybody's 'standards'. "},{"Title":"Funniest movie I've ever seen!","Date":"17 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  First off, I am getting really MAD at all of you who are bad mouthing this movie, saying Tom Green sucks and all of that jazz(If you hate him so much, then why did you people go see this then?). Frankly I thought this movie was HILARIOUS!!! Yes it was gross at times, but that's what Tom Green does and he does that for a laugh. Rip Torn did a great and hilarious job as the dad. I almost wet myself from laughing because of his character! Plus I can't stop saying Daddy would you like some sausage? since I watched this movie.If you like Tom Green, you might like his movie. "},{"Title":"That crazy Canadian strikes again!","Date":"9 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  All hail Tom Green, patron saint of shock comedy.  Whether he's wandering down a city street covered in fake blood, pretending to be a bike accident victim, or re-designing his parent's car with images of lesbian sex, the man can't be easily ignored.  And so it goes with his first (and probably only) directorial outing, Freddy Got Fingered. It's crude, offensive and likely to give moral conservatives heart attacks at fifty paces, but that's why we love him.  If you're a Green virgin, you'll probably find this sick, depraved and demonic.  If you're one of the faithful, you'll probably find this sick, depraved and demonic....but also kinda sweet.  Wrapped around definitive Green moments such as Tom licking an open wound, jerking off animals, and wearing a cheese helmet etc, is a basic tale of a son who just wants his Dad's love.  No, really.It's the saga of struggling animator Gord Brody and his less-than-ideal relationship with his disapproving Dad (Rip Torn).  Its this difficult pairing that leads to some bizarre comic mayhem involving dead deer, phony child abuse allegations (hence the title), a paraplegic cutie with an obsession with fellatio (Marisa Coghlan) and a strange detour through Pakistan.  Oh, and a young child gets maimed at regular intervals in the most extreme running joke in cinema history.But it IS funny. Honest!  Green fans will lap it up.  The rest of you might do better renting something a little more sedate.  Like The Best Of Full House, or Stepmom perhaps. "},{"Title":"The Tom Green Movie! (no, its not about the mormon named Tom Green with 5 wives)","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Tom Green is actually very funny and does funny things. Despite what everyone says, there isn't really too much offensive material in this movie. It might be offensive in the context or our ignorant American society. Its like all those people who said that fight club was too violent when only one person died in that movie. Gutting a deer and wearing its hide? Geez, that sounds like standard human practice for about the last 10,000 years. Of course, if you a person who is obligated, by law to protest any film or music with even the most remote, questionable material (such as a politician-public servant or leading member of an organized religion) often times without even veiwing the material in question, then by all means, hate away! Its your job after all. But if you can understand that a joke is just a joke and movies like Freddy Got Fingered are just joke movies that don't advocate anything, merely wishing to entertain, then you should be alright and enjoy this film. But beware, if you are offended, you might just be a moron, because thats probably how Tom Green wants you to feel, and thats what he expects, besides that you laugh of course.7/10 "},{"Title":"The critics hate it the teens love it.","Date":"25 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The movie itself I thought to be hysterical as I found others did not like it at all. Many people including my sister thought it to be gross nasty, and who would ever in the right mind produce a movie written by Tom Green Me on the other hand  a great fan of Tom Green, enjoyed the movie.   The title Freddy Got Fingered I don't enjoy because the Freddy got fingered is not the central thing in the movie.The Cast of the movie made the movie a whole more enjoyable. Tom Green had some dramatic scenes but they were a little too dramatic. Rip Torn did an excellent job as the Father, He much reminded me of my Dad because he can be a plain jerk and that is what I love about Gordon( Tom Green) Dad. Marisa Coughlan did a brilliant job as Betty. When you first meet Betty you think what a total nut Then she reveals her profession and you are taken aback. The second time we see Betty we think whoa this character is very complex. Eddie Kaye Thomas did a wonderful job as the lovable Freddy seeming confused towards the Climax we actually see Gordon (Tom Green) and Freddy (Eddie Kaye Thomas) together and it is just hilarous when Freddy tells Gordon to get a job!!!! Julie Hagerty as the mom was equally outstanding. First Have you ever walked in the middle of a conversation and thought something else. That is what Julie's character does throughout the whole movie and the way she reacts to some of the things I fell in love with.Tom Green did an excellent job directing.  "},{"Title":"UUUMMMM????","Date":"23 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Ummm, this wasnt a good movie putting it very nicely. There were some hilarious moments but the rest of the movie was disgusting. Road Trip was hilarious. How could this movie have been made? It isn't worth watching at all. I dont recommend this movie to anyone, PERIOD! "},{"Title":"Freddy got misunderstood","Date":"13 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Now i have been a tom green fan for a long time and i was looking forward to seeing his directing/staring/co-writting film freddy got fingered. now i knew bout the sick parts of the movie of my friends tellin me but i wanted to watch the movie myself to make my own opinion of it.I loved this movie.I loved it because of tom green daring to be Different. if u saw it, u know that u cant predict the movie going into it. i have predicted many movies 10 minutes into it but this one kept me guessing. also after i watched i tried to think of a movie to compare it too. and i couldnt, it was so different, so unique in its own way.yes, the humor is dark, low-brow and somtimes just bizare, but yet its TOM GREEN, what do u expect?i have to admit i laughed many times at this movie but not just for the gags but the backgrounds as well, especally the cheese sandwhich factory, i mean first off a cheese sandwhich factory, thats funny to begin with, and did u notice that all the workers there where all little old ladies and how none of them make n e kinda of eye contact of even noticed he was there? thats just tom green humor, a category of his own. which is what freddy got fingered is, its a film in its own category.plus the fact famous 80's teen star of such blockbusters sixteen candles and the breakfast club anthony micheal hall was casted in this movie, i dont know why i found that funny but i think tom green inteended that to be funny7 out of 10 stars "}{"Title":"Shockingly funny extreme humor","Date":"25 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Moralists, conservatives, religious people and film snobs You have to see this movie so you have something to hate, to be upset about. This movie will keep you going for a long time, here is your hate-fuel. Normal people Stay away, you will not like this and many of you will be offended. But if you feel that you belong to the minority who appreciates morbid humor then this is for you. I saw the movie in the evening and when I woke up the next morning (after normal sleep, the movie didnt make me faint) I started to laugh, thinking about some of the scenes in the movie.  FGF is not a masterpiece, it is too uneven for that, but there are many extremely funny scenes and only one or two of them would be enough to make it worth seeing.The notorious animal scenes are offensive enough but, in my opinion, not so funny compared to many other scenes and even though they occur here and there, the movie should not be judged by those scenes. What I find more typical for this movie is Greens hysterical over reactions and that we get to see other peoples reactions to his behaviour. And the other actors are very good, especially Rip Thorne as the father (who can look choleric like no other), Harland Williams as the friend (with his funny wining voice) and Anthony Michael Hall as a TV producer. Tom Green is an inheritor of Monty Python crossed with Jim Carrey. In one of his best scenes, one involving a security guard, he makes a good imitation  of Dustin Hoffman in Rain Man, he is hysterical, he is stupid, he is original and he is one of a kind. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Subtle send up of rags to riches","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Freddy got fingered is a hilarious send up of the inspirational rags to riches stories that people are force fed several times a year in the form of quirky british yarns (billy elliot) or american made tearjerkers (Rudy). It explicitly follows and mocks the traditional steps of these stories without winking at the audience a la the scream series. He is a modern day andy kauffman aided by his own version of bob zmuda, Derek Harvie. Together they have crafted a film that translates Green's brand of humour seamlessly to the big screen, only adding to the extremes that green will go. His humour has always stood as a warning to those who take things too seriously, and the film has the same message to movies that take themselves too seriously. After Freddy got fingered, it makes it hard to watch a movie where the protagonists goal is to win the respect of his father without thinking of Green pointing to Rip Torn and saying Proud? to which torn responds Proud. "},{"Title":"Whoa!  (Eyes blinking repeatedly from disbelief)","Date":"16 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie was just incredible (or should it be incredulous?).  I went to see this movie with the expectations of seeing something that was well beyond normal.  This movie surpassed my expectations...This movie had scenes that will, not may, offend viewers, but what else could you expect from Tom Green?  I will not describe such scenes for they are better left unsaid to maximize the potential shock value this movie can offer.Tom Green and Rip Torn were a superb pair in this movie.  It was absolutely hilarious watching the son, Gord, making his father insane (or was it the other way around...).  The things that each of them did to the other were absolutely amazing.Finally, I will close this brief comment by stating that if you have a strong constitution, will not offend easy and find Tom Green's antics to be at least somewhat humorous, then see this movie.  Be advised, however, this movie does have a little bit of blood, guts and gore.Overall, I gave this movie a 9 out of 10 stars.  I did not give this movie a 10 because that is reserved for my favourite movies of all times, but it will definitely be a movie that I will want to own a copy of in the future. "},{"Title":"The joke is on the critics","Date":"14 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  and on anyone else who expects anything Tom Green does to be a great work of art. It's not what he's trying to achieve. Tom is known for creating awkward and surreal situations for unsuspecting people (victims?) and capturing it all on film. He makes them uncomfortable, angry and embarrassed.So, how does he pull off a similar situation except on a grander, nationwide scale? Make a movie, of course. And make it so utterly repulsive and nasty that the audience will squirm and groan like the people do in his camera-on-the-street scenarios. Critics will loathe it, as will most of the population who fail to see that the joke is on them and not on the actors on the silver screen. It's no more a scam than the Blair Witch Project. We were fooled then, we got mad. Now we are being fooled by Tom Green. We'll never forgive ourselves. I would not be surprised if Tom Green had secretly installed cameras in a dozen or so theaters in Hollywood and documented the audiences' negative reaction to his film....on film. In my opinion, Tom Green achieved something here that only the late Andy Kaufman could have only dreamed up. Andy Kaufman was constantly aiming higher and higher, going for notoriety on a grander scale with each unpredictable event. In my opinion, this was Green's next big move. The Monica Lewinsky-Let's-Get-Back-at-the-media episode was huge. The cancer special was monstrous, achieving both fame and awards. What could possibly be bigger, more unpredictable? This movie.You got us Tom, you got us big time. "},{"Title":"KRAPP","Date":"11 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'm ashamed to admit my best friend legitimitely liked this film.  The tears I've spilled.  I'll admit I haven't seen much Tom Green, but I liked him in ROAD TRIP.  Yes, he's a weirdo, and I can see why people hate him, but he amuses me.  Man, was I mistaken.  This movie is a pile.  Yes, I laughed a few times, but I'm really bored with gross out comedies anymore, and I never found gross that funny anyway.  The characters sucked, it was, I felt kinda mean-spirited toward women, no story, and just sick.  Rip Torn should be ashamed, though for a while he was my favorite character.  Then he just becme a sicko.  I suppose comedies with this gross humor can work (American Pie, There's Something About Mary), but that's all this gob of cinematic feces is..  You see, a plot and maybe even some likeable characters might help Mr. Green.  Thank God it's not a hit, maybe the gross trend is going to end, we can hope... "},{"Title":"For diehard Tom Green fans only.","Date":"23 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If you're a true fan of the offensive Canadian comic, this movie will be paradise for you. If you're in the majority of sane people in this world, you will realize what a disaster of a film this is. Tom Green is best taken in small doses; one large dose can prove fatal.The thing that scares me the most, however, is what people will do to try and top him in terms of being disgusting and awful. "},{"Title":"Very sickening to watch","Date":"22 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'm not a very big fan on MTV's Tom Green,but there must be another way to let's say that this isn't a comedy,or nor is it a very sick joke..... It's just SICK! I'm not putting Tom Green or the same level as Jim Carrey or Adam Sandler,but this film goes beyond the point of normality. It is a shame that a comedy liked this should have never been made in the first place. Anyone who in their right state of mind(or lack of common sense in one element)does what he does in this film(like in one sense where a woman gives birth in the hospital and he takes her umbiblical cord and swings it around....I can't explain the rest,but please be forewarned it's digusting)needs to have his head throughly check. The reason why this film has a R rating from the MPAA is due to some disturbing scenes here which may scare some viewers(for have them running out of the theatre for a refund---which the majority of them did do the night I went to see this..and I don't blame them one bit)between the ages of 17 and older....THIS IS NOT FOR PRE-TEENS!!! Very sickening to watch....and for the MPAA system here for films like this(and some PG-13 rated too)needs a upgrade very soon. Let's hope that we don't see anything like this again.  "},{"Title":"The lack of talent is impressive","Date":"12 August 2012","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This film is incredible. It is unbelievable. I am at a loss to the things I witnessed in this film. The story is something about an animator who leaves home, then returns home for some reason, finds a date with a paraplegic, irritates the life out of his father - quite understandably, and acts with destructive stupidity that makes the BBC Top Gear look sober. And that's about it.What makes this film so bad is the sheer pointlessness and lack of intelligence in its humour. Silly humour can be great - look at Monty Python's absurdist magnificence. Gross out humour can work if done properly such as South Park and Trainspotting. This however, does neither well. The story is pointless as well, all of it comes as an excuse for Tom Green to annoy the life out of everyone in his vicinity. We have a guy virtually rubbing a sandwich on his face, the same guy licking a man's broken bone, masturbating a horse, sucking a cow's udders, masturbating an elephant, swinging a phallic salami around on a sandwich production line, walking around in a deer carcass, swinging a baby round by the umbilical cord. Though I am an atheist, I am sure that baby Jesus is crying his eyes out somewhere. Green uses the sort of humour that I would've used to entertain my little cousins when I was nine. Equally unfunny comedian Chris Rock likes this film, therefore I rest my case. Having said all of this, it is hard not to laugh at Green because of the sheer insanity he portrays - though we definitely laugh AT him and not WITH him. Plus the level of sheer audacity, talentlessness, brainlessness, stupidity and wackiness is really something to behold. I suppose we should give Green the credit for having the cojones to let a building fall on top of him a la Buster Keaton, and for cr*pping on Hollywood's carpet when they thoroughly deserve it for their own frequent lack of talent and intelligence. But at the end of the day, Green only does that by coincidence. Go ahead and see it if you like that sort of thing, but don;t say I didn't warn you! "},{"Title":"Tom Green is an artist","Date":"19 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Like John Waters and Andy Kaufman, Tom Green's humor is unique and different and fairly original. You can take it or leave it, as comedy is naturally subjective, but Green's Freddy Got Fingered deserves at least as much respect as Waters' Pink Flamingos gets.Although I'm defending this film and defending Tom Green, I didn't like Freddy Got Fingered. Like Pink Flamingos I sat in awe of the movie without necessarily enjoying it. Something like Epic Movie or Meet the Spartans is unequivocally bad because it is really just retarded nonsense. Green stages his gross-out gags with real artistic integrity, and considering the visual ineptitude of many comedies, he surprises with his confident first outing as director. There's real visual flair here, and Green understands exactly how to stage his gags visually for maximum effect.Freddy Got Fingered disgusted me more than it amused me. In fact, I only laughed once and smiled a couple of other times, but where Freddy Got Fingered succeeds in my opinion is that it was never boring and although it failed as a comedy I was always interested in what Green was doing. A demented, ridiculous, silly artist perhaps, but an artist is most certainly what Tom Green is.I may not have thought Freddy Got Fingered was funny at all, but at least I can say that it was inspired, and that I certainly didn't feel that I wasted my time watching it. That's more than I can say for many, many other comedies.5.5/10 "},{"Title":"The audience got mentally fingered . . .","Date":"2 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Note I have not seen The Tom Green Show.This is a film about Gordon Brody (Tom Green) a wannabe cartoonist who makes it to Hollywood but only manages to hold down a job at a cheese sandwich factory. On his way back from a doomed meeting with cartoon boss Mr Davidson (Anthony Michael Hall) which resulted after a bout of pathological lying, he is encouraged to 'be the animal' in order to draw excellent cartoon animals which Gord takes literally when he finds a dead deer in the road. After failing to keep his job, he returns home to focus on his animation and comes back to live with his mother Julie (Jenny Haggerty) and father Jim (Rip Torn) and creates chaos by building a skateboard ramp with his mate Darren (Harland Williams). After making his mate use the skateboard ramp without wearing protective gear Darren badly breaks his knee. As a result of seeing his friend in hospital, Gord meets a disabled girl called Betty (Marisa Coughlan) who has a penchant for being whipped on her legs. While there he also delivers a baby via unorthodox methods.As time goes by, Gord's father slowly gets frustrated with his son's inability to get and hold down a job and turns insane by his antics (one involving an attempt at multi-tasking and another fantasy role-play in the shower) and starts ripping apart his skateboard ramp, ironically as a result of wanting his son to be more constructive. The film is named because Gord pathologically lied to the family guidance specialist that his dad abused his brother Freddy (Eddie Kaye Thomas who doesn't play a major part in the film at all). Eventually Gord's spirit is destroyed but is restored upon knowing his girlfriend successfully created her rocket-powered wheelchair. He gets a job as an animator and spends his money on sending his house all the way to Pakistan where he and his father get captured...Oddly enough, the parts I laughed at, which were few and far between, were the less gross aspects of the film. One was at the start where Gord smacked into a 'push only' door from the inside while illegally skate-boarding and being chased by security guards. The others I smiled at was 'Backwards Man' and the 'Daddy do you want some sausage' skit.I love stupid, surreal and shocking films and found this watchable but it lacks because it had very little interesting to say even on it's own terms and found it more exploitative rather than original, creative or inspiring (Monty Python was doing this kind of thing better with more wit and effect). Gross out films have been around for years but were becoming a fad around 1999 onwards with the emergence of 'American Pie' which made me believe that 'Freddy Got Fingered' was merely jumping on the bandwagon but just tried to up the stakes.Tom Green as id-ridden Gord seems to settle for a character that wobbles between naivety and darkness but it instead comes across as just annoying making the happy ending (subversive or not) somewhat erroneous.Some people say 'the joke is on you if you don't get it' but that's like going to an art museum, seeing a painting of a couple of squares and being told you are dumb if you don't understand what the artist is saying. My interpretation of the movie is, although this is a film of contradictions, Mr Green wanted his cake and eat it. He made it to completely gross you out and then attempts to challenge the viewer's intellect by saying; 'I dare you not to love this movie. If you don't you are stupid'. Well...this kind of argument often covers transparent pretentiousness and, in this case, of a movie that seems obsessed with the masturbation and violation of animals. "}{"Title":"A terrible film","Date":"12 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I'm not normally one to comment on a movie, but just so no-one ever thinks this film is OK and rents it, I will advise you otherwise...I occasionally find Tom Green funny, but he is way off the mark this time. It has been a few years since I watched it, I believe I was 16 at the time. Even in my youth I did not find Tom's antics to be funny in a slapstick or off the wall way. What he does here doesn't disgust me, but on no occasion did I laugh during this film. He presumably expected his actions to be humorous purely because of their shock value, but the film falls way short of the mark. It is no wonder the world appears to have forgotten about him. Do not ever watch this film, it has nothing good to be said about it. "},{"Title":"Oh my god!!!!","Date":"26 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" this movie is absolutely hilarious, i mean, take the title for instance, 'freddy got fingered' the movie is not even about that. tom green is an expert at comedy and rip torn is ideal for the dad. don't be thrown back from what other people have told you or what film critics say, just watch it. i would rather watch and create a film in which people will be shocked, disgusted and memorable than a forgettable film. thats the kinda films that makes and actor/ actress. every scene in this film is funny, and very different, very original so just watch it for the experience. (the birth scene is far out!)drew Barrymore was so lucky to marry such a comic (ashame tom asked for divorce) BRILLIANT FILM "},{"Title":"Quite possibly the funniest movie ever made!","Date":"8 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie has had the most undeserved heaping of scorn I have ever seen. It's as if the negative reviewers interpret this film as a direct attack on their sensibilities. It is telling that this reaction has been generated by most comics who were later hailed as 'ahead of their time' and 'genius'. I'm not sure why people reserve their wrath for this movie and not one of the countless mediocre comedies that Hollywood churns out. At least FGF provokes a strong reaction in all who see it, instead of provoking a yawn like most of the other comedies these days.To start with, those who go into a movie like this not expecting to see any dumb, gross, offensive humor are just setting themselves up for a fall. You'd have to be totally in the dark about Tom Green to expect anything less than what he dishes out here. Most people enjoy a really dumb comedy now and then, so what's the big deal? This movie inspires side-splitting laughter in those who get it. Anyone who enjoys completely absurd situations and has a little bit of Beavis in their DNA will appreciate this. Tom Green just pushes the most ridiculous moments to the extreme, and the result is uncontrollable laughter. You have to respect a guy who is so dedicated to the craft of making people laugh that he will do literally anything for the laugh. Freddy Got Fingered proved that Green is that guy. Few comics dare to push that far and get that crazy.FGF is hysterically funny on an entirely different level as well. Part of the whole joke is the fact that Tom Green spent all that investor money on such an insane piece of work. It's just like his character in the movie- he gets a shot at the big time and uses it to realize his most twisted inside jokes. It's a big middle finger to Hollywood, on some abstract level. Also, the horribly negative reviews it gets make it even more funny. You one-star reviewers are all part of the joke. If you love impropriety, absurdity, inappropriate humor, extremism, and making fun of everything sacred, you will love this film and want to buy it. If you are stuffy, aloof, humorless, and proper, you will despise this movie. Either way, it is light years ahead of its Hollywood competition in the comedy department. Most of the comedy blockbusters of the past 10 years have been utter failures.There will never again be a movie like this, because investors will never take a chance like this again. That makes Freddy Got Fingered all the more poised to remain the funniest comedy of all time. "},{"Title":"Unbelievable!","Date":"18 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This, hands down, is the worst film I've ever suffered through. Actually, I lied. I suffered through some of it-until I realized I was experiencing irreparable brain damage, and left the room to lie on my bed and stare blankly at the ceiling for rest of what was, up to the start of this major mistake, a fine evening. My friends and I were doing shots, and they put this movie on. Fine. I've never drank more than a pint of whiskey at a time. I killed a fifth before the night was through, hoping to REPLACE some of my lost brain cells. The humor...um...lack of it, was nothing short of disgusting-not worthy of human consumption. How in Darwin's world could someone finance this? How could someone RELEASE it? Please, for those of you who haven't seen this film, do not torture youself, for you too (if you have an IQ higher than one tenth of your age) will suffer brain damage. Just as an aside, I train standardbred racehorses for a living. If the president of the U.S. himself did to any horse what Tom Green did, I'd personally smash his face in. So AWFUL there are just simply no words to describe it. "},{"Title":"Awesome possem","Date":"27 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is the best film ever. It has Tom Green in it I think that you have to have a extreme personality to really get into what he does. I was able to get into it and laugh its hard to find someone who does what he does. I loved him in Road Trip and Stealing Harvard. I just hope that what people think of him won't alter what other people do in the future. I hope he continues to do funny movies. I would have loved to see him in with the jackass crew also or even do a cameo on their movie. Yep imo Jackass and Tom Green was meant for eachother. I also liked the storyline of this movie it proves that the best son doesn't always win and that the stupid child can sometimes come out number one and get the fathers love. "},{"Title":"True Hollywood subversion","Date":"24 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Freddy Got Fingered is a brilliant piece of subversive cinema -- using the technique of undermining the enemy by infiltrating so completely they are oblivious. It is a rare film-making moment when a fringe character as absurd, juvenile, and gross as Tom Green somehow gets the doors opened and the ticket written. No doubt his marriage to one of Hollywood's favorite daughters opened some doors, but one can only assume that Green had a plan already. Freddy Got Fingered so perfectly adopts the mainstream, big budget Hollywood movie look, plot, music score, and excess that it both puts the lie to the knee-jerk arc of so-called human feelings exploited in the average drama AND pulls it off at the same time. Yes, Freddy Got Fingered is full of all the little human moments that are built into any popular Cineplex fare. Actually, even more so. It seems every five minutes there is a genuine plot point of family or relational pain, honesty, and redemption. And every other five minutes is deranged gross-out comedy -- which is all any easily-offended person will see. It's like an insane person found one of the innumerable scriptwriting books that helps you design a winning script -- and then like the proverbial 100 monkeys, successfully tapped out a deranged person's sincere attempt to follow the formula. And it works, bizarrely enough. And of course anyone with a vested interest in the Hollywood myth must hate it. (WARNING scene spoiler ahead.) After all, putting a heartfelt father-and-son reconciliation moments after the son has caused an elephant to ejaculate in his father's face is true mockery of all those indulgent resolutions. Yet it is not ironic -- one gets the clear sense that Green is truly making a personal expression of his own situation with his father and family. Finally, anyone who says the movie is simply bad is just offended. Aside from its brilliance, it is also good film-making. Green gets great articulated performances from all, especially Marisa Coughlan who is nothing short of amazing as the wheelchair-bound, fetish-loving girlfriend. Everything flows - scene transitions are particularly well-handled -- and the plot is both connected and totally fluid, just like David Mamet says it must be. Plus Green truly 'quotes' one of the great sight-gags of all time when that house falls over on him. He did his own stunt and any error would have cost him his life.  "},{"Title":"A classic","Date":"2 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I recently found this on DVD for $10 and I'm glad I did.  I'd already seen it once before, but subsequent viewings proved to me the genius that this movie is.  Nothing is certain in this movie and its humour is beyond compare.  The thin plot is a perfect vehicle for Tom Green's style.  Random event after random event flies by and it gets funnier all the time.  The plot line that eventually explains the title is ridiculous and hilarious.  I highly recommend this movie.  I don't feel like getting redundant, so I'll just say this One of the funniest movies ever, perfect for viewing again and again, especially early in the morning.  Favourite scenes the baby being born and the cheese sandwich factory. "},{"Title":"An insult to filmmaking...","Date":"16 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Okay, so what I am about to tell you generally isn't something you haven't read in the other four or five hundred user comments this film has attracted. However, buried every now and then in the list is a comment that claims this film is either ahead of its time or underrated. It is comments such as these that I wish to debunk here.Quite honestly, if this is the future of comedy, then the future of the world is as bleak a place as it was a trend to depict in the Hollywood of 1980 to 1990 or thereabouts. Only it won't be because the economy is in the hole or the police have been given too much power. Like all comedies borne of political correctness, Freddy Got Fingered gives us a glimpse into a future where comedies are made by people who do not have any real sense of humour.Yes, that's right - Tom Green does not have a real sense of humour. You might think a sense of humour entails enjoying laughter, but that is only part of the deal. A real sense of humour entails knowing WHEN to laugh, too. Sure, some events in the film might seem humourous when taken on their own, the gag about a paraplegic woman who likes having her legs beaten with a bamboo stick being an example. However, when combined with spiteful, even hateful events in the film such as one brother claiming a father abuses the younger brother out of sheer malice, that's when it becomes clear that Tom Green is the pathetic kind of idiot who will laugh at anything. He'd probably laugh at a photo of himself being beaten by the LAPD if he were shown said photo under the right circumstances.While Green might feel that every moment he puts in his film hits the mark and he's just misunderstood, thankfully there is still a majority who see him for what he really is. I don't say a majority just to sink into the Might Makes Right defense, either. I say it because I want to assure the people who are as disgusted with this film as I was that the rest of the world is mostly as disgusted as you or I are. Hell, after seeing that tens of millions of dollars was spent on making this trash, I am not surprised that people in poorer countries have it in for America. You'd never see a film that is this much a waste of money being made in England or Australia.So, people, I would like you to remember something. Deriving humour from offense is a trick art, and one that is fraught with danger at the best of times. Everything that Benny Hill made is utterly dated because of how he made this kind of humour work, and even a lot of Eddie Murphy's older material is something you will never see made outside of the early 1980s, chiefly because it walks this line. FGF, on the other hand, is timeless because it goes over the line, stops being even remotely funny, and becomes utterly offensive. Some critics of this opinion claim that the people who were offended have lived a sheltered life. Well, I was abused as a child and I find this film offensive. The reality is that the only people who have lived a sheltered life are those who think this dreck is remotely funny. Not because they haven't seen the reality behind what is presented here, but because they haven't seen it close enough to realise why trying to turn it into comedy is enough to make those of us with our heads screwed on properly sick.This film gets a fat, stinking one out of ten from me. There is a good reason why Tom Green has never knowingly confronted a real victim of child abuse in the street, or gone to disrupt their support groups, during his asinine variety TV show. He is afraid of what the reaction might be. Considering that I've been to support groups for the kind of men whom childhood abuse literally turned into overgrown monsters, I am not in the slightest bit surprised. Ahead of its time? More like a product of the most evil socio-political thinking of its time. "},{"Title":"Well, I laughed.","Date":"11 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  **SPOILERS LIE WITHIN**Freddy Got Fingered has almost become folklore in its 3-year existence as The Worst Movie of All Time; of course, Gigli might have taken its thunder. I remember when it was first coming out my local theater didn't screen it, because the manager hated Tom Green. I was a fan of Tom Green, but I avoided this film, after seeing the onslaught of critical bashing this film received. I heard person after person bash this movie.It wasn't until one of my coworkers gave me a praise review of the movie, I realized that I am a big Tom Green fan, and he has to do very little to make me laugh. So I saw this movie for cheap on DVD, bought it, and made a deal with my friend to sell it to him if I absolutely hated this movie. I can say that my friend isn't going to get his hands on my copy anytime soon.I found this movie HILARIOUS, I was consistently laughing the whole time, and that's a big deal because it is INCREDIBLY hard to make me laugh, just ask my friends.I think it was inevitable for me to love this comedy; I seem to flock to any oddball comedy. I love stupid humor like Kung Pow Enter the Fist and Baseketball but also like more sarcastic Kevin Smith films or crazy genre spoofs like Austin Powers, Undercover Brother and Not Another Teen Movie.I'm not the type of person who even likes gross-out humor. I disliked American Pie and I think Scary Movie is one of the biggest piles of feces on the planet. But here it was funny, because it was either completely random, or it purposefully made no sense. Take the infamous scene with the horse. It just comes out of nowhere, Gord (Tom's character) is just driving down the road, sees an aroused horse, sends his car to a screeching halt, jumps the fence and starts messing with the horse, and about as quickly as the scene started, it stops and he's back on the road again. It's one of those things where you go What the !@#$ was that! and laugh.Most people complain about a bunch of stuff in this movie being gross or offensive. They whine that Tom beating the legs of a woman in a wheelchair with a bamboo stick isn't funny. I found that really funny because I got the joke, this woman is a masochist who gets sexually aroused when men spank her legs...but it makes no sense because she can't feel anything in her legs. Others whine about this movie saying that child molesting is portrayed as funny. Well, when the Institute for Molested Children (which is a joke in itself because no institute to help abused children would label themselves that blatantly) looks like an orphanage out of Annie and all the kids are wearing T-shirts with the Institute's logo, labeling them as molested children (something that would NEVER happen) it's FUNNY. Or when Gord's friend breaks his leg, and the bone is jutting out, but it looks like a blatantly fake prop, it's funny!And for all the gross stuff that people were complaining about, there was still nothing that tops the stuff in Monty Python's The Meaning of Life which has scenes in it that I can't even THINK about without dry heaving. You want to be grossed out by gross out content, see that film, want to laugh with gross-out content? See this film.The film may not seem to have a plot, well basically, it only has a plot to make fun of formulaic movie plots. It's a laugh riot when this movie mocks clich and repetitive sentimental scenes we see in a billion movies a year, you think it's going to go one way, and then a curveball hits, Tom throws in some odd joke, which comes completely from left field.Basically to sum things up, Freddy Got Fingered is a movie that's like one of those jokes that those who get it, will love it, and those who don't get it will be stuck saying That's stupid or That's offensive. But that's basically been the case with all of Tom Green's comedy.Well I got this movie, and it's probably one of my favorite comedies, and has tripled my admiration and respect for Tom Green.  "},{"Title":"No class?!","Date":"3 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I just read on the message board that if you watch this movie and you enjoyed it, you have no class.  I don't think that's fair at all.  Yes, this movie did SUCK, but it was also REALLY funny.  Sure, the jokes were infintile and pathetic and Tom Green is an idiot, but that's what he was going for.  I laughed pretty hard, but I would never argue that it's not stupid and poor.  If you want to laugh, and nothing more, then you'll like this.  Expect anything but stupidity at it's finest and you'll be dissapointed. "}{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"14 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Okay, there is no storyline, but this is one hell of a funny goof-ball movie.  I cna't think of words to describe how good this is and my only advice is to go buy the dvd, watch the movie (with the laughter track on), then watch it again with Tom Greens commentary on.  Its hilarious.BEST ACTOR TOM GREEN, obviously, he's one mental guy.  BEST ACTRESS MARISA COUGHLAN getting her legs spanked and saying 'pussy' is great fun.  BEST SCENE  In the shower, with the scuba gear.  I can't stop thinking about this scene.  BEST QUOTE I've got the treasure, we'll live like kingsOVERALL 10/10 (for what it is) 1/10 (for having zilch plot) "},{"Title":"Utterly brilliant - or is it?","Date":"27 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I have seen very few films in my time with a worse plot and storyline to this film, so if you are only interested in that then set fire to this film before you watch it. However, I have also seen very few - if any films that have made me laugh uncontrollably for over an hour. Tom Green is completely brilliant in his role and is supported by an equally amusing cast. If you want a film which will stimulate your creative brain and leave you on the edge of your seat, the you're wasting you time, but if you want a film which will have you on the edge of your seat wondering when you will be in stiches on the floor from start to finish - this film is a winner. "},{"Title":"funniest scene ever !","Date":"9 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  the scene where tom gets inside the animals is the funniest scene ever (especially when the truck smashes tom away)! i never laughed so hard because a movie. many people didnt like the movie, cos everything this movie is about are these funny scenes. if u dont have that kind of humor i can imagine u didnt like it, but if ure in the right mood this movie can blow ure mind ! hilarious, i watched it three times ! "},{"Title":"Dangerously Funny","Date":"18 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I laughed so hard in this movie because the gross humor makes this movie funny and I don't know why some people find it offensive. Tom Green's character in the film is kind of similar to Tom Green itself.  Rip Torn (from Men In Black) is great playing Gord Brody's Dad.  If you have a good sense of humor and a strong stomach, You'll will laugh hard!!! "},{"Title":"Bad film","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Tom Greene is funny because of his willingness to do anything to anyone or to himself. Pure shock value, which is funny when he is confusing the public, but when in a film, and acted, just doesn't make sense. "},{"Title":"One of the worst made movies of 2001 but also one of the funniest","Date":"25 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Freddy Got Finegered is awful. The scripit is disgusting and immature and the acting is horrible. Tom Green has made a bad movie and he knows.  But that's part of the fun. The gags are hialrous and Tom Green proves he's a comedic genius as always . He does anything for a laugh and I mean anything. Watch this movie friends and eat sausage. "},{"Title":"What a wonderful movie","Date":"25 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  In my local paper (Salt Lake Tribune) this movie got zero stars. As such I waited until it went to the local dollar theater houses. I saw the movie last night and I thought it was excellent though.The movie is excellent, especially for those who consider themselves social rebels or social liberals, or for those who are sick of the prim & proper crap that goes on in the places they live in.If you'd love to moon the establishment, this movie is for you!What a wonderful movie.  "},{"Title":"Why do people go to a Tom Green movie expecting Shakespeare?","Date":"10 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Personally, I thought that this was one of the funniest movies I've ever seen. Farrelly brothers, eat your heart out. It's basically the Tom Green Show with some sort of a story. I thought that all of it was funny, and I couldn't stop laughing. I was glad to see Rip Torn in this movie, also. He's a comedic genious. I believe it's my #1 (number one) favorite comedy. If you went to it and said, Oh. It has no story, or Eww. That movie was gross, it serves you right. Have you never watched an episode of Tom Green? That show has no story, and most of it is gross. Stop worrying about a story and just enjoy the jokes and enuendos. I thought it was funny, and If you have no sense of humor, I'm sorry. 10/10. "},{"Title":"Are you crazy?","Date":"1 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Doesn't it seem as though most of the people who hated this movie are illiterate?  Get an education then go back and see Freddy Got Fingered again.  This movie is hilarious on many different levels and it is not Tom Green's fault if you are too stupid to understand. "},{"Title":"forget the reviews... the movie is really funny!!!","Date":"22 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is why I never read the critics' reviews. I will admit that the movie is very intense in imagery and also has some racy subjects. But hey it's f**kin funny!!If you liked scary movie than this along those some lines but 80 times more hilarious... "}{"Title":"A masterpiece exploring father/son relationships, and romantic love.","Date":"15 January 2012","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I can only assume all the terrible reviews are the result of unresolved conflicts the reviewers have with their own fathers, which unconsciously made watching the film psychologically unbearable. As for myself, I have also had a difficult relationship with my father, but have more-or-less come to terms with it. Alas, I never got the chance to sew soccer balls with my dad, nor even the insight to realize that this may indeed be what our relationship lacked for so long (not yet having seen this movie). But regardless, I don't know what sort of stone hearted person it takes to not be able to internalize by the end just what a bonding force elephant semen can be between a father and son; and effective lubricate for their communication difficulties. Is it so hard to see this?There are in fact three triumphant emotional climaxes, which no other film in cinematic history has ever been able to achieve as effectively (even despite Green's at times sloppy direction). I the following are not spoilers, but you may want to avert your eyes if you want to go into the movie 100% a virgin.1. Gordie saving the day. He saves the day! The day is totally saved. By Gordie. Himself. A scene of astonishing empowerment.2. Gordie, against all odds, swooping in to shower his jewels (jewels!) upon his most beloved. 3. Gordie, exhausted and spent, crying contentedly on the breast of his broken and hopefully enlightened father... so proud! All, so proud. A scene truly bursting from the screen with pride.I find it sad that it would seem by the reviews here that people in their sad trivial commercialized lives, can not recognise the glories of a heroically struggling unfettered spirit. But so it seems.Another scene (of many) I would further like to single out as particularly touching is the daddy do you want some sausage scene. So much string. So much sausage. And all set to music... a hauntingly simple melody can't help but cut to the heart.Tom Green, I thank you and I salute you. I was a long-time fan of your TV show many moons ago (Rogers Cable show, in fact)... but those contained mostly mere lovable artful japes. Freddie is art.(Also, it's pretty hilarious reading through the one-star reviews, not to mention the floridly apoplectic melt-downs of so many professional critics elsewhere -- all with presumable unresolved/unconscious daddy issues. So perhaps Tom Green could be thanked for providing us with that collateral entertainment/insight as well.) "},{"Title":"The problem is you!","Date":"8 July 2011","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I don't really see what everyones problem with this film is.One of the many criticisms against this film is Its too disturbing.Well yes but that was in fact its purpose.If you ever watched tom green do anything its pretty obvious the joke is usually how uncomfortable can I make someone?Argo Freddy got fingered.The joke is the movie itself.The DVD even comes with a laugh track from the premiere. Tom green is a man to be admired. Like the marquis DE Sade he stood firmly in his purpose to offend everyone and like Sade was criticized for it.This film is far from stupid.If it was stupid it would be another epic movie or American pie.Those films are stupid.This is art "},{"Title":"View with an open mind","Date":"10 November 2008","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I became a member of IMDb just to register a comment on this movie because almost all of the other movie ratings I have agreed with. I expected at least 25% of the people who saw this movie to give it almost 1 but i think a lot of people who could have liked it viewed it very stubbornly. I had to close my eyes for at least half of the scenes and a lot of the scenes were boring and not funny, but you have to see this movie for what it is; a series of skits with a rough storyline to give you background. I laughed uncontrollably at least eight times during this film which going by that alone makes it the best comedy I've ever seen. The trick of enjoying this movie is to not just watch what Tom green does, but the expression on his face and the things he says after it, he says and does a lot of things which if people hadn't been so grossed out from the last scene would rate amongst the funniest they've ever seen. When i say funny, I mean stupid or ridiculous funny such as the petrol fight in zoolander, or the donkey scene in clerks two. My advice to people who like ridiculous comedy such as that made by the Will Farrel, Owen Wilson, Ben Stiller group or Kevin Smith etc. and didn't like Freddy Got Fingered is to watch this movie again ignoring the graphical parts of scenes such as the hospital scene or the farm scene, and listening out for comments like I saved the day Betty, look daddy I'm a farmer, Japan 4 or I bought you jewels and you'll probably get at least a few laughs. I have never seen anything else made by tom green, but going by this film alone he is a comical genius and if it wasn't for his fan base wanting to see graphically shocking material, he would have written a lot of films well respected by most comedy lovers. "},{"Title":"Are you Kidding me, 3.6?","Date":"10 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Tom Green is a Genius. Be honest, have any of you ever seen a character like this. Have any of you ever seen humor like this before Tom Green? This reminds me a lot of his skits on his show(which is hilarious)I cannot believe the jerks who actually voted this movie a 1. How could you actually sit down and watch this movie in its entirety, and not find it hysterical. All of you must have some sense of humor, you probably watch movies like Mr. Smith Goes To Washington, and laugh, as if the movie was intentionally funny. This movie is worth of at least a 7.0, and those who agree, please take the time out to vote, or to show your friends this beautifal movie. "},{"Title":"art","Date":"6 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" this movie was amazing.. it was totally not a conventional movie, but it is way ahead of its time. The awkward pauses and ridiculous dialogue that Tom Green uses are reminiscent of the most hilarious of cartoons. Green expresses himself this way, as almost a Ren and Stimpy (or Space Ghost Coast to Coast) character, in real life and on his TV show, so it is totally fitting that he now makes his movie about an aspiring cartoonist who is a complete social misfit and outcast. The movie represents his comedy perfectly, and the soundtrack full of popular music (normal) shows how outrageous he is through juxtaposition. Anyway, the camera work is good, simple shots work best for comedies, and the editing is phenomenal, which is a necessity in any comedy. The shots can seem jumpy but it just adds to the hilarity and nonsense that you are watching.... like a cartoon. "},{"Title":"master of depravity","Date":"13 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Gord is an animator. He moves to Hollywood to sell his ideas and lands a job in a cheese sandwich factory. When he is knocked back by Dave Davidson, saying Gord's animations suck, Gord breaks down, quits his job and moves back home; much to his fathers distaste. Gord later meets Betty, who is wheelchair bound. She is trying to make a rocket wheelchair.Mixed with the simple story, we are treated to constant sick and depraved acts that make up this movie. Everything in this movie is wrong, there isn't anything PC about it. Tom Green just didn't push through the boundaries of good taste, he torn them down and ripped them apart. On first viewing you are just stuck in a state of shock from what your seeing. This is real disgusting; and its just bloody hilarious. I laughed so much in this movie. This has some of the sickest stuff i've seen, but cause it takes it too far, its doesn't have any level of seriousness. There is no internal logic either. We just skip from one retarded act to the next, but there isn't a lot of internal logic when it comes to anything you watch of Tom Green.This does have its audience, and i'm there with them. An ultimate act in bad taste. "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"16 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Well, I for one am sick of all these stupid Hollywood movies with happy endings and stupid morals. But here is a movie that breaks away from Hollywood style movies completely.This movie is so hilarious. I really think that people who hated this movie need to lighten up, and not take this movie as a zserious movie, because it's the exact opposite.Tom Green may not be a great actor, director, or anything, but maybe it's time we had a movie like that.In this movie, Tom Green does some crazy things, like putting moose skin on his head, feeling up a horse (and elephant!) along with moving his house to Pakistan.For anyone who likes a good comedy that has none of the Hollywood stupiity that we see in every movie today, this is for you. And this is my grade10/10 Boo ya "},{"Title":"partly brilliant","Date":"15 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I thought this movie was so funny that I cracked up just telling someone about the crazy climax. Certainly it's rough, and plenty of the jokes fall flat, but the very fact of its existence is kind of beautiful. Many critics who trashed the film paid it the underhanded compliment of amazement that it ever got made. This attitude is literally echoed in the plot of the movie, whose protagonist is a demented animator with Hollywood hopes. The way he finally gets his career off the ground is wonderfully outlandish. And I appreciate that there is an entire movie devoted towards releasing its creator's inner Oedipal monster. This dude has some major parental issues. It's also a great sendup of all those silly sentimental comedies about a needy man child seen as an idiot by the whole world but his one true love. By the way, I'm a fairly well adjusted 31 year old woman film buff, and I don't find jokes about bodily fluids inherently amusing. But Tom Green is a smart guy with something to say, and that's what he does in this crude but funny movie with an unmistakably individual perspective. "},{"Title":"Just a few comments","Date":"25 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  There are plenty of general comments about this lovely bit of work.  I just wanted to make a few specific comments1.  Rip Torn?  Now, I can understand Julie Hagerty, she's not really done much of anything since Airplane.  And, Drew Barrymore had the excuse that they were dating at the time, but Rip Torn?  He's actually a talented actor.  I think he should consider a new agent.  2.  Right now, IMDB says If you like this title, we also recommend...  Natural Born Killers.  Am I the only one who finds that hilarious?3.  This movie is so bad it bounced off the one all of the way back to two for me.  If you realize what he's doing (kind of the same idea as Absolutely Fabulous, without as much or any talent), this show does have it's humorous moments.  It's not Casablanca or Natural Born Killers, but it's not Plan 9 From Outer Space, either. "},{"Title":"Overall not good but has its few moments","Date":"10 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Past weeks I've been hearing lot of interesting details about this movie and I got the impression that Freddy got fingered would be something...well, at least bloody unique if nothing else. Eventually curiosity won and I had to get it out of my system and see it for myself. Freddy got fingered starts out like any ordinary comedy. Only after couple of minutes, however, the main character Gord Brody (Tom Green) gives a handjob to a horse and audience quickly finds out that this isn't your ordinary comedy. I've said it before and I can say it once again I got absolutely nothing against sick humor. On the contrary, if it's done properly it can provide lots of marvelous fun. I'm not insulted by Freddy got fingered or anything like that. I just think that the easiest way to make comedy is to show something really gross in a comical context. It's not very ingenious way to do it, though. Freddy got fingered has its few funny moments here and there but the grotesque scenes just regrettably aren't funny. "}{"Title":"Not even remotely the worst film ever!","Date":"4 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I personally have a lot of time for Tom Green because I have some sense of where he's coming from. As a performer, he's a walking car crash of scattered thoughts, improvised silliness and wilful absurdity - not what you'd call a mass-appeal personality. Granted, his schtick is far too weird or perverse for most people to comprehend or enjoy, yet that's exactly what I like about him. When he's funny he's good, and when he isn't funny it's even better. Conventional standards simply do not apply. To me the Tom Green Show was always determinedly anti-t.v. and with FGF we have the quintessential anti-movie.The beauty of FGF is that essentially it is a sentimental old-style Hollywood small-town boy makes good and finds his Daddy's acceptance model, except with a spewing geyser of deliberately stupid and inane diversions to distract you from thinking that the film and Tom might remotely have a point. Not that I particularly care for any inherent message in this at all, rather I have been content to sit back and watch Tom deliver a delightfully grotesque bastardisation of a piece of celluloid and stick the whole steaming mess to whichever naive executive types thought they could cash in on Tom's bizarro chic. Who cares if the film is good or not? I don't, and I'm pretty sure Tom doesn't either. As a viewer I got precisely what I expected - approximately 90 minutes of highly variable nonsense. I laughed at a lot of it, and was underwhelmed to a similar degree, but I honestly can say it was not a worthless experience. Simply put, it's purely Mr. Green, only more so. Surprisingly, FGF actually has quite a lively and savvy soundtrack. To my mind, any film which has its central character cruising down a highway to Gary Numan's alien techno masterpiece Cars and immediately follows it up with same character jerking a horse's penis, in gigglingly puerile fashion, has to have some virtues, however irredeemable to most folks. Oh, and what do I consider to be a truly bad film? Well, for me, an appallingly slack and inane vanity star-vehicle like Mission Impossible 2 gets my vote. In my view a humorless and self-important piece of drivel like this rates well down the list of cinema non-performers, and trails FGF by some distance. Still, that's just my opinion. "},{"Title":"Call me bizarre but I loved this film, as it was so incredibly weird and hilarious, with an hilarious performance from Tom Green, however this film is not for everyone!","Date":"13 April 2006","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Call me bizarre but I loved this film, as it was so incredibly weird and hilarious, with an hilarious performance from Tom Green, however this film is not for everyone!. All the characters were awesome!, and the story while odd is extremely creative and very funny, plus Tom Green is simply amazing in this!. It really does have some of the sickest stuff I have ever seen but I couldn't help but find it hilarious, and the scene where Tom's friend busts his knee and his bone sticking out and Tom goes and licks it was sick but very funny, plus the baby scene where Tom is swinging it around is one of the craziest scenes I have ever seen but very, very funny!. This film will be vile trash to most people, and I guess you have to have the sense of humor for it, because I certainly did, plus I couldn't believe that a girl in a wheel chair would get off on getting her shins whacked!. The ending is incredibly tasteless but yes still very funny, and the restaurant scene with Tom and Rip Torn had me in tears, plus all the characters are extremely likable. I could mention some other bizarre moments, but I don't wanna spoil anything any more, all I'll say it's a must see!, but it won't be for everyone. The Direction is awesome!. Tom Green does an awesome job directing too, with very good camera work, good angles and keeping the film hilarious and at a very fast pace. The Acting is really fun. Tom Green is amazing here, he is incredibly hilarious, very childish (but in a good way), did some really wacky bizarre stuff, seemed to be having a lot of fun, hammed it up, and while he is one sick F*ker, he is one funny guy!, I simply loved his performance as I hope to see a Freddy Got Fingered 2 some day!. Rip Torn is brilliant as the father, he was a real asshole but did it in a really funny way, as he was always grumpy and shouting, he cracked me up lots!. Marisa Coughlan is extremely gorgeous, and did fantastic with what she had to do, she was charming, and funny and also had good chemistry with Tom Green, but boy was her character a little messed up, I mean she's in a wheelchair! she still was hilarious though. Eddie Kaye Thomas is good as the brother and did what he had to do well. Harland Williams is good as the best friend I dug him. Anthony Michael Hall is OK as Davidson and did what he had to do adequately. Julie Hagerty is decent as the Mom I rather liked her. Drew Barrymore and Shaquille O'Neal are both good in there Cameo's. Rest of the cast are fine. Overall a must see! in my opinion. **** out of 5 "},{"Title":"Just Plain Bad","Date":"17 April 2004","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  There are movies that are so bad that they become their own form of entertainment.  Unfortunately, this is not one of them.While it may have one or two chuckles, the vast majority of Freddy got Fingered is merely unpleasant.  Gross can be funny, but Mr. Green has taken this truism to mean that even grosser is even funnier.  It isn't.Most of the gross in this film is simply disgusting.  It's like watching some impromptu episode of Fear Factor, where the contestant not only doesn't fear any of the nasty things he's exposing himself to -- he seems drawn to them.I'm afraid many of the folks who defend this film have gotten confused the same way Mr. Green has.  Somewhere along the way, they had a bad comedy experience, and this experience has led them to view the bizarre as redemptive purely for its unusual nature.A few things I hope Mr. Green comes to realize1) Weird is not necessarily edgy. 2) Doing something someone else finds too disgusting to contemplate doesn't push the boundaries, or expand anyone's horizons. 3) Making your audience cringe is nothing to be proud of. 4) The fact that people stop and stare when they see something awful doesn't mean that they're being entertained.There are probably plenty more, but why go into them?  Clearly he'll never pay any attention anyhow.One final thought.  Tom Green *can* be funny -- primarily when his comedic notions are channeled by the constraints of outsiders.  When tethered a bit, his oddball behavior actually does become edgy, entertaining, and provocative.Freddy Got Fingered shows none of those sorts of constraints. "},{"Title":"Really really bad.","Date":"17 January 2003","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'm not quite sure how to explain how bad this movie is. On the one hand, the humor is quite excellent there's a lot of bone chewing, blood spewing, gory violence, mixed with horse masturbation and cheese factories. One might wonder how anyone could go wrong with such a combination...? Unfortunately, there's no plot... It's just icky icky icky for an hour and a half. Then it's over. I'm glad I watched it late at night when my attention was pretty screwed up. "},{"Title":"A cult classic","Date":"11 June 2005","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I remember when FREDDY GOT FINGERED came out a bit over four years ago, it was absolutely torn to shreds by reviewers, especially by Roger Ebert. Never have I seen film critics attack a movie the way they FREDDY GOT FINGERED. As I have said before in my review for SUPER SIZE ME, I tend not to agree with what critics say. If the majority of film critics hate a movie, chances are that I will love it. If the majority of film critics love a movie, chances are that I will absolutely hate it so it was no surprise to me that critics hated FREDDY GOT FINGERED, I ended up liking it. It's not a great film by any means, but it's unlike any other comedy you will ever see. It's truly one of a kind, just like Tom Green himself. Green does a superb job in the lead role as Gordy, a 28-year-old wannabe cartoonist who refuses to move away from his slacker lifestyle. The plot, while interesting, is not the reason to see this movie. The reason to see FREDDY GOT FINGERED is for the gross-out-gags (95% of which are shockingly funny) and Tom Green's over-the-top comedic performance. Despite being somewhat of a box office bomb, FREDDY GOT FINGERED has already become a cult classic and according to Tom Green's autobiography, has made quite a large amount of money on DVD. Four years after its theatrical release, people around me still talk about it like its a lost gem. I predict its popularity will only grow in years to come and that one day Tom Green will make a comeback because he sure as hell deserves one. Hopefully he will write and direct another movie in the near future.Note I think this is the only film to ever get an R rating for bizarre humor. "},{"Title":"One of the most insane things I have ever seen.  Period.","Date":"20 April 2001","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Freddy Got Fingered is an opus of insanity that would make Bluto from Animal House dry heave.  It is a film where the boundaries are not only broken through (like before with other gross out comedies), but done with a cheese helmet and a sausage organ.The film stars Tom Green as a guy who wants to become a cartoonist, but is constantly put down by his father, played in one of the best villain roles in a decade by Rip Torn.  While Torn goes crazy here, it is Green here who takes the cake (much like he did in Road Trip), by bringing on a barrage that had me after the movie was over awe.Not in awe though like I have after seeing GoodFellas or Apocalypse Now, but in awe of what people can do.  I was amazed at the scenes (I don't even know if they'll get in here) in which he dances in moose skin, gives hand filled pleasure (so to speak) to a horse and then tops itself (in one movie which always is a amazement) by getting off a elephant and spraying Torn in the process, and also licks the wound of a broken leg.  Now, if this had been done wrong, like a flop known as Tomcats, it wouldn't work well.  But Green brings on a good timing for his insanity (he directed and co-wrote) and makes it watchable and actually hilarious, if only for myself and the people watching with me.But that is not to say this film is for everyone; I'm sure there will be people like the Ebert type who will want to blow chunks at the sight of the visuals that Green gives.  But if you think you can take it, or just want a disgusting laugh, this film is reccomended.  One of the funniest movies of the year, and oddly enough might become a classic.  A-  "},{"Title":"watch it and your IQ will fall","Date":"10 January 2003","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  stupid movie, it shows you to never watch a Tom Green movie. My IQ dropped a couple of points because of this. A Ramones song and one or two scenes prevent this movie from being the first 1 in my 100+ votes. don't watch it 2/10 "},{"Title":"the anti-movie","Date":"8 December 2002","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Freddy Got Fingered is, really, a work of genius. It not only ignores all conventions of an actual movie, but even twists the most common of conventions beyond recognition. Simply the fact that it is the anti-movie makes it a pure masterpiece. Honestly, I don't think I'm reading too deeply into this  I think Tom Green knew exactly what he was doing and the majority of the audience that watches him doesn't realize it. Just remember that it is all too easy to dismiss Freddy Got Fingered as an absurd piece of trash; it's just as easy to dismiss Waiting for Godot and The Bald Soprano as such. Absurdity can be a strength, and a remarkably poignant one at that. "},{"Title":"Muppet Movie","Date":"8 April 2002","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Spoilers herein.I'd say Green had the first Muppet Movie in mind when he made this. That film was about an Odysseian voyage to be in film, and the film the frog was in was the film of the voyage.That film was about people in animal skins (and half and half) and this one is too. That one was supposedly for kids but really targeted adults. This is the exact reverse.How a muppet is operated is by, well, sticking a finger up its butt. Girlfriend Drew got her big start costarring with a muppet, E. T., whose major scene involved his finger!Both Green and Kermit the frog are green.Just an idea. "},{"Title":"Un Chien Andalou with elephant jism","Date":"3 May 2001","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  For once the New York Times got it right--Tom Green's fabulous disaster really is closer to Bunuel-Dali's L'AGE D'OR than to TOMCATS or SAVING SILVERMAN--or ME, MYSELF AND IRENE,  even. Focussing on everything obnoxious--i.e., everything--in his persona (his chinlessness, his Canadianness, that roiling wwwwwooooooo! sound that rises out of his pigeon chest), Green out-Andy Kaufmans Andy Kaufman in this splatter comedy, which lampoons the traditions of post-eighties comedy (coarse gags with a message Learn to believe in yourself!), the conceit of the lovable-goofus slapstick hero (Green makes the Jerry Lewis/Jim Carrey pratfaller into a sadistic unlovable retard), and finally, the whole notion of entertainment itself. A little kid runs toward Green's car to greet him when he comes home, trips, and smacks his face on Green's hubcap. The kid gets up bloody and screaming. End of scene. Hilarious? Mindlessly vicious? Viciously hilarious? Green provides no road maps, no cuddles. You're way out there on a smile and a shoeshine in this movie, which feels closer to the shape and shock-craziness of a horror picture than a frat-broy grossout. I pray Tom Green gets more movies. Fight for him, Drew, fight! He's the Pauly Shore of nausea-inducing conceptual art. "}{"Title":"If you like crazy and sick funny stuff this is it!","Date":"19 October 2005","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" To be honest there should be more films like this as this movie has to be one of the funniest things I have ever seen.When Gord Brody leaves home to a cheese sandwich factory to then quit to try and be a animator, he then moves back home with his dad who is not to pleased. Packed with funny gore, slap stick humour and sick dialogue makes this movie hard to breath its that funny.Tom Green delivers some of the funniest scenes also with Rip Torn getting more angry and funnier throughout the movie.People who are offended by sick humour and over funny craziness probably won't like this movie and should go see something a little more boring. "},{"Title":"Freddy got Fingered is NOT that bad!","Date":"2 May 2007","Score":"9 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" It was the most slandered movie of 2001 and, as its one mainstream supporter, NY Times' A.O. Scott, remarked, it was unfairly lumped in with six or seven Farrelly Brothers rip-offs in which dewy-eyed teen romance is lazily broken up by knowingly nauseating humor (most often centered on semen). Although the film contains no embarrassing teen sex jokes along the lines of American Pie, it is still in the genre of gross-out comedy, hence, its release was poorly timed, from a critical standpoint. Once critics have seen three films of this type within a short period of time, they become that toxic combination of embittered and immune. They hate all films that resort to that disgust the audience tactic but eventually, they're also not shocked by them in the slightest.I think what really riled the critics on this one is that they couldn't dismiss FGF as just another lightweight scatological comedy. Its head is in an altogether more demented place. Aimless yet innocent creative gags (Tom Green wearing sausages on his head and playing the piano; Tom Green wearing a suit backwards and babbling I'm the backwards man, the backwards man; I can walk backwards fast as you can) coexist with truly macabre, borderline Lynchian ones (Tom Green reviving an unconscious baby by swinging it around by its umbilical cord, blood splattering on not only its mother but two Cumbaya-humming Mexicans in the maternal ward). The biggest flaw of the movie is, strangely, what makes it a fascinating anomaly; since its content shifts so sporadically from playful man-child antics to a seriously scarred relationship between the protagonist and his father (Rip Torn), the film is less failed comedy than a tragic parable on the inevitable arrested development of eccentrics.The Torn-Green theme provides the explanation for the more incongruous aspects of the movie, which is what a lot of critics hated the most. For instance, there's no real immediate purpose behind Green, en route from his Portland home to Hollywood to pitch an animation series, screeching to a halt at a horse farm and aiding the farmers in stimulating a stag. Nor is there much point behind him strapping a sausage to his crotch and yelling Ding dong! on a cheese factory's mobile strip. Yet the movie offers some smart variations from Green's MTV show, in which the only comic set-up is Green annoying shop owners, ball players and other poor saps to the point where they physically assault him or escort him from the premises. Knowing that attempting that sort of humor with hired actors in a real movie wouldn't generate much shock, the film mostly stages grandiose, one-person stunts as metaphors for Green's self-loathing. Mostly, he abuses himself. And you eventually notice that all his perversion, his idiotic babbling, his jaw-dropping naivete, is a result of stifled creativity. Torn lovingly accepts Green when he's aspiring to be mainstream but slaps him, berates him, destroys his artwork, etc., whenever Green is eccentric. No wonder he's such a malcontent.Now, sometimes the film goes too far, as Green's character occasionally behaves in such an aggressively awful way that it contradicts his sweeter elements. But that major flaw is also what takes the film into darker, more interesting territory than most comedies about overgrown children (ie Cabin Boy). And, after all the ugliness, the film ends on an upbeat, with son and father exuberantly making up and recognizing that they have both gone too far in their misanthropy. Most heartwarming of all, Torn has accepted that Green can indeed succeed with his artwork, which Daddy once labeled mere doodles. In short, it's a film in which the payoff of its ghastly, bodily function-spewed pranks is less a mood of detached hilarity than one of cringing melancholy. You want Green to grow up, to stop acting out constantly on his misguided ambitions, but, thanks to plenty of milder, gentler-toned scenes (which the critics of course completely overlooked) that paint him as deep down a morally sound person, you also want him to accept himself and live the tortured artist's dream.Freddy Got Fingered is not great art. I only laughed about four times, so, in my opinion, it failed as a comedy. I also wouldn't praise it in quite the same way A.O. Scott did, equating Green (who in real life, as demonstrated on the DVD commentary, doesn't know the meaning of the word irony), with 70's conceptualist pioneers like Bruce Nauman and Vito Acconci. The show is funnier, because of the reality of the stunts, and there's something timid about outrage being attempted within the fourth-wall confines of a movie. I would not call the movie smart. I would also not, however, call it incoherent or pointless. It's a dark, gruesome fable about a neglected child pining for acceptance. See it that way, and scenes like the one in which Green cuts open (an ACTUAL) deer carcass and wears it, upon a TV exec's advice to get inside his characters, actually begin to make some sort of twisted sense. "},{"Title":"DISGUSTING!","Date":"22 December 2001","Score":"9 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film is absolutely disgusting. Now I absolutely adore stupid movies, Saving Silverman, Joe Dirt, Idle Hands, you name it, I laughed my butt off. But this movie is awful! Yes, I laughed a few times but the rest of the time I found the movie awful and was highly sorry I rented it. Green is disgusting. He actually performs sexual acts on animals in this movie which is why when PETA (people for the ethical treatment of animals) saw that Drew Barrymore was in it they banned her from all PETA functions. I love Drew Barrymore but how could she marry this freak??? I can handle a lot of grossness but this was just too much. 0/10 "},{"Title":"Who was the stupid film executive to let Tom Green go behind the camera? And if so, why weren't these two shot!","Date":"20 December 2001","Score":"9 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I have read all the comments saying Tom Green was doing something unique or something different. Face it, Green did neither of these astonishing acts or even remotely tried to do such an achievement. The fact that a major film company (20th Century Fox to be exact) financed and released this movie is appalling. No, I take that back. This is not a movie! Hell, it's not even a movie at all. More like a rancid piece of plastic celluloid dipped in cra p to make it pass of like a feature film for theatrical screenings. And what's shocking is that IT ACTUALLY PLAYED IN THEATRES!First off, let me explain how I was pulled in to see this film. Oh it was a hot day. It was so hot it made the Sahara Desert look like sunny California. On that hot day, I saw the advertisements for FREDDY GOT FINGERED and it looked funny (but we all know about that placing-the-funny-part-of-the-film-in-the-trailer-to-get-us-unsuspecting-a udience-members-in-the-theatre routine). Nonetheless, I was laughing. Either that or it was the heat that was making me delerious with laughter. Well, me and my friend decided to go see this so-called Funny Filmon it's opening day. As soon as I entered the theatre, I was excited. That and the air conditioner was on so it just made my day.As I sat down, I knew this was made by Tom Green. I have seen his TV show and felt that he was a bit creative, but I felt that since he was now doing mainstream he would do better. Now let me veer of for a minute and tell you about Tom Green. I saw his breif performance in ROAD TRIP and I felt he had potential. But his character was short and felt that without his entire presence in ROAD TRIP the film endind up being the same old bad teen flick that tries to upstage FAST TIMES AT RIDGEMONT HIGH. I felt that if Green had a LONGER part in ROAD TRIP the film could have been better. But after seeing FREDDY GOT FINGERED, Green's LONG performance made me take back what I originally thought about him.So the movie starts, it was good. But after the first minute, THE FILM DIVES RIGHT INTO BEING UNWATCHABLE. Here is the story. Tom Green plays some dumb wannabe cartoonist who tries to get in the business, but he is told that in order to be a successful cartoonist the cartoon must have a plot (like this film really has one) and get to know his characters. So now Green does his bad sticks and...Well like I said, NO SPECIFIC PLOT WHATSOEVER.Their were some funny moments and Rip Torn was hilarious as Green's father, but I don't expect that Green's directorial tallents (and I use the term very LOOSELY)will be exposed in other features, bad jokes that go NOWHERE, and Rip Torn's career seems to be on a stand still becasue of this movie.Green's use of gross out comedy just does not work. He goes so gross out he even throws in some animal guts and a birth sequence so he can go over the top. It's like he is trying to ape director Peter Jackson's features BAD TASTE (1987) and BRAINDEAD (1992; U.S. Title DEAD ALIVE). But here is the problem. Jackson's BAD TASTE and BRAINDEAD are FUNNY gory horror-comedies that led him to make HEAVENLY CREATURES (1994), THE FRIGHTENERS (1996) and the upcoming LORD OF THE RINGS trilogy. Where has Green gone now? Nowhere. In fact, Green has been out of sight for so long he is forgotten by now (except his film, which needs to be forgotten). Only his fans defend him. And as much as I like their persistance in getting Green to come out and try again, I would give up because his work is worthless and not worth saving. And worst of all, HE IS NOT TALENTED!FREDDY GOT FINGERED is a pure example of Hollywood at it's worst. Though PEARL HARBOR took that name later on, FREDDY GOT FINGERED remains a bad film altogether. It is forgettable, unwatchable, and not entertaining at all. To say Tom Green is a gifted comic is like saying Jim Carrey is REALLY FUNNY! Both are not funny, but I would rather watch Jim Carrey act like a retard than see Tom Green grabing an animal's penis (and yes, Green does that in his film).So if you are THAT DESPERATE to see Tom Green's first (and only) directorial debut, watch FREDDY GOT FINGERED at your own risk. But to those who are able to see how bad his film is without watching it then good for you. Me, I payed my $7.50 and I was not pleased.   "},{"Title":"One of the finest films of the decade thus far","Date":"2 March 2005","Score":"10 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" one of the most unfairly maligned films ever made. Tom Green's style of humor is gross and infantile, but I've always loved it. He just loves to offend the morals of the common man, and watch people reach their breaking points; this, essentially is the whole purpose of this film, but with we the audience being the target.What's really great about this movie is the depth of the world Green's character Gordy lives in. Everything he comes across, including animals, becomes a toy of destruction and sickness. But the results are often hilarious. This film has no boundaries to speak of. It's like an Impressionist painting blown up to real-life.There's many wonderful scenes, but the one that stands out for me takes place in a restaurant towards the center of the film. It's a wonderful jab at conformity and is executed with almost balletic precision. "},{"Title":"Freddy Got Fingered and We Got Suckered","Date":"28 March 2004","Score":"10 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This has got to be one of the worst films I have had the misfortune to see in two decades. There is absolutely no reason to watch it, and if you're not brain-dead, you'll probably turn it off thirty minutes in. The so-called humor is not only gross and juvenile, but pointless, and has absolutely nothing to do with the story. It's beyond infantile, and worse yet, it's just not funny. Tom Green needs to stick with the television show gig and stay out of film. I won't waste time describing the plot because as I mentioned, there is none. He was obviously making a lame attempt to copy the original classic 'The Jerk' with Steve Martin. That was funny, rent it, not this. The only thing you'll waste is two hours of your life. "},{"Title":"Intellectually Insulting and Pointless","Date":"9 July 2003","Score":"10 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Cruising around the Reelviews movie review site, I ran across James Berardinelli's review of this movie. Berardinelli gave the movie zero out of four stars, along with a review so scathing that I couldn't believe a movie could be so bad. Taking up the challenge to give the movie a chance, I rented the DVD.I was wrong.I laughed three times, two of which were at the movie (as opposed to the 'joke'). The most entertaining scene is at the beginning where we watch Tom Green skateboard through a mall, doing a few tricks. From there, it quickly goes downhill and flat-lines, plumbing the depths of  banality.'Freddy' consists of a loose collection of trite, tedious scenes. And when the all-too-few plot/humor ideas run out, they just show Tom Green screaming as a substitute. Unfortunately, Green isn't funny by any stretch of the imagination. Generous use of the fast-forward feature helped ease my suffering.A few choice examples of bad, pointless 'Tom' scenes include Taking a shower in scuba gear; Masturbating a horse; Having a kid get hit in the face (again).These scenes have no connection with either characters or plot - that would have required a level of sophistication completely foreign to the movie's creators.There were some interesting actors/actresses/cameos in the movie. Unfortunately, there was no opportunity for them to contribute. Rip Torn, Anthony Michael Hall, Julie Hagerty, and Drew Barrymore have apparently hit the bottoms of their careers. Did they actually read the script before they signed on?Of note, Shaquille O'Neal makes a funny 30 second cameo providing some much-needed relief.In the end, I can't recommend this movie to anyone and I won't be watching it again. 'Freddy' consistently assailed the viewer's intelligence. This movie is easily bested by the likes of 'The Pest' (which also garnered zero out of four stars on Reelviews). As for Tom Green, I hope Hollywood has learned their lesson. I've learned mine. "},{"Title":"One of the Worst Movies I've Ever Seen","Date":"28 February 2003","Score":"10 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I have to say that I see very little value in this movie.  At times, it can be pretty disgusting and cruel.  This is a million miles away from being interesting and five million miles away from being funny.  Just look at the title.  Tom Green missed the mark with this one.  Don't waste your time on this. "},{"Title":"Freddy Got Fingered - and the audience got shafted","Date":"2 July 2002","Score":"10 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  When I saw `Freddy Got Fingered' on the table, rented out the night before, I knew I had to see it - after all it had swept the Razzies and gotten universally slammed by critics. It was so awful that I needed to see if its reputation was deserved. Is it? Pretty much.The movie's plot - son trying to sell cartoon, trapped by evil father blah blah - is merely an excuse for Tom Green's character, Gord Brody, to engage in bizarre, and often disgusting, acts. These acts intend to be humorous by way of grossing out the audience. Green seems to think that, by taking the extreme approach to comedy he'll arrive in the land of laughs. No, wrong Tom - all you get me wondering why on earth you do what you do in this movie (which is acts such as animal masturbation, wearing a dead deer carcass, and having a child fall into the rotor blades of a plane). I'm left with a puzzled expression - how are most of these gags possibly to be interpreted as humour? I doubt Green is making some bizarre meta-statement about humour and sensibilities - he's merely going for sick cheap gags. It'd be maybe made better if he had any acting abilities - instead his `skills' are limited to making bizarre faces, repeating certain phrases over and over in a rising voice, flailing his arms about, and generally looking like a right twit. The abilities of the other actors are somewhat inconsequential - they're doomed from the start by the script.Should I even mention the direction? Suffice to say the movie flows as well as a car with square wheels can drive. The jarring editing, the awful camera work, the dreadful sense of timing.. It's an achievement that got Mr. Green the Worst Director at the Razzie awards, and he deserved it.The film does have some saving graces, namely the credits and one or two amusing moments. But overall it's a shoddy, poorly performed, unfunny mess of a movie which attempts to use surrealism (he's no Wes Anderson) and gross events for comedic value but actually fails to generate a laugh, only a sigh of distaste. Don't bother. 1/10.  "},{"Title":"'Freddy Got Fingered' Is A Mess","Date":"8 May 2002","Score":"10 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Freddy Got Fingered is among the least watchable movies ever produced. While I like how Tom Green has his Gord Brody stand up to his domineering dad Jim (played by the wacky Rip Torn), his lack of directorial experience and his meager on-screen experience is not enough to sustain this comedy. The use of dead deer was completely unnecessary and did NOTHING to spur the plot along. Also, the vulgar Jim's destroying Gord's cartoon drawings was enough for me to beg Gord to punch that guy in the mouth with a pair of brass knuckles on both fists. Marisa Coughlan's Betty is gutsy for pursuing her goal as a paraplegic rocket scientist, but from a physiological standpoint a paraplegic has no sensations from the waist down. Therefore, her love scenes with Gord border on the ridiculous. The title itself might have been better called The Brody Family is a Mess since Freddy is not the lead character and the movie doesn't revolve aroung the young businessman's antics. Nevertheless, the film's message warns against picking on relatively late blossomers like Gord, and Jim should have left his son's drawings alone.   "}{"Title":"The Sickest Show Since Faces Of Death","Date":"4 May 2002","Score":"10 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I Rented this movie and wasted my money, I turned it off after the first ten minutes. How in the heck did this get by the test audience its morbid to say the least I thought Tom Greene was funny in Road Trip but this is absolutely one of his worst films by far. "},{"Title":"What a pile of crap!","Date":"3 May 2001","Score":"10 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I am really disgusted with this movie. If I hadn't been with a group of people depending on me for a ride home I would have got up and walked out. Many people did. Several of my friends said they wanted to leave as well. This movie is the epitome of why I can't stand Tom Green. It's not even comedy, it's just disgusting and stupid. I think there were a total of 2 lines that were funny in the entire movie. All he can come up with for plots are gore and anything to do with genitalia... I am so not impressed. I think the Elephant ejaculating on his 'father' is a great example of why this movie completely sucks. I think the public are owed an apology.. "},{"Title":"Bad Movie","Date":"2 May 2001","Score":"10 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'll admit, there were a couple of scenes where I really laughed hard, where the jokes weren't all that bad.There were more than enough scenes where I said huh?And there were even a few where I buried my head in my arms, because I knew what was coming and didn't care to see it.Overall, not a very good film (the story is weak, Rip Torn is wasted as an actor, as is Eddie Kaye Thomas.)I went on cheap night, and even that was too generous for the profits of the movie's producers.Do yourself a favour and IF you watch it, do so at a friends when they have to pay for the movie on VHS (not even worth DVD treatment). "},{"Title":"Bad Movie","Date":"29 October 2002","Score":"11 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Tom Green doesn't play a leading role very well.  He was good in Road Trip, but we didn't have to see him all throughout the movie.  This story is just bad.  The disgusting scenes weren't funny.  I'd avoid this one.  I'd get as far away as possible from it. "},{"Title":"Really Sick!","Date":"26 October 2001","Score":"11 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Okay, I like comedy movies and I don't mind Tom Green, so I went along to see his new movie which aswell as starring in, Green also directed and wrote the script too. I knew from the trailers, etc. that this movie was going to be a little stupid, but it looked okay anyway. Little did I know how stupid and sick it was going to be. I find a couple of bits a little funny like the sausage scene and the cheese scene, but seriously. This is a real gross out movie, and like I said this is REALLY sick and very strange. People who will go see this movie, should be aware of that. The baby scene and the deer scene were terrible. And, the reason for calling this movie Freddy Got Fingered is really sick too. I think Tom Green can do better than this. I don't think I'll  want to see this movie again and it's even put be off Tom Green a little bit.Now, in the movie Green plays Gordon a 28 year old guy, who lives at home with his parents and who dreams of being an animator, when he leaves his home to sell his ideas to Hollywood, he's told that they're too stupid, so he returns home. His mean father is not happy about his son moving back and not having a job, so Gordon gets a job at a cheese restaurant. Along the way he meets a girl named Betty, who's in a wheel-chair and becomes Gordons girlfriend. Gordon does end up selling one of his comic ideas though, 'Zebras In America'. Aswell as Tom Green starring the movie, we have Eddie Kaye Thomas playing his brother, Freddy and Marisa Coughlan playing his girlfriend Betty. We also have a cameo from Tom's real life wife Drew Barrymore who plays a receptionist. "},{"Title":"Horrendous","Date":"13 September 2002","Score":"13 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  There are times when I was watching FREDDY GOT FINGERED when I laughed. As ashamed as I am to admit it, I laughed.  But let me reassure you, it wasn't because it was funny.  I laughed because I didn't know what other reaction I was supposed to elicit.  This film is a surprisingly surrealistic mindtrip. This does not make it a good movie. Tom Green wrote, directed and stars in this dreck.  Looking back, I can't imagine how I thought it could be good.  If you thought some of the crap he did on his show were bad, you'll no doubt be vomitting when you see what he does here.  He manually stimulates a horse and an elephant, sprays his father with seman, licks an open flesh wound, beats a wheelchair-bound girl with bamboo, swings a newborn baby over his head by the umbillical cord... should I go on? "},{"Title":"STUPID!!!!","Date":"2 August 2002","Score":"16 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  One of the worst movies I have ever seen I liked maybe two parts of the movie. Tom Green's crazy behavior couldn't save the movie. The plot was horrible you don't really care for any of the characters. I usually like ever comedy I see but this took me an hour to realize this movie sucked. I'd give it a 2 out of 10. "},{"Title":"My hooves! My hooves!","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"16 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Tom Green in Roadtrip was shown on screen in small doses which was a good thing. Here he dominates the screen for 90 minutes which is not a good thing. I never saw his tv show prior to seeing this movie so perhaps I didn't know how to get him. In this movie he does some very strange and bizarre things. It's never explained why he does it. Is he drunk ? Is he high ? Apparently he's neither of those but what else would explain his outlandish behavior. This more of a bunch of unfunny skits strung together than a movie. A good excuse for Tom to go wild and act crazy. I did laugh when he did the scuba gear bit and when he licked the guy's wound but for 90 minutes laughing 2 times in a comedy is not nearly enough. Make no mistake this is one bad movie and fully deserves all the flack it's gotten.  There's not one good performance here and that includes Rip Torn who plays Tom's dad. * out of ****. "},{"Title":"Appeals to me but Not to others","Date":"30 June 2006","Score":"27 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" We all have a different sense of humour to the next guy and this movie truly completes my quest for a surreal comedy.I love this movie's originality, what other movie is similar to this in anyway? It throws jokes every minute start to end, most comedies don't do that. Instead there's always a serious 5 minutes and will have a weak joke.Most people will say I'm immature for my opinion but in all fairness, we're afraid of expressing our actual sense of humour. I can see it when I see a person try their hardest not to laugh at a simple fart noise.Tom Green's purpose was obvious to remove the comedy barrier and do the things that society frowns upon. Initially I though throwing a baby around by the umbilical cord was really bad to do in a comedy but it made me laugh like a child.My opinion on other people's comments? Either they prefer a different type of comedy or even a genre which I respect or they aren't ready for such a movie. "},{"Title":"The Best Terrible Movie Ever Made","Date":"27 February 2006","Score":"27 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" If you are looking for a moronic, low-brow, hilarious movie, Freddy Got Fingered is absolutely immaculate. It has enough of a plot to keep you interested but is so absurd that no one could ever take it seriously. FGF is completely random, which I really enjoyed, and Tom Green is as spectacular as ever. If you liked The Tom Green Show that aired on MTV during the late 90's then you will enjoy this film; if not then you will find this motion picture completely asinine and abhorrent. There is lots of gross-out humor that is not for the faint of heart and the ending is absolutely priceless. I recommend that everyone spend a Saturday night with a six-pack of cheap beer and Freddy Got Fingered, you will never forget it. "}{"Title":"Refreshing, disgusting, curious, funny, offensive, strange, idiotic and inventive - all at the same time.","Date":"14 June 2006","Score":"34 out of 69 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" My friend came in saying to me 'You have got to see this film.' Upon asking him why, he told me that it was one of the most hilarious films he had ever seen. I usually find this particular person's opinion correct, so I bought the DVD.I must say, I did find it very funny, but also very extreme. This film has very much been built up on it's controversy, like many other films. Some quotes include, 'purile and disgusting' 'highly offensive' and 'stupid, immoral and idiotic.' All of the above are true.But it is also very, very funny.I had never heard of Tom Green before, so I didn't really know what to expect. I put on the DVD, and judging by the cover, the blurb and the beginning of the film, it seemed like a light hearted, stupid slapstick fare. I wish I had paid more attention to the rating.The storyline is non - existent. Well, very little anyway. Gordy, a wannabe animator, tries to make a break for Hollywood, making just enough money as a cheese sandwich factory worker. But he fails miserably, and goes back to living at home with his parents.That is all the 'storyline' I could decipher. What follows is a barrage of offensively brilliant comedy, including the infamous deer scene.For 90% of the films running time, it doesn't really make sense. That is the one thing you must remember. But it is not supposed to. I think that it is not the deer scene that sets the tone, though. It's another.Here's the scene Gordy and his friend, Darren are standing on a half - pipe built outside Gordy's home. Darren tries to do a bit of skating, and trips up and breaks his leg - bone poking out through the skin, blood everywhere, and Darren screaming. This really took me aback - I wasn't really expecting anything so disgusting. While I was laughing a retching at Tom Green's childish antics during this scene, I never really recovered from it.Although not all the humour is disgusting; some of it is just plain weird. For example, the sketch where Gordy hangs sausages from the ceiling and hooks them up to the piano strings, so that when he plays on the piano the sausages go up and down, made me crack a grin. He plays while randomly singing in an off - tone voice, 'Daddy, would you like some sausage? Daddy would you like some sausages? It made me smile just out of pure curiosity.Also in the bizarre section of the humour of this movie is the 'Treasure' sequence, in which Gordy childishly pretends he is a deep sea diver in the shower, and pretends that soap on a rope is treasure. This had me a bit weirded out, to say the least.And last, but not least, is the 'Backwards Man' sequence. This is brilliant/stupid depending on who you talk to. In my opinion, this sequence is one of the films stand out moments.But what I really think makes Freddy Got Fingered shine is the moments which parody the usual Hollywood schmaltz's. For example'Oh Gordy,I don't care about jewels. All I really wanna do is.... suck your c***''This has been a valuable life lesson. This trip hasn't been about spending about acting like a d***, shouting at the top of my voice like a hyperactive child or whacking off an elephant. This trip has been about the fact that one million dollars should be spent the right way. The American way. Blowing it all in one go on a load of s*** I will never need'So sure, this movie ain't no masterpiece. But it is a damn fine comedy, one that made me laugh a lot, and a truly offensive one too.And you don't see that too often nowadays. "},{"Title":"Not nearly as horrible as you've been led to believe","Date":"1 June 2001","Score":"157 out of 315 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Comedy is perhaps the most subjective of all forms of entertainment.  Judy Carter, in her wonderfully insightful Stand-Up Comedy  The Book, summed it up best  Some people will laugh at a guy slipping on a banana peel.  Some people will only laugh at Hitler slipping on a banana peel.  What kills with one crowd will die with the next, and no two people will laugh at the same thing for the same reason.  Comedy, in many ways, says more about the laughers than the comedians themselves, and it is no wonder that comedy shop talk is filled with violent images (If I don't bomb, I'm gonna murder that audience).  Comedy, to put it mildly, is DANGEROUS.Freddy Got Fingered, Tom Green's scabrous black comedy, illustrates  this principle to a T.  Since his earliest days on Canadian cable-access television, Green has based his career on pushing the envelope.  Like Andy Kaufman, his bizarre stunts (many involving animal carcasses and the sexual humiliation of his parents) are primarily about the reaction of both their hapless victims and US, the audience; if you don't step back and consider how you're taking this humor, and why, you're not really getting the whole Green experience.  Freddy carries this sensibility into a fictional format, giving us the strange tale of a man who lives his life as an experiment in riling people up.Gord Brody (Green) is a young aspiring cartoonist who fails miserably in his attempt to break into the Hollywood big time.  He is forced to move back home with his parents, setting off a titanic battle of wills with his stentorian oaf of a father (Rip Torn), an escalating conflict that involves accusations of child molestation, sausages on strings, elephant penises, horse penises, Green's penis, and really badly made cheese sandwiches. Of course, all of this story nonsense is just that  nonsense.  It serves no function but to provide Green and co-writer Derek Harvie with a framework for grotesque, deliberately shocking set pieces, many of which work surprisingly well.  There's a brief sojourn at a stud farm, where Gord lives out an apparently lifelong fantasy, wagging a horse's genitals while yelling I'm a farmer! like a drunken barbarian.  In another scene, Gord delivers a baby, ripping the bloody umbilical cord with his teeth.  He picks up a wheelchair-bound girlfriend (Marisa Coughlin) who gets her jollies by being caned in the legs with a bamboo stick.  And there's the wonderful little boy who spends the whole movie getting accidentally brutalized, hit by cars and running into airplane propellers, always with much blood and flying viscera.Now I know this may not sound that funny, and indeed, Freddy has gotten the most dastardly reviews that I think I have ever seen for a major release.  Critics don't just hate Freddy; they seem personally hurt by the film, as if Green had made the picture just to upset them and get their goat.  What they don't seem willing to acknowledge is that Green made the film for EXACTLY that reason, and is getting exactly the reaction he wants.  Therefore, his film can be regarded as something of a great success. Personally, I agree with many of the critics who have described Freddy as surrealist.  There is no attempt to integrate this action into anything resembling the real world.  Gord is not a human being, but rather a collection of characteristics.  Green plays him as a bizarrely aggressive man-child, a mishmash of helplessly repeated words and phrases, slack-jawed willful stupidity, and screaming, utterly pointless hysterics.  Frankly, I admire this approach to the characterization.  After seeing so many recent comedies ruined by the filmmakers' need to make their characters both laughable and likeable (most recently with the stultifying Joe Dirt), it is refreshing to see Green so willing to come off as annoying, hateful, cruel, UNLIKEABLE.  This lack of relatability allows us to laugh at him without feeling like we're also laughing at ourselves. I am not making the claim, as some on this page have, that Freddy Got Fingered is any kind of masterpiece.  Green's direction is not the equal of his acting bravery.  The film suffers from too many muddy visuals, and many moments just lie there on the screen, wriggling when they should fly.  Still, the film does what it is supposed to.  Half the time you're laughing, the other half just staring at the screen in goggle-eyed shock.  You may hate Freddy, you may love it, but either way, you have to admit that you've never seen anything like it before.         "},{"Title":"WAY ahead of its time","Date":"5 February 2016","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie was way ahead of its time. If I would've watched it when it came out in 2001, I probably would've given it a crap review like a lot of people did on here (notice a ton of the 1-star reviews are from 2003). But this type of humor is only now becoming mainstream - I'd say from about 2012 on. A lot of people, myself included, might easily compare this movie to Tim & Eric, Eric Andre, etc., but actually, that sentiment should be reversed. Watching the animation of Gord's cartoon, I was immediately reminded of all of the wacky cartoons on Adult Swim. His cartoon could easily be a 12-minute short by Williams Street and might possibly get poor ratings only because of how benign it is compared to what's out today!I haven't laughed so hard at a movie in a long time. Tom Green has always been ahead of his time, and this movie definitely was. I think Tom Green's time has finally arrived. If he made another TV show or movie with this same kind of wackiness and energy, I bet it'd do well. But then I'm a horrible gambler. "},{"Title":"Just short of a perfect comedy (for me at least)","Date":"4 December 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I've had plenty of opportunities to watch this flick over the years, but always shied away, somehow led astray by its near universal panning. I just watched it yesterday, and ended up being so fascinated by what I had just witnessed, that I watched it again this morning. It's surprisingly well put together, with seemingly random elements coming into play later, as well as extremely chaotic at the same time.That's really what I found this picture to be in the end a giant contradiction. I think because of mainstream audiences of 2001, this film wasn't ready to rear its ugly head. The dominating piles of scathing reviews are sure to keep it buried, but the cult audience it has now...with the power of intelligence and simple word-of- mouth...is surely bound to grow.Anybody who's put off by cringe comedy or surreal humor should probably avoid it. "},{"Title":"hilarious movie","Date":"21 August 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie is very funny and outrageous. It's silliness taken to the extreme. It stars Tom Green who is just a complete goof ball in it. If you like outrageous goof ball humor you'll probably like this. It is very highly underrated. Don't believe bad reviews for this. This is a very good movie. Probably the best comedy of 2001. Tom Green plays a crazy guy who drives his dad crazy. He somehow takes his dad to Pakistan in the movie and sprays elephant semen on him and tells him he just wants him to be proud of him. And his dad lying there with the elephant semen on him with Tom's character lying next to him tells him that he is proud of him. Very moving. lol "},{"Title":"Hahahaha!!!","Date":"28 July 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Wow! One of the sickest comedies I've ever seen. In fact, it's probably one of the weirdest comedies I've ever seen. It tackles controversial topics, but it has a different taste of humour than most comedies. Some may call it tasteless whilst others may call it the government led of comedy. However, by critic reviews and user reviews, this film seems to have the masses against it. But if you want some mindless entertainment, turn to no other film but this one. Too funny for most people to handle obviously. If you want to see a horse pleasures by a man and find the things you shouldn't laugh about funny, this is a film for you. "},{"Title":"Calling this film GARBAGE is an understatement","Date":"2 July 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" When Freddy Got Fingered came out it was consistently bashed by every critic. So one day I decided to check out Freddy Got Fingered on HBO. What a big F*ckin mistake that was. What a waste of film, money, and my time. I cannot see what anyone sees in this piece of crap.Before Freddy Got Fingered I did not hate Tom Green. In fact, I thought he was funny in Road Trip. So what drugs did he take to come up with this film? Green is the writer/director, and star of the film. It is actually rather easy to say which one he does the worst job at.Green's direction actually means nothing in the film, but it is rather blandly directed. Even though, Green's direction is lackluster it is unlikely that even an accomplished director could turn this into something worthwhile.Arguably, Green's worst job is that of a writer. The plot is meaningless in this film. It is just there for Green to do some stupid things that we are supposed to think is funny. How in the hell can people find this funny? Jacking off an Elephant? Biting an umbilical cord? Walking around with a deer carcass on? These are excruciatingly unfunny and stupid.The acting is nothing good. Rip Torn and Drew Barrymore are so incredibly over the top that its almost funny(almost but not quite). Julie Hagerty is completely forgettable (thats more of a good thing).Two things are worth mentioning in this s***hole of a film. First, Tom Green running around screaming in a building. Its just random but it is amusing. Also, someone mentioned an Apocalypse Now reference. I saw that and thought it was kind of clever. However, thats about two minutes in an 87 minute film. Freddy Got Fingered is a disaster and will rank as one of the worst films of all time. "},{"Title":"Not the worst, not the best","Date":"6 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" What's there to say about Freddy Got Fingered? Critically slammed and widely considered to be one of the worst comedy movies ever by Roger Ebert, WatchMojo and the like, that's what to say. I beg to differ!The jokes in this movie aren't too horrible, but are somewhat stale compared to what was also released during that time. Not to say that's a bad thing, there's quite a few shock moments, and more often than not, cringe-worthy moments. The characters are rather stupid, over the top characters, and that's the kind of humour I expected and received. It's worth a watch if you're bored, have nothing to do or curious about why this is so bad. You'll be somewhat surprised. "},{"Title":"Freddy Got Wasted.","Date":"5 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Tom Green has come so far and had his big moments while it lasted even when it wasn't on prime time. Whether he was loathed or loved, his comical timing garnered an audience that supported many of his works despite the reactions being mostly mixed. While not attempting to gain awards or any recognition for the best work of art in the world, he surely deserves a spot in the hall of fame for one thing defining alienation without written words.The story of this film is about a wannabe animator and slacker named Gordon (nicknamed Gord) who still lives with his parents and sibling - Freddy, of course - that desires fame in the television industry by turning his explicitly bizarre fictional characters into a full-length program. But of course, things won't be easy as he must face troubles from his abusive father and doubtful peers that poses as a bumpy obstacle.Without a doubt, this film had a huge promise to be more than just a simple film that pays homage and plays as a satire. This film had potential to be used as a love-letter and instant classic for all struggling creators out there that can't get into the entertainment industry and must face constant deception from a disloyal audience. Most of the humor and the story would be set in the right place with the characters, but the (literal) executions and overall payoff is degraded into a horrific experience for both the cast and viewers.It's a shame. This is a very overly complex, shallow, grotesque, and unlikely ingenious interpretation of what idiocy can be portrayed as if a person were to randomize their design for the presentation. It's a shame that after all of the hours that may have been sacrificed to create this film that it can be equivalent to standing in front of a railroad track and awaiting to be struck by the long train instead of the subway. Even if there was effort, no matter what direction it may have been found, it will never change the wasted opportunity this film had to become more than a 'cult classic'.Freddy didn't get 'fingered' - Freddy got wasted. "},{"Title":"Perfect Sunday Viewing","Date":"21 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Sick, purile, immature and great fun. I love Green's comedic delivery and his surreal sense of humour cracks me up. People critiquing this like its a Sundance entry are getting the wrong end of a completely different stick.Anyone that appreciated his shows on MTV will appreciate this and Green in many ways led the way for Bam and Knoxville's Jackass. It's a certain type of comedy and it isn't for everybody (apparently Midsummer Nights Dream was a 'comedy' but I didn't laugh once) but if you like your funnies daft and odd this is worth a go. The people that don't appreciate this for what it is are probably the same people that will hear an amazing piece of abstract music and follow it with the comment 'nah, that's just weird... Got any Britney Spears?' "}{"Title":"One of those films....","Date":"20 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This film could be awesome. It could also be excruciatingly horrible. It all depends on what kind of mood you're in. This film appeals to the rawest of sense of humour. You don't need to understand anything to laugh your head off at just how stupid the whole thing is, because it's all about the shock factor (obviously, it being tom green). What makes you laugh is not the 'intelligent comedy' or even the 'slapstick' aspect of it. It's more about the disbelief about what Tom Green as an actor is actually doing. The horse scene illustrates this example perfectly. However there is also intelligent comedy which ties up the whole thing if you're willing to actually pay attention between laughs. For example, the 'you got a problem with my legs?' bit. It's hilarious. And of course there is the 'family guy' style comedy, like the 'proud' scene at the beginning, where they hold a not-so-funny joke for so long until it's actually funny. But as I say, you have to be in the right mood. If you're in the 'lets watch something stupid' mood, this is definitely the film to see. But if you're in a cynical, deep-thought kind of mood, give this one a miss for now - it will just ruin the awesomeness of it. "},{"Title":"3.7?","Date":"21 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" 3.7 for this film, i really don't understand that but I know that the Tom Green material is not for all the audience but i'm a big fan of all of his stuff. And of course i can't missed his debut film as a director. The plot isn't the smartest but is not that bad but Tom Green style always save the day. Some of the scenes prove to me why this film never was put on the cinemas, like the one whit the baby but i don't want to say more. Anohter great thing about Tom is that in difference to the Jackass films, he put a plot, he is smartest and at the same time he is more crazy and more stupid. Well Freddy got fingered!!!!!!!! hell yes!!!!! And watch it alone!!!PS the DVD for the region four is good in the way that we can watch films like this that never goes to the cinemas but where is the bonus material, i wish more material for the next time. "},{"Title":"Wow","Date":"24 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Like most people I'd heard that Freddy Got Fingered was a horrible film. And like many people I was also under the impression that FGF was another painfully clich contrived piece of Hollywood. I was dead wrong on the second point.I'm a believer in the theory that if a film reaches a certain level of badness that, that badness somehow translates into goodness. FGF is not so much a film as it is an experience into the twisted mind of Tom Green. It's disgusting, bizarre, and absolutely HILARIOUS! This film actually had me laughing to the point of tears multiple times and that's a feat not often accomplished.The basic plot of FGF goes something like this, Gord (Tom Green) is an aspiring cartoonist who goes to Hollywood to try and sell his drawings. Without success he moves back in with his parents and younger brother Freddy. His short tempered father (Rip Torn) demands that he stop goofing off and get a real job. The ongoing feud between the two results in a string of outlandish pranks and revenges.FGF is relentless in throwing every kind of bizarre nonsensical situation at you that it can possibly muster. From getting inside the animals to searching for sunken treasure from cheese helmets to Zebras in America nothing is predictable and nothing is sacred. The source of most of the humour comes from Tom Green's bizarre Jekyll and Hyde act. One minute Gord is a normal almost bland young man the next he's some kind of insane ADHD driven six year old on crack. That may sound like an exaggeration but give the film 15 minutes and I assure you you'll be converted.Is it perfect? No. The film doesn't always hit the mark and some of the situations are just plain gross without a funny quality to them, but the product as a whole is so unique from anything else and contains so many priceless gags and one liners, that its faults can easily be overlooked. If you hated the Tom Green Show this will only strength your opinion, but if you're open to the outlandish ignore the critics and take Freddy for a spin. Being really drunk or stoned also helps. "},{"Title":"This movie has no re-watch value...","Date":"21 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I suggest that you only watch tom Green's Freddy Got Fingered once. Go ahead and see what it's all about. It's an entertaining movie, especially whilst babysitting a teenage sibling.Unfortunately, once you've seen Freddy Got Finger, it has no future appeal. Maybe you will get a Tom Green craving to watch this movie again...and about 25 minutes into it, you will realize that putting this in was a mistake.I would give it 3.5. But at the time of this post Freddy... has only received 3.6.There are much better movies to spend you time watching. "},{"Title":"Sick and disgusting, but that's what makes it good.","Date":"6 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" If you read any critic reviews for this film, I don't think you'll find any positive ones. One critic actually called this one of the worst movies ever made. I beg to differ. In fact, it is one of my favorites.The story consists of Gord Brody (played by the infamous Tom Green) who is a basement dweller at his parents' home in Portland, Oregon. Gord wants nothing more in life to become a famous animator. He travels to Hollywood to shop his animations, only to be rejected. The plot thickens as Gord's lunatic father (played by Rip Torn) constantly heckles him to get his ass out that door looking for a job. There are some subplots to the film, but overall, the story focuses on Gord becoming an animator. Confused where the title comes into play here? It is revealed about half-way through the film, and one of the most memorable moments therein. There is even a surprise ending that I don't think anybody saw coming. But that's just typical Tom Green for you.Here is a warning. This movie is not, I repeat, IS NOT for kids. The humor is disgusting and obviously based on Tom Green's intent of seeing how much he can shock and gross out his audience. In my opinion, he succeeded. But that's one quality I love in this movie. Watching this can bring out the crazy side in anyone. If you want some gross humor, watch this. If you're easily offended, watch it anyway. In my opinion, we need more people like Tom Green in the world. "},{"Title":"The Most Funniest Film Ever Made!","Date":"14 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I saw this film a while ago on BBC 1 late at night and I watched and I was completely Blown away by such a Hilarious, Horribly Funny Piece of work.It follows the story of Gordon Brody (Tom Green) a Struggling Cartoonist how is rejected by every single Bigshot in Hollywood, that he has no choice but to move back in with his parents. He's constantly Nagged at by his Dad Jim Brody (Rip Torn) to get a Job! Gord Gets some strange ideas from Dead animals and other stuff to help him get back on his feet and do animation and He meets Betty (Marisa Coughlan) and they have a strange love relationship Bottom line, this Film may look and sound like a Piece Of Vulgar, Underrated, Meaningless trash. But in fact there's a lot more to this film than you know.Its Just so horrible, Its funny and it will leave you wetting your pants with Laughter.Go out and buy this film! It is just so danm funny! "},{"Title":"a guilty pleasure","Date":"9 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" now in no way is this film a great nor should anybody think this, but it is certainly a guilty pleasure of mine. As someone who is not a tom green fan, i was not expecting a whole lot. It came as a pleasant surprise then that his bland of ridiculously childish humour did not wear thin after 5 minutes. His delivery is often impeccably timed and the brilliant counter part of his dad (played by the always dead pan rip torn) brings a different sort of humour to the film. Yes the film does start to get slightly repetitive towards the end and it certainly has no plot, but hey, sometimes its nice not to have to think about whats going on.If your feeling in a stupid mood (or you have had a few drinks) then Freddy got fingered could be just the movie for you. "},{"Title":"I'm voting this a ten to make other people mad.","Date":"17 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This film isn't bad. it's a solid 6 out of ten, and the only reason people don't like it is because they want to seem as though they are 'Professional movie goers' and that they're above it. How can you not like it? Because it's immature, because there's little plot, because it's ridiculously unrealistic, or because it's just crude and all in bad taste? There is no emotion to the film, just sex joke after sex joke, or toilet joke after toilet joke. Yes, this is a stupid film, but upon first viewing at least is hilarious. Heres a news flash for you so-called 'Professional audiences'. A film like Brokeback Mountain which I haven't even seen is in bad taste, and FGF deserves a best picture nomination more than Heath Ledger and Butt-Buddy Jake Gayenhall.FGF is hilarious and overall is actually just an OK movie. Watch it. Get inside the animals(the funniest part). "},{"Title":"An extreme film, but silly","Date":"19 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A series of sublime setpieces from the socially retarded Tom Green. I agree with the pertinent comments made by others that this is the best 'worst' movie. Absurdist perspective from the intellectually disenfranchised, this movie is silly. In the words of Philip Larkin, 'Oh Hell! Only the young can be alone freely.' With Tom Green. What can we say, though, but 'he's got the job!'I must admit, however, that I will only enjoy this film until I meet someone else who liked it. Its grotesque humour, I suspect, takes the mickey out of those who would normally dismiss a man like Mr Green in a college dorm. What would he say to those deficient characters? Perhaps, 'Happy now?' "},{"Title":"a must see for retarded humour and belly laughs","Date":"14 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" First off, any movie that wins the worst movie of the year award deserves to be seen and wins instant cult status as far as i'm concerned. I know a lot of people who've not been able to sit through it, however i've seen it a few times and think it's great. being a fan of Green's humour is a big asset though. If you don't take the movie seriously, then you'll enjoy it and get big laughs. The production values are top notch and they obviously convinced someone to spend a lot of money on it. I think the dramatic slow motion scenes and explosions just make it funnier as it gets so over the top. The acting is pretty good, the humour is outrageous and there's even a bit of a story in there too. just take it for what it is, and you'll enjoy, guaranteed. "}{"Title":"This movie is a classic","Date":"18 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Give me a break. Freddy Got Fingered is a classic. Tom Green does not only some funny stuff, but very creative stuff as well. A couple of things are sick (horse, elephant), but most of it is pretty funny. And Rip Torn was also hilarious as his mean, tough father. And the parts with Marisa Coughlin as the wheelchair nymph, Betty, were also pretty funny. I did, however, feel sorry for the poor kid next door, Andy Malloy, who gone through all kinds of pain and suffering as the accident-prone kid next door. Even though his dad was a jerk, I also felt sorry for him with all Tom Green's character, Gord, put him through. This movie is definitely hilarious, and shows how much of a comic genius Tom Green is. This movie is definitely a classic. "},{"Title":"This film is about a deranged 27 y/o man still living at home with his parents. He is really strange.","Date":"31 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This guy Tom Green is a legend, he has starred in some of the most funniest films of all times and still continues to create even more stupid films about what ever he likes!!! He has the ability to make what anyone would think is completely stupid into something hilarious. He twists our world into his own and makes it seem disgusting. In this film he uses his sick imagination to make the audience laugh at his stupidity while we are feeling sick. I laughed so hard when I saw him stringing the pieces of meat to his organ. And when he played the meat would move up and down.... ABOSULTE CLASSIC. When he was in the shower, in his fathers's scuba suit and looking for the hidden treasure was good too... My friends and I laughed the hardest when he had his suit on backwards singing Backwards man, Backwards man Song we still sing it to this day. Well Done to Tom Green for this film...... It still makes me laugh just thinking about it!! "},{"Title":"I love this movie, and don't even like Tom Green","Date":"16 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I saw this movie long after it came out on DVD, and only rented it because I couldn't find anything else. I never even liked Tom Green, but this is one of the funniest movies I've seen. It is definitely odd comedy, some things are strange but wildly hysterical. The things he does with sausage, scuba gear, a deer carcass, open wounds, giving birth, beating with sticks, and cheese sandwiches are so funny I could barely stop laughing. The movie is filled with little oddities about people that are taken to another level. What he does to get back at his father is just over the top. This is a love it, or hate it movie. I know many who think this movie is terrible, but it's one of my favorites. "},{"Title":"Freddy Got Fingered","Date":"11 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Freddy Got Fingered is the story of cartoon animator Gord Brody (Tom Green)who is unhappy with his current job so moves back home with his parents and brother Freddy (Eddie Kay Thomas) to work on his animating, but begins to spread stories of his father sexually abusing his younger brother. Starring (Tom Green), (Rip Torn), (Marissa Coughlan) and (Anthony Michael Hall).This movie I actually got a hold of from a friend and didn't have interest or was even open minded about it right from the get go. It was rated one of the worst films of the decade (which I found out later), but it was your typical Tom Green off the wall, cut up disgusting humor that it had to be just out of this world hilarious. This movie is funny, dramatic and disgusting all in one, and Tom Green is great at what he does.Positive acting, although a ridiculous story line, at a R rating I would only advise people with a strong stomach to watch this powerful, disgusting, dramatic over the top, yet so hilariously funny film. I can appreciate Green for what he is trying to do, I hope you can to ha ha! "},{"Title":"Don't you get the point?","Date":"31 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Freddy got fingered is not really a movie, but rather one big joke being played by Tom Green that works very well! Think about it, he spent a few million of his or someone else's cash and just made this wild and crazy full length film that had nothing but cheap jokes and pointless humor. And what's wrong with that? I give Green and his producers credit; they managed to alienate a lot of people which was the whole plan all along. Didn't you see The Tom Green Show?. It was a guy who went around and ticked people off. While some people put this in their Bottom 100, I rate it in my top 25 mainly because the mission of the filmmaker was accomplished! Who cares if it has dumb gross out humor and exploitation? You think Green doesn't realize this? I also found it very funny. The Backwards Man Scene was funny on such a basic level as was the scene where he dresses up in the scuba gear and shows his father the treasure he found in the shower. Even Green's character in the movie wastes his big cartoonist paycheck on playing a massive joke on his dad, and that's exactly what he did to all the people that went to see Freddy got fingered. Gotcha! "},{"Title":"A great movie, you will either laugh your ass off or throw up","Date":"13 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie is definitely not for people who get offended easily. That being said, if you have an extremely open mind it is a very funny movie. This movie is about as offensive as you can get, and I love every minute of it. In this movie, Tom green sexually assaults a horse, beats a girl in wheelchair (at her request), slits open a deer carcass and climbs inside, calls his father a child molester, tells his mom to do other guys, delivers a baby by swinging the fetus around the room by its umbilical cord and cuts the cord with his teeth, stuff like that.I love how people walked out of the theatre, out of disgust. I think the movie is great, not brilliant but extremely funny if you have an open mind. If your not a complete wussy then you might like it. "},{"Title":"What a pile of...","Date":"29 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I used to watch Tom Greene's show on Mtv and was entertained a lot of the time but when I saw this movie I just didn't get it. Who is he making this movie for? This is a comedian who can be funny on a TV show when he's just being himself, but clearly he's out of his league as a movie star.His antic are just to hyped up and overacted to be enjoyed by fans of his shows which I should add weren't always that good. (Some spoilers) Masturbating animals and hitting cripples with bats with the intention of shock humor just didn't work with me. In the scene where the woman is delivering a baby and he bits off the umbilical cord off in a disgusting and bloody scene I couldn't help wonder what the hell was he thinking? This is the stupidest movie ever. What a let down. "},{"Title":"I can actually relate to this movie...","Date":"27 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" *may contain spoilers*No, I've never whacked off a horse. But ironically when I first watched this movie, I was 28, unemployed, and of course living at home in my parents' basement. Before you jump to conclusions, I am a college graduate and I had been moved out and on my own before this. Things sometimes don't work out the way you'd like, and unfortunately this happened to me. As well I paid for my college, never had a car given to me or that sort of thing either.At any rate, my step-father was constantly harping on me to get a job. What I kept responding with was I was looking, for something in my career field, in which I had an education, training, and experience. His focus was job and my focus was a job that I like, am good at, and can earn a decent living.Of course to a much less extreme, my life was much like Gord's in this movie. Mr. Brody was like my step-father, and we did in many ways of course get on each others nerves. So as stupid as it may sound, it's actually possible that someone could relate this movie to reality.I enjoyed this movie thoroughly. In fact, even today I still watch it once in a while, and it still makes me laugh. I always liked Green's MTV show, and to me of any movies he's been in this is the most like his show.Gord isn't a real bright fellow. He's friendly, innocent, definitely naive, immature and child-like. Yes, he's 28, unemployed and basically wants to play all the time as a child does. But Gord is looking at his talents as an animator, then using that to see the big picture.Of course, this is something his father could never understand. Was Gord's child like motivations merely building blocks for his drawings? I think so, at least a little. This is something his father never could understand. Besides, who could hardly blame Gord's outlook of the working world? In reality it does suck. Most people are under paid, little appreciated, and Gord knows this makes this point to his brother in the movie.Great scenes in this movie include Dave Davidson, getting inside the animals, the first date, the restaurant (this is a fancy restaurant!), , the audition, the bank scene, and many others.Another likable aspect of this movie is the soundtrack. The music that was chosen was great and matched the movie well. Of course, the supporting cast is top notch as well, but that's been said many times.People who take this movie too seriously, well, just need to loosen up. It's purely meant as a comedy, and to be funny. At that, as crazy as it is, the movie succeeds brilliantly. This movie is totally under rated. While I don't think it's a 10, it surely isn't a 3.5. At a minimum, it should at least be a 4-5 average. Personally, There's no way 33% of IMDb users should have voted the lowest on this movie.Maybe next time I become unemployed, and move back home, I'll find an elephant to whack off and hose my step father down! "},{"Title":"Gets Funnier Every Time I See It","Date":"20 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A lot of people hate this movie and I can understand that. When I first saw it in theaters I didn't really get into it. I loved Tom Green's TV show but the film seemed too weird to enjoy. But that was then. Subsequent viewings have increased my respect for the movie immensely. One thing that I've noticed more is the great supporting cast. Tom is Tom; you either like him or you don't. But Rip Torn, Anthony Michael Hall, and Marisa Coughlin all perform very well. Harland Williams is always funny, although his role here is small.Obviously this movie is for fans of Tom Green only. Some people are going to repulsed by animal ejaculate and gratuitous violence on a small boy. If you hate it, no big deal. But at this point, I love it. "},{"Title":"Up there with citizen kane and nailgun massacre!!","Date":"17 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Most poncy film fans whinge about this movie.The same types who rave about how enlightening films like My big fat Greek wedding and my big fat unemployed neighbor are.People with an ounce of humour in them will find at least one of the scenes amusing.Who thought milking a horse and accusing your dad of sexually abusing your brother could be this much fun.Tom green is a legend cause he has the nerve to go totally overboard,sometimes he's annoying but mostly he's hilarious.Please watch some of his other DVD's like tonsil hockey,something smells funnyand subway monkey hour.The former are compilations of his canadian TV show and the later is mtvs slightly toned down version,which is funny nonetheless.In short a crazed stupid comedy elevated to legend status cause of tom greens lunacy.  "}{"Title":"Had Us Laughing Hysterically","Date":"17 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is by far one of the funniest movies I have seen in a long time. I still frequently laugh out loud when recalling some of the scenes. It goes over the top poking fun at our materialist society as well as the conflicts that commonly appear in family relationships.Gord the main character lives at home with his parents where there is a lot of tension between him and his father mainly over Gord's lack of a job. Gord has a dream and as commonly happens his father thinks his dream is unrealistic and is not supportive. In fact he makes fun of Gord's ambitions.This story is about Gord struggling to make his dreams come true in this difficult environment and at the same time gain his fathers' approval. Not only did this movie make me laugh out loud many times I felt I gained new insights into the silliness of the world we live in. A movie way ahead of it's time. The ending with Gord and his father is extremely ironic. My girlfriend said this is a movie you have to participate in by thinking while you are watching else you won't appreciate the jokes. As it says on the box BRILLIANT.  "},{"Title":"Genius? HMMMM, HMMMM, HMMMMM.","Date":"3 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I will open this short spiel by saying that the very first time I watched this film I was taken back and I can't remember laughing once... but after a second sitting and talks with many friends this film grew on me very quickly.  I watched an edited version without the masturbation of the horse scene. So it is that I find it intriguing that so many people would be offended by this film because every other scene is not disturbing, in my eyes, at all.  What I must attribute some peoples blinded vision of this film to is this scene with Green taking on the role of the stud farmers. You will note most people point to the scene as the 'disturbing' point of the film and then continue to label the film as such.But what others find disturbing obviously I do not.  I have watched many films of a graphic nature and I will draw your attention to a brilliant film by Quentin Tarantino, Reservoir Dogs.  This film is extremely violent, at one stage depicting the attempted burning of a policeman simply for the pleasure of a sadistic man, after he has tortured the poor soul by slicing off his ear. This scene made me feel sick and I am sure that any human, excluding psychopaths, would feel disturbed also.  This scene is an example of 'disturbing'.  BUT we label this film as brilliant.  We see through the disturbing violence to the film within. But when you watch a film with a man wanking a horse, all you see is a man wanking a horse.Now, don't persecute me for comparing Tarantino to Green but I needed a writer who most consider brilliant, who also uses graphic images within their films. To show you that if you look deeper into this film, well, you'll find an alternative to the boring monotonous comedy of today. Freddy Got Fingered takes the on normal routines of generated film.  Man chases his dream , can't make it, returns home, finds love, is inspired, returns to chase his dream and finally succeeds.  But the film does so in a way that mocks Hollywood films -  Man chases his dream (to be a cartoonist) , can't make it (at the cheese sandwich factory), returns home, finds love (with a woman in a wheelchair), is inspired (by his love, who builds a rocket wheel chair), returns to chase his dream and finally succeeds (and wastes a million dollars on jewels and taking his dad to Pakistan).  I mean, come on, the film is not meant to be taken seriously.  It's like Monty Python and the Holy Grail, with the coconuts, it doesn't make sense but it is funny, I'm sure you all found men pretending to ride horses to the sound of coconuts clanging amusing?But some people are so high on their critic chairs and so blinded by embarrassment I suppose that they can't bring themselves to admit it is humourous.A little story.I have a friend.  We were in a situation where a quote from Freddy Got Fingered was appropriate.  He said to me `I saw that movie the other day, it wasn't very funny, I didn't laugh at all'.  We got to talking about it and after about fifteen minutes he had decided that it was a reasonable waste of time... Later that week he said `I watched Freddy Got Fingered again the other day...' and he began to ramble off lots of quotes that he found amusing.  After another week the subtle comedy of  Freddy Got Fingered had slowly dripped into the back of his mind and he told me without hesitation that he had changed his opinion of the movie altogether.  This is exactly how I felt about the film.  I had been so flattened out by the drab and standard films I had been watching that I wasn't open to the intense comedy of Freddy Got Fingered. Before you watch this film I must say a few things. 1) It is twisted, yes, so if you want normal, look elsewhere. 2) You will be shocked. 3) Have an open mind and 4) Don't be embarrassed by a man masturbating a horse!Two Thumbs up, 10/10. "},{"Title":"This Movie was damn funny.......","Date":"3 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The thing about Freddy Got Fingered, is that it isn't meant for people that aren't fans of Tom Green.  I'm sure a lot of people think it's horribly disgusting or disturbing, but give me a break, it had to of made you laugh at least once.  The plot is also very interesting, if not good.  A man moves to L.A. to persue his dream of becoming a famous Animator.   Over all this film had good acting, funny parts, gross parts (what doesn't in these days?), an interesting plot, and lots of creativity. The casting was perfect, each and every actor and actress fit their role perfecty.  Tom Green and Rip Torn play off each other's characters in an insain and rip-roaring way.  If you can watch and stomach most violent horror movies, you can stand Freddy Got Fingered. "},{"Title":"Inspirational","Date":"26 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  God this film is so damn funny. It seems the vast majority of 30+ americans I have spoken to found it disgusting and wrong. I've no idea what that says, but the film has cult status here in the UK, again, 30+ dont tend to find it funny but for people who dont take themselves and life too seriously it is an openly crude, very funny film. If you arent a crude humour lover why the hell did you rent a film with the title 'Freddy got fingered'? Do you have a brain? Life is getting too cluttered with politically correct rubbish - oooh we cant do that, it'll offend! Well well done Green and co - finally someone has the balls to stand up and make a film that most people wont admit to finding funny until they speak to others who do.Many of the scenes do make you cringe or gross you out but thats the beauty of it - it makes you talk about it, it takes you back to being a kid, it makes you chuckle. Its an excuse to laugh at something totally unique and daring that is truly funny. The only person I've found who hasnt loved thefilm is my dad - big surprise.A. "},{"Title":"And then the bananas...","Date":"6 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  When I first saw this movie, my best friend and I got into the first three minutes and we were already rolling on the floor (literally) laughing.  Tom Green is a comic GENIUS!  He's most definitely my favorite comedian (note I say comedian and not actor...).Rip Torn was perfect as Green's dad in the movie, and it was so funny to see the animosity between the two.  I do remember, before seeing it though someone told me that it should have been rated NC-17 because it had so much sexuality in it, but I didn't think it should have even been rated R, let alone NC-17.  So, yea.  I loved this movie and I hope that all of you who like Tom Green or just crazy insane humor or 'sausages' will give this movie a chance!  It's great fun...and the song Cars by Gary Neuman was perfect for the one scene in the movie with him driving in his car.  And the kid from American Pie who plays Stifler's mom's love interest is Freddy in this movie.  He's a pretty cool kid.  And he's kinda cute too.  In his nerdish sort of way.I give this movie a 10 out of 10 because it rocks my gym socks!   "},{"Title":"Cracking Comedy","Date":"28 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I can't help but think what most people were thinking on the release of Freddy Got Fingered, were they expecting a Masterpiece because that's what it sounds like by the way everyone I know hates this film.   For one it stars Tom Green who is probably the least serious person in the entire world, I mean if you get testicular cancer, joke about it and have the actual operation filmed you must either be completely insane, or just his way of dealing with which I think it probably was as it made it easier on him, so you would expect his directorial debut to be the most serial comedy in years and that's what it was and a bloody good one because there is no real story to it, unless you count father and son bonding after getting ejaculated in the face by large elephant, but the I think Tom Green just wanted to make a stupid film and that's what it is and that's why I think it's one of the best comedies in years because it's just pure laughter.  It's like extreme cinema but in a comedy fashion and does not care about the parallels of movie making, let's just have fun and in one point in your life you need to look at it that way.  Freddy Got Fingered is all about not taking movie making so seriously, and I do take films seriously but you need to just take a break sometimes and unwind and take Freddy Got Fingered for what it is. "},{"Title":"Bizarre! And that's why it works","Date":"16 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I have to say that I find this movie extremely hilarious. At least it works for me, though I have no difficulty understanding people who back off and shake their heads. Indeed, there is no true point to anything in this story. It's just weird, vulgar, bizarre, meaningless crap and we like it! "},{"Title":"A little gross, but not bad.","Date":"14 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Tom Green was funny in this film but I wasn't too crazy about the gross humour in the movie. It was a little sick but that was about all I found bad about this one. Gord (Tom Green) was pretty funny in it though especially with the sausage song. I had a pretty good laugh. "},{"Title":"this movie is so damn funny","Date":"19 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  this movie is so hillarious.I watched it twice in the theater and could not wait for it to be out on video.Tom Green was great in this movie and I liked how crazy his character was.It was classic Tom Green.My favorite parts were the ones where he was with his dad and when he was with Betty.Any hardcore fan of Tom Green should watch this movie you will love it.  "},{"Title":"Where was the humor. *","Date":"4 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The filmmakers of this film meant to film this as a comedy.They figured watching an infant swung around by the umbilical cord with blood splattering against the walls would be funny.They figured that child molestation would be funny.They also figured seeing a kid repeatedly get his faced smashed in with various hard objects would be funny.Because the filmmakers thought this,their attempts in making a humorous film fails on all accounts.Normally,I would give a film like this no stars.But I am giving it one star because the only thing preventing me from leaving the theater was Tom Green.I had to watch him.I had to watch him make a fool out of himself.I'm laughing.Not for Tom Green,but at him.He spends alot of the time acting more like an idiot than he does a comedian.Freddy Got Fingered doesn't go anywhere with its grossout gags.It wastes the talents of Rip Torn and it wasted my time.Freddy Got Fingered is the worst of 2001.It doesn't belong in the comedy genre.It belongs in the flush down the toilet genre.I am not finished yet.There is a scene where Tom Green's accuses his father of molesting his brother who is taken to some hospital for abused children.How could the filmmakers think this to be funny?Even though this film was offensive,I was never offended.I was more upset at the fact that the producers figured this would be a comedy when it's actually a waste of my time. "}{"Title":"You'll feel guilty for liking it.","Date":"29 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Tom Green has the personality of a serial killer.  His unofficial motto If they won't love me, at least I can make them hate me.  Thus, Freddy Got Fingered was born.  A slap in the face to mainstream cinema, and an even bigger slap to his fans, Green has chosen to make a film with no redeeming value.  It's a no-win situation.  If you say you hate it, Tom wins.  If you love it, Tom wins, but you lose all your friends.  Green wants you all to himself, and he'll do it any way he can.  I won't go into all the disgusting shenanigans that Tom gets into, because you all know them by now.  People can try to defend this movie as a classic example of neo-surrealism all they want, the fact remains that Tom doesn't care, as long as you watch it. He's the little boy who just wants attention, no matter what it takes to get it. So why do I like it so much?  Simple fact is, I don't know why, and there's no way to defend my position even if I knew.  This movie is sick, disturbing, and just plain wrong.  Thank the Lord for the Internet, so I can tell you all this without getting funny looks.  I really want to recommend this movie, but if I did, those who hate it will tan my hide, and I'm kind of afraid of the other people who would like it.  So I leave it up to you weather to see it or not.  This is one person you're NOT going to blame for renting (in YOUR opinion) a crappy flick.           "},{"Title":"complete waist of time","Date":"27 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  please please please do not watch this film it is absolute trash. child abuse is it funny..............no. tom green is he funny................no. making jokes about crippled people is it funny.......no. tom green is the kind of person that people who listen to those cheesy chart friendly watered down punk(belive me i use the word punk very loosely)bands will like he appeals to a generation who say there depressed because they have to do the washing up.Tom green and this film are both completly idiotic how the hell this film even got made is beyond me.this has to be the worst film ever made. "},{"Title":"funny, actually funny","Date":"12 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  what the? 3 out of ten?, freddy got fingered is proberly the only comedy i have laughed at in the last few years, with crap teen comedys like american pie, 40 days, and 40 nights and all the other crap movies based on sex.what's funny about this movie is tom greens character is living at home at 28 and wants to be an animator, with his father going crazy at him cause he acts like a bit of dork most of the time, for exampledressing up in his father's wet suit and looking for giant baracudas in the shower, taking a girl on a date with his dads home phone and tape recorder for the rings, and telling a shrink that his father molests his brother, when he does'nt.all i can say is get it out cause this is funny "},{"Title":"cult-classic for our generation","Date":"26 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Like every other movie that gets bombed by the critics, this stands for the nomination of cult-classic status. I love everything about this movie and think Tom Green is a comedic genius. The humor, though slapstick and at times, slightly offensive, is totally cool if you're into that type of frat-house comedy. I totally would recomend this movie to anyone throwing a keg party that wants to put something on the t.v.    9/10 "},{"Title":"I've changed my taste","Date":"25 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If you have been reading this page you'll see I labelled this complete and utter garbage and Tom Green as talentless. well not anymore. Tom I take everything back that I said, you are a great laugh and this proves it. This film is actually very funny and has hysterical scenes in it i.e. the deer carcass and the house in Pakistan. So no i actually like this film so ignore my previous comment readers. "},{"Title":"Come on!","Date":"22 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Give this one a break.  It's not supposed to be a great plot.  It's not supposed to have great acting in it.  It's supposed to be funny.  It is, if you can loosen up a little. Tom Green is funny.  I'll admit, there are funnier movies, but this movie has some very hilarious parts.  There's no such thing as bad taste in the name of comedy. "},{"Title":"Horrible, but hilarious.","Date":"21 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I think this is one of the worst movies I have ever seen. **/*****This is also one of the funniest, creative, craziest, gross out movies I have ever seen. If you want to watch some good old Tom Green poo poo humor then this is for you.  If you are not into Tom Green avoid this movie. If you like Tom, then this is the movie for you. Bottom line This is a horrible movie, but if your looking for something just to crack up at pick up this flick.  If you hate Tom Green humor avoid it.  "},{"Title":"Disturbing to watch.. the joke's on the audience. A classic!","Date":"18 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If you've seen Tom Green's show, you'll know he's an aquired taste. I don't really watch the show that much, but it's had it's moments. Like Andy Kaufmann, T.G's wildest moments are best watched from a fly-on-the-wall perspective, when you can see both the show and the reaction of people watching. Yes, Tom Green screams and makes purposly dumb poo-poo jokes, in his everlasting search for the coveted embarrassing silence which means he has actually managed to shock/surprise his audience.In this movie, he does that ^ 2. DTo watch Freddy got Fingered was shocking and borderline to horrible - me and my girlfriend had several points where we just stopped and stared at one another in disbelief.However afterwards, talking to others about this movie, I just have to laugh every single time. It's the lengths to which Tom Green goes playing his retardedly insane, wildly unfunny comedian and p*** off the people who can't see the irony.Just about every scene is a joke on the people who think real humour is something safe which you can put a label on, like manly stand-up comedians who go on stage armed with an arsenal of f-words and an invisible I'm going to be funny-sign above their heads.As an experimental movie, this is just one you have to go to experience. In about 10-15 years, Freddy will probably by many be considered a cult movie classic and shown in movie clubs with clips of angry, shocked reviews and IMDB ratings as part of the entertainment.The joke's on you.. like it or not! 9/10 "},{"Title":"Not terrible","Date":"6 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie has been label a cinematic atrocity by a lot of people, but I thought it had it's moments of off-the-wall hilarity. It's very much like performance art translated to the screen -- usually it doesn't work out at all very well. But I though Tom Green's movie could of been a lot worse -- like a romantic comedy or a PG-13 snoozefest. Instead, we have him licking the bone of a busted open knee. Weird stuff, but not that weird considering the source. "},{"Title":"ummm...","Date":"23 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  OK it's 547 AM and I'm about to go to work and I just finished watching this on cable. In summary, I laughed at one part.... at the end when someone randomly holds a sign saying when the f*ck is this movie going to end? That about sums up my opinion. Yes, it's pointless, random, gross.... oh yeah, and not funny. 2/10 "}{"Title":"TOM GREEN GIVES HOLLYWOOD THE FINGER!","Date":"1 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"   I was depressed about a girl. I came home and laid down on the couch. It was one of those really bad depressions where you could chop my foot off and I'd just sit there and stare at my new stump. Then my roommate brought home Freddy Got Fingered. I laughed so hard I wet my pants. That movie was so absurd, so silly--- nay- so INTENTIONALLY STUPID that I couldn't believe what I was seeing. I can't believe it got made. I'm glad it did though as Tom Green is a comedic artist. I'm certain Green pulled this movie off with the intention of being the biggest fool, the most obnoxious embarassment to Hollywood that he could be. This is the punk rock of comedies. Tom Green rules!!!  "},{"Title":"Should of gotten better than a bomb.","Date":"29 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Sure, this movie got no stars by several criticts. I wasn't excpecting what I saw. I'm from about 20 miles North of Portland, and I thought traveling to LA was exciting scencery, I've always wanted to drive there. Tom Green is a loser with a  demented personality, which was so demented (Funny) that I almost died of laughter. For instance I love where Gord says, He's a chiiild molester, and throws something out of a building and jumps out away from his dad. Gord has a side where he acts like a child, and I love the gags. "},{"Title":"This movie is extremely underrated!","Date":"29 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I would understand why people wouldnt like this movie. It is extremely gross and shocking in parts. But aside from that, this movie is great. Tom Green shows that he is not only a comic genius, but he can direct better than most of the crappy directors making movies today. Sure, a lot of the things Tom Green does in the movie are rediculous and dont make any sense towards the plot, but the story as a whole is well written and progresses throughout well. As for the humor, I guess you would have to be more into obscure stuff than normal. The acting is also much better than average and isnt distracting.So if you like Friends and your sense of humor is dried up like a lump of dog crap, steer clear of this movie. Otherwise, you have to see this movie! It was definately better than most of the movies I saw in 2001. "},{"Title":"This movie is as bad as others have noted, but...","Date":"25 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" ...I did notice one good thing as I finally finished this movie after three separate viewings on HBO.Correct me if I'm wrong, but outside of the 'homage' references to other movies, almost every scene is something original...I've never seen any of these scenes in any other movie.Even if the scenes don't work together at all, even if the jokes are so perverse that they aren't funny, even if the acting is horrible, even worse it stars Julie Hagerty; I have to admit that each scene was something new.For that reason only I gave it a four and not a one.  It's crap, but it's original crap. "},{"Title":"Down with Jim, Up with Tom!","Date":"7 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'm probably the only person here who HATES Jim Carrey's COMEDY (Truman Show is awesome) with a passion, but LOVES Tom Greens hilarious antics.Freddy Got Fingered should be acknowledged for it's stupidity. Just think, when Tom stops his car and runs to masturbate a cow, ask yourself WHY? Keep asking yourself that (what was the point of that?) and you will keep laughing. The more you think abouty it, the funnier it gets. Thats the humour of this movie. So ridiculously stupid, its funny. If you like Monty Python, and can stomach some pretty disturbing scenes without cracking a hissy fit like all those critics, then watch its hilariousness unfold. Oh, and the part where tom Green mockingly asks his brother Wheres your car? I don't see your car anywhere? etc is not only hilarious, it's CLEAN. So, yes, there is non-offensive humour in here, just, er, not  much. Mind you, that's DEFINATELY not a bad thing.In Conclusion A hell-of-a-lot funnier then any other teen gross out comedy ever released (inc. American Pies).  "},{"Title":"is this some kind of evil national psych experiment?","Date":"28 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Bleah.  Putrid.  Be sure to take care of anything important for your day BEFORE you start watching this, because your brain will shut down in self-defense within the first 20 minutes of this turd, and may spend hours quivering in fear of coming back online before it's over.  Better yet, don't watch it at all; sniff some glue, or conduct sonic resonance tests on your skull with a brick.  Your brain will thank you.I never knew a movie could be this bad. "},{"Title":"All you could ever hope for in a movie with Tom Green...No story line needed...PURE COMEDY","Date":"14 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie pushes the comedic limits more than anything I've ever seen... It's a movie starring TOM GREEEN...what would you expect from it than whacky, over the top, insane humor...This movie does wonders with the little story line it has...It is the funniest and most creative comedy I've ever experienced...and don't tell me you were disappointed in the movie... because you're a fool to think you were going to get a decent Disney G movie out of Tom Green or a movie named Freddy Got FingeredTHIS MOVIE IS BRILLIANT. "},{"Title":"EXCELLENT!","Date":"1 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I don't care what anyone says about this film. It's entertaining to watch. I love seeing To Green on the screen, because you never know what he's going to do. He's unpredictable. There is a subtle genius to this film that can even be found in the title alone. It's called Freddy Got Fingered. When you hear this title you think Ha,ha funny name, but I know when I watch it I'll find out that it won't turn out to be a vulgar term, but then you watch it and you find out that it is a vulgar term after all. Excellent! "},{"Title":"Ashamedly, I LOVED IT!","Date":"8 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie was senseless, vile, offensive (or too dumb to be) and all of those other put downs you will read by people on here, and I don't know about anyone else, but to me that is just fine, once in a while a movie like this is needed, just stupid and thoughtless, the same feeling you get when breaking a diet by eating pizza until you vomit. A good film, with plenty of opportunities for people with twisted and cruel senses of humour to flex their laughing muscles. "},{"Title":"Hilarious and stupid at the same time!!!!","Date":"6 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If you love insane British humor...the sophisticated Three Stooges humor..than you have to watch this! The movie has a simple plot  Gordie is trying to make a name of himself in the cartoon world but his parents think he should get a normal job.  that is it. The main character, Gordie is just SOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO STUPID that you can't help but laugh!!!  There were times when I was laughing for two or three minutes straight. I mean, why in the world would anyone in their right mind..stop suddenly, get out of the car, jump over fence and masturbate a horse????  Why would anyone get into the carcass of roadkill to see how animals think???  Why would anyone put on a suit backwards, talk to himself in a mirror and pretend he is going somewhere caring a suitcase???  ABSOLUTELY NO ONE!!!! But Gordie does!!!  That is what makes this movie so funny....don't watch it if you want to have a positive, culturing experience. Watch it because you want a good laugh and that is exactly what Green accomplishes..... "}{"Title":"Instant Classic!","Date":"4 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I can't believe the rating this movie has received from you people!  Tom Green and Rip Torn were hilarious and Freddy Got Fingered is an instant classic.  C'mon, I mean, backwards man and Zebras in America?  You can't beat it. "},{"Title":"Daddy Would You Like Some Sausage?","Date":"8 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This has to be the strangest film that I have ever seen. It freaked me out in ways I have never been freaked out before. This means it must be a weird film as it takes a lot to freak me out. It was strange, but all the same funny in places even though yes, it was sick. Especially with the baby and the whole umbilical cord thing. There's just something slightly disturbing about the way Tom Green acts...but his craziness can also be hilarious at times even if he does go totally over the top.  The best part about this movie? Flipping the creamers! After watching this movie I just couldn't help myself from stealing a creamer from the restaurant where I work and attempting to flip it at home...Ah, fun. "},{"Title":"Complete and utter garbage, a disgrace to the movie industry","Date":"24 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  My sister and her boyfriend recently insisted I saw this and at the end of it I was truly speechless with disgust.  Not only does Tom Green display no acting talent whatsoever but the film is gross, offensive and most certainly unfunny and sick minded. If anyone thinks that child abuse, animals penises and getting covered in elephant semen is funny then they should definitely see this film. Otherwise this a load of tripe which is a disgrace to the movie industry and one that should never have been greenlighted  "},{"Title":"genius","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  i recently watched Freddy Got Fingered. I LAUGHED SO MUCH I NEARLY DIED. in fact i didn't think that i would be able to laugh so much again, but boy i was wrong! all i had to do was come to IMDb and read the reviews! absolutely hilarious!  "},{"Title":"Hilarious!!!","Date":"5 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Tom Green is Gordy (not Freddy),a man unemployed approaching his thirties.He has the unrealistic ambition of becoming an animator,and he looks bad in the family because his younger brother is a banker.The only person who will support him is his disabled girlfriend.Tom Green does a good job and is hilarious in the role of Gordy,Rip Torn does a makes a great performance as Gordys dad. The film is sick at times,but if you can see the funny side of it you will love it.To others it may be offensive.I enjoyed it,the resturant and shower scene I loved,Tom Green is just so hilarious.The film might not be realistic,but seeing an idiot like this just makes me laugh.I would rate 4/5. "},{"Title":"Not a bad movie in the least bit","Date":"14 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Although it is a matter of taste and tolerance, this movie (which Roger Ebert designated the worst of the year 2001... obviously he never saw Driven) is not really bad at all. True, a lot of the gags don't work (such as the little kid who continually gets maimed) but I wouldn't call the movie a disaster... Tom Green is actually a fairly better filmmaker than he is an actor. As a director he isn't afraid to do what Tom Green does best, which is shock people in disgusting and surprising ways. Anybody who went to this movie expecting to see a mainstream slapstick comedy obviously had the wrong idea in mind; this is a gross out dark comedy that actually keeps its jokes funny while keeping them gross. The childbirth scene in which Green swings the baby around his head to the chanting of some other patients is downright hilarious in its sur-real weirdness, and his first date is without a doubt the funniest and most creative thing in the movie. Too bad he can't film a good ending to go with any of this; the movie's pace sputters and dies about 20 minutes before the final frame, as the credits roll to unfunny outtakes. Throughout its beginning and half of its middle section, Freddy Got Fingered is not only good but different, and that's high praise for a film in this recent wave of lame gross out comedies (Slackers and Saving Silverman are two horrible examples). Not bad, not a misunderstood masterpiece, but just funny enough for Tom Green fans. **1/2 out of ****.  "},{"Title":"I liked it.","Date":"12 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  People really seem to hate this movie, but I enjoyed it. Not the funniest, but certainly better than what people are saying here. I have always been a Tom Green fan. Stupid humor at it's best. Some parts weren't funny, but I think it has a pretty good joke to laugh ratio. I'm just sad Tom Green stopped doing his show for this and no one liked it. It's always funnier when he's screwing with people for real than when it's scripted. I hope they let him make another movie cause I haven't seen him on t.v. since he hosted Saturday Night Live and I need Green. I would recommend this movie to anyone who enjoys his show or is a fan of gross-out physical comedy, but if your looking for a witty comedy go elsewhere. Definently funnier than Shallow Hal or Orange Country by the way. "},{"Title":"Hilarious, a must-see Tom Green disaster!","Date":"9 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Tom Green is the funniest man on the planet, and he proved it with this movie.  It's a disaster, but a hilarious one.  I don't think I've ever laughed as hard when I first saw it, but it was still funny each time I watched it after that.  If you don't like Tom Green, don't bother watching it, cause you won't like it.  You have to appreciate his humor to enjoy this movie! "},{"Title":"Mostly for Tom Green fans and Razzie addicts.","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Spoilers?  Do you care?Anyone who would give this movie a ten has obviously fallen off his or her horse.  And perhaps put ____ in his mouth once or twice.But this is not to say I didn't like it.  It's your typical Tom Green stuff. Nothing shocks me.  And this is no better than your typical teen crap movie.  (like that silly Van Wilder thingy)It certainly is hilarious.  Oh look, the treasure's gone into that little cave as tom dives for the toilet.  Sure I'm shocked that Rip Torn's in this movie.  As he stumbles about claiming that he really thought Tom Green is a great director.  What a stupid liar.It's fairly obvious to me that the powers that be shoved this movie idea on Tom for a quick buck.  Since he probably had little choice since many people figured he'd do it, he created a movie that pokes fun at the art of directing.  I found him to be a genious at this.  But anyway.  It really amazes me that either Rip Torn or Drew Barrymore would star in a movie like this.  The only true quality in this film was Drew, and she didn't have much to work with.I think the sign at the end summed it up best.  When the *#W* is this movie going to end?3/10 Quality 0/10 Entertainment 7/10 Replayable 5/10 "},{"Title":"Hilarious!","Date":"30 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I have to say this is one of the funniest movies i have ever see. Tom Green is truly an artist, this film should definitely not of won any raspberry awards. I have heard some people say this is one of the worst films ever made but it is certainly not. Anyone who is a fan of Tom Green or if you just want a laugh BUY!!! this film. You will not regret it. "}{"Title":"SOOOOOO HORRIBLE!!!","Date":"27 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I swear to god! This movie is a shame, but it sure didn't deserve five razzie awards. It deserved fifty!!!!!! The plot sucked, the acting sucked! The worst part was the stupid daddy would you like some sausage part. It was so gross too!! There were very few parts where I chuckled but I thought the end was hilarious!! I was laughing at how dumb this movie was!!! HAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAH!!!! "},{"Title":"There may be worse movies, but.....","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  ****Some spoilers, who cares?*******Those worse movies include Pink Flamingos and low rent horror flicks.  The plot is something along the lines of a young man trying to follow his dreams against the wishes of his close minded redneck father.  (Gee, never heard of that storyline before.)  There's several things that I found offensive, such as the little kid who kept getting hit, (just what the hell was funny about having his teeth knocked out?)  the deer scene, or making child molestation part of the humor.  The movie also actually took itself seriously, as if the quest for Tom Green's character to be an animator was something the audience would be rooting for.  Maybe it's supposed to be part of the joke, who knows.  But writing a bizarre cartoon called Zebras in America (which was twisted but seemed like something MTV would run) then using the money to secretly cart his father to Pakistan, which somehow resolves everything--I don't get it.  The whole bit about him being a hostage was pointless, and I could almost hear some studio executive saying, It's a bomb already, finish it!Rip Torn must have been desperate to play the father, and it was really sad to see sweet Julie Hagerty appear in this, which is a million miles from Airplane!I did find a few minor chuckles, like the Backwards Man bit but overall it was about as fun as getting teeth pulled.   I found myself wondering that since Tom wrote and directed this if he isn't seriously off his rocker, and can't get over how projects like this were greenlighted and had a couple of million dollars spent on them.   "},{"Title":"Laugh Out Loud!","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Written, directed and starring Tom Green (Road Trip, Charlies Angels), Freddy Got Fingered was one of the most funniest, kindest, and most disliked film of 2001. Roger Ebert quoted, Tom Green made no attempt to entertain an audience.A 28 year old loser named Gord Brody (Tom Green) has failed miserabley at becoming an animator in Hollywood. He is forced to move back home with his parents, Jim (Rip Torn) who is an old grump, and Julie (Julie Hagerty) who is very over protective. It becomes a big problem because Gord and Jim are at eachothers throats. Gord ends up meeting the annoying Betty (Marisa Coughlin) who only cares about rockets and oral sex.I don't want to give any of the funny stuff away, but I can tell you that some of it is very insane.I found this movie to be funny but at the same time disgusting. "},{"Title":"Not to Be Missed!","Date":"18 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Freddy Got Fingered was discouraged by the critics and loved by certain audiences. Roger Ebert quoted, Tom Green made no attempt to entertain the audience. From my opinion, I was entertained completely from begining to end.A 28 year old loser named Gord Brody (Tom Green) has just failed miserabley at becoming an animator in Hollywood. He is forced to move back home with his annoying parents, his grumpy father Jim (Rip Torn) and his over protective mother Julie (Julie Hagerty). While staying with his parents, Gord and Jim are at eachothers throats. Jim apparently feels that Gord doesn't work hard enough and Julie feels that Jim is very abusive to Gord. Gord also meets the 10 times more annoying Betty (Marisa Coughlin) who is only intersted in oral sex and rockets.There is very sick humor in this movie and that includes Gord masturbating a horse and an elephant, delivering a baby by biting off the umbilical cord, gutting a deer and crawling inside, Gord wacking Betty with a bamboo stick to give her an orgasm, plus a lot more.I personally found this movie to be very funny but at the same time very stupid. If you are a fan of Tom Green, then you will appreciate this movie a lot more than others.Note   This movie was also written and directed by Tom GreenPG version available on DVD (A waste of time though.) "},{"Title":"better than you think","Date":"10 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  when i saw this movie, i wanted to laugh but i tried to hold back because i wasn't sure what i was laughing at. then i realized that it's just funny in a way that you've never seen before. i could do without the gross out humor. i don't watch gross out comedies. the humor lies in tom green's and rip torn's acting. backwards man, daddy would you like some sausage, zebras in america. all of these little silly scenes make this movie hilarious. it's like dumb and dumber but much funnier. and let's admit something a handicapped girl who loves to have her legs caned should not be funny. BUT IT IS! i recommend this to anyone with an open mind who can spot the really good scenes that make the rest of a movie worthwhile. "},{"Title":"Tom Green is a sick, sick man!","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  But also brilliant! I got really shocked with the opening horse scene and thought-s**t hes f*****g crazy! And he just kept the insane stuff coming all through the movie. And I must say that I think its pretty hilarious. Ive been admiring Tom ever since the first time I saw his show on MTV. He really is a character-one of a kind, I think. So he didnt let me down with this movie....he even is funnier and crazier than ever! 9/10 from me "},{"Title":"Not as bad as everyone says but...","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Let me start this by saying, I really dont like Tom Green.  I have never liked his show from the first time I saw his show on MTV.  That being said, if you dont like Tom Green then you are not going to like this movie.  I did chuckle a few times but that is about as far as it went.  This is the exact way I would always react to his show, a few chuckles, but more annoyance with Greens over the Top antics than anything. However, this is not even the reason that I didnt like this movie so much.  It just didnt have much of a plot.  It was more of an excuse for Green to do pretty much the same act and routines that he has done on his show with pretty much the same affect that it always had on me, I would lough for a few seconds then he would drag it out and it just become too much.  The plot is paper thin and the character development is even thinner. I really have no idea why Harlan William's character would even hang around with Green's which again is the same question I would always ask about Greens real life characters on his show. The only aspect that makes this movie watchable if you dont like Green is Rip Torn.  Torn's reacts to Greens antics the same way that I have always wished people would react to him, with violence.  Torn is the perfect foil for Green and his reactions to Green are really some of the funniest scenes I have seen in a comedy in a while.  Speaking other comedies, that is another aspect of the movie that I can give some credit too.  This movie knows that it is dumb and doesnt try to convince anyone otherwise unlike American Pie or countless other teen movies that try to show someone learning some kind of lesson in the end.  What you see is what you get with Green, seems loud, unlikable, obnoxious and down right cruel, which is the same exact image that you have when the movie is over. So in closing, the movie isn't really as terrible as most critics would have you believe, but it just doesnt do anything other than provide Green with an excuse to do the same stuff that he has been doing on MTV on the big screen. If you like Tom Green (which I dont) I give it an eight.  If you dont like Green, watch something else because I give it a 3 at best. "},{"Title":"Crazy!","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Some people here has written that you gotta have a low IQ to find this movie fun. I say this If you actually have any humor at all, and are not one of those boring snobs (u know what kind of people I mean if you're not one of them) this movie will make you laugh almost from the start to the end!It's the funniest movie and most crazy movie I've seen since Dumb & Dumber.So, enjoy! "},{"Title":"Hehe, very humourous","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Side splitting at times and then pretty sick and perverted at others. I have to say the sausage scene was one of the funniest! Obviously the elephant scene was one of the more perverted. My mum rented this film as she liked Tom Green, and she didn't think to read the title! Little did she know wot was in store.................!! "},{"Title":"Unfortunate mistake...","Date":"4 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" ...was to watch this. I gave it a 3 because there were some scenes that made me laugh madly, and there was certainly some serious walking on the edge with humour versus pure offense.That said, this movie is pretty much a waste of film, time and certainly money. Thankfully I didn't PAY to see this. Tom Green should be committed, or more so, Drew Barrymore should be, IF this man is anything in real life like he portrays himself in his shows and this movie. I'm not opposed to potty humour and offensive stuff... it's hard to offend me, but this movie didn't even seem capable of taking a break from the offensive long enough for the possibility of the plot to do something nice.I apologize only for giving it a 3... but I can't say I didn't laugh, sick as that makes me.Do yourself a favour and skip this one. "}{"Title":"Ideal for Tom Green fans and those not easily offended *spoilers*","Date":"15 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'm still trying to catch my breath and stop coughing after the non stop fits of laughter and hysterics this film has just put me through.  This is a very selective kind of humour though and fortunately Tom Green's antics seems to appeal to mine very strongly.*spoilers* Yes some of the stunts in this film are darned sick but in a world drowning in political correctness it's incredibly refreshing to see a lady in a wheelchair having her legs whipped hard!  It's all actors, no animals were harmed during the making of it, blah blah so harm was done.  It was just bloody hilarious! *end of spoilers*This is the Tom Green you've come to know and love from his TV shows, distilled and immortalised on a shiny DVD.  If you didnt like it, this film wasnt for you, simple as that.  If you like it then you're in for a real treat ). "},{"Title":"Yeah It's Evil.  But Is It Art?","Date":"7 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  My guitar wants to kill your mama. -Frank ZappaThere will be people who will murder me and shriek for my unborn children in the darkest night for mentioning the next two names in conjunction with a movie directed by Tom Green Robert Altman and Stanley Kubrick.  No, Freddy Got Fingered isn't as good as even the worst films by those two mavericks, but rather they share the single minded purpose of the director.  Robert Altman's films want to show you the many singular personalities of an ensemble cast.  Stanley Kubrick wants to use the entire universe as his play thing.  Tom Green?  Well, Tom Green just wants to kill you.  It's that simple.Freddy Got Fingered is pure, unadulterated malice.  Evil of a kind that could only be rivalled by the glint in the eye of Satan himself.  But it's not malice for any ethnic group, political party, or religion.  No, no.  Just YOU!  For eighty-seven minutes, Green beats you over the head relentlessly with shocking and perverted imagery.  Makes the movie going experience uncomfortable.  Makes your life a living hell.  Why?  For his own sick amusement.  But in a way, this is a refreshing kind of approach.  Tired am I of seeing movie after movie pander to my good side.  Cute little computer generated monsters, eleven year olds seeing dead people, other eleven year olds riding around on brooms, and hobbits, hobbits, hobbits.  One cannot live by Kate & Leopold alone.Sitting through this film the first time was one of the most mystifying experiences I've ever had in a theater.  At first I was disgusted, then offended, then bored, then all of that gave way to sheer dumbstruck awe.  He's really going to go all the way through with this, I thought.  Then many months later I decided to pick up the DVD to see what kind of mind operates like this.On the director's commentary, Green was very evasive as to what went into the film or why he settled on that story (or indeed any story).  But the clincher was the laugh track taken of the audience's reaction at the world premiere.  The laughing stopped twenty minutes in as it gave way to groans and uneasy silence.  Now his pleasure is yours too.  Listen to that audience squirm.Normally I would give this a star rating, but I don't know what the hell it is.  It's not so much a movie as it is a experiment. "},{"Title":"Comedy is subjective, sucking is not","Date":"29 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I understand that people have different senses of humour, and may laugh hysterically at something that I find pointless, disturbing or stupid. I am a Tom Green and Rip Torn fan, but they have managed to make the above statement obsolete. They have produced a comedy that is simply not funny. No...it's not. "},{"Title":"it's just a very good comedy","Date":"22 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I don't know why people grade comedies so low , they are comedies not war movies or so. This movie is a very good laugh for people of my generation. Tom green has done a very good job in my opinion . Sure older people won't agree with me . The movie has a lot of new stuff like when tom delivers the baby , now I have never seen someone do this like him in any movie , it's great stuff . And I would like to end by saying that we shouldn't grade comedies like we grade crime movies or drama , we don't mix meat with ice cream now do we I give this movie a 9 because the ending is a little bit weird and I hope to see a lot more movies like this "},{"Title":"Tom Green needs his own rubber room...........","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This one reminds me of when the South Park creators made their movie.  There is so much you can get away with on cable, so when they make a movie, all bets are off.  Green pushes it to the limit, with such scenes as handling a horse's private parts, cutting through an umbilical cord with his teeth, whacking a paralyzed woman's legs with a wooden stick, etc..etc.    Green's `humor' is on a different level than most.  D+ "},{"Title":"Potent Satire of America's Moral Hypocrisy","Date":"4 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Freddy Got Fingered is as violent a reaction to the overly-sensitive 90s as Pink Flamingos was to the idealistic 60s. It's not a great movie (many will hate it), but after the tepid Tomcats and Joe Dirt this is one gross-out comedy that's at once fearless and culturally resonant. Bringing his comic terrorism to the feature film medium, the terminally unhinged Tom Green continues his assault on middle-class complacency. He plays Gord, a 28-year-old man-child whose odd behaviour and dream of becoming an animator makes him the shame of his career-minded father (Rip Torn). When he lands a job at a cheese sandwich factory, his concentration is quickly deterred by his impulsive habits of skateboarding through malls and manually masturbating horses. Good taste is obviously a non-issue, but there's an underlying sweetness that prevents the humour from being very hurtful. Within the scatology, Green (who's also the director and co-writer) structures a fairly honest thesis about the fear of losing one's individuality to responsibility and adulthood. It's no accident that the film's most likeable character is Gord's sexually-deviant, wheelchair-bound girlfriend. For all its leaps of the insane imagination, a little of Freddy Got Fingered goes a long way. Its caustic energy occasionally becomes tiresome, but the movie provides the big laughs and jolts its title suggests without ever selling out or playing safe. "},{"Title":"The picture was in focus and the sound was clear.","Date":"2 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  And nothing else I say will probably be deemed relevant, since I'm over the target age of this movie (even though I've liked some of Tom Green's other work).  In fact, those technical virtues, plus one laugh near the end from a placard in a crowd scene, are the reason I didn't give this a vote of 1.As momma always said, if you can't say something nice...I'm fortunate I went to a press screening, so I didn't contribute to the box office take of this opus, which gives me a somewhat clear conscience. "},{"Title":"Boring boring chocolate... I mean boring!","Date":"17 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I watched this movie several years after it's release after I had heard the name come up on several occasions in friends discussions. I generally like Tom Green and the first bit of the movie I did enjoy. But it just never got anywhere. After a while the whole thing just dragged on in ways I never thought possible and after 30 minutes I just couldn't stand it anymore and stopped watching and did something different that was more entertaining like staring into the wall, or discuss serious business on the intertubes.It's not supposed to be a real movie I suppose, but I wouldn't have minded a little bit of something to want me to see where it was going. It's like with the Borat and Mr Bean movies. They work in short skits and sketches. But a full length movie is just more than I can bare. "},{"Title":"omg.....Tom Green at his best","Date":"2 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Most people do not like Tom Green...I rather say he is a GENIUS, he is a natural. most of my friends say he is an idiot, I think the way he actually produces himself to look this retarded on the screen shows an actual talent in which one needs to be either very intelligent to act like this, or my friends are right and he really is an idiot...nha...I have watched this movie over and over and I know he has talents....he can go from a scene where he is a doctor and delivers a baby(Saves the Day) to being on a farm molesting a horse without blinking, I think he is the funniest guy around when it comes to making himself look retarded...this movie has a very low rating, I gave it an 8, not because of the story line, but rather the funny parts that could have been boring if it weren't for Tom Green acting out the part. I don't recommend this movie to people who don't like gory scenes, cos this movie has a few gross parts, but I think if you think your Daddy would like some sausages, then give this movie a shot....and don't criticize it until you have watched it at least twice...then we can talk. ) "},{"Title":"Tom Green...a comment on 'this'","Date":"13 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Just take a moment and look at Tom's resume...really look...it reads like a 3rd rate criminal's rap sheet full of misdemeanors...Now, think about the 1st time you saw Tom and what your initial thoughts were...if like me, you were probably waiting on 'the joke'...which never came...this guy was really as horrible, stupid, insane, retarded, ridiculous, whatever...you pick the term you want to use...I mean it was obvious he had to be 'winging it', right?...there was no script...there couldn't be, because if there was, either Tom wasn't following it or had suddenly broken into the scene (like a streaker at a soccer game) and some producer said no, let it run...see where this guy's going...At any rate something was going on, because surely nobody would sign off on any of this or much less 'bankroll this guy's antics'...would they?...were you sooo out of date and sooo 'out of the loop' that you just didn't get it and in some strange, weird, stupid, retarded, insane, ridiculous, (etc, etc,) way, this guy was actually good?...no way!...waay? Well, it's still a mystery...even though Tom's apparent unbounding lathargic-energy now seems to be relegated to his own 'youtube-type', virally promoted website...You can't deny that Tom got someone to put up the cash to produce 'Freddie Got Fingered' and brought on some top notch talent along the way to play unbelievably demeaning parts...The funny thing here is that the movie really is funny as h-e-double-hockey (bamboo) sticks...even with Tom's sideways weirdness, the movie is hilarious...Rip Torn has always been one of my favorites (even his name is probably one of my favorites) and his part as the poor (bamm type) father is much better than Bamm's...a billion times better...He's actually great in this...the thing is that even though this movie would probably never have been made w/o Tom, it could have been (& probably would have been) a blockbuster comedy without him, but I guess (and I'm grasping here) that complete lethargic-energy type conflict is about the best way I can describe Tom's attempts...I don't get much of Tom's stuff, but I'm pretty sure he doesn't care at all 'who'...or even 'if' anyone does...This movie (although disjointed to the point of wondering if there was a script at all) is really funny and several moments will have anyone spewing milk through their nose, laughing...there is soo much on TV that we would all be better off - without, but somehow the world would be less without Tom in it...See this flick... "}{"Title":"I laughed, so somehow it works.","Date":"3 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" first of all I can understand how someone could love this movie but I can also understand how someone could totally hate it. This movie and especially its humor is really a matter of taste more than anything else.I wouldn't dare to call this movie a good one. In fact it's far from it. Most of the moments in the movie make absolutely no sense and there is almost absolutely no story present. Most of the humor is also very vulgar and just totally over-the-top gross and visual. But yet this movie also really made me laugh. So how could I, when being completely fair and unbiased, possible call this movie a bad one?I think that this movie is so bad that it becomes good. The jokes in the movie really aren't that strong but because they are delivered so incredibly over-the-top and stupid, it becomes truly an hilarious movie at times. Yes, so basically the movie is so stupid that it becomes a good one.The story is just totally weird and stupid and lacks some consistency. All of the events occurring in the movie don't really always feel connected. The comical situations are far from believable and they almost have nothing to do with the main story. In fact most of the time they are completely tasteless. Some, if not most people will probably not be able to handle this not so subtle sense of humor (also hence the low rating here). No it absolutely is not the most subtle and consistent comedy ever made.Tom Green is totally over-the-top and crazy. He is not always funny but his character makes the crazy story somehow work. Rip Torn also shows his comical talent and he perhaps plays the best part of the movie. All of the other characters are somewhat muddled in to the crazy story.A comedy that doesn't make any sense but because of that becomes quite hilarious to watch at times. Clearly not a movie for everyone's taste obviously though.6/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"hilarious","Date":"23 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  People say that this movie is one that pushes the envelope and its tasteless and gross, it may be all of those things, but that's what makes it hilarious. Freddy got fingered is the story of a struggling animator (gord) who decides to go to hollywoood to try and sell his drawings. The first time i saw this movie i laughed so hard this movie is one of the funniest movies i've ever seen.10/10 "},{"Title":"This movie is great","Date":"14 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I don't understand why people hate this movie so much. I think it's brilliant. Tom Green has made an imaginative and skilled debut as a director. Sure it's idiotic and random but really that's the point.  I don't think I have ever laughed as much at a movie in my life.   Ignore what people say and watch this film without pre- justice. If you get the DVD listen to Tom Greens commentary it's brilliant. "},{"Title":"watch this movie twice","Date":"2 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  i think this film will stand the test of time and eventually will be recognised for the very funny film that it is. when it originally came out the critics really slammed hell out of it (probably increasing its box office takings)i had to watch it twice, the first time i saw it i was in shock but felt compelled to watch it again which i did a few days later. second time around i really enjoyed the zany antics of tom green and co.some fans of more serious movies will never be able to enjoy this film give it a chance and watch it twice. how anyone cannot laugh at toms high energy anarchic comedy is beyond me. "},{"Title":"One of the funniest movies ever...","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  First of all let me begin by saying that I am Tom Green's biggest fan. He is with out a doubt my favorite comedian.  But with that said, there are parts of his humor at times that do tend to be tedious.  However, this movies was EXCELLENT!! I loved it... one of the funniest movies I've ever seen.  I especially liked the opening seen with the Bananas. Ha ha...seriously though, if you haven't seen it you should watch it.  I still don't know why everyone was so up in arms about it being so sexual, because it's not at all.  Though, I wouldn't suggest anyone under 15 should watch it for the few remarks and suggested comments that are in the film.So with that, I hope you'll consider watching this movie.  It's a laugh out loud riot! "},{"Title":"Note to Mr. Green  Stick with your day job","Date":"12 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The only reason why I'm not infuriated at Tom Green for this horrendous, aimless piece of garbage is I can't say I got what I didn't expect. Anyone who has seen his show knows that Green has a perverse, eccentric (to say the least) approach to humor.  And this is a perverse, eccentric movie. What's missing?  The laughs, of course.I've watched The Tom Green Show many times, and I almost always laugh out loud.  Green doesn't have any wit or structure behind his humor, but he's the kind of guy you have to laugh AT.  And when you do, you'll laugh big.  He's an acquired taste, and I've acquired it.This is Green's first starring role, an effort he also directed and co-wrote.  His past appearances have been in supporting roles in such films as Road Trip (where he was hilarious) and Charlie's Angels (where he was lame, but nowhere as lame as the overall film).  Perhaps, he should stick with the supporting roles.  When he actually tries to write a film with a story and characters, it's a total mess!  I'd rather watch him humiliate random civilians on his show.  I think what makes the humor on his show click is that there's variety, and you don't know what to expect.  A new surprise every week.  Like the Howard Stern Show.  In this film, he recycles the same crappy, brainless gags over and over again.  This includes verbal gags in which he repeats the same sentence two or more times.  It's funny at times, but in the long run it's just silly and dull.  There's also a disgusting array of humor involving masturbating animals (as in HUMANS masturbating the animals).  OK, so Eyes Wide Shut had to be cut for the R-rating because of a few explicit sex scenes, but this movie gets away with an R while displaying an elephant drowning a guy with his semen.Green does some very outrageous stuff on his show, the most notorious being a gag where he sucks milk out of a cow's udder.  Well, imagine that outrageousness...UNCENSORED!!  As if the stuff he got away with on TV wasn't shocking enough.  Some of these gags are downright sadistic.  One example is when he delivers a baby and cuts the umbelical cord with his teeth.  As a result, blood squirts all over the place.  Excuse me if I sound like a prude.  If things like that make you crack up--first of all, I won't ask, and second, this is the movie for you and you don't have to read another word of this review.  There's also a running gag involving a young boy getting violently injured.  As if there wasn't enough sadistic comedy, there's one where Harland Williams gets into a skateboarding accident and the bone from his knee pokes through his flesh.  Green comes over and licks the blood off his bloody knee, with a smile on his face.I don't mind watching a disturbing film, as long as it has a message, a moral, some sort of point.  And I don't mind dark comedy, as long as it's done right.  I believe almost anything can be made funny, with appropriate handling.  Just watch the graphically violent comedy Very Bad Things and you'll see what I mean.  Or even Fargo--a better example.  I was just glad the whole child abuse subplot in this movie wasn't taken to extremes--that's about the best compliment I can give.  There's a pretty funny scene where Green says F**k you to his foul-mouthed, pedophilic father (well-played by Rip Torn).  Dad takes it literally, pulls down his pants and wants him to do just that.  Twisted, but funny...in a twisted way.  So in case you're wondering if the title Freddy Got Fingered really means what you think it means--you guessed correctly.  And Freddy is not Green's character, it's the character of his brother, played by Eddie Kaye Thomas.And of course, we can't have a sadistic comedy without a touch of misogynism.  The only major female character is a nymphomaniac!!  I'm sure feminists everywhere will p**s in their panties when they watch Green's nympho love interest (Marisa Coughlan) continually insist on giving him a b**w job.I've seen dark, shocking, cynical humor before--but this is borderline Satanic, not to mention dull.  I guess Green's intention was to make this like a car accident  have the audience gasp at the horror, yet at the same time have their eyes glued to the scene anticipating what will happen next. Well, I don't know about the rest of you guys, but I could not wait for this movie to be over!  The only reason why I watched it straight-through was because I wanted to get it over with, so I won't have to continue watching it another time!  And it just got more and more exhausting by the minute.As I said, I like Tom Green--in general--and his show cracks me up, but writing, directing and acting in movies is not his forte.  This is simply mindless (I often exaggerate when I use that word, but this time I'm as literal as can be!!!) tripe that tries to excuse itself as low-brow, eccentric comedy.  I never said Green was a comic genius, but he does have a good deal of potential.  It's hard trying to dignify a man whose humor is capable of making Kindergarteners roll their eyes, but when I'm laughing--I'm laughing.  And I don't try to get too scientific about it. But this time around, I wasn't laughing.My score  3 (out of 10) "},{"Title":"ANYONE WHO LOVES TOM GREEN WILL LOVE THIS FLICK","Date":"7 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I rented this flick because I enjoyed The Tom Green Show and also I thought he was brilliant in Road Trip Boy was I glad I did! This movie had me laughing so hard I could hardly breathe!  He has a very gross and dark sense of humour so if that bothers you than this is definitely not the movie for you!I am really surprised he got away with half the stuff he did in this film! such as when his buddy played by harland broke his leg skateboarding and the bone was protruding thru the skin and Tom decided to get right down there and medicate it such as a dog would!Or the scene in which he delivers a baby for a near by pregnant woman! Enough  said about that one!Anyways he takes way too much flack from way too many critics who need to lighten up and take this movie for what it really is, and that is a very entertaining 2hrs. Anyways dvd lovers will enjoy the fact that there is a soundtrack available on this disc that allows you to be at the very first screening of this film and to hear the crowds reactions which I think is wild!  "},{"Title":"This movie is hilarious.","Date":"30 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I didn't expect this movie to be the best movie I've ever seen...I went into the movie expecting to laugh...and I did. I laughed so hard that I was almost falling out of my seat at the movie theater. I laughed especially hard in the restaurant when Tom talks on his cell phone and then plays violin up on the table. I like this movie a lot and even though people might think its gross, its funny. "},{"Title":"If you like Tom Green, you will like this movie ALOT","Date":"6 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"       Despite taking a bashing from critics worse than that of any cheap horror flick, includng the infamous bomb rating from Maltin and 0 Stars from Ebert, THIS IS A VERY FUNNY MOVIE.      If you think Tom Green is hilarious, like some of us, you will find this movie, for the most part, hilarious.  It's gags are very similar to his show, but going heavier than usual on the gross-out.  The plot is weak, but no weaker than a standard comedy; anyway, the plot doesn't matter.  Green comes at you nonstop with gags, lines, sausages, penises, and even fetuses.  This movie should be given a chance; in my opinion it is the best comedy so far this year, and it certainly is the most original. "},{"Title":"Expanded-and dirtier- Green TV show","Date":"8 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Okay, I admit that it was one of the stupidest movies I've ever seen...but then again that's the reason why I liked it so much.  Never in the history of entertainment has there been a personality like Tom Green, with the only one coming to mind that was even close would be Andy Kaufman.  Both of these comedians had a lot of their success in the world of TV only to flop critically in the film industry. It will be interesting to see what Green does in the future...is he really the next Andy? This movie is another extremely stupid excercise into the warped humor of Green.  In this semi-autobiographical movie Green allows some truly disgusting and unconventional images such as the genitalia of animals to fill the screen while following the story of Gord, a cartoonist trying to get his ideas published and live his dream.   For fans of Green's show, this is a must, with even more outrageous sights brought to the screen and a constant string of laughs.To others, it will be a rightfully offensive mess, but then again, that's probably what Green wanted. "}{"Title":"Absolutely Hilarious","Date":"30 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I can only ponder why many people thought this movie was utter garbage.  Perhaps they were expecting some sort of traditional movie with traditional humor.  Or maybe they know of Tom Green and so they were expecting something that was quite over the edge, but still following the conventional guidelines of a movie.  Freddy Got Fingered is way over the edge, though.  It smashes through boundaries which many of us think would never be broken, resulting in some of the funniest material in history.  Fortunately, certain people, like me, can enjoy the kind of humor that basically made the film.I'll admit that this wasn't so much of a movie, per se, as it was a 1-1/2 hour laugh-fest.  While not every single gag was side-splittingly funny, some of the gags were so unbelievably and hilariously inane that I couldn't sit down because I was laughing so hard.  The best example I can think of was the sausage/keyboard scene.  I dropped half my popcorn all over the floor because I couldn't control myself laughing.All I can say is that I feel sorry for anyone who didn't like this movie at least for its humor.  I'll bet a lot of people deep down thought that this movie was hilarious but were too embarrassed to admit that this kind of humor is funny and so dismissed it as infantile, sophomoric and crude.  I guess its their loss.  This was truly one of the funniest movies I've seen in a long time.  For its humor value alone, I give this movie a 10/10. "},{"Title":"Full of hilarious parts, but also drags","Date":"25 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I gave this movie a 7 because I haven't laughed so hard at any movie for quite some time, if ever.  Alot of the gags were similar to what Tom did on his TV show, but some were just entirely beyond that and I couldn't stop myself from laughing, even minutes later.  I saw in the paper and was appalled to see that the movie was given ZERO STARS.  I admit it's not one of the best movies I've ever seen, but it's certainly far better than many movies I've seen given 2 or more stars.  After we saw this movie, we were interviewed by some elderly (60+ yrs old) people, and after I gave my comment, I asked how they liked the movie.. I was surprised to hear them say that the older crowd loves it!?At any rate, this movie is DEFINITELY worth checking out. "},{"Title":"BEST SHOCKING COMEDY IN AGES!!","Date":"21 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Tom Green never fails to surprise me, and this movie kept my laughs going the whole time.  Forget all your morals, your brought up Christian beliefs and everything else you've had beaten into your head since grade 1 and you're left with one hell of a movie.  Those that do not like this movie are the people who have problems with immoral issues and sins, who I'm sure most of the reviewers are.  If you are open to a lot, and have time to sit down for a great dark comedy, this is for you.  I haven't seen this great of a comedy since Very Bad Things, which people also did not care for.  This movie even made someone behind me vomit, which made me happy to know that I am one twisted individual who enjoys sick humor and demented acting.  If you are one like me, then this movie is 100% for you.  If you are not, don't even bother going to see it because you'll just end up like everyone else and hate it completely.  To give one an example of the humor... I was the only one laughing in the entire theater.  Tom Green is at his best with Freddy Got Fingered.  10/10 stars. "},{"Title":"BEST SCENE IN ANY COMEDY I HAVE EVER SEEN !!","Date":"21 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  First off I know that is a bold statement but this movie has some of the funniest scenes you will ever see in a comedy. It also has a couple of scenes I wish I wouldn't have seen. This is by far one of the best comedies I have seen in the past 2 years. I have been reading every one else's comments and it seems that most off them most have left the movie theater after the first 10-12 minutes. I won't give it away but him on his first date with betty who trys and flips creamers for fun must times in a row she can are the best I have ever seen ...one in particular. Definitely worth seeing !!! "},{"Title":"Hilarious movie, but I doubt everyone will agree.","Date":"20 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The movie was so funny. I was laughing way too loud and slapping things like my knees and theatre seats. What I did notice is that this is far out there. Not everyone will like this movie.  If you have watched his show and loved it, then you will be okay. Things that were extreme in his show, like sawing a racoon in half, cross on over to the film. My bet people will be insulted and offended. They will not see the humour and be bored or shocked. Of course, I don't know who would see a movie called Freddy Got Fingered if they don't have a sense of humour. And if they don't like Tom Green. I've been there since the beginning on Rogers Community 22 in Ottawa, and I am so happy for all of his success. I truly find this movie to be amazingly hilarious. It is already panned by critics, much like other shocking movies such as Pink Flamingos (now a classic - that I do not really enjoy sitting through). Alright, hate me or love me, I'm done so be happy... D A N "},{"Title":"Sick, Twisted, F**ked up...I LOVED IT!!!!","Date":"20 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Well, its crude and its rude, and thats what makes it so great!  Those of you high and mighty Siskel and Ebert types may as well forget about seeing this movie.  For those of you looking for some gross and twisted humour - this movie is for you!!!  Don't take Freddy too seriously, you're not meant to, its just gross fun with a little bit of a story lurking underneath (relationships with parents, etc.). "},{"Title":"Hilarious!","Date":"25 September 2011","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I don't care what anybody says, this movie is funny. Tom Green has made one of the funniest movies I can recall with Freddy Got Fingered. The best comedies are just utter nonsense and sketches rolled up into one big ball. Personally, I think Tom Green is a comic genius, and no matter what he does, it's funny. I laughed the whole way through this movie. The Razzies gave him the worst actor award for this movie, but I could care less how bad his acting was, it only contributed to the nonsense even more. Furthermore, the movie doesn't pretend to be anything other than what it is. The A-list supporting cast is evidence that they too thought this script was funny. This movie is guaranteed to make you laugh out loud! "},{"Title":"A story of non-conformism - only for those who can understand","Date":"28 September 2009","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" It is interesting that what was perfectly acceptable for Borat, Austin Powers, American Pie and Don't Mess with the Zohan, provoked furious reactions for this movie.Vulgarities and obscenities, which this movie is so rich with, seem to distract most people from the fact that the story revolves around the same eternal motives, like the conflict of the fathers and children, pure unconditional love (even expressed as I just wanna suck your d*k), pursuing one's dream despite the odds.There is no way many people can understand this. The movie is hysterically funny, although not the funniest one I have seen. But it's not just another gross-out comedy. "},{"Title":"The Holy Grail of Funny","Date":"21 April 2009","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Before you look at the rating this got on IMDb realize it's a Tom Green movie, you expect what is to come. The bad reviews are from people who don't get this comedy and only watched the movie because they were forced, however, if you like the Tom Green Show or just his style of comedy, than this will be a treat. Its full of random and hilarious scenes that are both original and well placed. This is one of the few movies that I actually cried laughing so hard at multiple parts. Even if you don't like the Tom Green Show still give this movie a try, but don't expect smart humor like on Frasier, but more along the lines of Family Guy. In Conclusion Freddy Got Fingered is a timeless classic (in my opinion) and will not soon be forgotten by Tom Green fans. "},{"Title":"Definitely funny, wont win any awards...","Date":"28 February 2009","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I saw this movie on cable, not being the biggest tom green fan i didn't expect much, not much at all. I was surprised though. It was very very funny. To this day i still watch the DVD and laugh. I definitely appreciate good film, but to just relax and watch a goofy movie this is perfect! Rip Torn's character (the father)is hysterical. He has so many funny lines. Again this isn't an Oscar winning film, but its funny and feature some nice cameos from Anthony Michael Hall, Rip Torn, and Harland Williams as well as Drew Barrymore! Anyways, Most people i watch it with just look at me like I'm an idiot because i laugh so hard. But it is humorous! "}{"Title":"Tom Green is just.... a #@!$%& genius!","Date":"2 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie is so unbelievable good. The storyline is like S#!T, but the movie is so...so funny, It's idiotic, but brilliant at the same time.Tom Green got the 'Golden Raspberry Award', the awards for the ugliest movie of the year, but he was proud of it. Please watch this movie when your stoned or something, is funny as hell.I laughed my lungs out of my body when he was hit by a truck, You have to get inside the animal Gord, Get inside the animal. It's just brilliant, see this movie P....When I was like eleven years old I saw this movie for the first time, It's for young and old. Haha, have fun you guys! "},{"Title":"The funniest movie ever made!","Date":"7 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is definitely, by far the best comedy I have ever seen. This is a movie that can be watched over and over again and still make you laugh. The first time I saw it I near wet myself and I tell you I keep going back for me. Every time the facials expressions, the comments, the stupid walks, they just make you laugh. Think how funny it would be to actually meet this guy. It would be hard to have a conversation with him. Though, he may offer you some sausages or cheese sandwiches, if available. This is a definite must see. A definite must own. It was bought for me as a present and I'm thinking of buying it for all the oldies and hoff-toffs I know that need to chill and have a good laugh... "},{"Title":"Now I Understand","Date":"24 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Tonight, I saw Freddy Got Fingered on YouTube. After viewing the film, I realized how on-the-money these critics are about it. It's a mostly bad comedy, probably only fully enjoyable to die-hard fans of Tom Green, who can be funny, but only in small parts. He is mostly unfunny and annoying here.However, there were some moments that made me laugh, mostly those that were in the commercials, such as the backwards dance, the sausage song, the cheese helmet, the opening (that is, until Tom out of nowhere plays with a horse's penis) and a random cameo by Shaq. But these are overshadowed by gross gags that are just not funny and completely unnecessary. Was there really a need for scenes of cutting open a deer, licking a open wound, swinging a baby by its umbilical cord (which by the way, Green cuts with his teeth), a laugh-less running gag about a little boy being injured, and shooting his maniac father (Rip Torn) with elephant semen? I don't think so. The film's title, by the way, concerns Green's character Gord framing his father for molesting his brother, Freddy, during a therapy section. Could someone tell me how is this funny? If anything, these scenes reveal how mentally whacked Green is.What amazes me, like the many other critics, is that Fingered was greenlighted by Fox, with nationwide ad campaigns and in many theaters while a funny silly comedy like Kung Pow was treated like dirt.Freddy Got Fingered could have been a hilarious dumb comedy, but it ends up being just DUMB, and not in a good way. I'm a fan of blissfully silly comedies, but this movie had the opportunity to be funny, and it blew it.Too bad. "},{"Title":"Incredible","Date":"26 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie is brilliant, I don't get while all people is voting it bad. Its about a carton drawer who lives with his parents 28 years old. And he moves to Los Angeles from Portland to work on a cheese factory, and desperately trying to make an own carton show. For an example whats not funny about moving his parents house to Pakistan, while his dad is asleep, jerk of an elephant, tells the family psychologist that his father fingers his little brother. One of the greatest comedy's i have ever seen. The acting is really good to, many competent actors such as Tom Green, Rip Torn among others. If you like Tom Green's works, you'll laugh your ass of. More Tom Green to the people! "},{"Title":"Often mis-understood","Date":"4 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Not since Citizen Kane has a movie been written, directed, and starred in while being hated for all the wrong reasons. If you look at the voting for the film the majority (52%) of its votes are either 10 or 1. That statistic shows just how this movie works. You either love it, or hate it. If you get Tom Green's comedy and think he's a genius, you'll love this movie. If you think he's disgusting, doesn't know when to quit, etc. then you'll hate it.That being said, this movie really is fantastic. Watch it once and be disgusted, curse Tom Green for making a piece of garbage with a stupid plot and disgusting scenes. Then watch it again and let go of any expectations. Don't look for a plot, because the plot is stupid. Just enjoy the movie as a serious of hilarious acts loosely related. Once it grows on you it'll be an instant classic.JAPAN 4!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Take your date - (your future wife) - to this romantic comedy","Date":"30 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Go to the cinema to see this wonderful romantic comedy! I guarantee you - you will be surprised time and time again by the amount of wonderful spots where you'll feel the urge to meet lips with your lady of the evening.As you watch this movie, Freddy got Fingered, and it's scenes unfold, you will feel the romance like a magnet (a romantic mouth-magnet) pulling your mouths together for an unavoidable smooch - of the juicy kind.And as your tongue writhes and rotates sensitively around her mouth cavity, dancing beautifully from tooth to tooth in mucus and food from meals long past, and you're indeed - indeed I say - having the most romantic moment of your life, you'll notice that you - you're not alone! From all over the theatre you'll hear the romantic sounds of spit  mixing, and you'll look up only to see everyone's - kissing - while the movie flickers by.Even the doorman, who took your tickets - your tickets of past - is kissing. Don't forget this young man, because it will be your Experience of a lifetime. Don't forget the Doorman.If you want a wife, watch this movie.  "},{"Title":"tears of laughter","Date":"7 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie made me laugh so god damn hard. For all your pussy whipped whiners out there get a life. You knew exactly what to expect from Tom Green so go cry me a river so I can push you into it. The first time i saw this movie I watched it 3 times in one week. Not bad...it kept me laughing even though I already knew the jokes. The way Tom Green acts and sound and looks when he is doing something funy makes me laugh on it's own. "},{"Title":"one of my favorite comedies of all time","Date":"23 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I've had the dvd for quite a while now, and I still watch if from time to time.  This, to me, is a perfect movie, I gave it a 10 and I'm not the kind of person that gives 10 to every movie.  Everything is funny in the movie, and I can really relate to Gord, because i'm like him in many ways.    I don't know why people were so shocked and call it shocking humor, there was absolutely nothing shocking about the movie, it was just funny.  The only things that can shock me are toilet humor and drug jokes, and there are none in the movie. That's why it's perfect.  Everything is perfect in the movie, for example, Betty.  She's incredibly cute, she always wants to give oral sex, and you can beat her with a bamboo stick and she will enjoy it, now that to me is a perfect woman. I don't really understand how anyone can not like the movie, but judging from the reviews and imdb rating, i'm one of the few who can really appreciate Tom Green for what he is.  I think most people who like tom green like him for the stupid things he does, but I like him because I can totally relate to him and I think that's what sets apart those who like only his show and those like me who like everything he does because they think like him. I know that i don't know him, and can't really know how he thinks, but I know I understand what he does perfectly.  So, that probably means that the movie is not for everyone, but for anybody that gets it, it's one the greatest comedies they've seen. "},{"Title":"Crazy, messed up, disturbing.","Date":"24 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Wot's even more crazy and messed up is the fact i actually laughed at this film! There is no plot whatsoever, yet you can happily sit through this movie and p**s your panties.Tom Green may well need some serious help, i think he has issues, but then again so must I for liking it!Alot of people bash this film, but it's well worth a watch with your mates on a drunken saturday night! "},{"Title":"Why is this movie on the bottom 100 list.","Date":"7 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I mean this movie was bad but the bottom 75 give me a break.  I have seen worst movies than this a lot worse for example Killjoy, Ancient Evil scream of the Mummy, Raptor, Food of the Gods 2, Terror Toons, Uncle Sam, Boa, Rats night of Terror and many many more.  I think you get the point but actually i found this movie Freakin funny like the part were Gordie gets inside that animal and the part were his friend crashes on his skate board.  These people were not fare to Freddy.I do not know if you like this stuff but if you do do not let negative comments get in your way from watching this masterpiece.  If you understand Tom Green humer then you will probably laugh your head off but if you do not understand Tom Green humer then do not waste your time.   "}{"Title":"funny, but kind of stupid","Date":"1 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  this movie was my favorite Tom Green movie because, it was funny, it had a hilarious plot, being a teenager, even if i am a girl, i like the crude humor and all that in this movie, because its funny, i love funny movies and Tom Green, he may be kind of insane but he makes it hilarious and thats why i gave this movie an 8/10  "},{"Title":"Weeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee!","Date":"21 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I think most people I've met hate this film. When I saw this in the theatre, most of the seats were full at the beginning of the film. By the end of the film most of the seats were empty. I think the people who walked out on the film didn't seem to understand the fact that this movie is a comedy.I liked this movie. It made me laugh until my sides hurt. In fact it made me laugh so much that I rate it a 10 out of 10. If you have a goofy sense of humor and you don't take life too seriously, then you may like it too. "},{"Title":"WOW!","Date":"21 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  i dont know whats wrong with me, despite the horrible reviews and the so few good comments ive heard about this movie, it is serriouslly the funniest movie i have ever seen. Some like it hot has nothing on freddy got fingered. i suggest seeing it as soon as possible, dont let everyone elses opinion stop you from making y our own. see the movie, if youre not anal retentive; youll laugh a lot. "},{"Title":"Best comedy EVER","Date":"20 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Ok, you've seen what the critics say about this movie but do you usually agree with critics? If the answer is yes then stop reading now. If you're still here then you agree with that there are a lot of unoriginal movies out there and not that many innovating ones. I can promise you that you wont be unaffected after seeing this movie, it's so offensive and funny so either you love it or hate it. Me, I say it's the best comedy ever, maybe the best movie ever depending on what you're looking for. Trust me, if you're not 30+, see this one.  "},{"Title":"This is THE funniest movie ever!!","Date":"16 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Oh man i just couldn't stop laughing!! This movie is so god damn funny that i don't know what to do! Look daddy, i'm a farmer!! Looooooool!!!!! a sane person CAN'T dislike this movie! "},{"Title":"The Funniest Movie Ever Made","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  First off, everyone knows Tom Green as the annoying but hilarious talk show host on the popular MTV series The Tom Green Show. And in Freddy Got Fingered he's pretty much the same character. But this movie is really funny. It's about a man named Gord Brody (Green) who wants to sell is animations to a company and have a TV series made. Like Tom says on the commentary of the DVD there are a lot of misunderstandings, like an episode of Three's Company. There's not a lot that can be said about the movie except that it's funny and Tom Green should win an Oscar for his performance. Watch this movie if you want to laugh. I give it a 10/10. "},{"Title":"The most innovative and genius comedy of the year.","Date":"11 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Yes, I know, I know.  Its gross.  Its disturbing.  Its childish.Its supposed to be.  What it appears most people do not understand is that it is trying to be the worst movie you have ever seen.  Apparently it has succeeded.Freddy Got Fingered capitalizes off of the humor that makes you laugh the exact moment it happens, and then you make yourself stop because you don't want anybody to know that you are laughing at it.  Either it is so elementary that you think you are much too educated to even try to laugh at it, or you feel guilty for laughing at a kid who falls and breaks his face on the side of a car.  Children watching _Texas Chainsaw Massacre_Let yourself go for crying out loud!The philosophy behind this film is wonderful.  Much like Gordy immediately wastes the $1 million dollars he gets for his animations, Tom Green went to great lengths to create the most absurdly expensive (budget permitting) film he could.  You are left in awe wondering how he could come up with something like moving part of his house to Pakistan and why he would even bother to do that.  Where did he get an elephant and why would he even bother to put it in the movie?  And when you ask that, Tom Green can put one more notch on his success belt.Think of the Sex Pistols' EMI fiasco.Precisely.It is a comedy.  But not for the larger audience.  It is a comedy for Tom Green and anyone who will let themselves go enough to laugh at the film and at the people they watch the film with.  And you know what?  It works.Oh, and for the record, I hated the Tom Green show. "},{"Title":"Genius! Utter Hilarity!","Date":"3 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a great film and no one is going to tell me otherwise. I laughed all the way through this film-watching it for 7th time. I find Tom Green Hilarious! And his use of shock value and his insaneness make him a brilliant comedian.He is going over the top on grossness to satirize how stupid films have become these days, by having gross scenes for no reason except to be gross.The first half hour-seems to be the most gross, with about 5 disgusting scenes, then the second half-hour is Tom Green doing his crazy antics like on the TV show. (Backwards man, Sausage Song, The Fancy Restaurant etc)The last 20 min seem to be a mixture of the two, with some extra bits of surprise humour from guest stars, to signs being held up (you'll know wat i mean if u seen it)I recommend everyone sees the film, (I saw it first when i waz 14 and watched it with my dad) And I don't think it's really as gross as everyone says it is (although i'm probably decensitized to grossness lol)So to some it up, if ur a fan of wacky, gross or Tom Green humour, you'll enjoy this movie- if ur not, stay away from it and don't see it if you know you'll hate it. "},{"Title":"The greatest film ever made","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film was soooo funny it make me P*ss myself! I dont know how any one can say there was no story to the film because there was obviously a story of the relationship between father and son (and animals)and the difficulties of life. Huh Also this film was not made for a load of old biddies, so why are old people going to see it when they know they wont like it!!??????? Tom green is the greatest and i hope he makes more films of this amazing standard. "},{"Title":"Pinnacle of strange and modern comedy","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film deserves an entirely new genre in film. It is absolutley insane and disgusting, but its so funny it doesnt matter. This is the perfect movie for the new generation and is the epitamy of Tom Green humor. It deserves much more recognition that it got, not because of its great acting or writing or directing, but it incredible balls for making a movie that crazy and wild. Kudos to Tom Green and everyone involved. 10/10 "}{"Title":"Funny Funny Funny","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is NOT anywhere near the worst film of all time. NOT ANYWHERE NEAR. It is at least 10 levels above anything that Ed Murphy has kicked out over the lsat five years. It will become a cult classic in England as we have a sense of humour in this country, unlike some of the stuffy woffpots on this thing. Sure the child molestation bit was just plain wrong, but there is alot of funny stuff in here. Like it or not. "},{"Title":"he's a CHI-I-I-I-ILD MOLESTER!!!","Date":"13 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Freddie Got Fingered is a true work of genius.  I wasn't even that big of a Tom Green fan before I saw this movie.  It is creative, funny as hell, and epic, to say the least.  I rank this movie along side Stripes, The Jerk, and the South Park movie as classics of popculture - the best of the best. This movie is filled end to end with original ideas and jokes nobody else could have thought of.  It has an excellent sound track and Marisa Coughlin stands out as possibly the best girlfriend a man could ever ask for. I've watched Freddie Got Fingered 10 times in the last month and a half and it never stops being funny.  This movie shines, in my opinion, as the pinnacle of Canadian/American humor.I'M SEXY!!  I'M A SEXY BOY!! "},{"Title":"Wicked fun!","Date":"24 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This kind of film only comes once a decade! Tom Green is without a doubt headed for big thngs, and in this superb film he showcases his excellent comic abilities! Adam Sandler never made me laugh this hard, and Green makes Jim carrey look boring! The plot centers around a young man who dreams of being an animator, and refuses to settle for anything less! Along the way he gets into all kinds of trouble, which is just an excuse for Green to show off his superb comic ability - not that I am complaining! This film is definately not for kids, but if you want a film that will have you in stitches almost every minute along the way, this is for you! "},{"Title":"Tom Green is da man!!","Date":"7 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I only have one word to say about Freddy Got Fingered.  Awesome!  I couldn't stop laughing at this movie.  It was great from beginning to end.  I couldn't believe all the horrible reviews it got from all the top critics out there in America.  I like Tom Green.  He was funny in The Tom Green Show and Road Trip.  Tom does some weird things in the movie that you have probably never seen in his show or ever.  But, no matter what, this movie is funny.  For all you Tom Green fans out there, go see this movie.  You've never seen anything like it before.  Go Tom Green! A 12/13 *****1/2 (out of ****** stars) "},{"Title":"may be the most unique film you will ever see.","Date":"20 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I consider this film to be beyond verbal description, but here goes. Freddy Got Fingered is one of the most unusual films I have ever seen. Not necessarily for its endless gross-out humor, but the way the gross out humor dovetails into a heartfelt story about a guy who's desperate for his father's attention. Gordy, our uh... hero, played by Tom Greene (who thankfully just acts like himself instead of trying to create a character), is a 28 yr. old slacker, a little kid living in the body of an adult. He's trying to impress dad in his own way and failing miserably. You can tell that after years of emotional neglect Gordy's resorted to shock value, the only thing that seems to get the old man's attention. His aberrant behavior is not confined to family situations either. Gordy figures acting like a complete idiot is the only thing that can get anyone's attention. Most of the time he's right. As he tries to make his shallow Hollywood dream come true, forms a relationship with an orally romantic paraplegic woman, and basically struggles to interact, he has to punctuate every moment with some bizarre twist in order to maintain control. Naturally, the consequences are always painfully funny. I found this movie to be a lot like one of my favorite shows of all time Chris Elliot's GET A LIFE. In fact FGF could be considered the GET A LIFE movie. As director, Tom Greene surrounded himself with solid actors (especially Rip Torn), a great DP, a great editor and a truly ingenious music supervisor- nearly every scene has a complimentary song playing underneath which amps the comedy up to eleven. And he wisely chose to give these people free rein to ply their craft too, instead of taking the hands-on role of director too seriously. This marriage of off-the-wall and by-the-books pays off. Don't get me wrong, FREDDY GOT FINGERED is not perfect. But it is surprisingly engaging and at moments, poignant. We actually feel for Gordy despite ourselves (and him). And we almost understand him resorting to such desperate measures as accusing his father of fingering his younger brother, Freddy (in case you were wondering where the title came from), jacking off horses and cutting a newborn's umbilical cord with his teeth. Oddly, there don't seem to be any cases where the shocking humor seems forced. In Gordy's world it all makes sense. And as visitors to Gordy's world, it makes sense to us. When I saw that this movie only had a 3.9 rating I had to give it a 10. It's obviously been misunderstood, most likely by Tom Greene fans who got more traditional story than they wanted, and traditional story fans who got more Tom Greene than they wanted. Being neither a fan of Tom Greene nor traditional story, I was pleasantly surprised by FREDDY GOT FINGERED. Unlike most of the other films I have seen this year, it is the only one that felt like a one of a kind experience. And one that can never be duplicated, for better or worse. "},{"Title":"Call me a city slicker, but there are things about horses in this movie I *NEVER* needed to know..","Date":"31 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A year or two ago, I reviewed Scary Movie.  In that review, I innocently asked, Holy living *&^%*!!!  How the ^%$&^% bad are gross-out movies going to have to get after this piece of )(*&(*???Well, here I am in the middle of Freddy Got Fingered, seriously debating whether I should subject myself to the rest of it.  Man, am I getting the answer I deserve.I am SO sorry. "},{"Title":"One of the Best Comedy Movies!!","Date":"20 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is one of the Best Comedy Movies, I've ever seen, Tom Green delivers laugh after laugh by just being himself. Rip Torn as his father is excellent. Some people tend to think that Tom Green is very rude, and that his jokes aren't funny, but isn't this the same impression Andy Kaufman caused?  "},{"Title":"Probably the funniest film ever.","Date":"7 September 2007","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This film right from the start is just comic genius, Tom Green has a whole movie just being Tom Green, most of the best parts shared between him and his dad, and every time you think you are getting used to the film he just does something that makes it even better.One of the few comedies this funny that doesn't even rely on sex to get in the laughs Tom Green is a riot. I have not seen many comedies since that give such freedom for the character just to be funny. This does mean the story is not the most in depth but that if you like this kind of thing that really does not matter.Watch this movie. "},{"Title":"Potentially the funniest film I've ever seen...","Date":"28 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I was bored one night in front of TV and saw this was on and it got id only ever seen it in rental stores but never heard anyone speak about it. I laughed so hard throughout the movie that at one point i was honestly crying which then led to me choking, this film is comic genius. The low rating means Nothing, people who rated this low are too serious and need to see this film for what it is brilliant and mindless comedy and stop looking for bad acting or stupidity to criticize its there to make you laugh not get angry. Anyway if you want to see Tom Green mess about and deliver some of the funniest and stupidest lines ever watch this, it makes perfect laugh out loud comedy! "},{"Title":"I was rolling on the floor in hysterics","Date":"15 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This film is total comic genius. And you either love it or you hate it,I loved it. It was 100% pure Tom Green. From 'Look, Daddy I found a treasure' to ' Daddy would you like some sausage.' I would recommend this film to anyone who needs cheering up, as it did to me no end.I would put this film certainly in my top 10. It from my point of view, has a cult status. As I get older and look back on my teens I will always remember this zany and downright weird film. Rich with catchphrases, I used them for weeks afterwards, I just wish I saw this at the cinema.'I'm a 28 year old man I can have a chicken sandwich if I want!' "}{"Title":"This film saved my life","Date":"3 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Freddy Got Fingered is a film that will grip you by the soul and delve into the very core of your being, force you to explore every inch of your inner psyche and provoke you to reevaluate every aspect of your life. This film fearlessly gives the most honest, gritty portrayal of the full range of emotion in the history of cinema--not only that, Freddy Got Fingered moves you, it gives you hope. It is a film about friendship and the strength of character, about going up against what is wrong and unfair and coming out on top with nothing but determination, guts, and a pinch of luck.Freddy Got Fingered is a simple film with an everlasting message. Prepare to be moved. "},{"Title":"the best movie ever made","Date":"29 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I don't wanna say much about this film.. as a film critic myself all I have to say is that I wish all those saying that this film is crap etc etc go to a movie theater and see this film for the first time. I m gonna laugh watching them running out of the cinema. Tom Green is genius, in my language he is 'kafros'. Yes, its a Greek word! It is a film that u will remember either u like it or not. Tom Green is the best comedian of our time. Why do u Americans hate tom green so much? You have the worst and the greatest ass... president of all time and u blame tom green? ha-ha c ya ) oh and also i believe that u all need mental help. "},{"Title":"Two drink minimun","Date":"26 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" OK, first of all, I can speak from experience (exeperience checked by spell checker) that Freddy Got Fingered is the FUNNIEST FILM EVER if you're .08% over the the California DUI offense intoxication level. Aside from Tom Green being the main comedic attraction, it's a great film nonetheless especially due to Rip Torn being Tom Green's antithesis (is that really a word?) It is important to realize that the DUI laws relate to the blood-alcohol level AT THE TIME OF DRIVING - not at the time of the test; there may be a significant difference, not to mention difficulties of proof. It is also important to understand that tests - particularly breath tests - are unreliable and susceptible to attack by an attorney who is knowledgeable in the science of blood-alcohol analysis. On that note, Betty RULES, and Freddy Got Fingered is the FUNNIEST FILM EVER!!! "},{"Title":"Hilarious movie that requires non-mainstream sense of humor","Date":"23 December 2004","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Highly recommend this movie if you are one of the few people out there with a truly sick sense of humor. This movie definitely fits the bill. It doesn't follow the typical Hollywood formula. You can't predict what the next punchline or gag is going to be. And the content is truly sick and twisted. One of the more enjoyable aspects of the film is that you know that the mainstream isn't going to get it, and they won't understand it. This is evidenced by most of the reviews of this movie. Congratulations are in order to Tom Green for getting it made in the first place. I'm constantly searching for the next Freddie got Fingered. "},{"Title":"a comedy classic","Date":"6 September 2003","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Every once in a while there is a movie that needs time to be fully appreciated. I think this movie is one of them.There is a difference between a good movie and a fun movie, sure there are lots of good movies that are fun to watch for example I think the godfhater is a pretty fun movie to watch. but on the other hand there are those so called classics like casablanca,citizen kane and gone with the wind, most of the time those movies are extremely dated but they are called good movies Freddy got Fingered,on the other hand, is a movie that only tries to deliver fun to people ,Tom green never had the idea to make a good movie.And I think this movie is extremely fun to watch, even the people who really hate this movie must admit that they weren`t bored anytime during the movie and thats important in a good comedy. I also have the idea that a lot of people that are giving negative reviews never saw this movie.I think that if your open minded and willing to see a new kind of movie you will really appreciate this movie. This is the future of comedy wheiter you like it or not "},{"Title":"One of my all time favourites.","Date":"12 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I had seen parts of The Tom Green show, and I thought it was hilarious. When I heard he had starred in and directed a film, I though 'Man, I have to see this movie!'. Well, eventually I had bought it, and, o h . . m y . . g o d.. . AMAZING! The film is one non-stop laugh. Rip Torn and Tom Green are brilliant. The film has a lot of bad language and gross scenes, GREAT! This is one of those films you either love or hate. If you like silly jokes and things being taken OTT, then your sure to love this film, otherwise, you'll hate it.Rating 10/10 "},{"Title":"This movie is so funny","Date":"20 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Seriously, this movie is great.The first 10 mins are so funny.This is comedy at it's best.There is nothing lame about this movie.Tom Green is normally funny but he is hilarious here.If you like Tom Green you will find this funny.If you dislike Tom Green you will find this funny.1000% better than Gangs of NYC "},{"Title":"Smart!","Date":"16 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Everybody says this movie is stupid and has nothing to say. I for one think its not only a good comedy that made me laugh but it's also a brilliant movie with a good message. It shows the fight of the main character between him and not only his father but himself. Finding a true meaning to his life. Being an animator and succeeding with his drawings or giving everything up and work in a cheese sandwich factory like everybody else around him expects. If u haven't seen this movie yet go rent it. Maybe you'll find it dumb and horrible like everyone but maybe you'll catch that spark of brilliance thats part of this movie.  "},{"Title":"Y'all just don't get it!","Date":"6 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Forget about any and all scenes involving animals (there isn't THAT many of them) and babies being swung from umbilical chords. HERE are the scenes you should focus on and laugh, laugh for goodness sake.1) Do you want to f*** me?2) When does this f****** movie end?3) Listen to my hooves!And there's more, but you have to see the movie. Go rent or buy it now, now, now. "},{"Title":"What the heck?? Left me speechless!","Date":"4 September 2009","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The cover of this movie, makes it sound disgusting and notorious for being so. So I decided to rent it, and as I viewed it, I was left speechless. I really have no idea what I watched. I have no idea what it was supposed to be. But the sad thing is, I kind of liked it. A scene in the shower make me chuckle every time I think of it, as does a few other scenes. I mean...why would anyone make this movie? Haha. It's rude, it is crude, it's absurd, it's outrageous, it's disgusting, it's offensive, and that is why I liked it. I was almost appalled at some of the scenes in the movie, and I want to give Tom Green a high five for that, I watch the most offensive movies ever, and some of this made me say...woah. The storyline is pretty weak, but it is entertaining enough to entertain. Watch ONLY if you like offensive humor, and when I say offensive, I mean OFFENSIVE. "}{"Title":"awesome","Date":"22 August 2006","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The best Damn movie I've ever seen! the basic point of the movie is i guess Freddy trying to get his cartoons sold but the movie doesn't really have a point so its pretty easy to follow if your wasted and don't want to think.IF you do not like this movie you can lick my balls. Freddy got fingered is the least intelligent, weirdest, sickest, most awesome movie i have ever seen. YOU STUPID BEAVER! YOU STUPID BEAVER!!!!!!!!! you'll get that if you see the movie. bottom line is it doesn't matter who you are you've got to see this movie.One more thing DO NOT i say again DO NOt see this movie alone or with a boring person or you will get little to no enjoyment out of this movie. In fact it would be better if you where stoned or drunk that would make the funniest parts in the movie just that much better. So go on see Freddy got fingered right now. "},{"Title":"Inspirational.","Date":"22 June 2006","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie was excellent--it truly gave me the ability to believe again. Before watching Freddie got Fingered, I was a worthless jobless loser. Now, I have a mansion and dietary supplements. Beautifully well directed scenes, such as Horse's penis and Swinging babies around make the movie, however less important scenes such as Leg snapped in half add a subtle bit of realism to the movie. One first watch, it may appear to be a vulgar film--but on secondary viewing, it becomes apparent that most of the violence is essential to the telling of this story. This is a life changing feel good movie that will leave you feeling inspired--and it will definitely motivate you for years to come.Freddie Got Fingered changed my life--and it will change yours to! RENT IT TODAY! YOU WILL BE LIVING IN A MANSION WITH DIETARY SUPPLEMENT BY NEXT WEEK! "},{"Title":"Think of it as a parody on Hollywood toiler humor comedies...","Date":"11 July 2006","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The first time I saw this movie I thought it sucked. I admit it. I just didn't get it. Anyway, somehow I got to see it for the second time, and the second time I saw it I finally started to understand the humor of it (maybe because I was tipsy...-) and I ended up laughing my lungs out. This is one of the funniest movies I have ever seen, no doubt about it. Also, Tom Green has definitely invented some kind of new nonsense humor here, the kind I have never seen before. I have seen this movie at least 6 times and every time I watch it I laugh, it does'nt get boring... If you don't like the movie the first time you see it, I would recommend you to give it a second try. Also, it might help if you are NOT sober when you watch it. It takes a while to realize what is funny about it. To summarize, in my opinion this movie is truly one of a kind. "},{"Title":"People need a sense of humor.","Date":"10 November 2001","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Okay first off there are a lot of people that don't have a COMPLETE sense of humor. Granted. THis movie takes the extremes of comedy and pushes it a little bit further that it was, and on that note you must realize that thats what the whole movie was about. Tom Green (what I think) was doing this movie just  for his pleasure he was not concerned on the opinions of the viewers of this movie, he proabably is satisfied with the reaction that he got. Thats whats making movies is all about the reactions. Good or Bad. Keeping all those factors in mind we conitue on with the movie its' self. It had plot doesn't anyone realize that- Gord wants to be excepted by his father. Just like this movie should be accepted by the critics. But unlike Gord being accepted by his father the critics don't have a COMPLETE sense of humor and shuns this movie. It was a brillant movie, not a classic by any means though. Every time i watch this movie there is a new scene in which that makes me laugh. And thats what a good comedy is supposed to do, if it doesn't then it has failed at being a comedy. This movie has not failed at being what it suppossed to be.  "},{"Title":"the worst comedy of 2001? Absolutely!","Date":"27 February 2004","Score":"7 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Road Trip, a movie made in 2000. Even if this movie wasn't a masterpiece, it nonetheless remained watchable. Tom Green acted in it and offered a fair and funny performance that refreshed the movie. How did he manage to make and act in such a load of rubbish the following year?There's one thing that Mr Green should know when one wants to make a movie, this one has to be based on a story, even trite. Well, here, the plot is non-existent. Freddy got fingered consists on a series of sequences without any logical link where prevail a vulgar and stupid humor. It's sometimes bordering on the unacceptable and I think it takes guts to watch this movie until the end. A lot of spectators in France have never heard about Green's piece of trash (besides Green remains quite unknown there). How lucky they are!The whole gives an ugly and appalling movie. In short, this is the zero level of American comedy. TO AVOID AT ALL COSTS!  "},{"Title":"let him do his job","Date":"13 December 2001","Score":"7 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I wonder why all of you are wasting your time writing all these bad comments. I myself watch the Tom Green show alot and knew what to expect from the movie, therefore I liked the movie. To all the people that hate his show, don't waste your time seeing the movie, it's all the same, and funny if you like this sense of humor, aight? well done Tom Green make a few more! "},{"Title":"Will be regarded as a classic in a few decades","Date":"27 April 2001","Score":"7 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'm not quite sure what to say about this. It's being called one of the worst movies of all time. That's what drew me to it - nobody called it boring, they meant something different by bad, and I was curious as to what. What they mean is that it's completely perplexing I laughed a few times, but for the most part, the humor seemed like it came from an alien culture. I'm not calling unfunny, just completely foreign to the point of surrealism. People are placing it in the same class as Tomcats, PCU, The Ladies Man, etc., because of its shock value. But what it most reminded me of was Pink Flamingos, and The Andalusian Dog. This movie was significantly re-edited before release, and I hope that there is a director's cut released someday. I also hope that Green keeps making movies like this. I would urge Roger Ebert, who said This movie doesn't scrape the bottom of the barrel... This movie doesn't deserve to be mentioned in the same sentence with barrels, to take another look at it. Absolutely worth seeing - 10/10.  "},{"Title":"A movie proportionately as good as it can be detested","Date":"29 September 2009","Score":"9 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie is one of the best comedy I've ever seen. I didn't know Tom Green before, so maybe I've seen someone which was acting really good, where other people just seen someone just being himself. I really think Tom Green is a genius, this guy looks strange but he knows doing plenty of things better than many people in their speciality, for example, making a movie where he's the main character. This film is professional and authentic, the rhythm, the framing, the script are very good, and the humour is incredibly wild and great. I think Tom Green take lots of pleasure to make this movie, he just showed the type of humour he likes  something strange and crazy. So maybe the best thing in this film is that the author didn't try to make a product for as many people as possible, but just the best film from his point of view. And this is art. I really expect that it will not be his last movie because of the weakness of Hollywood criticism and jealousy from other movie people (razzie awards) which are just unable to transcribe their mind in a movie like Tom Green did. "},{"Title":"I like Tom Green, but this movie sucked!","Date":"12 February 2008","Score":"9 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is a terrible movie.Nothing about it is funny.The stunts are all predictable and lame. Even the shocking horse scene was just stupid.The plot of the movie itself was... well what plot? It's just a bunch of excuses for him to do stupid stunts that aren't impressive or funny.The only remotely interested parts (like Daddy would you like some sausage?) were in the commercials and movie trailers.Why was Rip Torn in this movie? I hope Tom Green comes back somehow and is funny again but I've seen his new talk show so I doubt it will happen. He deserved better than this movie though but I guess it's his own fault since he must have written it himself. "},{"Title":"Incredibly UNFUNNY!!!","Date":"3 December 2001","Score":"9 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This awful comedy from Tom Green is one of the worst movies to come along in a very long time. I'm not one to be grossed easily but the shock scenes in the film have no narrative purpose.....they come from nowhere, have no build up or pay off. Animal molestation, child abuse, violence are all things that get ribbed in this film but not once do the jokes get a laugh. In the hands of someone like John Waters there might have been a chance that these issues might be funny in a sardonic black comedy but without the skills of someone like Waters it's all just plain repulsive. Green is unsupportable to watch for 90 minutes....his schtick wears thin VERY quickly. As a director he is clueless and dosn't have a knack for screenwriting. None of the characters are remotely likeable or interesting. The movie suffers from what all comedies dread.......it's not funny.....at all....ever...not once. "}{"Title":"As foul smelling as the animal intestines in which Green wraps himself.","Date":"16 November 2001","Score":"9 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Perhaps the worst movie I have ever seen.  Even as a long-time Green fan, this movie evoked only a single humorous response, during the caning scene.The rest, simply, stunk like the rotting carcasses Green in which wraps himself.   "},{"Title":"Disgusting, crap in its purest form.","Date":"11 June 2001","Score":"9 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'm a fan of The Tom Green Show, but with this effort Mr. Green has gone too far and then some.  The few shining moments of levity were equalled by moments that can be summed up only as appalling.  Anyone who would laugh at a man jerking off an elephant or biting through an umbilical cord and proceding to spin the still attached baby around over his head, should be ashamed of themselves.  The majority of the less offensive humorous moments fell flat.  Everything that makes Green's show funny is lacking in this movie, as the spontineity and creativity of his gags are lost in the translation to the big screen.  This movie's problems go far beyond its proclivity for tasteless shock humor.  The pacing was some of the worst i've witnessed, eluded to in the movie as a man holds up a sign asking when the movie will end.  You will find yourself asking the same thing.  While it is impossible to guage Green's performance against anything, his supporting cast was certainly was not oscar material, perhaps with the exception of Eddie Kaye Thomas of American Pie fame as the title character Freddy.  I regret having subjecting myself to this film and urge all others to spare themselves and stay away. "},{"Title":"Incredibly Embarrassing.","Date":"19 November 2004","Score":"10 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is not only the worst movies I've ever seen, it is also the lead contender for the worst movie of the decade, this movie is so incredibly and horribly awful, the acting is horrible, the set up is incredibly disgusting, and everything else is just plain trash, I Can't even believe teens like this nonsense, this is junk cinema in audience manipulation, Movies like Soul Plane and this one should never be even made in the first place and this should be the one, Tom Green needs to banned from the movie business and everything else in general, Thank God Drew Barrymore broke up with himWhat a big disaster. "},{"Title":"Unquestionably one of the worst movies ever","Date":"14 December 2002","Score":"10 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The description says it all. There's no sense in me wasting more time telling you why this movie is terrible. It just is. From every angle imaginable. If you haven't seen it, save yourself. If you have, I'm sorry I didn't get to you earlier. "},{"Title":"Both original and hilarious","Date":"21 June 2006","Score":"29 out of 60 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The first time I saw this movie I thought it sucked. I admit it. I just didn't get it. Anyway, somehow I got to see it for the second time, and the second time I saw it I finally started to understand the humor of it (maybe because I was tipsy...-) and I ended up laughing my lungs out. This is one of the funniest movies I have ever seen, no doubt about it. Also, Tom Green has definitely invented some kind of new nonsense humor here, the kind I have never seen before. I have seen this movie at least 6 times and every time I watch it I laugh, it does'nt get boring... If you don't like the movie the first time you see it, I would recommend you to give it a second try. Also, it might help if you are NOT sober when you watch it. It takes a while to realize what is funny about it. To summarize, in my opinion this movie is truly one of a kind. "},{"Title":"The Biggest Joke","Date":"23 April 2002","Score":"108 out of 218 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I know, I know I have commented on this film before. But I felt it was worth pointing something out for what its worth. To the people that criticize this film for not having a plot, being a rough patchwork of silly (and sometimes repulsive)scatological gags, let me just say that...THE JOKE IS ON YOU!Like the late great Andy Kauffman, Tom Green has consistently relied on his sometimes unsuspecting public for most of his larfs. As a matter of fact, that's why he cancelled his TV show. Too many people had begun to recognize him and he could no longer make them the butt of his jokes. But he had one last prank to play. And Freddy Got Fingered is it. Although it has some geniuinely funny scenes (especially the ones featuring Rip Torn) many scenes exist purely for their shock value. It is hard to sympathize with any of the characters in the film and it does get tedious. And this is precisely what Gteen had intended. FGF is Green's version of Kauffman's Great Gatsby bit. But for those of us who enjoy abstract humor, FGF is a godsend. The biggest joke is the fact that the film actually got made and somebody greenlighted this project. The film actually references this in the scene when Gordy presents his Zebra family idea to the producer. Just try to imagine Green pitching his idea to a bunch of suits who've probably never watched his TV show but know from their charts and graphs and statistics that the show is popular among young males. And imagine them forking over the check... "},{"Title":"Much funnier than Jennifer Aniston.","Date":"7 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" And Adam Sandler and Kevin James and Rob Schneider and the scores of other popular entertainers who permeate Hollywood. Of course, these people are generally not critics' darlings, however few if any of their hackneyed, horribly successful films have received the reception that Tom Green's Freddy Got Fingered did in 2001. Roger Ebert no less was one of its most savage attackers, writing emphatically how it didn't 'scrape the bottom of the barrel' and that it didn't even 'deserve to be mentioned in the same sentence with barrels'.It is indeed a very polarising film; I concede that it's just an immature indulgence from Tom Green, but at least it's not a load of recycled tedium. It's quite remarkable that this film was financed at all, let alone by 20th Century Fox. What's even more surprising is that this is very much Tom Green's film, no executives interfered in the creative process; it is, for better or worse, the work of an auteur.The film focuses on Gord Brody, a 28-year-old animator/slacker living in his parents' basement. In the film's opening moments, Gord is seen strewn across his bed completely supine as he narrates one of his draft animations like a blithering idiot. He soon gets a job in a Los Angeles cheese sandwich factory while he tries to sell his work to an important animation executive.Green has an irreverent, dark and extreme sense of humour that he releases through his character Gord in a series of outrageous set pieces, most of which begin with or entirely comprise him shouting maniacally. It is Green's unhinged lunacy that makes the film so... different. Highlights include him violently handbrake turning as he is bowled over by the sight of a horse's penis, his horrifying misinterpretation of an advertising executive's advice, his impersonation of an obnoxious stock broker during a dinner with his new girlfriend and the many altercations with his father Jim (Rip Torn).Rip Torn's performance is a highlight of the film, he is brilliantly cantankerous and frequently clashes with his son, he is the perfect adversary for Green's proverbial slacker. He shows, quite understandably, no faith whatsoever in what he calls Gord's 'doodles'.I've personally always had a fondness for Freddy Got Fingered. Even for its admirers, it can indeed be a tough, tiring watch from beginning to end, I think it largely depends on what mood you're in. Once the viewer has endured what has become quite an infamous 1 hour and 23 minutes, it is a film that's best revisited as separate puerile set pieces rather than as a full narrative.But however you watch it, whether its by yourself with a cup of Earl Grey or with friends and much alcohol (a recommended method), it will ultimately always be funnier than Adam Sandler.50%www.hawkensian.com "},{"Title":"Wasted chance","Date":"10 April 2014","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is a strange movie. I don't think, unlike a lot of other people, that this movie is the worst movie ever made, awful, garbage and so on. I think that this could have been a descent movie with another director and another main character. Or maybe with another director that could have made Tom Green funny. Because this is the movie biggest problem; Tom Green simply is not funny. There are a lot of scenes in this movie that could have been funny with another main character. Tom Green is unfortunately mostly annoying and shouting the whole movie through. In some scenes he just acts like an imbecilely and some scenes doesn't make sense at all. Like the one where he is jumping into the horses. That is just strange. All in all this movie is not a total disaster, there are a few funny scenes, but it could have been done a whole lot better. "},{"Title":"Dependent on your taste.","Date":"31 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I was quite surprised to see this film on a few 'worst movies of all time' lists. I watched the film after hearing a lot of people talking about it. I was very confused all the way through. I didn't get its humour, I didn't find the swinging a baby around bit funny, but other people did and I must admit I laughed when I didn't even know why in parts. It's ambitious and it's crazy but I think in some very strange way it works.I think everyone has heard of this film and it has become a bit of a cult classic just for being... well, bad. Daddy would you like some sausages is a very well known and loved quote. If you like extreme 'weirdness' and there is not such a thing as 'too far' for you, then definitely see this movie. "},{"Title":"truly amazing first film, like Bunuel meets John Waters","Date":"25 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The only reason I give it an 8 out of 10 is because a couple jokes here and there fall flat. Otherwise this is a terrific first film and I'm glad my fellow IMDb commentators are progressive enough to up the score for this film that was way misunderstood when it first came out.Roger Ebert, in his 1 star review said, and I'm paraphrasing in 50 years this may be considered a surrealist classic but it will never be funny. He got half that statement right.Tom Green's humor is not necessarily funny what's on the screen so much as the absurd motivation behind the incidents, best example the restaurant scene where Green puts on exaggerated display of anger at a fancy restaurant just to prove to his girlfriend he's an important CEO of some company. My telling does no justice to this brilliantly composed scene.Plus Rip Torn is top notch as Tom Green's dad. But don't ever tell Tom Green how much you like this movie if you run into him. He's still sore that it did so bad, especially to people who saw it for free, because he'll never make another movie in Hollywood. "}{"Title":"This vulgar film was so funny","Date":"4 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Well i know a lot of people don't like this film.. most likely for that animal porn.. but there were times when i was looking at the film in complete shock embarrassed i was even watching this movie... but still this movie is so risky and funny!! I feel sorry for tom green he's had a really hard time.. being rated like the worst comedian ever and always having to take sh*t on his show.. and having his other show canceled.. poor him...but anyways.. this movie was written as a joke to make his dad look bad and it actually got green lighted!! i have it sitting on my shelf a VHS copy I've watched it about 3 times... and its always funny.. i should get it on DVD but i got it for 2 dollars from a Video easy **spelling correct wont let me spell it how it is lol..** Anyways i recommend this movie.. but watch out there are some scenes that will leave you with your jaw wide open! "},{"Title":"A very cool film","Date":"25 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This was a delayed viewing for me, took four years but I got there in the end. I heard all sorts about this film, most of it negative some people even claiming 'Worst..film...ever'. Well it isn't that, and reading the other views on this film, you've got to wonder if they got the angle of it, and if they had considered this....Its a lot funnier than your typical Hollywood pap, and that folks is a solid gold fact, and you've got to think that in twenty years time this will be regarded in a whole different light. Actor wise, Rip Torn is great, TG is fine but a little restricted. Good soundtrack too. Don't believe the hype kids. "},{"Title":"Watch it yourself see what you think.","Date":"20 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Anyone who doesn't think that this film is a classic needs to be looked at. OK, so these idiots say It's the worst film of all time, or That's supposed to be terrible, or whatever, but ignore them. They probably don't understand this branch of comedy, so their opinion is worthless. OK, so the plot is silly and the gags are crude. Who cares? You're not writing a dissertation on it! Yes, it's very different to a lot of films, but that's what makes it special, a one-off, actually worth seeing! Maybe you just want to watch mainstream films and that's fine, if a little bit boring. But just because Tom Green decides to push the boat out and do something that's a bit daring, even if it's niche, he gets saddled with this worst film ever rubbish! Well, if you want to be condemned to a life of formulaic tosh then that's your problem, but don't complain if somebody actually bothers to do something different!Watch it yourself see what you think. "},{"Title":"Pretty good for a laugh","Date":"9 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I was a little unsure about this movie at first. I heard that it was utter trash that shouldn't have seen the light of day. So i was skeptical as to go watch this or not. I was a fan of The Tom Green Show for years and of all of Tom Green's previous works of umm art. All i can say is that i was not disappointed with this one. This is basically the Tom Green Show only longer and uncensored. But be warned a few scenes in this movie are a bit extreme to say. In one scene a woman is giving birth to a baby and Green helps the woman give birth, and then starts swinging the baby by its cord and then bites it in half(the cord). All that aside i liked this movie a lot and i would recommend it to anyone who is a fan of Tom Green or gross out comedies. 7/10.  "},{"Title":"If it deserves to be on the bottom 100, then simultaneously it deserves to be on the top 250","Date":"18 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Okay, so maybe it's a fair assessment to list Freddy Got Fingered as one of the 100 worst movies ever made. From a purely cinematographic standpoint, the plot is nonexistent, the writing is terrible, and the direction is amateurish. It's an hour and a half (or whatever) of Tom Green flaunting the immaturity that made him a superstar. There's no prevailing meaning, message or story.Except one, which you get a certain sense of watching the movie with the commentary track. Watching the movie with an awareness of Green's career and the peculiar circumstances (a national penchant for inanity) under which he rose to cult iconic status, we can draw certain connections between his character's efforts at selling his idea for a cartoon and what must have been the story of Green's career convincing bigshots to, well, let him do whatever the hell he wants.This is just one interesting aspect of the film, which at least gives it a layer of -- well, something -- but by itself this implied allegory doesn't make the film brilliant. What does make it brilliant is its absolute, indefatigable audacity and disregard for everything that cinema is. It's one movie that doesn't try to be a movie, certainly doesn't make any attempts at being taken seriously, but not in a campy, cult this is funny cause it's not like other movies kinda way. It doesn't try to be a Rocky Horror Picture Show or a Wet Hot American Summer, whose appeal lies in their tongue-in-cheek, against-the-fray humor. Freddy Got Fingered just wants to kick your ass with absurdity. It's Tom Green showing that yes, flinging babies around still attached by the umbilical cord can be funny; yes, crawling inside a dead deer carcass can be funny - because there's no effort put forth for it to be *genuinely* funny; it's not presented as a joke contributive to the plot. It's ridiculousness for ridiculousness' sake.And it's f*&#$ing hilarious. You spend the entire film in utter hysterics (if you have the right sense of humor), and are never once upset that, no, this isn't a film at all, cause that's not what it's trying to be, and hopefully that's not what you were expecting.  "},{"Title":"Lighten up and leave your morals at the door","Date":"23 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Some people do not understand Tom Green's humour. He is in many ways sending up society and showing how immorality is welcome. If you put aside all your moral values (that a lot of people on this board apparently have) you get a hillarious movie. I am very educated and am in the process of completing a degree majoring in English and Psychology in university (Australia).I really dislike people who write something off because it does not fit into their perfect world. I for one am a lot like Tom Green in real life (apart from the horse part P). I'm sure most people who are against this film have not even seen his show. If you're willing to think outside the box, then this movie is hillarious and highly enjoyable. I find it stupid that people can take offence at a movie. That's like taking offence at art - as some art works show women in provocative positions idolising men and that's the least offensive ones. Yes, some scenes were over the top - namely the horse one, but thats what farmers do. Freddy Got Fingered is in my opinion, an excellent film. It is highly original and downright stupid and its stupidity is what makes it so great.7/10 "},{"Title":"hello","Date":"19 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  this movie is one of my favourites of all time. aside from the cringing parts where he jerks off a horse and i dont know some other parts, its was a real funny movie. tom probably thought it was even funnier because like he said in the dvd most of the movies were jokes between him and his friends, which means he kinda suckered everyone into watching that movie, which also seems funny to me. "},{"Title":"One of the finest films ever made","Date":"7 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Tom Green has outdone himself. Which is no small feat. Dadaist and off the wall, pushing comedy in a more abstract and confronting path. This film changed my life. The climax was a true pinnacle of comedy and I can never remove these many colourful scenes from my memory (nor would I want to). One of the most memorable films ever made.Some people like to try to be outrageous and claim ignorance of the humour (perhaps you have no funny bone in you at all) or that this is perhaps some sort of terrible movie. Well, they are just plain mentally under-developed to think that. Anyone with an IQ over 90 should be able to enjoy this film. Perhaps if you are not in that camp, it might be a little intimidating in its Goddard-esque cuts and absurd-ism. But for those with more than twig in their head, this will totally cut your mustard for you. Elephants will never look the same to me again.And who doesn't want to get inside the animals? I love animals.Anyway, the point is anyone who doesn't like this film clearly doesn't like life. The people that think this is the worst film ever produced thus far, clearly have a big soft spot for Speed 2. Which is easily the worst film ever made, not counting Robot Monster. Jackass was a pile of poop in comparison to this high art cinema.Tom Green for Grand Chancellor "},{"Title":"One of the best movies I have ever saw - still laughing years later","Date":"21 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Tom Green is a genius! This movie takes a very insightful and hilarious look at today's society. Months later I still laugh when I remember some of the scenes and have watched this movie many times over the years.Everyone I have watched this movie with has also laughed hysterically.It is very curious that many of the reviewers seem to really hate this movie since I usually find that the average review score to be a good indicator of how much I will like a movie. This is one of the rare exceptions where my taste is at odds with the public and makes me wonder what other gems are out there that I did not bother seeing because of bad reviews. "},{"Title":"Tom Green is a comedic genius...","Date":"14 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Why do critics and some people take comedy so serious like they are watching The Godfather or Rain Man or something!? Freddy Got Fingered was meant to evoke shock and laughter and I think it does both of those in spades.... Of course this movie is not made for everybody, so for the people that don't like dark bizarre comedy, I don't think u are versed enough in that type of genre to actually sit down and watch a movie you normally wouldn't and end up not liking it and think u can just sit there and right a knowledgeable negative review of the movie because u can't, it's impossible because u don't know enough about the genre, I mean someone who never listened to rap before just cant pick up an album and listen to it and really know if what they are listening is any good or not, why?? Because they don't know enough about the subject... So basically what i'm saying is that if u are a fan of the type of genre that Freddy Got Fingered is then u probably will love the movie and find it hilarious like I did, but if u are not a fan of the genre then chances are that u are probably not going to like the movie... "}{"Title":"Freddy Got Fingered isn't for everyone, but at least it's a legend.","Date":"30 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Tom Green, the comedian who defined gross-out comedy in the 1990s, went to star and direct the most controversial movie failure at the start of the millennium Freddy Got Fingered. The film centers about Gord Brody as he tries to fulfill his dreams as an animator while proving his family, especially his hard-leveled and unaffectionate father, that he is all grown-up-- although not without Green's trademark antics.There's no denying that it is filled with misbehaving stunts, gore and bestiality. Due to the film's vomit-inducing nature, it has been widely lauded by movie critics and entertainment columnists alike. It was even nominated for 8 and won 5 Razzie Awards.But before it gets another negative review, one must take a look again and watch it. One may find the scenes too gratuitous, while another may find it totally funny. Clearly, this isn't everyone's cup of tea, but both parties agree on this it's original and sickeningly surreal, so sickeningly surreal that the film shouldn't be taken too seriously by conventional films critics like (who else?) Robert Ebert.The film in itself defines the gross-out sub-genre of comedy even clearer than its precursors, and the fact that it was critically panned solidifies its gross status even more. And while it initially failed to receive fans, it has at least achieved something that it takes gross-out comedy to a bit more lighthearted perspective. Most surrealistic movies (like those of the legendary Mexican director Luis Bunuel) take their philosophy that might be too heavy for the average audience, and others take it too superficially that it turns out to be boring and unnecessary. But Green incorporated the story and the stunts very well to suit his fans and the young audience, making the film more entertaining to watch, thus gaining a fan base and a cult status.Freddy Got Fingered deserves a second look. While this isn't for cinematic snobs who take too much attention to the formulaic conventions of film-making, it is highly recommended for fans of Tom Green and the gross-out sub-genre, and those want a more extreme kind of entertainment. Besides, the film isn't made to receive an Oscar for Best Picture; rather it is meant to break the rules. "},{"Title":"The legend of Tom Green...","Date":"13 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie hurts, it hurts a lot. This is supposedly a comedy for teens (I want to believe it) because it is filled with scatology humor and crude sexual references. Some people find hilarious to see a guy rubbing animal genitals, and I respect opinions, but this movie displays grotesque humor in a not so fashion way.Yes, the movie is very crude on the humor factor. There ain't no room for moral or good behavior.Tom Green had his moment a few years ago and he made sure he made great money because to these days, he isn't doing anything important. Hopefully he won't make more movies.Freddy Got Fingered took the American Pie style of humor too far and the result is a mediocre scatology comedy without a spark.Don't watch this please. It's truly as horrendous as people say. "},{"Title":"YOU bot the Job Buddy you got the JOB!!!!","Date":"1 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The movie begins, instantly the camera is fixated on a series of drawings. X RAY CAT, Banana GETIN A JOB, STUPID BEAVERS......the images are of superior quality rivaled only by Tom Green's wonderful commentary; this movie is truly a masterpiece of modern cinema.Normally I would avoid giving a movie a 10... nothing in this universe is ever perfect, but when a man WEARS THE SKIN of a DEAD DEER, and handles the rather large over-sized Falices of, not one, but TWO WILD BEASTLY ANIMALS in the same film in the name of comedy... THEN I MUST SALUTE HIM. BRAVO TOM GREEN!! BRAVO!!!!...... have you come to make us laugh? Well like your friend the banana... you got the JOB BUDDY ... You got the JOB! "},{"Title":"My ear just popped","Date":"13 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" There is no funnier movie on the face of the planet. There never will be. It is the epitome of comic genius and it is a shame that Green is no longer under the spotlight. Most people are too stupid or ignorant to understand this movie, hence the low rating. Before you attempt to watch this movie take an IQ test, if you fall below 150 you probably wont like it, but there's still hope. Take a humor test, if you enjoy such shows as South Park (the last 4 seasons) and Ali G, you should thoroughly enjoy this film. Most people cannot appreciate such fine comedy because they always look for a punchline. If you are one of these people I would advise you to read knock-knock jokes, you can find libraries of them in the children's section of any bookstore, or perhaps watch a Gallagher tape. This is humor for intelligent people who enjoy Green's antics. It's sad that this country would rather watch the new Ashton Kutcher movie than sit back and enjoy a true work of art. "},{"Title":"A stark portrayal of our grim post-modernist society","Date":"6 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The film Freddie Got Fingered is a surrealist expedition into unchartered territory concerning the daily drama and inevitable failings of the so-called nuclear family as it progresses into the twenty-first century. The film is very surrealist, and the inclusion of Rip Torn (Cat on a Hot Tin Roof), Julie Hagerty (Noises Off), and a cameo role from Lorena Gale (Smallville) gives it a remarkably interesting star power.The movie uses bombastic, exaggerated situational comedy to bring to light the grim Fruedian psycho-social issues that inherently exist within the familial rituals and tradition of our post-nuclear society, with regards to the social concept of family. As the film shows to prove, the nuclear family as it were is no longer fit to provide the everyperson, represented by Freddie, with the basics of human survival and evolution while nurturing the instinctual romantic idealisms of the individual, represented by Freddie's desire to draw, the basest and most symbolic form of artistic expression. This failure to provide is shown in conjunction with the demands and applications of control put forth by government and indeed all societal institutions as such demands become incongruous with the evolving reality that the long-abandoned agrarian societies which we still subconsciously adhere to no longer apply.I personally adore the Fancy Restaurant scene, which paints a stark expression (as the entire movie does, truthfully) on our society's cutthroat demands for the world of employment which as been thrust upon all individuals as an essential obligation. Also expressed in the scene is our modern society's misconception of social class in the true sense of the Marxist bourgeoisie archetype, and the mislead preconceptions held for an individual to improve upon their own status. I only wish the movie had delved a bit deeper into Freddie's job at the cheese sandwich shop as it would provide a grand opportunity to expose the harsh conundrums of the farce that is service-oriented employment.Freddie Got Fingered does all this as well as explores the gross realms of human instinct, and how what is natural becomes contradiction as it turns unnatural when compared to the expectations we hold as a society. The movie postulates that we as humans can barely comprehend our own natural impulses, and that perception lies somewhere beyond our own understanding as a flurry of seemingly disconnected events which we ourselves must attribute symbolic meaning towards, as expressed in the childbirth scene and the stud farm scene.All in all, the movie pokes fun at our society as it becomes more politically and economically dependent, all the while screaming at a brick wall for the senseless contradictions which permeate throughout our society. The movie's strength lies in weaving these themes so naturally into the fabric of the story of the limits of a man's role in the family. "},{"Title":"The Best Comedy Ever","Date":"4 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Most people are used to (and appreciate) the hum-drum usual comedy and never is there really any 'extra' effort made to break through beyond that 'norm' and divulge into something more surreal. Although I'm not the biggest fan of the majority of Tom Green's work, I simply adore the array of comedically complex scenes that came out of his mind and onto this film. Mr. Green simply took the 'traditional comedy movie' torch and ran with it as far as he could go, and thensome. Rip Torn is simply hilarious as the father figure, I don't think I should really quote any of his lines on this comment, this site is family oriented! Many people are very critical of this movie and I can fully understand their reasonings why, but I can't ride in that ship with those people. I know this movie is simply dumb, stupid, rude, lewd, mean and controversial in more ways than one. Well I tip my hat to Mr. Green for sticking his imagination out there in the public cinema world and not being afraid or worried of critical responses towards his work and simply being proud of his endeavors regardless of the responses of the millions of movie watchers out there. I wish I had guts like him, good stuff. Ten out of ten stars any day of the week. Who ties their fingers with string and then creates this contraption that dangles sausage links in the air while playing 'Daddy would you like some Sausage'?!?. The Backwards Man?!? I'm sorry folks this stuff is just too darn funny to me! "},{"Title":"this is the best movie ever made...ever","Date":"5 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" i like this movie, boy howdy. i started to laugh and didn't stop whoa, holy-moly. goodness gracious the hilarity. tom green made me want to love again and drew barrymore is the best. i like cartoons and there is some animation in this movie. that guy from johhn b goode and national lampoon's vacation (the first one) dusty or something is in this movie, but now he is old. he was in the breakfast club too, oh and sixteen candles. anyway he's in freddy got fingered. i'm watching brick right now, but i wish i was watching freddy got fingered again because brick is not that great. it has that kid from third rock from the sun in it. julie hagert and rip torn are excellent as freddy's mother and father. tom gree and that guy from rocket man and he was also in half baked have a funny scene in the hospital and on the skateboard rap whoa nelly those scenes are so good. these are some reasons why freddy got fingered rules so much. summer fun i say, this is summer fun for your vcr or DVD player. would you like sausage? A+ with a cherry on top. WOW AMAZING WORK OF ART. "},{"Title":"Tom Green is the new Andy Kaufman","Date":"4 May 2001","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  thats right. both of them were grossly understood.  Both had a bizarre sense of humor, and both have a strange sense of innocence that underlies everything, no matter what extremes they go to.Its obvious that this movie is a flop with critics. lets say you were a cop, and you took your job very seriously. and lets say someone puts out a movie that says i hate cops every two minutes. you are probably going to hate that movie.critics think they're so important, and though this film may not literally say i hate critics, it says it with everything else about it.people just dont understand that theres different kinds of stupid. theres the 'i'm doing something moronic because people will think its cool' kind of stupid that you'll see in Farelly comedies or in 'scary movie' and theres this movie. it is most certainly stupid, but it is so tongue in cheek and it is done in a way that only a certain segment of the population are going to TRULY get it.those people are not professional critics, those people arent even most of Tom Greens general fanbase.  this film is smart in its stupidity, if that makes any sense at all. it does stupid things out of the blue ON PURPOSE that obviously are poking fun at other films that pull the same tricks. witness another scene where Tom is getting out of a car, and everything is in slow motion, its raining and they are playing natural blues by Moby. this scene in itself defines the whole movie for me. its making fun of every single movie you've ever seen, and most people are too stupid to notice it. and everything that is done for shock value is not only for the sake of shock value, but to mock all the other movies that try to make urine, semen, feces, etc. smart . The film is incredibly self aware of its 'stupidity' and over the top nature - it even pokes fun at itself.if you cant find the way Tom Green talks with people, in his stammer and repetition funny, well maybe you're all too used to the same old/same old.this movie isnt a 10. but i gave it one, just to offset the naysayers. like it or lump it, this is the most original film of the year and time will prove it smarter and funnier than all this Farrelly brothers/ Wayans brothers/jackass crap that everyone is jumping on.To summarize, this movie is punk. its an anti-movie, and its about fricking time. "},{"Title":"The Mona Lisa of Movies!!!","Date":"21 April 2001","Score":"12 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  First things first,before you go and see this gem of a movie,be sure to bring a couple gallons of water,because you will surely find yourself dehydrated from crying tears of laughter!I have never in all my movie going years been so amused as i was while viewing Freddy got Fingered.Tom Green has really outdone himself with this masterpiece of cinematic art,never in all the history of movie making has any actor/writer even come close with creating a movie so disturbingly crude and yet equally amusing at the same time.The Farrely brothers must be biting their lip in envy at Tom Green,for even they could not have created a movie as over the top as Freddy Got Fingered,and believe me labeling this movie over the top is an understatement of the highest degree.As a Canadian citizen i have been following Tom's career since he first started on the Canadian Comedy Network,and never in all my existence have i been more proud to be a Canadian then i am today.Thank you Tom for renewing my Patriotic Nationalism.Anyways to make a long story short...GO SEE THIS MOVIE AT ALL COSTS!!And look for this movie to take in at least one award at the Golden Globes or Oscars.I give the movie a very enthusiastic 10 out of 10.Simply Genius!!! "},{"Title":"This film is the funniest film ever made","Date":"21 February 2005","Score":"19 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" What is peoples problem with this film? Have a sense of humour, you act like your 70 and are offended by everything. It's Tom Green what did you expect it to be like? Also there are tons more films more disgusting (and this film isn't actually that bad). Don't think about the film too much, just lay back and enjoy it. It's just a laugh so have a sense of humour, you old farts. PS anyone who has not seen this film, my advice to you is to not listen to the losers who give it bad reviews, but listen to people like me (who have a sense of humour) and rent the movie. In fact buy the movie because you are going to want to watch it again and again and again. Especially the part where he is playing the keyboard with sausages hanging from strings from the ceiling and the part in the meat factory and the restaurant .... The list goes on because their are too many funny part in this film, so buy it. Tom Green rocks. "}{"Title":"Only for those who don't mind (or even enjoy) movies with no reality whatsoever","Date":"15 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" If you don't mind bathroom humor, lots of swearing, inappropriate gestures, babies being swung around, people who attempt to get inside the animals (literally), or any other stupid behavior, then this is the movie for you. If (god forbid) you're looking for logic, consistency, any sense of reality, characters to actually care about, or anything else resembling reality, then you might want to watch a movie that Tom Green is not in. Anyway, Freddy Got Fingered is the kind of movie that might not have existed without other gross-out comedies of 2001 (i.e. Tomcats, Joe Dirt, See Spot Run, Monkeybone, and Say It Isn't So). In a way, Freddy got Fingered is not a movie; it's really a testimony for the aforementioned movies. And yes (if you haven't figured it out by now), I am one of the few who relished the movie. *** out of **** "},{"Title":"yEt, I dOn'T kNoW wHaT hAvE yOu CrItIcS GoT aGaInSt GaRbAgE!!!","Date":"12 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Look, MY definition of movie GARBAGE is FORMULA Film. Not this movie. I like originality and unpredictability. Garbage is something you can do without. S.W.A.T. is garbage. Charlie's Angels is garbage. Jack Frost is garbage. Not original. Recycled formulae.Freddy Got Fingered is so off the wall I bought the dvd twice. It's very interesting to see the authorial perspective of Tom Green and why he is the character he became. "},{"Title":"Why was this movie Fingered at the Box Office?","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  People, this is a Tom Green movie! A movie made by Tom Green should be only one thing....funny! Who in the audience couldn't stop laughing? A lot of the humor in the film is off the wall and very tasteless, but it is funny none-the-less. I never saw it at the cinema, I waited like everybody else to see it when it came out on video. Not only did it do poorly when it hit the box office, but the media gave it one hell of a trashing. Was this a Tom Green witch hunt conspiracy? All I know is that I laughed my ass off throughout the entire movie. If you are expecting a touching, break through movie that is going to change the world once you watch, this is not the movie for you. Then again, if you want to laugh like a retarded monkey for 90 minutes, please, do yourself a favor and buy a copy of this crazy comedy for the whole family to enjoy.....well maybe not your whole family. "},{"Title":"Controversial but Awesome. Ignore Neigh Sayers.","Date":"9 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Let me start this review by discussing who I am, and how the controversy is playing a large role of the ratings of this movie by others. I am a mature minded adult who's first viewing of this video was with that mind frame. This video has extremely vulgar subject matter and Tom Green intensely magnifies each awkward situation. Now that you can see that even a mature adult can get past the vulgarity of the film hopefully you will take this review seriously above the easily offended individuals who solely intend to slander this video. This video, although obscure and intensified through an adults perspective, captures a very believable story of hardship between a loser son and his productive/successful father. I feel that the artists magnification of the vulgar subject matter makes the story more intense and traumatic to adults watching the film and allows them to relate to the true pain and awkwardness of the main character. If you can get past the vulgarity I promise you this movie has many funny, non-vulgar moments and a solid story that most males can relate to the relationship they have with their own father. "},{"Title":"Hilarious, IN A SICK WAY","Date":"7 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I don't know why people are criticising this film so much. I liked it. Tom Green does a good job of bringing insanity to the screen. The skateboarding scene was brilliant.Tom Green needs to make a new TV show or film, but not direct OR write it. I couldn't stop laughing near the end '' Daddy would you like some sausage'' It is one of the funniest films i have seen It is annoying people view it with the stereotype it is rubbish and isn't funny.If you've got a few bucks to spare on this, I recommend you buy it, full of laughs, mostly disgusting laughs and humour. What's better than seeing an 8 year old child run into the side of a car? "},{"Title":"A Nightmare From Hell &#x85; is nothing compared to this movie !","Date":"27 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" One silly unbearable cartoonist who's not even droll as imbecile ! (wears a suit in reverse, showers in a diving suit, plays music with meat and sausage over his head !!!). Now he slaughters a deer (so we'll have the opportunity to watch its intestine) and puts whatever remained of it on his head to be a good cartoonist !? After that when his friend breaks his leg he (our very hero) does nothing except licking his friend's bloody bones ! After that he assistances at childbirth (so we'll have the opportunity to watch the filthiest bloodiest childbirth's scene ever). After that he meets a disabled young girl who's a pervert, masochistic, and sex maniac ! (So we'll have the opportunity to listen to good sick dialogue here). After that.. well I've got enough already so why bothering myself repeating the whole thing ! after that you'll have more and more and more of  intestine, bowels, blood, animal's semen, nasty dirty hideous dialogue.. and you know what ? it wasn't even funny or ludicrous !, NO.. it was close to a sump, a tormenting dog, and a good way to vomit ! Even the tagline on the poster which says this time you can't chance the channel, referring to (Tom Green)'s previous TV work, seemed like vexation or rather threatening more than an introduction to nice comedy ! Actually the idea of a crazy son who has crazier father is quite catchy as well as comic BUT it's way too distant for this hard crap to reach because it's not a sketch after another or a joke after another (believe me there isn't absolutely any joke here !) it's pure bad tasting had been done in a bad way too !, yet anybody loves this movie or even likes it a bit.. well.. it's for you and for you only.. you're the one in (Tom Green)'s head when he was making this as a co-writer, director and lead actor ! and despite all my true disgust, abhorrence, and scorn for this movie I admit that everybody got their own genuine taste, and everybody is free when it comes to an opinion about a movie however I have just one small advice to all of this movie's lovers  get help soon.. There is something big wrong in your life ! and I'm not kidding ! P.S I wrote a comment about (Euro Trip - 2003) entitled (My List of The Most Disgusting Comic Movies Ever) where I was trying to find the reasons why this kind of trash is made and why we make it succeed. "},{"Title":"Very Unique and Ahead of Its Time!","Date":"9 November 2009","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" No- this movie is definitely not for everyone. It's an acquired taste, that fits more into the cult-cinema category than it fits into comedy Make no mistake....this is NOT a regular comedy, nor should it even be viewed as such.Tom Green wrote, directed and starred in this movie, while his show was #1 on MTV....and I'm sure everyone was expecting it to be a little more conventional and mainstream.WELL- Tom came out with something completely different! Nobody was expecting a movie like this; many people were shocked, many were disappointed, and many were angry. But that is exactly what Tom Green wanted- mixed reactions! Before you can enjoy Freddy Got Fingered you have to first be able to appreciate all of its sheer rebelliousness! This is a film that basically tells Hollywood where to go, by breaking the rules and by spitting in the faces of all those MTV fans who thought that Tom Green was just another wacky comedian. He's a lot more than that, and he's also a lot smarter than people give him credit for.I love how this film completely SHOCKS the audience, with disgusting scenes that even Frank Zappa would find offensive! I love the silly dialogue between Gord and his disapproving father, played by Rip Torn! I love all of the ridiculous nonsense that goes on...and the bad taste! But most of all- I love how this film, no matter how crazy it gets- still manages to mirror Tom Green's real life struggle to make it big in the entertainment business! There's a lot of truth to this movie, and only Tom's biggest fans would know that.Freddy Got Fingered may not be very popular with the mainstream, but it definitely has a little cult-following of its own, and that following will keep getting bigger....until one day- far in the future....this movie will finally get the respect that it deserves! I've never seen anything quite like this movie, it's just so unique- it's just so rebellious- and it's just so much fun! "},{"Title":"the best film at being greatly bad","Date":"1 February 2010","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" this film is currently up for the worst film of the decade razzie which is fair, but for me this film just gets better the worse it is, its painstakingly funny because of how ridiculously un-funny it is. i want this film to win worst picture razzie it won 5 the first time round. its no master piece i understand why people hate it, i would of given it a 6/10 but i have to give it 2 extra stars just to make up for the people who give it 1.if you haven't seen it then give it a chance. hate this film, love this film but appreciate it for what it is, childish. don't hate this film because you feel a need to hate it hate it yes it's vulgar yes its just awfully written and there's no real story line but it all ads to the affect and (i don't want to defend Tom Green directly)how as a film maker he didn't know what he was doing but took what he knew and made it into a film, i think, as critics said, it was brave and daring because he didn't know what he was doing, many first time film makers don't get into the 'lime light' yet Tom green was already there and weather or not he made a good film he had an audience. "},{"Title":"Avoid at all costs...Freddy Got Fingered is one of the most disgusting, revolting, disturbing, wretched and downright uncomfortable cinematic experiences I've had in recent years...","Date":"3 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Freddy Got Fingered is the kind of movie you don't go to the theater for. It is one of the most annoying, atrocious and cinematically disturbing films I have seen in a long, long time. The humor is non-existent, and its MPAA rating is just as disturbing as the film. How this passed for an R-rating, instead of a solid X, is truly beyond me. And even further beyond me is how this film made its way into theaters, when it should be sitting in the bottom of a straight-to-video rack at Wal-Mart. Or better yet, it should be underneath the video rack, hidden from visibility.The plot involves a young, 28-year-old, hopeless drifter named Gord (Tom Green), who dreams of being a cartoonist. After he gets fired from his job, he moves back in with his father (Rip Torn) and mother (Julie Hagerty). After his father, who hates Gord--and rightly so--throws him out of the house, Gord begins to spread rumors that his father sexually abused his brother, Freddy, as a child. Somewhere in Tom Green's mind this was funny. But to the average human being, it just isn't.The so-called humor in Freddy Got Fingered--which I already mentioned is non-existent--is about as acceptable as I don't know what. It's truly horrific and sickening. In once scene, Gord visits his friend in a hospital, to find a woman in labor. He runs over, yanks the child out of the mother's womb, to find out it's dead. He then swings it above his head like a madman (and it looks like a little rag doll, mind you) and blood splatters the walls around him. He then hands the baby back to the mother. If you found that funny, then you're going to love Freddy Got Fingered. If you're like me, and not only find that humor revolting and disgusting, then do not, do not, do NOT see this movie, whatever you do.I heard Tom Green showed up to receive his Razzy Award for this film. That just goes to show the arrogance of some people--if I ever made a film as revolting as Freddy Got Fingered, I'd lock myself up for weeks upon end in a tiny little hole until I had learned my lesson. But, apparently, Tom Green still hasn't learned, as he continues to shove garbage our way.My advice to you is to ignore it.In the end, Freddy Got Fingered is one of the most disgusting, revolting, disturbing, wretched and downright uncomfortable cinematic experiences I've had in recent years.You have been warned.0/5 stars--I've never given a film so low a rating until now (mainly because I thought the minimum was 1), so I'm setting a new trend for myself--John Ulmer "},{"Title":"Above the heads of most","Date":"26 August 2005","Score":"105 out of 214 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I'll bet that the majority of people who express their hatred this film on the grounds that it is too vulgar had a jolly time sitting through movies like American Pie, Scary Movie, and all that deplorable garbage.Those films and their vulgarities were incredibly labored and insincere creations designed to pander to hateful stereotypes and equally petty repressed fears and desires of feeble-minded perverts and uneducated teenagers. However, though Freddy Got Fingered contains equal vulgarities, they exist not for their own sake but to serve a greater, dadaistic post-modern vision. This is evident in the structure of the film. Other gross-out comedies present their vulgarities with the sober convention, creating a pornographic aura that is shameful instead of funny. The lack of artistic direction in a sea of recycled inspiration never fails to create an uncomfortable confusion as to whether the vulgarities are serving the higher part of our minds that pertains to comedy or meant arouse a repressed sexual perversion (American Pie, for example).Freddy Got Fingered separates itself from such worthless trash by breaking free from convention and re-appropriating it. Rather than cold and unflinching eye with which hacks such as the Wayans brothers present their vulgarities, Freddy Got Fingered uses innovative editing to de-familiarize the audience to whatever on screen, such as incorporating Sam Peckinpah's pause-burst-pause technique in the restaurant scene, or the revolutionary cut from the bleeding child (Tommy) to a closeup of roast beef at an all-American family dinner. It should be mentioned that while Freddy Got Fingered is discussed for it's vulgarities, it makes a point of balancing shock with classical comedic conventions the majority of the gags in the film consist of non-sequiturs, slapstick, and satire (the main target being dramatic conventions in film, which is achieved through mixed-modalities rather than exploiting the ephemeral icons of pop-culture).The film's brilliant re-invention of comic film-making technique creates an intellectual framework that invites an oppositional reading to some of the vulgar content on screen. Freddy got Fingered is not a simple presentation of vulgarities, but rather in dialogue with them. The running gag of a child being injured is clearly a parody of the increasing darkness of comedy, and yet it is simultaneously a manifesto, in Tom Green's post-structuralist shattering of our perceptions of taste. It is this self-reflexive nature of the film that transcends its vulgarity, while other gross-out films not only fail to do this, but often fall one step lower by depending on extra-textual sources (again, usual ephemeral pop-culture icons).In conclusion, the equal magnitude of the vulgarities in relatively un-criticized movies such as American Pie and Scary Movie effectively invalidates the most critics' dismissal of the film on the grounds of excess vulgarity. The only difference between Freddy Got Fingered and its other gross-out counterparts is the film's original approach to film-making technique. However, I cannot imagine why this is more repugnant to them than the pornographic practice of using conventional film-making to enshrine vulgarities set before the camera (for example even Booty Call has an orchestral score). Perhaps by being the first mainstream film to elevate the lucrative gross-out comedy beyond the reach of formulaic film-making, many perceive Freddy Got Fingered as a threat to the tradition, despite the fact that it has liberated conventional film-making techniques from being subjected to vulgar subject matter, saving both from demeaning each other. More likely is the possibility that the structure of Freddy Got Fingered is so foreign to film-goers weaned on convention that they cannot get themselves comfortable enough to laugh. If they are so accustomed to convention, then they are also desensitized to it, which explains why they cannot see its presence in other vulgar comedies, and hence their unsettling perversion. In any scenario, Freddy Got Fingered has failed to garner the praise it deserves because people just can't bring themselves to take this sophisticated social-commentary post-modern manifesto at anything but face value. And that is shameful. "}{"Title":"Freddy got a film made that provides a lot of fun","Date":"20 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The 2001 film in my opinion is quite under rated. This film was generally disliked by critics and some reviewers and though i like this film i can see why other people wouldn't there's a lot of bizarre and shocking humour and there isn't really much of a fixed plot the vulgar title and the fact the film has actually won awards for being bad could also put some people who haven't yet seen it off. Though the film has the name Freddy in its title the film revolves around a man named Gord Brody whose actually Freddie's older and less successful brother, according to Gordy Freddy was molested by their father(the reason for the title) this probably didn't happen because both Freddie and their father strongly deny it. The one thing I didn't like about the film as the fact the protagonist's attitude keeps changing one minute he seems fairly sensible ad nice enough the next hes a complete simpleton and the next again hes a hysterical lunatic whose rather annoying to watch the other characters have similar changes to this as well. Gord has dreams of becoming an animator and clearly has talent for drawing unfortunately though he can't come up with a good premise for his drawings (the best one being about a cat who can see through wood). Gord attempts to make something of his drawings and when this doesn't work he returns to living with his parents(he's 28 years old) . Many other things happen in this film for example Gordy becomes the love interest of a wheelchair bound woman named Betty whose inventing a rocket powered wheelchair, he delivers a baby in a gross yet funny manner, pretends to be a stockbroker for a short time and eventually him and his father are held captive in a foreign country (no it doesn't make that much sense). This film as I mentioned earlier doesn't have a main story line and seems to switch from one thing to another in fact the only thing that links the events are the character(s) involved. This film provides plenty of laughs (mainly grossed out ones of course) and doesn't fail to be of entertainment. This film has plenty of memorable scenes too (arguably the best known and remembered is where Gordy designs a mechanism that has sausage connected to strings connected to a keyboard so every time he plays a note the sausages move above he chants daddy would you like some sausage while badly playing the keyboard) and has a few familiar faces including tom green(road trip, MTV's TOM GREEN SHOW) Rip Torn(Men in black,dodge ball) Eddie Kay Thomas (probably better known as finch from the American pie films) and a cameo appearance from Drew Barrymore(Charlie's angels,whip it). Though this film is fairly senseless and often disgusting its also very very funny(some hidden humour e.g at the end when Gord and his father are set free from where they were held captive if you will notice a man holding a banner saying when the f**k will this movie end but if you blink you@ll miss it) and entertaining. Recommended centrally to fans out gross out comedy or people who aren't easily disgusted or offended. "},{"Title":"Wow!  This was really a unique film!","Date":"6 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Surrealism is something many comedic films and shows try but oftentimes fail to reach. Normally when they do reach surrealism, such as cult comedy show Stella, they are strange but hilarious. This movie is in what must be a parallel universe where everyone is so insanely stupid and random, and this movie just hits everyone over the head with it's random idiocy. And this movie is not funny stupid...it's just stupid! At times it's shocking, and at times it may cause a few chuckles out of uncomfortability, but other than that, this thing has nothing to boast but some of the most disgusting acts ever seen on the silver screen.This thing doesn't really have much of a plot. The basic story is that Gordy (Tom Green) wants to become a famous animator by pitching his stupid cartoon idea to a big-shot in Hollywood. His father, Jim (Rip Torn) discourages him, Gordy forms a relationship with a paraplegic girl Betty (Marisa Coughlin) who claims to be an amateur rocket scientist, and gets into other wacky shenanigans. The plot is nonexistent really, and this thing is all over the place.It's not a big surprise to see that Tom Green directed and co-wrote this, as this seems like about his level of stupid humor. The character Gordy is the most disgustingly random character to ever appear in a movie...and I mean random...and I doubly mean disgusting!!! In the duration of this movie, this guy pleasures a few large mammals, licks a guy's protruding bone, cuts open and dances around inside a dead animal, eats an umbilical chord and many more strange, random and disgusting acts. Where this could have been funny, it's just not...it's odd, and it's shocking, but it elicits more Wow!'s than actual laughs. It's really just sick.The performances are how Tom Green wanted the performances I'm sure. Everyone shouts a lot and enjoys extremely stupid things and people do odd things just for the heck of it, and those odd things come up in the spur of the moment and are never mentioned again. Because of this, it's hard to rate the acting, because everyone just acts like Tom Green, so he did a fine job of portraying the world through his own eyes, with himself in every character. Unfortunately, every character is extremely annoying because of this, but obviously that's what he finds funny.Think about if someone you knew was comically hit in the crotch and then screamed, and this caused you to laugh. It was mildly funny, though a bit mean spirited. Now imagine 30 people surrounding you all being hit in the crotch and screaming, all at once, and for 80 plus minutes. You'd go insane, and that is a great equivalence for how it is watching this thing. It's nonstop screaming and strange random acts and bizarre dialogue that never quit. It's not really funny, it's mainly just tedious and going from scene to scene with no center grows quite boring. Only see this if you're a hard-core Tom Green fan, or if you feel like going comatose from stupidity.My rating 1/2 out of ****. 89 mins. R for strong sexual, crude and violent acts, and language. "},{"Title":"Sorry Really not worth watching","Date":"15 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" How weird that some people think this is some kind of classic.I really gave the thing the ol' college go. I found one thing interesting It really seemed like they did a thing where all the production values around Tom's character are straight. In other words, practically everything but Tom's character in this film appears to be the analog of the stand-up comedy duo's straight man.Unfortunately, one quickly gets the impression that Tom's character soullessly abuses this contract by, simply, not being funny in the least. Over-the-top? Yes. Somewhat inventive? Yes. Possessing that miraculous bit of insight into the nature of human laughter that makes us see even the most outrageous, boffo behavior as fundamentally comedic? No; not at all. Not. At. All.Skip it. Even bad comedies show better faith than this. "},{"Title":"The Offensive Part is How Unfunny It Is","Date":"7 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Freddy Got Fingered (2001) * (out of 4)Tom Green wrote, directed and stars in this incredibly stupid film where he plays Gord Brody, an unemployed cartoonist who moves back in wife his parents (Rip Torn, Julie Hagerty) after a producer turns down his work. Things start to change for Gord after he gets a crippled girlfriend and then accuses his father of molesting his youngest brother Freddy. If you think accusing your father of fingering your younger brother is vile then you'll probably be shocked to learn that it's actually one of the nicest things that happens in this movie. Many, many critics ripped Green to shreds when this movie was released because there are many vile things that happen. For example, at around the five-minute mark we see Green get out of his car, walk up to a horse with an erection and jerk it around. Towards the end of the movie he grabs an elephant's penis and shoots his father with its semen. Everything that happens in between just ranges from downright stupid to downright ignorant including one sequence where Green delivers a baby only to bite its umbilical cord and then slings the baby around by it. I don't mind a film that crosses the line in terms of humor but sadly this movie just isn't funny. I will admit that I did laugh at a few of the jokes but whenever you have ten jokes a minute and only one of them works you know you're watching something really bad. The story is downright stupid but then again so was The Tom Green Show yet it was very funny. I think what really went wrong here is that Green let himself do the directing. Now, I'm not saying a better director would have turned this into a classic but I think someone who knew how to structure a movie and knew something about comic timing might have been able to make more of the jokes work. Even half of the jokes working would have made for a much less painful film to view. At around the one-hour mark the film pretty much hits a wall and going through the rest of it becomes quite hard. Green, at least tries to give a performance. Torn gives it his all and manages to be wacky to say the least. I wouldn't say he was good in the part but he certainly goes all out and isn't worried about being embarrassed. Hagerty is wasted in a worthless part as is Green's then girlfriend Drew Barrymore who shows up in a couple scenes. FREDDY GOT FINGERED contains some very dirty humor that's going to offend most people but to me the only offensive stuff is how unfunny it all was. "},{"Title":"More like Godard than Farrelly","Date":"9 May 2001","Score":"142 out of 292 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Freddy Got Fingered may not be the laughiest picture of the year, but it is surely the most original.  It remindes me more of the challenging work of Godard or Bunuel than of the slew of recent gross out comedies that stink up our screens.  Illogical and abusurd, ridiculous, funny, and disturbing, I guarantee it is unlike any film you've ever seen.I sat in the theater, amazed, as Gord Brody (Green) leaves home in a rush on his skateboard...to meet up with his parents at the bus depot.  Why is he meeting them there, if they all live together?  There at the depot, his dad presents him with a car.  Why bother going to the depot if his dad's going to give him a car?  Then, after clearly establishing that Gord is going to Hollywood to sell his cartoons and after a close up on his new license plate reveals their location to be Oregon...a superimposed map of the coast shows us (ala Raiders of the Lost Arc) Gord's path from Oregon to Hollywood.Redundant?  Of course.  And hillarious.  Green makes a mockery of tired film cliches and crap mise-en-scene.  Then, ten minutes into the movie, it brilliantly deconstructs itself.  Anthony Michael Hall (as cartoon mogul Dave Davidson) gripes that Gord's drawings aren't bad...but they just don't make sense, they're not funny, they're stupid, and entertainment needs to be inspirational.  Oh does it?Kudos, Mr. Green, for your uncompromising debut.     "},{"Title":"Worst movie I've ever seen hands down...but...","Date":"28 November 2004","Score":"13 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" It's amusing. It's so purely absurd, stupid, and infantile it's amusing!I've read several reviews here and I agree--it's the way it is because Tom Green WANTED it to end up that way. He made it purposefully ridiculous, thereby making it watchable.It's like watching a car crash or other catastrophe. Ghastly and grotesque, but you find yourself too stunned to look away. You're strangely hypmotized by this pure filth! )So even though as a movie I must give this a 1/10 (on principle), I must give it a 7/10 watchable rating. Meaning you'll probably be entertained...but at what price...your IQ will be 5-10 points lower for several days following your viewing of this film! ) "},{"Title":"Amazing","Date":"3 October 2005","Score":"188 out of 390 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie, although not solid in plot, is that of comical genius. People are too easily offended by the actions of Tom Green, not able to see the comical genius this movie has. Breaking barriers is comedy, and that is exactly what Tom Green does in this film. The things he does, from jerking off a horse, to pretending to be a deep sea diver are all great ways to get the point across, this movie is something different. People who have any sense of moral value or a tendency to vomit should stay away, but who has moral values anymore? In the end this movie is nothing more then an inspired way of making me laugh. The movie is funny enough as it is sober, I however would suggest you see it stoned or drunk off your ass. "}]